DEBATES
0IF.

THE kSENATE
0P THE

DOMINION 0F CANADA
1909
]REPORTEDAÂNoe

EDrTED BY

Ho:ILL.ANI) BROS.
Ofclo Reporers of the Senaie of Canada

FULSTSE8SSION--ELiVENTH

PÀ.RLIMENT

OTTAWA
PRINTED BYLC. H. PARMELEE, PRINTER TO THE KING'S MOST
EXCELLENT MAJESTY

1909

SENATORS 0F CANADA
ALPIIABITICAL LIST
li SESSSION, lik PAREA MENT., 9 .EDWÂRD- VIL.

1909e
PO8T OPPICE ADDRUE.

The Honourable
ledford ......
.....>e Sa]aherry...
BÉIQuE, Y. L ................
..
Iowmanville.
... ........
Bim, R .....................
ttawa,............
C0
Bm.oouaT, N. A........ ....................
...... I jazafl.............
Bomu,J ....... ....... ...........
ý&mîoops ....
...........................
BoeTSoK, H ....
ilontarville ...
Bouon•mviLia, Du, C.X, C.M.G .............
Ilaptings ......
Bowm.Li, (Sir M cenzie), K.C.M.G ............
*...
2'ork, Ont ........
....
CAMPBELL, A......... ................
I dondon ..........
CÀB.LN<, (Sir John), K.C.M.G ...............
)xford..........
C
CàxTwEIQRT, (Sir Richard), G.C.M.G ...........
OÂswa&m, J. P. B .. ........
..............
*I** )e Lanaudière..
!t. Boniface...
Cazvaraa, N ........... .......
'randvile ......
C
CHOQUETr, P. A........ ...................
7i1ctoria ..........
Ci.ORw, H. J.............................
I.ondon .........
Oorny, T................................
I )ighy -County..
rn-u, A. H................. ............
~ictoris, N.B.
...
COSTIGAN, J ..........................
L'oronto .... .....
...................
Cox, G.A .............
iDe Lorimier...
DA1rDuERD, R..............................
...
Mmile les.
.. .... ....
DAvW, L.O0.......... ........
Prince Albert. ..
........
DÂvi% T.O0......................
Brockville .......
Dm»ynu, DI.......... .................
Rougemont..
DEÂAuiZ, G. C..j.........................
........
J[jethhridge ...
Dz VEBEEL. G ...................
Rothesay ........
.........
. .........
DoxmTLE, J ...........
........... rantalon ...
DOOU.IAS, J. M..................
Kenneber ....
.. J
DRuxmoiNu, (Sir G. A) K.C.M.G ...........
Russell. ..........
ED)WAED8, W. C ...........................
St. John .........
ELLIS, J. V................................
.
Queen's .........
4
FEEGlusoN, D ...............................
Gulf............
q
Fisa, J. B.R .............................
.. ..... Screl..... .....
..........
FoRnoT, L. J............
Leeds and Grenville
................
FEoeT, F. T...............
Lincoln ... .....
....... ............
GIUaoN, W.-......
St. George .
GILLUIL, D........... ...................
.. ... La Salle.........
GoDEBouT, J ..........................
Toronto.........
JAFFERAT, R ...............................
Toronto .........
JoNEs, L. MELVIN ..............................
.
Toronto ......
KEEE,J. K (Speaker)........ ...............
Queen's .........
... ................
KING, G. G ...........
Selkirk ..........
............
KiRcHHoFFrI4, J. N ...... .....
. . Stadacona ...
.................
P..........
LANDET,P
...........
..... Repentigny...
LEGRIS, -J. H.......... ...
Calgary ........
LouGIErD, J. A........... ................

Perth, N.B.
Sweetaburg, Que.
Montre.
Bowaanfle, Ont.
Ottawa, Ont.
St. Victor de Tring, Que.
Monte <Jreek, B.C.
Boucherville, Que.
Bellevie, Ont.
London, Ont.
Ottawa.
Montre.
Winnipeg, Man.
Quebec.
Lond oOnt.
Meteghan River, N.S.
Edinunston, N.B.
Toronto.
Montreal.
Montrea!.
Prince -Ubert, Saskatchewan
Brockville, Ont.
*St. Hyacinthe, Que.
*Lethbridge, Alberta.
Rothesay, N.B.
Tatln SAsk
Montreal.
*
Rockland, Ont.
St. John, N.B.
*Charlottetown, P.E.I.
*Rimouski, Que.
*Montreal.
Smith's Falla.
Beanisyille. Ont.
St. George, N.B.
Beauceville, Que.
Toronto, Ont.
Toronto, Ont.
*Toronto, Ont.
Chipman, N.B.
Brandon, Man.
Oandiac, Que.
Louibeville, Que.
*Calgary, Alberta.

SENATORS 0F CANADA.

SENATORS.

DESIGNATION.

POST OFICE ADDRESS.

The Honourable
Oharlottetown, P. E. 1.
Victoria, B.C.
lMontreal.
Halifax.
Glace Bay, N.B.
New Glasgow, N.S.
Lindsay, Ont.
Truro, N. S.
Perth, Ont.
Alexandrja, Ont.
Mount Forest, Ont.
Monctkn, N.B.
Arichat, N.S.
Drummondvlle, Que.
Three Rivera, Que.
Montreal.
Wolseley, Saskatchewan.
Shediac, N.B.
Halifax, N.S.
Victoria, B.C.
ParkhiU, Ont.
Montague, P.E.I.
Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan.
Rosa, W.............................. Victoria, N.BS... Halifai:, N.S.
Toronto, Ont.
Ross, G. W................. .. . ......... Middlesex .... ....
Edmonton, Albert&.
Edmonton...
Roy, P ....................................
Ottawa.
Ottawa ..........
Soorr, R. W...............................
Laurentides.... Quebec.
.......................
Snaun<, J ...........
... Kingston......... Kingston, Ont.
SujaavaxN, M............ ................
Lacombe, Alberta.
Lacombe .....
...............
P ..................
TALBOTy,
....... De la Durantaye .... Quebee
TESIER, JuLms.. ....................
Montreal.
De la Vallière...
THIBAuDEÂu, A. A ..........................
Montroal.
..... Rigaud ..........
TEISBAUDECAU, J. R.....................
Fredericton...... Fredericton, N. B.
........
.... .........
TRiompwCN, F. P......
jPortage la Prairie, Man.
WATSON, R.........................
Portage la Prairie.. St. ThomSAa Ont.
.St. Thomas ....
..............
WILSON, J. H ...............
Sa1ckviile,ý N.B.
WOOD, J.....................................
Wetmoreland. »" Port Hill, P.E.I.
... East Prince ....
YBO, i ... ................................
Kîllarney. Man.
Killarney .........
YOUNG, F. M ...............................

Charlottetown ...
A- A .........................
Victoria...... ....
........
MAODONALD, W. J..................
.. ...... Alma............
.....................
, ......
Cape Breton..
1) ... ..
D............................
.cape Breton...
...........
MODoNALD, W ..... ...... ....
New Glasgow ....
MoGazo, J. D ............................
Victoria, . ..
MoHuGH, G.,..............................
Truro.. .. .. .....
.............
MoKÂr, T........ ...........
..... Perth............
........
MoLÂBEN, P .................
..... Alexandria ....
MoMiLLÂN, D .......................
North Wellington...
...........
MOMULLEN, J ..................
Northumberland-..
.....
MoSwEENET, P ..................
Richmonxd........
.... ............
MILLES W ...............
................. Wellington ....
MITOKECLL, W...
... Shawinegan...
MeNTr.aiB, H.... ... ................
Inkerman.... ....
.........
... ...
OwxNs, W .. .............
1.................... Wolseley . ........
PENLEY, W. D .........
Acadie...... ....
..................
PORIER, P..............
Halifax ...........
PowxaR, L G ...............................
.... Victoria, B.C ...
...........
RtLÉT, G..................
.North Middlesex. ..
RÂ'rz, V..................................
P. E. IslanId...
ROBERTSON, J. E ............................
..... Rgin9...........
Roma J. H ...........................
MÂODONÂLD,

THE

SENATE DÉBATES
FIRST SESSION-ELEVENTH PARLIAMENT
not se. fit to deolare the. cause of his summonCanad.a
perlie'n't
-rsnt oe ofo!C..ouos until
in the
heli
the
theSekrf
OTTAwÂ, Wednesday, January 20, 1903.'
have been chosen according te law; but, toain the.
ntnrrow, nt the hour of three clock
afternocn, Ris Excellency will deelare the.
The Senate met at Two p.m.
cause. of the. calling of this parlis.ment.
Frayera.
The Honourable the Deputy Governor was
were informed pleased to retire, and the House of CernThe members of the Senate
that a commission under the Great Seal mons withdrew.
had been issued, appointing the Hon. James
The Senate adjourned until to-rnorrctiv
Kirkpatrick Kerr to be Speaker of the Sen- atternoon at haif past two o'clock.
ate of Canada.

THE SENATE.

The said commission was then read by
the clerk.

THE SENATE.

The Honourable the Speaker then took
the Chair at the foot of the Throne, to
OTTAWA, Thursday, January 21, 1909.
which he was conducted by the Hon.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
Messrs. Dandurand and Edwards, the
Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod preced- p.m.
ing.
Prawers and routine proceedings.
NQEW SENATORS.

The Senate adjourned during pleasure.

The following newly-appointed senator
was introduoed:
Hon. Noé Chevrier, of Winnipeg, Man.
The Honourable the Chie! Justice of Canada, Deputy Governor General, being seated
at the foot of the Throne,
The Honourable the Speaker coinmanded
the Gentleman Usher o! the Black Rod ta
proceed ta the Houe cf Gommons and acquaint that Hoase that «It is the Deputy
Governor's desire that they attend him immediately in the Senate.'

THE SPEECH FROM THE THRONE.

His Excellency the Right Honourable Sir
Albert Henry George, Earl Grey, Viscount
Howick, -Baron Grey of Howick, in the
County of Northumberland, in the Peerage
of the United Kingdom, and a Baronet;
Knight Grand Cross of the Most Distinguiahed Order of St. Michael and St. George.
and a Knight Grand Cross o! the Royal
Victoriani Order, &c., &c., Governor General
and Commander in Chie! of the Dominion
of Canada, being seated on the Throne.
Who being corne,
The Honourable the Speaker commanded
the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod to
The Honourable the Speaker said,
proceed to the House of Gommons and acHonourab~le Gentkemen of the Senate :
quaint the House that ' It is His ExcelGentlemen of the Houe of Commons:
leîîcy's pleasure that they attend him im1 have it ini command to let you know that mediately in the Senate.' .
Ris Excellency the Governor General does
1
REVIBED EDITXON

SENATE

Who being- corne, with their Speaker,
The Honourable Charles Marcil said:
May it please Your Excellency:
The. Hause of Commons has elected me their
speaker, .tiougii I arn but Ettle abl. ta fulfil
the iÏmportant duties thus afssigned ta me.
If, in the performance of those duties, I
ehould at any time fall inte error, I pray
tha't the fault may be imputed ta me, and net
ta the. Commons, whose servant I amn, and
who, through me, the better ta enable theru
ta dicharge their duity ta their King and
cauntry, humby eliam ail their undoubted
rights and privileges, especiaUy thiat they
may have freedom of speech in their debates,
access ta Your Excellency's persan at al
seasanable timnes, and that theïr praceedings
may receive framn Your Excellency the. most
favaurable consideration.
The Honourable the Speaker of the Senate* then said:
Mr. Speaker,-I arn aoimanded by.His Exeellency the. Governor General ta declare ta
you that lie fudly confides in the. duty and attachment cf the, House cf Commans ta Hi18
government; and nt
anu
MjtY's pea
dobtiRg that their prc.ings will b. con.som, tainer and prudence,
wit
dud
h. grants, and upon a.1 ocsions will reaogallow their constituticual privileges.
nize eand
I amn commanded alse ta assure ycu, that the
Commons shall have ready accs to.His Excellency upan e&Hseasonable occasions, and
that; their proceedings, as well as yaur wcrds
andi actions, wiil constantly receive f rom hum
the most favourable construction.
His Excellency the Governor General was
then pleased ta open the session by a gracieus speech ta bath Houes:
Honourable Gentlemen of thse Senate
Gentlemen of the Hou8e of (Jommcns
In welcoming you t, -the performance cf
your du4iies at the. first session of a new parBlernent, I desir. toa cknowledge wiith devout
thankiulness the. abundant harvest, with
which Divine Providence bas again iilegged
US.
Tiie Quebec Tercentenary festiviti.s in July,
were honoured by thse graeiaus prewiio
senc. cf His Royal Highness Tii. Prince cf
Wales, -as repregenting His Majesty, marked
an epoch in the. history of the. Dp>mdnion.
Tii. genercus tsupport given to the National
celebration. by the Federal pardanient and
provincial legi-la.tures, and by the peeples cf
Canada, cf the other Dominions and of thse
Unsited Kingdem, emphasized the community
cf isympathy whioh hinds thse varions parts
of tihe British Empire to eaci other, and to
the Throne and perscn cf Hî i, ajesty thse
King. Thse presence of represeistatives f roin
the United King'dom, Australia, New ZeaThse SPEAKER.

land, Souths Africa and Newfoundind, and
£rom the. grat and f reindly Repuhlios cf
France -and the. United States, with the. 6hips
cf war cf -the three nations, s'erved net only
to add lustre to the occasion, but to previde
an assurance cf inoreasing amity and pe-ace.
I have mueh pleasure in amnuncang that
a treaty r.lating ta the. Great Lakes and otiier
International Waterways bas been agreed
upen between Ilis Majesty and the. goverament cf the. United States cf America and
is now awaiting ratification. BetIs ceuntries
are ta b. congratulated en having e.rrived
at an amicabie ettiement whieii 1 trust will
remave during the. life-time cf the, treaty
many vexed questions frein the. field of controversy. Tii. treaty a.nd papers relating
tiiereto wil b. laid before you in due ours.
A little moe tiian a year ago, the. whole
civiiized werld entered ito a periosi cf comnmercial and financial depressien, which. inay
not y.t have completeiy ePent its force; signs
tiiere are, iiowever, that it is gradually pa.ssing away. Wilst it is hardly disputable
tiiet owing ta -the abundance and elesticiltY
cf bar resources Canada lias suffered les
than etiier nations, this depression has seriously alieoted aur trade, proàurcing and eippreciabie elirinkage in the. public revenue,
and ce.liing for exceptional caution in the. admninistration cf aur national affairs.
Tii. rapid settlement cf the *new provinces
Tii.
calîs for new lines cf tra.nsportatien.
construction cf the. Transcontinental Railway
has been vigorously pressed forwad during
the. lest year. Tii. Une we.s open for the, carrying cf the. crops frein Wi.nnipeg to the. Battle river, a distance cf 675 miles.
Exploratory suirveys for a railway f rom
the. western wheat fi"Id te Hudson bey are
being pusiied energeticailY. Four parties bave
been et work since August 'lest. Upen theii
report it wiRs b. possible ta reach a deaisian
as ta bath the. xoute ta b. followed and the.
appreximate cest. The provision cf the Domiein Lands Act of last session for the. sale
cf pre-emptions and purchased iiomesteads bias
created a new saurc. cf revenue that w.ill b.
sufficient ta beair the, est of the. railway te,
H',udson bay without burdoning tiie ordinary
revenue. From September 1, wiien the. Act
came inte force, uýntil January 1, eales cf
pre-eraptians and purchased homesteads have
amcun-ted to over two mnilion acres, ail subjeot te iiemestead settlement conditions.
Tii. total volume cf immigration bas mot
reaciied thse high figure cf previeus years,
but thse number cf those seekring homes on
cur unoccupied lands hais been f uily maintained during the. last season, and, owing -to the

.JANUARY 21, 19

ever dloser supervision of the immigration
branch of the. public serv'ice, the eharacter
of these new inhabitants of C.anada seems to
b. of the. higiiest, and promises no small addition to the. wealth of the. country.
The, government of the. United Kingdom
having expreased its wiuiingness to include
a representative of Canada among its delegates
to the, conféence, held at Shanghai, to inveetigate the. opium trade, ýmy government bas
been pleased te welcome en offer so significant
of Canadas, growing importance, -and on its,
reoommendation the. governmen.t of the United Kingdom lias accordingly appointed a
member of the Dominion Pariient to ba a
menuber of the commission.
Representatives of Canadia perticipated lately
in the permanent establishment and organizetion of the, International Institut. of agriculture, witii its haadquarters at Rorne, an
eyant of interest to our country in whose
econom.m.ic system agricudtuire plays so graat
a part. Ilt is grabifying 'to note tiiet amnong
the. forty-eight States adharing te the. Institut., -recognition of Canade's aricuitural importance was siiown by eleetion of our representativas to eome of the. higiiest offices of
the. Institts.
Tiie appal}ing calamity which has befallen
Sioily and Southern Italy and eaused a total
destruction cf life and property absolutely
unprecedentid .and unequ»alied =n the, long
series cf historic disaetars, bas induced my
governiment te ofler assistance for the. mmediete relief of the, tlundreds of thousands of
suflereris who were helpless againet famine
and a-I its consequent hora-ors. I confidently
hope thaft yen wMl spprove its -action.
In pursuance of an anouneeme*it mode
durîng the, conluding session ci Ilsat parliam>nt, a commnasion was 54)pointed te examine
the. varions Uines 0f -reilwey eonnected with
the. Intercolonial Ra.ilway and wiiich, might
become valuable feeders tiierato. The report
of this commission has been received and will
be plâced before yeu.
The. commissioner appointed for investig-ating the. conduet cf offleers in the Department
of Marin, and FPiaiiries bas concluded his
labour, but lias not yet reported. Rlis report,
hcwevar, i, expected at an. eardy date and
a measure wjll be submitted to yeu, based
upon si-miilar legisiation enaeted in 1906 by
the parliament of the, United Kingdom, aiming at the, .repression of the peyment of secret cominrssions and gr-atuiltie-s both iii public end private business.
Yeu wifl be asked te consider mneasures
relative te insurance, the civil service, immigration, naturalization and other subjeets.
là

Oea tiemni of the Hoilge of Gonimo#8s
The. accounts cf the. last year will be laid
before you.
Tiie estimaitas for tiie comdang year wilI be
submitted at -an early date; .they have been
prepar.d with a due regard for economy consistent with the requirement of tii. publie
service.
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate
Gentlemn of the House of Gommons
I pray Divine Provideno. .tha~t it may guide
your deliberations, end that they may tend
te a furtiier increase in the, prosperity of
our coun.try e.nd the well-taing cf our people.

Hia Excellency the Governor General was
pleased te retire, and the House cf Coinmens withdrew.
The Senate was resurned.
BILL INTRODUCED.
An Act respecting Railways.Bill(
(Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright).
THE SPEECH FROM THE THRONE.
MOTION.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved that the speech cf His Excellency
the Governor General be taken into conuideration by the Senate on Tuesday next.
Tiie motion was agreed te.
THE STANDING

COMMITTEES.

MOTION.
Hon.
moved:

Sir

RICHARD

CARTWRIGHT

Tiiat pursuant te Rule 77, the following
Senators: the. Honourable Sir Mackenzie
Bowe.ll, the. Honourable Messieurs Gubeon,
Lougheed, Béique, Miller, Power, Watson,
Casgrain and F~erguson, b. appointed a 0Coimiittee cf S.leotion te nomina.t. senators te
serve on the. several Standing Committees
during the. pr.eent session, and te report with

all convenient speed the. names of the senstors se nominated, and
That Rule 24a b. auspended in se far as it
relates te the. saïid motion.
The motion was agreed te.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday next
at three p.m.

SENATE

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

and, perhaps, to-morrow I may give the
hon. gentleman more definite information.

Tuesday, January 26, 1909.

COMMITTEE ON SELECTION.
The SPEAKER teck the Chair at Three
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.-I regret to obo'clock.
serve by the Minutes the speedy decision
the House has arrived at in the last sitting
Prayers and routine proceedings.
in appointing the Striking Committee with
eut giving the usuel notice in order that
NEW SENATOR.
members may consider the subjeet. I do
The Hon. VALENTINE RATZ, cf Park. net personally object te any members who
bu.l Ont., was introduced and teck his have been appointed. They are ail good
seat.
men; but it was my intention te move
that instead of having two hon. gentlemen
AN EXPLANATION.
from, Montreal serving on that committee,
The SPEAKER.-Before the orders cf the the city of Quebec should have a represenday are called, I desire to make a state- tative, that Mr. Beique or Mr. Casgrain be
nient. I regret te say that I amn net a replaced by Mr. Tessier. I arn sorry te se
master cf the French language, and have that the committee was appointed without
net felt free te undertake te address this more consideration. Last session the mohonourable body cf parliament in that ian- tion was proposed on the fourth sitting of
guage without some preparation. On the the House, and adopted on the sixth sitoccasion cf the opening cf the House I ting. On Thursday last there was but a
hesitated te, betray my deficiencies, which handful of members in the House when the
might, I thought, refiect scmewhat on this motion was carried. According to my inhcnourable body, and, therefore, abstained formation, the proceedings are not correct,
fi-cm saying anything in the French Ian- because the seconder of the motion was not
guage during the oeremcny. I hope, how- even in the House. I do not see exactly
ever, te make amends fer this, and scme what can be done, except to perhaps move
dsy in the near future te, address the House a reconsideration. That may cause delay,
but I wish te enter my protest against
in that beautiful language.
what bas been done, and I hope one cf the
ICE BREAKING AT CAP ROUGE.
two hon. gentlemen appointed from the
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.-Before the Montreal division will be kind enough te
orders cf the day are called, I wish te in- resign. in favour of an hon. gentleman from
quire from the gevernnient whether they Quebec, and I would suggest my hon.
have came te, a decision, or have taken friend, Mr. Tessier.
some action, in regard te the "objection
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.-As far as I 'arn conmade by the Quebec Board cf Trade and cerned, with the leave cf the House I
the Quebec city council with reference te would be very glad te, be relieved cf the
the work the steamer «'Montcalm' is doing duty cf serving on that committee, and
-very bad work indeed in trying te break would be pleased if I could be replaced by
away the ice at Cap Rouge? This is a very the hon. gentleman fromn De la Durantaye
Although (Hon. Mr. Tessier)..
important mnatter te Quebec.
resolutions have been passed by those twc
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.-With the conbodies and sent te, the goverument, I arn
teld that nothing has been heard fromi sent of the Housse, I would move te susthem. I sheuld like te know if the gov- pend the miles te permit cf this change
errnment has reached a decision or whether being made, and I wish te thank my hon.
they are gcing te do scmething in regard to friend from de Salaberry (Hon. Mr. Beique).
the matter?
Hon.
believe
cf the
Hom.

Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.-I
the matter is under consideration
department immediately concerned,
Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

Hon. Mr. BEIQU-E.-I move, with the
consent cf the Hlouse, that the name cf the
Hon. Mr. Tessier be substituted for my

JANUARY 26, 1909

name on the Committee on Selection, sec- tice and did not observe until too late that
onded by the hon. gentleman from Mille it had been carried as a motion. It is not
only irregular to appoint a committee withIsies.
out notice of motion,- but to appoint any
Hon. Mr. DAVID.-No, I will fot second committee until atter the address has been
it.
adopted, so my hon. friend will have ample
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.-Then the hon. gen- time to give notice, and it 'will mature before the House wil be in a position to contleman from Portage la Prairie?
sider it, and the committee cannot sit and
Hon. Mr. WATSON.-No, I will not report until after the address is adopted.
second it.
The SPEAKER-The motion is out o! orHon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.-I will second der because an objection has been made. It
the motion.
could only be adopted by unanimous conHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thia sent.
seems to me to be an irregular proceeding.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-We are embTking
I shall not discuss now the action of the on a very irregular procedure. A motion
Senate on the first day of its meeting. My has been passed; it cannot be amended.
own impression was, at the time, .that our While I sympathize on principle with my
action was too precipitate and out of order. hon. friend to my right, because I may reThe motion ought to have stood for con- mark parenthetically there is no senator
sideration; but since it has been adopted, a from New Brunswick on that committeemotion to change the committee without
The SPEAKER-I ara sorry to interrupt
notice cannot be regular. I would suggest
to my hon. friend that he should put a no- but the hon. gentleman is entirely out of
tice on the paper for a reconsideration o! order.
this question. The irregular procedure sugHon. Mr. POIRIER-If I may be permitgested cannot be allowed, because there
ted te speak on the point of order, I subwould be no linality about any order passed
by the House if such a precedent should be mit that the regular way te proceed would
be for the hon. gentleman te simply resign,
established.
and then a motion could be made te replace
The JSPEAKER.-The hon. gentleman's him, and that would not interfere with the
motion having been objected to is, o! course, record of what has been done. 'We c ould
go on with the work of the House. The
out o! order.
committee would exist, only there would
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-We frequently be a vacancy between the resignation of the
suspend the ruiles o! the House, and as the hon. senater from De Uaaberry and the aphon. senator from Montarville is willing to pointment of his successor.
retire from the commrittee there cân be no
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Having made
objection to dispensing with the rules on
this occasion. My object in wishing to pro- my protest, I shall have nothing more to do
ceed now is to save time so that the com- about it.
mittees may be struck while the debate on
THE ADDRESS.
the address is proceeding. I hope the hon.
ex-leader of the opposition will withdraw
MOTION.
his objection.
of the day being called.
The order
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The whole proConsideration of Ris Excellency the Gorceeding has been irregular. What should ennor General's speech on the opening of the
have been merely a notice of motion was first session of the eleventh parlianient.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-(In French).-Having
permitted to slip through as a motion. The
House was not well organized after the had a short time to prepare myseif to move
speech from. the Throne, and I thought that the address in answer to the speech from
the motion which was read was merely a no- the Throne, mv remarks will be as brie£

SENATE

and concise as the officiai speech itseif. I Thornpson, Bowell, Laurier and many other
must first state that 1 arn pieased to offer distinguished men, lie stood in the front
my congratulations to our new Speaker who rank; in that grand constellation whîch has
has ail the qualifications required to do iiluminated the lights of our political world.
honour to himself and to the Senate in the h hias been a bright star that still conperformance of his important duties, and tinues to shine. Soldier, or rather one of
will preside over our deliberations with the commanders of the old guard, he will
wisdom and dignity, kindness and imparti- be assisted by one of the chiefs of the young
ality. It is a great honour to be called to body guard, who presided over tlîis chanipreside over such an important body, com. ber with so much tact and intelligence in
posed of men who have grown old in the the last parliament: a man in the prime of
sc-rvice of the country, and this honour must lite, whose tireless activity and electric and
have been deserved by a laborious and vigorous eloquence will no doubt create
much animation in our debates.
honourable if e.
From the Speaker's chair, where his acCongratulations and regret are like joys
and 5orrows, otten mingled in the affairs of tivity was restricted, hie cornes back into
life, and I cannot help regretting the re- this arent. on whîch more than once hie
tirement of the hon. gentleman who has seemed to cast longing looks. He cornes
been for so many years the leader of this back to tske hie place in the first rank of
House and who seems to take pleasure ini the combatants, with experience and aptidefying the ravages of time and in develop- tude matured by study and observation.
ing, beneath the snows of winter an eternal with an abundance of ideas, of sentiments
and projects which will be hîghly beneficial
youth.
to this House and to the country.
The hion. gentleman will enjoy in a well
As the hon. inembers of this House rnay
deserved rest the sturdy and happy old age
entertain a doubt if I continue in the same
promised to those who have faithfully served their God and their country, and whose strain, whether 1 intend to comment on
liIIe bas been honest, useful, laborious, the speech trom the Throne, I shahl inbenevolent and virtuous. Happy, thrice stantly proceed to consider it.
His Excellency commences in a most
happy, those who like the venerable gentleof their life look happy way by thanking Divine Providence
man can in the evening
serenely, without regret, over haîf a cen- for liaving given to our country the t avour
tury filled with good actions and wlth do- of an abundant harvest. It is not the only
mestic and public virtues. In ail the high favour that we owe to Providence. God is
He seems to take
positions which hie lias occupied, he hias merciful to Canada.
done his duty without fear or reproach, and pleasure in bestowing His favours upon us,
hie bas displayed a variety of knowledge in keeping away from us the calamities
and aptitudes which enabled him to fill and disasters which bring 'desolation to
ail vacant positions in the cabinet, and to other countries, and in sparing us the troumake people forget those whio were miss- bles which threaten the peace of the world.
ing. He hias become what I might cali a Wh ilst other nations inipoverish themselves
public utility in the political and gover- by manufacturing amniunition and engines
mental field. Fortunately hie remains with of war to destroy eacli other and cover the
us stili, and hie will continue, in a more eartlî with ruin and blood, wve build cities
serene atmosphere, to sit in this House and railways. settie our lands, and develop
and to help us wîth his advice and experi- the immense resources of our country, and
our prosperity allows us to assist the unence.
The regret we feel because of his retire- fortunate ail over the world and to offer
ment is lessenied by the thought that hie is theni a refuge, a home where they can be
replaced by one of his old war compan. happy and prosperous provided they be inions, a veteran of our political batties, by' dustrious and law-abiding.
His Excellency speaks in high. ternis of
a man whose talent and highi culture are
generi- the tercentenarv festivals, of their character
niuchi appreciated. In the powvcrf ni
tion which lias brouglit fort]) Macdonald, axîd signiificance. There is no doubt that
Cartier, Blake, Tupper,
lion. Mr. DAVID.

-Mackenzie, Milis.

they hiave given evidence of the feelings of

TANUARY 26, 1909
mutual respect and fraternity which bind
together the different nationalities of this
country. The sight of the descendants of
the victorious and defeated on the Plains
of Abraham fraternizing and mingling their
flags on that famous battle-field where their
ancestory so bravely fought, involved a lesson of tolerance and history, which I may
say, moved the entire world. It showed
how men whose ancestors were bitter
enemies have become loyal friends, owing
to a wise and liberal policy, and have
united their strength and their varied aptitudes to insure the progress and welfare
of their country.
1 cannot refrain from acknowledging the
broadness of thought and the tact displayed
by His Excellency and those who helped
hinm to accomplish- bis difficult task, in order
to soften the eff<ect of memory which mîght
have been too painful and justified certain
apprehiensions, which, after ail, were not
His Excellency has once
unreasonable.
more given a striking proof of his benevolent and kind disposition, which renders
him. so dear to ail classes of oui population.
The speech from the Throne promises to
submit to our consideration measures concerning the Intercolonial Railway, the insurance system, the civil service, immigration, Hudson Bay Railway, and other matters worthy of oui attention.
The question of the civil service is one
of the most important. There is no doubt
that an honest administration conducted
by intelligent and zealous civil servants bas
a great influence on the weliare of the country. It has often been said that if France
has been able te withstand the evil resuits
of the instability of its governments, it is
due in great part to the integrity and stability of her administration.
The investigations initiated by the governinent have brought te light depiorable
abuses which have grieved aIl those who
have at heart the interest and bonour of the
Abuses seem to be inherent te
country.
the administration of public affairs. Tbey
have existed at ahl times, under ail govern.
ments, and even under Democratic and Republican institutions. They must be corrected by severe laws, no doubt, but also
by education and example, the example of
integrity in the leading classes and also by

giving to the public servants salaries suflicient te protect them from ail temptation.
We must by ail means repress such abuses
as have been made public, but 1 thin< that
distinction should be mùade between the acts
of high officiais who are well paid, and of
those whose inadequate salaries expose
themn te dangerous temptations, especially
when they are entrusted imprudently with
the handling of considerable sums o!
money. We must take inte consideration
the weakness of human nature, and endeavour especially te prevent a repetition of
such f aults and abuses.
The question of immigration will also receive oui attention. There was a tixue when
it was said that oui public men were not
zealous enough to attract te oui shores the
immilgrants required te develop the resources of our country, and when the government was urged to adopt measures similar
to those takzen by American statesmen to increase the population of that country. Complaints are now made that immigration is
too considerable, that it has become a danger te the country; at the saine time large
employers o! labour contend that they are
in need of more bauds to carry out their extensive enterprises. However, 1 am happy
to see that the government understands that
it is not so much the number as the quality
of the immigrants which, should be considered. We need above ail settiers, tillers of
the soul, that agricultural class which bas
been at ail tixnes the strength, the bone and
sinew o! the country, the most power!ul
element in the progresa and greatness o! a
nation. Agriculture is an inexhaustibie
source of moral, religious and patriotic
strength, where humanity does not cease to
acquire new vigour, to vivif y itsel!, to fortîfy itself; which affords to a nation the
most durable wealth, which gives the country vigorous soldiers te defend it, and powerfui statesmen te lead it. The agricultural.
class is becoming more and more the element o! order and peace, a bulwark against
the pernicious theories which. threaten the
future ef society. A settler, a ploughman, is
lu my opinion worth more for the welf are
and prosperity o! a country than ten other
nien. We can neyer make too rnany sacrifices to secure such immizration. We can
never make enough.

SENATE
To this may be added the carrying out of
extensive public works, the construction o!
canais and railways which will make Canada the great route for the products of
North America to the markets of Europe,
so that we may feel confident that Canada
wili attain to a high destiny-that it wili
continue to be as it now is, one of the most
prosperous countries of the woîld.
The Senate will continue to actively cooperate in this woîk of progress, of national
development. In spite of those' who ask
that it be suppîessed, the Senate will continue to exist in the interests of the very
men who desire its abolition; it will continue
to exist to correct their errors and protect
society against their laws, which are often
dangerous, and against pernicious theories.
It will continue to exist in order to enlighten them, and even to receive them,
when, havîng become wiser, they feel disposed to retrieve the erroîs of their past
life by coming into its precincts to share in
a work more modest perhaps, but more useful than their declamations against the
Senate which are as futile as they are sonorous.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-I want to
thank the members of this hon. Hlouse for
their kind reception, also my leader for
asking me to second the addîess in reply
to the speech from the Throne. My hon.
friend from Mille Ilies has gone over the
ground in such a thorough manner, and
so eloquently, that it will flot be necessary
for me to take much of your valuable time.
I arn sure we can ail join heartily with Ris
Excellency in his expressions of gratitude
for the abundant harvest with which oui
Dominion has been blessed. Agriculture
must continue to be the greatest of ail our
interests in this country, because if oui
f armna produce abundantly, every industry
in this young nation must flourish. We
produced from oui faims, last year, in
field crops alone, four hundred and thiitytwo million dollars, which means prosperity to ail our interests.
I consider this to
be ratber an under estimate. One hundred million dollars were produced by our
dairymen, and we shouid do a great deal
better. With our refrigerator car service
and cold storage, our own ships, withi the

dairy education whichi is being carried on
Hlon. Mr. DAgJTD.

by oui government, and aiso by the several
provinces, we expect to make finer dairy
goods and in greater quantities. Our home
market is becoming an important factor,
and is growing each year, so I look with
hopefulness to a great expansion in this
important branch. We point with pride to
the wheat fields of the west. We must'remember that the total aiea under wheat
last year was 6,000,000 acres, out of an
acreage already surveyed in the three prairie provinces, of 134,000,000 acres. The total
aiea under grain of ail kinds was only 9,600,
000 acres. It is calculated that the wheat
alone produced was 105,000,000 busheis, the
value of ail grain $143,000,000, with unquestioned superiority in quality, particularly in wheat. due to soil and climate, and
in view of the remaîkable development,
very iargely within the last six yeaîs, of
those western provinces, who can venture
to set a limit on the wealth to be produced in the future P North- of the settled
area, on the line of the new Hudson Bay
railway, north of Manitoba, in Saskatchewan between the Saskatchewan and Churchill rivers and in Noithern Alberta, and beyond in the Great Mackenzie Basin aie
vast tracts of fertile land, much of it not
yet explored, but known te be of great fertility. Wheat has been grown with somne
success at a great many scattered points
north and south throughout this aiea ; barley, potatoes, and most garden vegetabies
are grown with assured success at aimost
every point where attempta have been made.
When means of access to this vast country
are furnished, by the extension of existing railways, there is no reasonabie doubt
that great agricultural deveiopment will resuit. Who will say that in the next decade
we shall not produoe five hundred millions
busheis of wheat, and that our total grain
pîoducts will not be at ieast $700,000,000 P
Ail we have to do is let the good men continue to corne te oui shores, select the good
seed, and give oui land intense cultivation, and we shahl see prosperity sucli as
wve do not dream of now.
1 arn giad that His Exceliency lias referred to the tercentenary festivities. I arn
sure nothing- has taken place in our time of
such vast importance as this notable celebration. Then we saxv our federai government abli assisted by provincial legisla-

JANUARY 26, 1909
tures and with the enthusiastic support of
our people fromn the Atlantic to the Pacifie,
as well as the wliole British empire. We
had the Prince of Wales representing Bis
Majesty the King, to add dignity ta the
occasion, and the warships af three nations
snchored peaceably in our own St.
Lawrence in front of Quebec the beautiful. Our own militia looked formidable, and it was an inspiring scene
when they marched by Lord Roberts
It cerand other distinguished soldiers.
tainly was a spectacle, neyer ta be forgottan. We could almost see Wolfe and Montcalm an the Plains of Abraham in the wonderful pageants, the like of which was neyer
before attempted on this continent. It was
a great thing ta be entertained by oui
brethren of Quebec, who are past mastar8 in the art, and the good fellowship prevailing on ail sides wiil have a lasting ifluence in this country. I would like ta
make special mention of His Exceilency,
Earl Grey, who conceived the idea, and laboured so zealously fromn the very first ta
the sounding af the last gun ta make it a
memorable event, and the great succeas af
this eYer famous celebration is due Iargely
ta his energy and enthusiasm. We awe
him a debt of gratitude for his work, not
only in connection with this vast entertainment but for his deep interest and active
co-operation in every popular mDnvement
throughout the Dominion, lending aid and
encouragement ta everything for the upbuilding of oui young nation.
The treaty relating ta the Great Lakes and
other international watarways is nat yet
before us, but if it puts in concrets form
a final and satisiactory settiement of the
msny questions that have been sub ets of
controvsrsy bstween ourselves and aur.
neighbours for the last hundred years, it
wil be hailed by us ail with pleasure. We
muet however, be cautious how we consent
for one moment ta establish as a precedent,
that any foreign power may interiere with
or direct in any shape or form the use and
administration of any territorial right that
is now and should ever remain, absolutely
within the contrai of our own people.
'Our waterways, aur water-powers and aur
fisheries are taa vitally important ta the
future develapment of Canada to permit
ai any outside control over the administra-

tion ai them. For that reason, while willîng
ta niset aur neighbours half-way on every
debatable point, we should ineist that what
is absolutsly aur own we shall hold. We
own over half the fresh watar of the world
and oui fisheries, are the most important.
We may congratulate oureelves on having
been so littîs affected by the world-wide
depressian that has been such a severe
strain on the resouices of other counitries.
That depression is happily passing away,
and nowhsre ini the wide world can be
found a greater hustle or optimistie business expectation than in Canada. Oui
people have on deposit in oui banke $650,000,000, while the boans by the banks ta oui
people amounit ta $584,500,000, leaving $200,The vast
000,000 awaiting invstment.
stores of silver in Cobalt and prospecta of
very much greater yet ta be discovered, is
rousîng the attention, net only of the continent, but of the world. The richness and
extent of the are developsd in the four
years' bife af the camp can be realized when
Cobalt is coxnpared 'with the world-faxned
mines ai Montana, Arizona, California,
Colorado and Idaho. The dividends recorded upan the tannage shippsd fromn Cobalt ta the refineries have averaged $248
per ton shipped during the life ai the camp
UT. ta the end cf 1908. Their proportion ta
the grass value ai production is estimatsd
at 56 per cent. In 1908 the Cobalt mines produced more silver than the aggregata production ai Montana, Arizona and Cabif ornia. The vast riches ai the petrobeurn depasits ai the Athabaska are yet untauched;
the wonderful iran deposits and vast waterpowers ai the hinterland of Quebsc are
practically unknown ta the average Canadien, and even the magnitude ai oui resources in agriculture are such that one can
hardly canceive a financial depressian in
this progressive country that can create
anything but a tamporary embarrassmsnt.
Our papulation is increasing rapidby. No
doubt every precaution that wisdomn and
experience can suggest will be taken by the
governmnent ta exelude undesirables, and
properly direct those who seek our shores
with an earnest desire ta better their condition and became loyal Canadians.
It is satisfactary ta hear ai the rapid construction ai the Transcontinental Railway.
I t will no doubt require every channel tliat

SENATE
cun possibly be opened to accommodate the
output of the great northwest, whichi will
increase in progressive ratio with the rapid
settlement of the new provinces.
The sober thought of the country will be
with the government in their efforts to
regulate, and, if possible, suppress the
opium trade in this Dominion.
With a country teeming with wealth in
agriculture, mines, forests and fisheries,
vith the completion of our transcontinental
raiilway system, the' building of the Georgian bay canal and the deepening and imploving of our other canals and the opening
ur of our northern country, who cau forsee
the magnificent future of this Dominion
under the able and patriotic management
of the far-seeing statesmen who control the
destinies of Canada.
Hon. Mr. LOL'GHEED.-Sjnce we last
met in this Chamber we have had a general
election, and while I at one time was hopefuI that my hon. friends on the other side
of the House wouild transfer themselves to
the left of the Speaker, which I think
would have been for the benefit and advantgge of the country, yet it remains to be
said that those of us wbo have been a sufficiently long time in public life have
scbooled ourselves to the inevitable, and
we therefore accept the decree of the fates
witb that philosopby whichi should always
become public men.
However, some
changes have taken place, and those
changes have been very happily alluded ta
by my hon. friend froma Mille Isles in moving the reply to the speech from the Tbrone.
1 heartily concur with him in most of the
remarks hie hias ruade with reference to
those changes. I amn sure tbose of us wlio
sit on this side of the House profoundly
regret that my hion. friend opposite, who
has so acceptably led this House for
many years, bas retired from the responsible and dignified position which hie occupied. We aIl look back with very much
pleasure upon the good will and courtesy
'which lie ever extended during his time in
office to hon. gentlemen upon this side of
the House, and likewise to the entire
Chamber. It is, however, a inatter of satisfaction to us to Iznow that my lion. frienn]

House will he equally fortunate In the
future as in the past in having the advantage of bis long experience, ability and
parliamentary knowledge in the trans.
action -of the business of the country.
The mantle of my hion. friend hias fallen on
the shoulders of my right hon. friend the
Minister of Trade and Commerce. This is
also a matter of congratulation into which
this side of the Honse can enter with ail
sincerity. My hion. friend froma Mille Isles3
referred to the right hion. leader of the
House as like one of the brightest stars in
the constellations which. illumine this earth.
While I have neyer associated my right
hion. friend with such ethereal and celestial
honours, I arn tempted to say that had
hîs translation to this pacific chamber
taken place some few years ago when the
Conservatives were in the aacendancy in
this House, and at the time wben my
rigbt hon. friend was hurling bis bolts
against the Senate, bie then, instead of auggesting stellar thougbts to our minds,
would have suggested the more militant
idea of that destroying angel with one foot
on tbe sea and the other on the land
trumpeting the doomi of the Senate and alI
I therefore
bave
his political foes.
always associated my righit bion. friend's
naine with more militant ideas tban
those suggested by tbe bon. gentleman from Mille Isles. However, 1 arn
bound to say that the goveri'ment bas
made a riglit choice in asking him to lead
the Senate. The appointment is certainly
a most acceptable one. There is no member
of the Lîberal party who bas occupied a
more illustrious position in the ranks of bis
party for a generation past than my right
hon. friend, and it was very fitting that the
responsibility of leading this House should
fail upon bim. I bave to express the hope
in aIl sincerity that while the Liberal party
remains in office-which I hope will not be
long-rny right hion. friend may continue to
lead with success and acceptability the government in this Chamber.

Nothing bas es-

caped the attention, apparently, of my hon.
friend from Mille Isles. He commented on
the fact that miv hion. friend frorn De Lori-

mier lias stepped down from the highi posistill occupies his seat as a member of this tion lie occupied for the last four years.
Chamber, and 1 have no doubt thiat this and lias assunied the office apparently of
Hoi. 'Mr. DEFRBYSIIIRE.

JANUARY 26, 1909
fortunate condition cf affairs presented itself before the people cf Canada? 1 understeod some years ago that the present administration raised their wand of magic,
brought i n presperous times and anncunced
te the people cf Canada that for all time
w'hile they were in office this prosperity
Lt seems te me it
wculd continue.
might have been dispeiied te some advantage if they possessed the magie
which the people cf Canada for some
years have been educated te believe
rested withi the government. In this connection it might not be out cf place te
look back upon the financial administration cf the country, wîth a view te ascertaining te what extent the governiment
may have been culpable in net being in
a position te meet the financial depression
and the resuits which naturaliy flow from
that depression. Lt does net require very
great business sagacity to make preparation
in prospercus times for periode of commercial depression; but my hon. friends seeni
te have 'overlocked etitireiy the changes
which take place in trade, and we have
gene inte this depression as a country iti
a very much wcrse position than couid pos1 ask the
sibiy have been anticipated.
House te consider a few figures which are
obtainable frcm the blue bock, and which
indicate the unfcrtunate position in which
we find ourselves to-day at a time cf faliin.- revenue and rising expenditures. I
find in the officiai «Gazette' cf the 3lst
December that the decrease in the revenue
during the nine menths cf the current year,
which ended 3lst December, reached $H1,475,000. 1 think we might safely say that
by the 31st March, which wiii be the
end cf our financial year, the decrease in
revenue frcm that cf iast year will have
reached the enermous sum. cf $15,000,000. 1
recaîl when the Minister cf Finance preA littie more than a year ago, the whoie sented his budget at tise last session cf parciviiized worid entered into a period cf commercial and financiai depression, which rnay liament he announced that the revenue for
neot vet have completeiy spent its force; signs the then ending year was $96,000,000; that
there are, however, that it is generaily pass- the estimated decrease in the revenue would
ing away.
not be more than $6,000,000, thus estimatIt did occur to me that it was impossible ing that we shculd have a revenue cf $90,
in the Dominion of Canada that such a 000,000. Lt must be quite apparent te lion.
condition of affairs should arise without gentlemen that the revenue for the current
the g-overnment of tise country being- a financial year ending on tise 3lst Mardli
party to it. Where -,as the magic xvand cf next wili net much exceed $80,000,000, and
the present administration whcn this un- yet. notwithstandingc tise estimated decrease

lieutenant to the leader of the Senate. Lt
is oniy just te say, and it gives me very
great pleasure to say it, that the hon. gentleman, while presiding over the deliberations of 'this Chamber, illustrated very
clearly the possibility of one going up from.
the field of battie, so te speak, te occupy a
position involving the holding of the scales
fairly, in deaiing out equal treatment to
friend and foe. We shall ail look back with
pleasure upon his termn of office 'whiie occupying the high position as Speaker of this
Chamber. 1 am sure we can extend our
congratulations te the present Speaker on
his appcintment. His broad and varied experience during many years not aitegether
of publie life but o! semi-public life, peculiarly quaiify hima for the position in which
he bas been placed, and 1 am satisfied that
hie will preside over the deliberations of this
chamber as acceptably as did his predecesBOr.
It is usuai to congratulate the mover and
seconder of the address in language indicative of their being new members, but circumstances are such that older members
have been called upon to move and second
the address. I congratulate the hion. senator from Mille ILes upon his cultured and
finished address te the House and my hon.
friend fromn Brockviile upon his very practical views on the material interests of the
Dominion.
In looking over the address, and its many
subjects of interest it must be said they are
not of a controversial nature and scarceiy
suggest a discussion at this time. There
is, however, one particular clause upon
which a few observations may appropriately
be made in opposition te the position taken
by the government in former years. The
clause to which 1 refer is:

SENATE
in revenue, the current year's expenditure
based on an estimated revenue of $90,000,000,
which will not realize more than $80,000,000, reached the enormous sum of $ 132,777,748. Notwithstanding the f alling revenues
of the country, yet we find rising expenditures. At the expiration of the nine months
ending the 3lst December last we find an
increase in current expenditure over the
corresponding period of the previous year
of $5,000,000, and an increase in capital expenditure over the corresponding period of
last year of $7,000,000, making a total inicreased expenditure up te the 31st December last of $ 12,000,000, thus leaving the
financial condition of the country $23,500,000 to the worse. During the twelve months
ending 3lst December last we increased our
public debt $37,,500,000, and from a return
brought down te the House of Commons
last night I observe oui public debt has
1 hope 1
reached the surn of $291,000,000.
arn not entering upon controversial ground,
or that I arn promotîng the asperities of
party debate if I ask hon, gentlemen te
give their most sincere and earnest attention te a question involving se largely the
very best interests of this Dominion. The
Senate from time te tirne is -subject te hostile criticism in the press and on the platform, and I know cf ne higher function that
can be discharged by this Chamber than te
give an earnest attention te the financial
a!! airs and interests cf this great country
as administered by the government of the
day.
One would f ancy that this Senate
should act as a break upon the administrative wheel which is revolving very quicklv at the present time; but parliamentary
u.sstitutions made up of the Senate and
Commrns seem net te give the slightest
af lention te the encroachments which are
noing made from time te time by the gev.
erninent upon the financial revenues cf thc
ccrýntry. 1 suppose 1 might safely say that
psrlismentary institutions had their enigin
resist the enin an endeavour te
croachments of the Crewn upen the
public revenues and upen the nights of
Instead of admonishing the
the people.
government and resisting the incursions
which are made from time te time upon the
financial revenues cf the country, we Eind
both branches cf parliament in every possible way assistinc- the government of the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

day in extracting- frm the public exchequer
all that they may pessibly demand, though
far in excess cf what the country should
pay. Let us analyse for a moment the expenditure cf this money and consider if
parliament has been doing its duty in
granting supplies to the governinent te the
extraordinary extent which is te be found
in the Supply Bill particularly that cf last
year. We ail recail how my right hon. fniend
and his associates previcus te 1896 thundered against the alleged extravagance cf
the Conservative party. We recail how my
right hon. friend and hîs asseciates he]d
up their hands in holy hon-or at the idea
o! the Dominion cf Canada spending in
those days $41,702,000, which was the extent cf the expenditure in 1896, but compare
that expenditure cf 1896 with the expenditure represented by the Supply Bil1 cf last
year, nearly $ 133,000,000, exclusive cf the
subsidies 'which may yet have te be paid
te the railways, and which amounted te
$23,366,000. As te the analysis cf this enormeus sum, I have selected a few cf the
spending departments so that we may make
a cemparative analysis cf the present expenditures with the expenditure of 1896:
1908-9
1896.
305,000 1,663,000
6,749,000
..
Publio Worke-----------.1"9,000 18,794,000
1,074,000 5,U85,000
Marine and Fishenies.Mail Subsidies--------534,000 1,740,000
Immigration..------120,000 1,020,000
q ricuture -Querantine
iliti...1,136,000

..-

Totals-----------$4,468,000 $35,551,000
About 800 per cent increase.
Fer these particular spending departments
in 1896 there was an expenditure cf $4,468,000 as against $35,551.000, or an increase cf
800 per cent in the short space cf twelve
years. I appeal te hon. gentlemen 'who
should divest themselves cf ail that sympathy and activity cf political life which is
from tiine te tîme urged upon us in this
particular Chamber, I ask if the increase in
population within the Dominion cf Canada,
which I am sale in saying has not exceeded
25 per cent, would warrant the gevernment
in increasing the expenditure cf the particular departments te which I have alluded by at least 800 per cent. 1 might
put it in anether way :for the twelve yea rs
since the accession cf my hon. friends to
office, the public revenue which has been

JANUARY 26, 1909
received by the government has amounted ta $742,000,000 ; for a like period preceeding the acoession cf the present geverniment te office, the amount received by
their predecessors was $438,000,000, leaving
an excess which these gentlemen received
during a like period cf over $304,000,000,
and yet notwithstanding the fact that the
present Liberal administration had received $304.000,000 more during a like »period
than their predecessors. we find cur debt
increased by nearly $50,000,000, with an
iminediate probability cf that debt running at least up ta $450,000,000 ;- and netwithstanding the fact that during that
peried los.ns had fallen in representing $80,000,000, yet with the receipts exceeding
$304,000.000, ever the receipts cf their
predecessoré. they did net retire one dollar cf the debt, but had increased it te
the amount I have indicated. It is theref ore not surprising that the government
ahould make reference ta the financual depression, and 1 have ne doubt that this,
financial. depression which has been s0 graphically described in the address will do
service ta the gaverniment. for some time
ta cerne as the ostensible reason why the
finances cf this Dominion, are ini the unfortunate position in which to-day we find
them. It might alse not be out cf place
that we should give a littie further censideration ta what I dlaim ta be the reckless
extravagance cf my hen. friende in administering the financial. affaira cf this Dominion. We are here as business men. The
financial. interesta cf this Dominion, concern me as weUl as they ccncern my hon.
friends opposite. We all hav e a like litereet, and it is the high and patrietic duty cf every public man in Canada as well
as every citizen cf Canada, that he should
inast upon a proper expenditure cf every
dollar cf the public moneys. ta the sanie
extent that he would exercise prudence
and caution in expending his own money.
Grouping the section in the address ta
'which 1 have referred with two or three
others, will invelve an investigation, cursory though it may be, as ta the expenditure cf the administration cf the government with reference ta certain other departments cf the public service. I observe a
clause in the address indicating that the
governiment intends taking action as ta

the purchase of several branches connecting
with the Intercalonial ]Railway. The paragraph states:
In pursuanae of an annauncement made during the cancluding session of last parliament,
a commission was appointed ta examine the
varions lines cf railway connected with the Intercolanial railway and which might become
valuable feeders thereto. The report of this
commission has been received and will be
placed befare you.
There is an aid saying that whom, the
Gods wauld destroy they first make mad.
It seems ta me if the present government
were bent upon the destructian of the Intercolonial railway, they could scarcely conoeive of any mare effective way of destroying its usefuiness than the policy now being pursued. This proposed movement of
the government in considering the acquisition cf further branches is alang the
same lies. Since the accession of my hon.
friends ta office, we find the deficit up ta
1906 in round figures of $3,000,000 and a caipital expenditure cf $23,500,000. By a propet investigation of that expenditure we
would of necessity corne ta the conclusion
that the deficit was very much larger thsn
the $3,000,000, which hss been represented
in the bine books.
My hon. friends will remember that some
few years ago there was an interesting discussion net only in parlisinent but in the
press as ta the manner cf charging up
maintenance and betterments ta capital account on the Intercoloniai .Raulway. Be that
as it may. ve have a deficit and expenditure in the management cf the Intercolonial
Bailway cf over $26,000,000 since my hon.
Net
friends assumed the reins of office.
satisfied with destroying the reputation cf
the road, as a railway enterprise. they proceeded ta construct the National Transcontinental Railway system, paralleling the
government highway, at a cost for the sectienl frm Winnipeg ta Monctan, including
the Quebec Bridge, cf $200,000,000. We have
the government coming down during the
present session indicating that they propose
to acquire certain additional lines cf nailway
in connection with the Intercolonial Railway system, notwithstanding that they have
during the last ten years had a deficit cf
$26,000,000 in the operation and capital expenditure of the road. I should like ta as-

SEN AT E

certain from my right lion. friend, if hie is 25 to 50 per cent more than the proper miarat liberty to disclose the views of the government on the subjeet, whiat is proposed
to be done with the Intercolonial Railway?
Immediately before the last general election
we read many eulogies of the administration
of the present Minister of Railways, and
were told that a very great success was being made of the road, but no sooner were
the elections over than it was ascertained
that negotiations had been going on between the government and certain railway
magnates of the Dominion, for the sale of
that great public work, and 1 have no doubt
it was the intention of the government to
seil or lease it, but owing to, the protests
which appeared in the press of the maritime
provinces they have been obliged to, recede
from their purpose. Now why does flot the
government corne down with a commoxi
sense scheme and place the Intercolonial
Railway in commission? That has been
urged in parliament session after session.
Great railway corporations in this country
have been endeavouring for some time past
to acquire the Intercolonial Railway. It is
well known that the Canadian Pacifie Railway was willing to.take it over, and that
the Grand Trunk ]Railway was ready to, acIt is also known that
quire it if possible.
other large corporations are prepared to
give a very substantial consideration for
There
the Intercolonial Railway system.
is no doubt whatever that the proper way
to manage the road is by a commission of
experts, and thus give to the maritime provinces a more satisfactory service than they
receive to-day. Very recently an examination was made into, the character of that
administration, and I would point out some
of the information that has been ascertained.
On -the employees pay-roll we find
8,424 namnes. 0f the number which 1 have
mentioned, 1,500 hiad obtaîned and retained
their positions because of political influence, and are unnecessary to, the management. At $2 per day these would represent
a year]y pay-roll of about $ 1,000,000. 1 may
also state that the patronage system exists
in ail its viciousness on the Intercolonial
Railway. From the revelations before the
Cassels commission, it became apparent
that under the patronage systein of the de-

It is an exaegerated view
ket values.
to take of the situation to say that at least
$500,000 could be sav *ed in supplies on the
Intercolonial Bailway by the abolition of
the present system of management an:!
placing the road in commission? This towhich
gether with the retrenchment
place
through the dis
would . take
missal of unnecessary employees, would
represent at least one million five hundred thousand dollars per annum, flot
taking into consideration for a moment
what additional sums might be obtained by
increasing the freight rates to a standard
basis. Leaving that controversial matter
out of the question, it is apparent that the
road would gain to the extent $1,500,000 per
annum if it were placed under commission
and administered as any other railway enterprise would be.
There is another public service whichi illustrates the recklessness with which the
government is expending the public money.
I refer to the National Transcontinental
Railway.
It is conceded by my hion.
friends opposite that the road will cost,
when completed, somewhere within the
vicinity of M20,000,000. That is not denied.
I would like to, ask my hion. friends in
what way can such an expenditure be reconciled with financial economy, in view
of the fact that the cost of the road is exceeding the original estimate by at least
$ 125,000,000?P The original estimate submitted to, the parliament was in the vicinitv
of $78,000,000.- Can there be any justification or explanation why the estimates for
a public enterprise of that nature could flot
have been determined with approximate
Why should they be doubled,
accuracy?
nay almost trebled ? Who is culpable for
such an enormous mistake, for such reckIess

administration P

Estimates

were

brought down to parliament concurrently
with the Bill introduced by the government showing that the expenditure would
be somewhere less than eighty million dollars. Now consider the estimates. I appeal
to the House if such financial administration ever characterized any undertaking or
commercial enterprise ? If se would it not
be bankrupted almnost at its birth P lIn
partments, supplies cost the country froin fact il would be impossible to do business
Hon. Mr. LOLJGHEED.

J),NUARY 26, 19099

under such conditions with the financial institutions of any country. Then is it not
reasonable to urge upon the goverument
that sometbing like a cautious and prudent
administration of the public reven ues
should be had P It is the duty of the
Senate to properly consider and to resist in
every possible way, the demands made by
the government of tbe day irom time to
time for enormous sums to carry ont the
public service without the necessary information being brougbt before us to show
what those services will actually cost. Another phase of the publia expenditure bas
been revealed by the inquiry into the MaI say that those disrine Department.
closures reveal incompetency in the administration of the public service to a shockMinor as well as major
ing extent.
officials of that department were permitted te incur obligations representing a corrupt expenditure from 20 to 150 per cent
higher tban any business man would have
paid for the same supplies. It is idie te
attempt in behaîf of the interest of a political party te vindicate the government in
administration of that character. What has
been disclosed in connection with the administration of the Marine Department
marks every spending department of the
goverument. Even the commissioner himself was obliged to say in bis report-are
there not other departments administered
by the government which could bc- deait
with in the same manner P It is well
known that the great spending departments
are administered witb the same reckless
extravagance and incompetence as the Marine Department ; and yet wben we remember that the abuses involved in those disclosures were vindicated by the govermment on the floor of parliament-when we
remember that every possible obstruction
was thrown in the way of the public accounts committee in its investigation,
one is hnmiliated at the action of
parliament and led to ask 'what the duty
of the people's representatives is? It was
this same department that attacked the
report of the civil service commission when
it was laid before the House. We ail recollect with wbat indignation the Minister
of Marine and Fisheries and the Minister
of Finance attacked their own commission
for suggesting thiat such abuses existed. XVe

can recall the varions attempts made sorne
twq or three years ago to have a proper.
investigation into the administration of the
Every attempt was
Marine Department.
blocked by the government and the majority in parliament. I reiterate, that this is
not the duty of parliament. The duty of the
representatives of the people in both Honses. is to see that the fullest investigation
is made wben any sncb charge is brought
before tbem, and that every opportunîty be
afforded to investigate the tacts with a
view to stop abuses. I observe in the report
of Commissioner Cassels that a reference is
made to the necessity of awakening the
public conscience. It occurs to me that he
bas flot corne as closely in contact with political conditions in Canada as those more
closely identifled with public lite, or he
would have concluded that for some years
the public conscience has been dead. At
the last general election, an opportunity
was given to the public to show whether
a public conscience did exist in Canada.
and I ventnre to say that there was not
a question involving public conscience before the electorate that received favonrable
How
consideration in any constituency.
could it be expected, in view of the course
pursued by the Prime Minister himself ?
In a letter addressed to his associate member in the city of Ottawa, he assured the
civil service that if he sbould be retnrned
to power to increase their salaries by at
least 126 per cent, and to make that inNow what does that
crease retroactive.
mean P It means simply that tbe Prime
Minister of the Dominion had not sufficient public -conscience to realize tbe enormity of seeking to bribe a constituency with
money ont of the public treasury. There
are fifteen buudred civil servants in Ottawa.
At the last session of parliament the Minister of Agriculture informed the House of
Commons that the recommendation made
by the civil service commission for an increase of salary could not be carried out.
Wben the two seats of the city of Ottawa
seemed to be in jeopardy, what did the
premier do? He annonced to the 1,500 civil
servants that if the Liberal administration
was returned he would use bis influence
to increase their salaries by 121 per cent
and to make that increase date from the
]st of September last.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE--Do you object
to the increase P
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.-That is not in
volved in. the question. Commissioner Cassels ini his report to parliament pointed out
that the only remedy for the abuses which
the evidence diselosed was an awakening of
the public conscience, and I pointed out
that the Prime Minister of this Dominion
did not seem to appreciate the enormity of
his offense in attempting to bribe flfteen
hundred civil servants in Ottawa to support
him by promising to increase their salaries
to the extent of $50,000 to $75,000 for past
services and 12J per cent as a future snd permanent increase. Yet hion. gentlemen ts.lk
about the government of the day administering thle aiffairs, o! the Dominion with re
gard to honour, conscience and moral considerations. I may say that this was not
an isolated case. In a hundred constituencies throughout the Dominion practically
the sarne bribes were ofiered to the public.
Take, for instance, the question o! rural
mail delivery. Notwithstanding the position taken by the government last session
in absolutely refusing to concede rural mail
delivery to the f armers on the ground of
expense. and on the ground that it could
flot be practically carried out, the Postmaster General announced on the eve o!
the election, when Ontario seats Beemed t,
be in jeopardy, that, if the government were
supported, rural mail delivery would be
granted even before the election. And this
announicement was made at a time when
certain government organs were opposing
everything touching rural mail delivery. I
would illustrate this by mentioning what
occurred in Edmonton. At the time when
the Postmaster General made that promise
the Edmonton 'Bulletin,' the organ of the
Minister of the Interior, published on the
saine day an article opposing in the strongest language the introduction o! this saine
rural mail delivery. Take again the expenditure in October last. It was $ 1,536,000 more than the expenditure in the corresponding month of 1907. No doubt that
increased expenditure was intended te have
its effeet upon the electorate.

ture in October last being a miilion and a
half more than in October o! the preceding
year, I presume hie included capital as welI
as ordinary expenditure?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.-I fancy the expenditure on capital account would have
the same influence on votes as ordinary
expenditure.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.Possihly. or possibly not, but I presume
that hie is putting the two together?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.-Oh, yes, I am
putting the two tegether, but I would point
out te rny right hion. friend that it was
scarcely a coincidence that in that particular month, when the elections were about te
be held, it was considered flot unwise tactics te make a very much larger expenditure than in the corresponding period o!
This is how we culthe preceding year.
tivate public conscience.
Reference jg made to the increased care
exercised in immigration. That is a matter on which we can, in a qualifled way,
congratulate the government. I regret that
the government has not done away with the
bonus o! $5 per head given te immigrants.
I fail te understand why Canada does not
follow the example of the United States of
America. Our neighbours do not pay emigrants te come to their shores, but on the
contrary impose a poil tax o! $4 per head
upon them. There are sufficient inducements
in the country for immigrants without offering bonuBes. The character of our immigrants 'la undoubtedly a source of very
heavy expenditure te the different provinces
o! the Dominion. I would iljustrate this by
mentioning some statistics taken from the
blue book of the province o! Ontario, showing what it is costing that province to support what I might termi the criminal immigrants located in that province. During
the past five years the number of foreigii
born admitted te the asylums bas nearly
doublpd. In 1903 it was 180; in 1907 it was
364. This was nearly double their proper
proportion in the population. The proportion o! foreign born in the whole population o! Ontario is 20 per cent; the proportion of foreign in the Central prison is 51
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.- per cent; that is 31 per cent beyond the
When my hion. friend speaks of the expendi- percentage of their population. The proHon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

JANUARY 26, 1909

portion of foreign born in the j ails of the
province of Ontario is 38 per cent. It is
pointed out that the yearly cost of each inmate of the asylum to the province of Ontario ise 200, s0 that each cemmitment of
an alien to an asylum means a future cost
to the province of $6,000, and so the 364
sent te the asylum last year means an
ultimate cost of over $2,000,000 te the province. It therefore seems te me that it
would lie wise administration on the part
of the government to revise their immigration policy. I quite agree with what my
hon. friend from Mille fles has said, that
the first consideration should be quality insteau of numbers. The European immigrants,
particularly those from the slums of Euro.
pean cities, have added greatly te the cost
of the local authorities. It is, therefore,
in the best intereet of Canada, even on
financial grounds, entirely apart from moral
and national grounds, that there should be
careful discrimination exercised as te the
character of immigrants bemng allowed te
land on our shores. I should like te make
a few observations with reference te thie
incursion of the government into the treatymsking field.
I notice that the address
makes allusion te certain treaties that are
being negotiated, but omits entirely any
reference te treaties cf a more interesting
character. The government congratulated
itself some years ago on having struck out
on an independent path so f ar as the treaty
making power is concerned, and I observe
of late that a kind of diplomatic corps je
being cultivated by the government within
its cabinet circle, and certain hon. gentlemen seem te be clothed with ambassadorial
powers te attend foreigii courts occasionally
with a view te negotiating treaties; but 1
can scarcely congratulate the government
on what these hon. gentlemen have accomplished. 'We recall the mission of the present Minister cf Agriculture to Japan a
couple cf years ago in connection with the
question cf immigration. That gentleman
appears te have been diplomatically chîcroformed on that occasion. He was told to
return te Canada and the relations between
Japan snd this country 'would continue to
be harmonious, and the imperial court
would see that net teo many Japanese
would come out.
2

That mission apparently failed in its resuite. A couple cf years ago the Minister
cf Marine and Fisheries and the Minjeter cf Finance went te France, apparently te engotiate a treaty, and a
very great eulogy was paid te those
bon. gentlemen upon their apparent
succeàs. They had thrown off the incubue.
s0 te speak, cf the British representative
upon that mission, and had practicafly, cf
their own motion, and upon their owxi
responsibility, successfully negotiated this
treaty.
But we were surprised to learn a
short time ago that, notwithstanding the
ratification cf the treaty by thie parliament.
the treaty had yet te be ratified by France.
I notice the right hon. Prime Minister,
in the House cf Commons last night, stated that a supplementary treaty bad been
entered into. I should like te learn from
my rigbt hon. friend why the treaty was
net ratified by the French gevernment.
The press report rather indicated that the
Canadian ministers failed te represent te
the government cf France that, under the
favoured nation clause, Switzerland would
come within the rights cf the treaty. Parliament has not received any information
on the subject. 1 should like te know from
my right hon. friend if hie bas any information on that subject?
What will be the
provisions cf the supplementary treaty P
Is it propoeed te negotiate a new treaty.
and te alter the termes cf the old treaty, or
what je the intention cf the government
on that point P This is a matter involving
public interest, and I scarcely understand
why allusion je net made te it in the speech
from the Throne. I very much doubt if
thie treaty had been negotiated by British
diplomate that it would have been lef t in
the incomplete shape in which it was left
by the representatives cf Canada in dealing direct with the French government.
There je another eubject which sbould be
cf some intereet to the trade cf Canada,
and that je the extent te which this governinent may have gone in their correspondence with the German government relative te the removal cf the tariff reprisaIs
which. obtain againet both countries. The
policy of the government bas been te open
up; or it je represented that the pelicy cf
the government bas been te open up, new
markets; it seems to me te be a senselese

REVISED EDITION

SENATE
condition of af airs that our relations with
Germany since 1903 should have been disrupted, and that they should thue have
continued, especially in view of the policy
of the present goverament to negotiate
treaties with foreign powers. When my
right hon. friend cornes te speak on this
subject, I shouid like to have some in-,
formation upon an article which appeared
in the ' London Times' very recently, ini
which it wae stated that negotiations had
been opened up with the Dominion of Canada, relative to the promotion or development of economic trade relations with Germany and the removal of those reprisais
which had existed between the two
countries.
I
understand
also
from
what has appeared in the European
press that ja line o!t steamers has
been estabiished or will be established at an early date, between Germany
and Canadian ports. and I observe further
that in Germany alone some of the representative men of that country have formed
a committee to promote better trade relations with Canada. It seems to, me that
reference should be made in the address
to these matters, if they have been the subject of negotiations between the two governments. Another matter, to which attention might have been directed in the address-it ie a matter to which public attention lias been given-namely that the President of the United States, at a recent
date, sent a special envoy te the Prime
Minister of the Dominion, and the Governor General of Canada, and also te the
government of Mexico, inviting those countries to send representatives te attend a
conferenoe to lie held in Washington on
February 18, with a view te the conservation of the natural resources of these countries. From the press reports the envoy
was received by the Governor General and
the Prime Minister of Canada and yet no
reference has been made te it neither in
the address, nor on the floor of the House.
It is an opportune time that attention should lie given te the conservation of our -public resources.
0f late
years we have been prodigal, we have been
reckless in, not only alienating those resources, but in being remiss in regard to
taking proper steps for their preservation.
I need flot point out that nearly two-thirds
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

of the timber resources of the new provinces have been alienated by the government for practically no coneideration.
I miglit allude also te the fact that nearly
ail the coal lands of that western country
have been alienated wit.hout any or littie
regard being paid te, the operation, or te
the development of those resources. Hence.
if public attention can bie directed, by an
international conference such as has been
outlined in the message of President Roosevelt te, the proper conservation of oui resources, it will certainly conduce very mucli
te the benefit and advantage of Canada.
In connection with my hon. friend aesuming the responsibility of the leadership of
this House, I should like te say that almost
every session attention hae been directed to,
the remissness of the governmnent in flot
furnishing the Senate with work and recognizing the duties of this body as entitled te
participate more largely in the legislation o!
the country. Thut has been attributed more
or less te the fact that the goverument has
from time te time decreaeed its ministeriai
representation in thie chamnler. I regret
to, say that this hae now been reduced te
one representative. My right hon. friend
wiil be a host in himself, yet it oertainly
suggeste the question, doee the government
intend te give further ministerial representation upon the floor of the Senate? I have
no doubt my hon. friend from De Lorimier
will qualify for that position at a very early
date, if he has not done so already, and may
possibly arrange at an early date te, take his
place as member of the cabinet. In ail
seriousness I for one would protest against
the reduction of minieterial representation
upon the floor o! the Senate te one minieter
from a cabinet that has been substantialiy
increased since my hon. friends have
I hope, therefore, that my
taken office.
riglit hon. friend will exercise the same
vigour with reference te asserting the constitutional rights of the Senate in having an
equal share in the legisiation o! the country as he lias done on other occasions in lis
political career.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARETWRIGHTAlter the very interesting and able address
which we have just listened to, from my
hon. frieind, 1 think I will probably consuit

JANUARY 26, 1909
both the wishes and convenience cf the
Senate by deferring my reply-which must
necessarily, looking into the vast 'variety of
subjects lie has travelled over, occupy sorne
considerable time-until to-morrow, and I
therefore, with the concurrence cf the
House, move the adjournment of the debate.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
the motion is put, miglit I ask the hon. gentleman, for the information cf the Senate,
if he can give us an idea cf the character
of the changes which have been made in
the French treaty. I observe that the only
information givexe in the other Bouse was
that it affected the fat cattie trade. No
other information was given to the que.tions that were asked by the leader of tlie
opposition in the other House. It would
be interesting to know how far the Finance
Minister has gone in suggesting or agreeing
to changes in the treaty as it existe to-day.
It struck me when I saw that item that it
affected the very important cattle trade cf
this country, and consequently would have
a very serious effect, providing there were
any restrictions plaoed upon the intereste
of those who are engaged in that particular
business.
HEon. Sir RICHTARD CARTWRIGHT-I
will be able I think to-rnorrow te give rny
hon. friend somewhat more detailed information, but I think that ail that has been
conceded lias been the excluding cf fat cattle ready to be butchercd, but I would prefer te postpene answering that question until I liad occasion te deal with the remarks
cf my lion. friend.
The motion is agreed to.
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock
to-morrow.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.-Most assuredly neither rny hon. and esteemed friend and colleague beside me nor myself can at ail complain cf the courteous
rnannez in which we were dealt with by the
hon, leader cf the opposition on the occasion cf lis remarks in respect cf the address
from the Thrcne. For myself I desfre te
say that it ie a matter cf very great regret
te me personaily that my hon. friend beside
me sliould have seen fit te resign the position which lie filled s0 long, so honourably
and se well, and the best that I can hope
for is that I may be able te disdliarge the
duties cf my present position hlf as acceptably te botli aides cf the Bouse as my hon.
friend did during the peried cf hie incum.
bency. I take this occasion te state te the
Bouse that wliile I will endeavour on al
occasions te do my utmost te upheld the
dignity cf thie Bouse and te diecharge the
duties cf my present position, I amn afraid
I wiil have te aek the indulgence of botli
aides cf the Bouse in the matter cf attending te the varions conimittees cf this Chamn-

ber. For varions reasons, physical chiefly.
I amn sorry te say, I have been obliged te

request my lion. friend on my riglit (Hon.
Mr. Dandurand> te act as my representative on these occasions, and I dare say the
Bouse will be gainer and net the loser by
the change. As regards the other wishes
kindly expressed by my hon. friend opposite, that during the period cf my incuinbcncy, which lie rather thouglit woxild be
shorter than I expected, that I wouid be
able te discliarge rny duties as weil as my
predecessor, I can only say that I amn more
generous than rny lion. friend. Se far as
desiring that lie sliould continue te occupy
Ida present distinguished position for a
short pericd. I trust most sincerely that lie
rnay long continue te occupy it in cemmon
with lis associates in anether place, and I
THE SENATE.
may observe, witliout in the sliglitest deOTTÂwA, Wednesday, January 27, 1909.
grec desiring te disparage the way in 'whidh
The SPEAKER teck the Chair at Three rny lion. friend lias disdliarged lis duties
o'clock.
here, that unlcss the gentlemen in another
Prayers and routine proceedings.
place ccnsiderably alter their rnethods and
manners, I arn inclined te think tliey' are
THE ADDRESS.
likcly te, continue te, adorn the left liand cf
DEBATE CONTINUED.
the Speaker there for a very considerable
The order of the day being called:
peried cf time te corne.
Consideretion of His ExcelIency t~he Gov.My lion. friend traversed a very considernor -Genereil's speech on the opening of the
erable deal cf ground, and raised a good
first @e"son of the eleventh parliament.
24

SENATE
many questions of very considerable practical importance, with some of which. I
trust to be able to deal. Before doing so
I shail take the opportunity of replying to
an inquiry made by my hon. friend or his
distinguished predecessor with respect to
the French treaty recently under negotiation
at Paris. As I ama advised, the chief altération that has been made ini it is this: Article ont- provides that the cattie items in
schedule A be modified by excluding cattie
in fat condition for slaughter. Article 2
provides that the ruli 'ng of the French experts as to fat cattie shall be final, subject,
however, to the right of the Canadian government Weask for revision of any regula-tions that they may find objectionable. So
far as the treaty is concerned, I believe
that that is almost the entire diff erence that
is likely to be made; but I would take occasion Wopoint out Womy hion. friend that
these cable communications, which are ahl
we have Wo depend upon at present, are
necessarily somewhat brief and incomplete
and that I do not desire Wobe understood
as saying this is absolutehy final. I amn
giving him the best information that I
possess at the moment.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.-Can my right
hon. friend say whether the Minister of
Finance, who is in France, I understand,
has authority Woaccept the new proposaIs
made by the French governent suplementary Wo
the treaty?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.-I
cannot say whether hie has authority as to
ail matters. I amn not advised as to whether
everything the French goverinent has
asked for has been conceded or not. I arn
simply giving the hion. gentleman information of the major, and, I believe,.the only
important change that is likely to be made
in the treaty.
BOWELL.Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
Surely the Finance Minister would not suggest or accept a proposition of that kind
except with the consent of the government?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHe certainly would flot accept any important proposition. There may be some smahl
matters of detail as to which reasonable
discretion rnight be given.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CAItTWRIC1ET.

Now, to come to matters to which the
hion. gentleman has devoted a great deal of
attention, and in respect Wowhich I propose also to speak, I might remark Wohim
in the firat place that hie has, I think with
out intending it, a littie exaggerated the
probable loss of revenue in thu current year.
This my hon. friend estimated at about
$15,000,000, basing his calculation, naturally
enough, on the last «Gazette' returns downi
Wothe Ist of January. I amn glad Wo b.a
able Wosay Womy hon. friend, that while
it is quite true the figures as hie gave them
are correct down Wothe Tht of January, hie
wifl do well in making his calculations for
bear in mind
the remaining three months Wo
that the loss of revenue during the firat nine
montha of this year was, from very obvions
causes and reasons, very much larger in
proportion than it is likely Wo be in the remaining three months, and I will give him
the latest information in my possession as
Wothe total lasB of revenue. On the 2Oth
January-only seven days ago-the total
boss of revenue axnounted Wo$ 12,038,000, and
as it is probable that the months of February and March will not show any appreciable decline, and as it is even possible that
they may show a slight increase over the
monthe of February and Mardi, 1908, I
think my hon. friend may rely upon it that
the figure now attained is not likely Wobe
materialhy exceeded, which, no, doubt, wilh
be very satisfacWory to him. I may abso
observe that although it is quite true that
there has been a great shrinking in our revenue and in our imports, it is equally true
that on the whole, and as compared with
other nations, Canada is able Womake a
very respectable showing. First of aIl, and
it is a point which I have no doubt hion.
gentlemen will thoroughly appreciate, being
as they are, many of them, men who are
conversant with large affairs-first of all
aîthough the storm struck us as well as the
United States with very considérable severity, we can say Woour credit that Canadian financial institutions displayed a most
Over the United
remarkable stabihity.
States, as every hon gentleman knows.
there was something ]ike a complete suspension of specie payments. Nothing of
thie sort was thought of, dreamed of or ex
pected in Canada, and it refiects no smali

JANUÂRY 27, 1909
credit on Canadian institutions that that
should have been the case. Another point.
also of considerabie moment and interest,
is this: 1 have here, and I shall presently
lay it on'the table for the information of
rny hion. friends, the unrevised statement
for the fiscal years 1907 and 1908. These
give our total exporta for the period of
twelve months expiring on the Ist of January, and it is noteworthy that the total exports of Canadian home produce in the
year 1908 net oniy maintained themseiveg
perfectly well, but were a good nlany millions in excess cf our total exporta cf the
saine quality for 1907. The figures for 1907
showed that we exported of home produce
a matter of $Z37,000,000. The figures for
1908 show that we exported cf home produce $247,000,000. Now, I do net attacli
as much importance as. some cf my hion.
friends appear te do te the question cf the
balance cf trade; stiil there is a limit, and
1 would net like te see any very heavy balances cf trade against us under present circumstances; but I may fairly point this
eut that when in the year 1908 we succeeded in experting eight or nine millions
worth more cf home produce thaxi we had
done in 1907, 1 arn perfectly justified in believing that that is a pretty conclusive proof
that the great sources ef industry in Canada
were in ne respect injured or imperilled by
the commercial calamity that had befallen
our neighbours, and te some extent ourselves.
However, the point te which I suspect
xny hion. friend would more particulsrly
desire te direct oui attention, is the very
large increase which, beyond ail doubt, has
taken place within the last tweive or thirteen years in the expenditure cf this country. It is quite true, as my hion. friend
said, that in old tirnes when Canada was
in a state cf stagnation, when the population cf Canada were fieeing from the country at the rate cf eue or two hundred thousand a year, it is perfectly true, and I arn
net the man te deny it in the slightest de.
gree, that I condemned any addition te ex.
penditure under such circumstances. But
it dees net foiiow that I would therefore
condemiu a reasonabiy liberal expenditure %,hen Canadian commerce and trade
are increasing by ieaps and bounds in spite
cf disaster in other countries, and when in

2]

place of losing oui population at the rate of
hundreds cf thousands we are adding te oui
population, and that ef a very good quality,
at the rate cf two- or three hundred
theusanid a year. Still, aithough that is
very good grouud for consideriug that we
are justifled in having a large and liberal
addition te oui expenditure, I agree with
my hion. friend that it would be ne justification for extravagance on oui part, aud
Bti less justification for graft. I propose
te analyse briefly the expenditure which
haa tsken place, and I thiuk I wiii be able
te show te the House that, on the whole,
and makiug reasonable aliowance for human infirmity-and the government do net
pretend te be anything but human-we are
fairly juatifled, up te date at any rate,
in what we have done in the way of increasing the expendituie. In the first place
I may observe that 1 arn a littie at a lass
in conducting this discussion, for two reasons; te a considerable degree this discussion on oui part, seeiug that we have ne
control cf the public puise, except in nome
very desperate emergency, is rather cf an
scademic character, aud in the next place
I amn free te say that, on the whole, and
te some extent, I agree with my hion.
f'iend in thinking that it is high time
that our expenditures should net continue
te increase, and that it may be found necessary te put a check on sorne cf them. But
the point te which I arn more particularly
going te addreas myseif is the very large
additional expeilditure, which, as hie truly
says, has taken place between 1896 and 1908.
For this puipose I think that my hon. friend
would have done weil te do as I arn gomng
te do; that is, te confine myseif in the discussion net te the sums which have been
expended for ordinary revenue and for
capital put tegether, because everybody
knows that we cannot engage in great
works cf the nature and character that we
are now prosecuting&without having a large
legitimate expenditure on capital account,
and hie knows that nothing of that kind was
going on in 1896. But what 1 think is a
f air thing te do, and that which I shall address myseif, ia this: I shall take the expenditure actually ascertained frorn the
public records, which I hiold in my han d,
for 1896 and for the year 1908. There ia a
very large difference between them; there

SENATE
is something like $38,000,000 to be accounted for, or a littie more. My hon. f riend is
perfectly justifled in saying that it lies on
the government to give to the people of
Canada and to the parliament of Canada, a
reasonably satisfactory explanation for the
addition that they have made of M,8000,000 to the annual expenditure of Canada.
1 admit that franly. I shail proceed to
do it to the beat of my ability. In the
firet place, I cali the attention of loy
hon. friend and the House to the fact
that of this increase of $38.000.000, a very
large amount which 1 would be disposed
to put as high as fourteen or flfteen
million, probably fitteen million, is te
ail intents and purposes a mere nominal
addition te our expenditure. It is composed of sums which go out of one pocket
and corne into the other. For example,
we have, in the first place. very lsigely
added te oui expenditure and laigely
added te oui receipts on account of the
Intercolonial Railway, as te which I shall
have something te say a littie later on. W
have in the second place-and I think on
the whole te the very great advantage and
convenience of the people of Canada-added
very largely te oui expenditure for postal
purposes; we have reduced the rates te t.he
people of Canada and we have added te the
irevenue. We had a handsome surplus in
1908, but, as a matter of course, the differ*ence between the sum. expended in 1896 and
the sum. expended i 1908 goes te swell the
Those two Items
-apparent expenditure.
-alone would go very f ai te account for the
sum that 1 have named, but when you add
to those the fact that, be the policy good or
be it bad, the country unanimously agreed
to add, some foui or five million a year
te the sumo paid te the several provinces,
you wiil see that there is ai very good justification for my statement7that of the $38,000,000 i question, about $15,000,000 went
practically out of one pocket into the other.
As to this addition te the subsidies te the
provinces, I have merely te say for my
own part that if it had been possible I
would have greatly preferred te sever the
provincial payments from the Dominion ex'penditure altogether, as is done in the
United States. But everybody who is acquainted with the circumstances attending the formation.,and existence of our conHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT

federation knows that however desirable a
thing that might have been, it is found
practîcably impossible, and that ail we can
hope for now is-perhaps it la hoping
against hope-that the lust addition shail be
the flnaily, finaily, final, and that we shail
not have any more applications during the
life time of this parliament, and I hope of
severai parleaments te corne for any furthez
modifications of the terme between the Dominion and the provinces.
But it would
hardly be fair, looking at the facts, that
ail the provinces with, 1 think, the solitary
exception of British Columnbia, which did
flot get quite enough, that all the provinces
concuired i this demand, and ail the local
legiolatures concurred in it, and the parliament of Canada, the opposition as wel
as the ministers included, made no objection te it, it would be hardly faii te say
the goverumnent were very much te blame
for having consented te that demand.
1
may also point out in that connection that
when you collect a revenue of some $60,000,000 in place of a revenue of '$20.000,000 it is not an unreasonable thing that the
expenditure for customs should. be double
in 1908 what it 'was in 1896. If you bear
that in mid, and bear in mind, as I have
said, that of this $38,000,000 that $15,000,000 was in effect transferred from one aide
of the account te the other; that wve have
received in the case of the Post Office and
in the case of the Customs, and in the case
of the Intercolonial Railway, as much
money as we have paid out, I think that as
f ar as that particular portion of the account is concerned we stand pretty fairly
and squarely before the public.
Then we corne te a point on which. there
may be a great deal more dispute. My hon.
friend was disposed, I think, te underestimate the increase of population which has
taken place under oui regline. That is a
subject te which, in other places and on
former occasions, I have paid a good deal
of attention, and I say here, after having
very csiefuily considered the evidence
which. was laid before the census authorities when they took the census in 1901,
that there la the strongest reason to believe, absolute proof in many cases, that
the population in 1891 was very considerably exaggerated, whether hy accident or
design I arn not prepared to sas'. I -con-

JANUARY 27, 1909
eider that it was probably done by the vicioua systemn of enumeration which, prevailed,
under which, to my own certain knowledge,
many persons 'who had been absent from
Canada for five, ten or fifteen years, and
had no sort of intention of returning, were
enumerated as citizene of thie Dominion.
Therefore I believe that if, as 1 suggested. at
the trne, though 1 was flot able te get it
carried out, an honest enunieration had
been made-or a correct eniuneration we
wiil eay haed been made--of the inhabitants
of Canada ini 1896, they would not have ut
ail exceeded 4,800,000 at that tume. Later on
frogi the evidence given ue by the last censue in Manitoba. which took place in 1906,
and the evidence of our etatistical office,
there ie reason to believe that our population is now eomething like 6,800,000. It rnay
be considerably more. At any rate the in,crease of population would have amounted,
not te 25 per cent in twelve years as my hon.
-friend put it, but probably te, 40 or 45 per
sent, a very material differenoe, and if we
were te add or te dernand for the additional
40 per cent or the 45 per cent, take the
ernail number, if we were te demand that
similar ailowance should be made for them
as was made for the 4,800,000 wo found when
we came into office, then it would foilow
that at least of the remaining sum another
$15,000,000 could be etruck off by reasox
of the increased population, and the fact
that that increaeed population was scattered over an immense extent of territery
and involved numerous expenditures, very
considerable expenditures, which would not
have occurred had they settled in the aider
and more thickly peopled parte of the country. Now, if those calculatione are correct
-and I think they wiil be found te be subetantially correct, though as I said there
may be a difference of opinion here -and
there on the point--it follows that of the
$38,000,000 expenditure which have been
added in those 12 years. $30,000,000 are
fairly wefl accounted for in the two ways
1 have spoken of. That will leave a matter
of $8,000,000 te be accounted for. I am
quite willing te discuse the question of
those( $8,000,000 with my hon. friends here
or eleewhere. First of ail, I may take
occasion te observe what 1 think no mnan
who has any familiarity with public affairs
will be lilcely te deny, that there has been

23

ail over the country, as everybody knows.
within those twelve years, largely owing to
the great and rapid progrees of the country.
an enormous increase in the cost of labour
and material which has *affected ail our
public works, which. has affected ail our
public employments and the salaries of
oui public officers.
That alone might
very fairly be an offset againet the increase which I have spoken of, the increase cf soine $8,000,000 within a period
of twelve years; but it« je better alway.i
in these cases te go te the actual figures
and facte and the details of these expenditures. 1 find in 1896 that in the
item~ of militia my hon. friende opposite,
or the gentlemen who repreeented themn on
that occasion, reduced the total expenditure of the militia te $1,136,000. 1 amrn clined te think it wae reduced for a purpose.
and te make a showing, because it je very
much lese than it was in the preceeding
year, but- at any rate they reduced it te
about $1,136,000. Our expenditure for 1908
amounted te $5,500,000. 0f the $8,000.000
of increase, therefore, about $4,500,000, or
$4,400,000 te be exact, arose fromn the increased service of militia. How did that
corne about? Mainly it came about, or very
largely it came about, frorn the fact that
Canada has assurned the responsibility oi
maintaining the garrisone of Esquirnault
and Halifa e t a charge of probably sornetlling ove!, $2,000,000, a thing which I believe not one single gentleman on the opposition side cf the House objected te or protested against. They appeared te have considered that ail right, nor have I heard
that they. objected in the slightest degree
te the increase which teck place in *the
other branches of the militia service, bringing the sum total up te the amount cf
$5,500,000, as I have mentioned. As in the
case of the militia, eo likewise in the
case of sorne other services.
But, a&
sorne hon. gentlemen rnay eay, the militia
is a subjeet on wbîch ail honeet, patriotic and gallant citizens, snch as my hon.
friend the ex-leader of the opposition, agree
shall be rnaintained, we will take one
which has been- pretty well under tire and
has been the eubject of pretty severe criticisrn. Take that rnuch abused and much
maligned Department of Marine and Fisheries. In 1896 the expenditure under one

21

SENATE

head, for lighthouse and coast service- ture on the lîghthouse department, and I
there are other branches of it, but this wil] may say this, every hon, gentleman who
do to, illustrate my point-amounted to knows anything of the trade of Canada,
$445,000. The expenditure in 1908 amounted knows that the value cf the cargo cf te
to $2,835,000. That is to, say, that of th,3 ships that go down the St. Lawrence te-day
$8,000,000 in question $2,400,000 were de- amounts te several hundred cf millions cf
voted to the improvement of the lighthouse dollars. An accident te one of those ships
service.
The lighthouse and coast servic carrying such a cargo as they do would ini
mean practically the liglithouse service. 1 a single year much more than offset te
arn not disposed to say that the administra- total amount cf the increase, large as it is.
tion of that departinent has been entirely And while, as 1 have said, I amn in no way
free from censure. I think probably, as the disposed te, defend any unnecessary expenreport of Judge Cassels seems to indicate, diture in this or any other department, L
that there has been very considerable ex- do say that when you accuse the governtravagance in certain quarters, and that ment cf extravagance merely because te
there has been certainly something which expenditure increased in such a departlooks extremely like graf t on the part of a ment as that by a couple of million dollar.i
good many officiais. That extravagance the or, may be more, ycu wi cao well te regoverninent wrnl check. That graft, if the member that the community at large-and
law .permits thema to do so, they will pun- this affects the whole community, because
ish ; but I would cail attention incidentally practically simost the whcle cf our exporta
te this fact, that the offenders, if they be go via the St. Lawrence, at any rate during
offenders, are for the most part men whom the summer season-you will remember that
we did not appoint, but whom we found in theo community derive a very large benefit
office when we camne in in 1896 and whose from that expenditure.
marais may have been contaminated by theo
1 do not think At necessary ta, go inte
company which they were obliged te keep.
minute details about these matters, except
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-The new company or
the old?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The
old, most decidedly, and I think if my hon.
friend remembers certain events which took
place in parliament in the years 1893-4-5,
he will know that officiais of that department, did stand in considerable danger of
being contaminated. However, that is not
exactly the point. The point I want te,
make is this: It is true there has been a
very large increase, at any rate i the
Department of Marine and Fisheries, and
under the head of lighthouses and coast
service, but at the same time there has been
an enormous improvement in that service,
and an enormous benefit conferred on the
mercantile marine, aye and on the people
cf Canada by that improvement. To-day
the St. Lawrence is lit and supplied with
lighthouses and l1ght accommodation as it
neyer was before, and as very few rivers of
its magnitude are to-day. 1 believe that
the amount saved to, the community in insurance alone would much more than compensate them for the increase in expendi.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

the remark teat before 1 have done I thinc
I shall be able to show the Hause that in
the remaining item which would be necessary te, make up the eight million dollars
that I arn now discussing-that is the item
cf immigrationî- th:e money that we have
expended bas been cf enormous advantage
te the people cf Canada. There I think te
increase bas amounted te, something like
$1,000,000 or thereabouts.
In 1896, aur
expenditure for immigration axnounted te
about $120,000. It had incereased ta very
nearly one million one hundred thousand
dollars per annuin in the twelve years
termînating in 1908. Now, the House
will observe that while I do not pretend te say that there may not have been
some ground for criticisrn with respect
ta any one cf those departmenta, I do
maintain, and I think the House on due
consideration wiIl agree with me, that in
the cases that I have enumerated, either
the whoic parliarnent concurred in the expenditure, as in the case cf the militia, or
there bas been good value given for te
money expended. Perhaps my hon. friend
opposite will permit me ta ask hlm a ques-

JANUARY 27, 1909
tion or two. Could he tell me off -hand 1906. At any rate, these are the statistics
what was the population of Caigary in the as recorded in the ceneus, and if my hon.
year of grace 1896? Does hei remember or friend intimates that the ceneus etatietics
wae it sa smaii that it has siipped hie mem- have done Calgary a wrong, I shall do my
beet to <et it amended.
ory?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I could net tel
my right hon. friend, but it was a fairly
nurnerous population.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-In
1896 what was the population? I think I
can euppiy an approximate estimate my
self. I think it will be found that if the
population of Calgary in the year of grace
1896 reached 1,500 it was quite as much as
it waa.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cati assure my
right hon. friend that the population of
Calgary in 1896 woùld be six or seven thousand at the very least.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The rapid increase refiecte great credit on the enterprise of the people of Calgary, and is due
ta their own efforts more than ta the efforts
of the goverunent.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThat ie a queetion whether the growth of
Calgary is due ta the efforts cf the people
cf Calgary or ta the efforts cf the government. I could contribute a littie information on that subject. If I amn net gravely
misinformed, the last time we had occasion
ta buy property in Calgary the intelligent
natives-not the aborigines but their successors-demanded something like $200 a
foot for property which ten or twelve years
age we ceuld have bought for $100 an acre

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If
the hon. gentleman je correct, it je a remarkable f act. The census returne for 1901
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have no doubt
showed that the population' of Calgary was
to of that.
at that time 4,091. In .1906 it had grown
11,967 and I take it for granted that by
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTthie tinie the population is certainly thir- That will show my hon. friend how rapid
teen or fourteen thousand.
the progrese of Calgary bas been, and how
great the increased values under the preHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I ask my sent government, aithough he wrnl not give
right hon. friend 'where he got hie figures? us credit for having helped ta praduce the
imprevement.
Hon. 8ir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThey are furnished by the chief officer of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon. gentlestatietice.
man je net taking inta consideration thei
Hon.- Mr. LOUGHEED-My right han. enterprise cf the people of that city.
friend will find that the officiai ceneus of
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTCalgary ini 1901 wae about 11,000.
Their enterprise je great, and their skill in
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWIGHT-The using the advantages cf their position ta
official estimate of the ýopulation of Cal. get meney eut of the government je great
gary was a littie over 4,000; in 1906 it was aiea.
11,967.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-I reHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That je clearly member when the population cf Calgary
was in tents.
a mistake.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Of
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHt-I
course it je net for me ta contradict my hon. can remember that myself.
friend. I know a littie about Calgary, but
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.-Were not those
I do flot pretend to eay that my information
I think, however, he will who built the Canadian Pacifie Railway
je equal ta his.
find that the officiai figures repreeent cor- realiy the largest promoters of the increase
rectly the population of Calgary in 1901 and of population ini CalgaryP

SENATE
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT~
They were precious slow about it. There
was no appreciable increase until after
1896. From that tirne forward there has
been a very rapid improvement and increase i population, but unless my rnemory
ie wholly at fault, the total nuxnber of
homesteads taken UP ini ail the Northwest
i the year before we came into office was
something less than 1,200, while the total,
nuxnber of homesteads taken up annually
since 1896, after we got fairly into the saddie, bas been rising ta something like 30,000
a year. However, that je a detail.
My hon. friend was. good enough ta allude
ta the case of the Intercolonial Rtailway.
That railway is a sore spot and a sore subject. Bath governments have tried their
banda at it without any unqualifled succeas. I amn myseif very much of the opinion that the Intercolonial under any government-I do flot care whether it ie of
good goverpnent or bad-will always bc
mun at a much greater expense than if it
was managed by private awners. I arn also
of the -opinion that the rates obtainable by
a governiment will be very much less than
those obtainable by a company, as the
facto show, and I shail be glad of any suggestions from my haon. friend or his friends
behind him as ta how the Intercolonial
Railway could be put on a better footing.
It is engaging aur earnest attention, and T
hope samething will be done,, but after 35
yeers experience of it, I think it wil be
adniitted that it is an exceedingly toughi
proposition. It was badly engineered, badly
laid out in tbe firt place, and the difficultics in the way of doing anything with it
are great tbough they may be avercome.
My bon. friend made a very strong point
indeed of the expenditure incurred on the
Transcontinental Railway. He stated, and
with perfect accuracy-I ar n ot disposed
ta flnd fault with hie statements there that the total expenditure on this road ta
the public will very greatly exceed the estimated cost. With respect ta that there are
one or two thinge ta be said per contra.
One is that the road is being constructed
on an extrernely high standard, a rnost unusuaiiy high standard for a road of that
magnitude, and going through a country of
that kind. In the next place-and this
bears on the question I was alluding ta beHgon. Mr. FERGLJSON.

fore-there has been, since that road was
undertaken, a very great appreciation in
the coat of labour and material, and calculations which might have been very fairly made then would- prove quite erroneous
ta-day. But wholly and entirely apart from
that, there are, as probably many hon.
gentlemen in this Hanse know, two op
paelLa schools of railway engineers who
propose ta build railways an tatally different pminciples. There is one echool, and
there is a great deal to be said under certain circulm tances for their contention.
who say that the beet way you can buiid
a railroad is ta get it through anyhow,
under almost any conditions as ta grades,
curvitures or anything else, and finish up
at your leisure-that that is the cheapest
way ta build it, and the oniy way you can
build it on reasonable terme. There is alea,
as gentlemen in this House know, an opposite view, and those wbo say that under
certain conditions and where it is probable
you will have to deal at once witb a large
amaunt of traffic, that the only way to
construct a railroad je ta build it in a firstcimes way, firet-clase as ta grades and
curves and ail the reet of it. I need hardly
point out ta the House that the difference
in the initial expense between these two
systeme je necessarily enorînaus. The latter
eystem bas been pursued. in the case of the
Transcontinental ]Railway. The difference
je oa great, as. I was tald on ane occasion-I amn not pledging myseif ta the
details, I arn giving the evidence laid before me-that whereas on a road canstructed in the firet f ashion yau might bave difflculty in dragging a train loaded with
twa or three bundred tans in ordlnary
-cases, on the other road, properly constructed, with ane of the engines now in
use it je quite feasible that yau shauld
haul a train load canveying something like
twa thousand tans.
It wiii be perfectly
evident ta everybody that accordingly as
you build your road, on the firet plan, or
as you build it on the second plan, there
muet bc an enormous difference in the cost.
As ta the value af it ta the country, I have
something else ta say. Practically speaking, if we assume my haon. friend's estimate
-which I arn not prepared ta absoiutely
concur in-but assuming hie estimate to
be correct, and that the Transcontinental

JANUARY 27, 1909
Railway wiii cost the people cf Canada
twe hundred million dollars-that in te
say that it vil invoive thern in a charge
for intereat cf six or seven millions or
possibly more, with the present price cf
money put it, say, seven millions a year,
il becomes our duty te see what value the
people cf Canada are likely te obtain for
their money, net directiy, but in the benefit
te the country through. vhich that ralroad
passes. I amn in the judgment cf my hion.
friend, and 1 think hie wil hardly dispute
my statement when I say that when you
are putting a railroad. cf that kind through
a country such as exista between Winnipeg
and the Bocky mountains, it is fair te
assume that something like twenty miles cf
country on either side of that road will
become availabie for settiement and almest
immnediately productive. That, I think, is
a minimum, because every eue knows that
a great transcontinental railroad like the
Grand Trunk Pacific viii provide itseif wxth
branches which wiii bring in other large
areas cf land. This bears largely on the
pclicy cf the goverument and on the nature
of the country, and is, te a great extent, the
-justification for the enterprise they have
engaged in. Suppose that I arn correct-sund
I think the estimate is net an unreasonabie
,one-that for a thousand miles, on either
aide, the land is cf good quality-and it is
aimental al goed country in that regionand in made available for settlement sud
occupied in a reasonable lime, yen will
have «0000 square miles practically added
te the Dominion cf Canada. That is equal
te 25,000,000 acres. You wili have a charge,
ne deubt, of seven, perhaps eight millions
on your annual revenue. You vill have in
You vill have 25,000,000
return, whatP
acres cf good land, or aimoat aIl goed land.
made available. At the tirne the hast census
vas taken, ' here were in ahi Ontario just
21,000,000 acres in the hande cf the people
cf the province, cf which 13,000,000 were
ixnproved sud 9,000,000 under crcp. I do
net lhink Ihat 1 arn very rnuch eut of the
way in saying that eut cf the 25,000,000
acres along the line cf the Grand Trunk
Pacific, something like 10,000,000 acres
would be speedily brought int active cullivation. According te the census returns
the 9,000,000 acres under crop in Ontario
returned about $196,000,000 a year, in-

We can afford
cluding cattie products.
to stand a burden of seven or eight millions if we are able to point to a countryv
of 25,000,000 acres whereof 10,000,000 acres
should be producing iii the ratio that the
population of Ontario succeed in making
their land produce, and I may further
remark, and a very interesting and suggestive fact it is, that at this present moment
t.here are in Alberta, Saskatchewan and
Manitoba a very much larger nuxnber of
acres under actual grain crop than there
are in Ontario, Quebec and ail the maritime
provinces put together. The plain truth of
the matter in this: It is not entirely due
te the enterprise even of the citizens of Calgary, nor te my hon. frienda either, but the
fact in this, that the circuinstances iu opening up sud developing a prairie country,
as we are doing now, are se favourable that
it is no bost, but a literai f act te say that
ten years there vil do the work of 100
years in the older provinces. It is a very
different thing indeed froin turning a population into a thickly woodcd couutry vhere
they have te laborously, in the course of
half a life time, clear a few acres sud let
their children do tho reat, and turning
them on a rich and virgin prairie where
iu a year they will receive a return from
the crop they put in in spring. I repeat,
while tbis does not justify extravagance.
much lesa justify graft. that these are
mont pregnant and suggestive facts -sud
they go a long distanoe indeed te justify
a bold aud liberal policy on the part cf the
goverument in developing a country like
that, and producing such reaulta as T
think and hope will be produced, andI do
not think: my hon. friend viii be'disposed
himseif te deny that it is not an unreasonable suggestion on my part, that within a
few years nme resuits as I have sketched
out may be expected te arise from the increased settiement of the Northwest, particulariy bearing in mind that the beat clas
cf settiers going in are by ne means diminishing, but are rather increasing in numbers as the returus inu the hands of the
Department 'cf Immigration show conclusively.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I quite agree
with what my hon. friend says with reference te the prairie section, but it is net on

SENATE
that partîc'ular section that this liability is
being incurred. The conditions spoken of
would not apply to the government section.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHI arn quite aware of that, but my hon.
friend wili remember that the bargain with
the Grand Trunk Pacific is a bargain for
the whole line. They are bound at the
expiration of a few years to take the section which the governinent are building off
their hands and operate it, and if they f ail
to do that they forfeit, or perhaps I should
say that the government would be justîfied
ini forfeiting the prairie section. My hon.
friend remembers the ternis of the bargain
sufficiently well to know that that is a
correct statement..
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There are no such
provisions in the contract.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not know
that it is a correct staternent.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYes, they are bound to operate and to
rent.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They are bound
to operate and to rent, but I arn reasonably
sure as to the forfeiture of the prairie section.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI arn glad to hear my hon. friend make that
remark, because it will be a notification
te the hon, gentlemen behind him, that
should they be in office they will not bear
hardly on the Grand Trunk Pacifie if they
defauit. I shouid like to ask him is that
the poiicy of the Conservative party
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I should like the
hon, gentleman to direct the attention of
the House to the clauses in the statute,
ernpowering the governrnent to forfeit the
prairies section should the Grand Trunk
Pacifie default.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe Grand Trunk Pacifie Company are
bound to operate or te give up the whole
road. However, the hon, gentleman can
satisfy hirnself on that. I may remark,
that would not altogether militate ag-ainst
my argument. I was allowing that the
seven millions of interest would be a perHlon. Mr. LOUGHIEED.

manient charge upon the people of Canada. I was showing that by expending
that, we acquire an asset of incomparably
greater value in the development of the
Northwest and that hie will not deny.
That i s my point, that the rnoney, even if
it were thrown away-that is te say if it
was necessary te expend it in nrder te get
the Grand Trunk Railway te build the
other-the money was weil spent, and
would make ample return te the people of
Canada. The question is not preciseiy
whiat the ternis of the bargain were, although I thînk hie wiil find I amn correct
on that point ; but the question is, when
the present government proposed te enter
upon this work and expend this large sum
if it is necessary te expend it, are they able
te show te the people of Canada that there
will be a fair and just return for that enormous expenditureP That is my point, and
I think with the blessing of Providence
that both he and I wiil live long enough
to see that matter fully established. I
think rny hon. friend is a little bit mistaken in his vocation. I listened attentively te him, and was surprîsed that hie
did not deem fit te risk his Beat here
and te select a constituency in Alberta
and indoctrinate those gentlemen in the
other Chamber with some of his excellent
views on political economy and public
expenditure. With ail due regard to hiq
feelings, I think the opposition in the
other House have been rather derelict lin
their duty and responsibility for the enormous increase in expenditure. I take the
case of last session. I should like te know
how many times, when very large supplementary estimates were submitted te them,
and in how many individual cases the opposition of the day challenged the expenditure of the government? Speaking from
memory, there were about 1,200 votes in
those estimates, but the opposition took
them ail at the gulp. I do not think they
criticised them at ail; they certainly did
not move te strike out a single item. Why
is that? Was it that they were so profoundly convinced that the government could
do no wrong that they could not find one
of those 1,200 items to criticise, or was it
peradventure with a general election looming ahead that they were too cowardly to
risk losing a few votes P My hon. friend

JANUARY 27, 1909
can choose which hie likes ; the fact re- may also incidentially remark hie hias adoptmains. How many taxes did the opposition ed a strict policy for the purpose of keepduring the last dozen years propose te re- ing out undesirable immigrants who are
duce ? Have they tried te redace the peo- likely to be dumped on Canada by various
ple's burdens P I cannot recaîl one single so-called charitable associations and'othèrs.
occasion on which the opposition either But the point I more particularly desire to
collectively or individually moved te re- cail attention te is this ; in the case of induce a solitary tax now imposed on the migration there has been an enormous expeople of Canada ; but I can recaîl a very pansion. We are spending to-day $8 for
considerable numaber of occasions when the one that was spent ini 1896. The expendiopposition expressed their earnest desirù tare then was $120,000 ; the expenditure
that we should double, treble, or quadru- to-day is something like $1,100,000. I doubt
ple the tax on particular articles. In con- whether there ever was any sum, of money
clusion let me say this: the government spent te greater practical advantage than
are not blind to the fact that there has that expended in the. last few years by
been a very serions réduction in the reve- the Department of Immigration. The mere
nue, and that the depression may last some settiers' goods brought in by these imnmitime, and that in any case it is now desir- grants during those twelve years axnounts
able te cail a haît and bring oui expendi- to-I speak from recollection-something
ture within stricter limits than has been like fifty or sixty million dollars. That
hitherto «thoaght necessary. The governlias been added te the wealth of this counment desire te reduce the expenditirre as
try, and most of it goes at once towards
fai as lies in their power, which peîhaps assisting production.
will not prove to be very great, inasmuch
What the value of the immigration may
as my hon. friend knows we have an enorbe, I would rather leave te my hoh. friend
mous mass of flxed charges which neither
te say. If you add a million, or if you add
this nor any other government can interte oui population in the
fere with. The government do not desirs. half a million,
continue
in spite of the demande of the opposition, Northwest, and if a haîf million
te produoe one-haîf as well as they have
te be pressed into new works until they
have got rid of the important enterprises done hitherto, the accession te the wealth
they now have i hand. If that is done, I and the annual icorne of the country snd
tbink'afteî a reasonable period, looking to te the revenue of the country fromn these
the enormous expansion going on in the people would probably equal something
Northwest, and the enormous immigration like one hundred and flfty millions a year,
which is poaring into the country in spite if we are te place reliance on the census
of the depression elsewhere, and at the statisties. Thereon it is that the justificaqaality of that immigration. we shall be tion of the policy of the government must
able very shortly te congratulate ouiselves rest. If they add largely te the productive
that Canada has iesamed its position as population of this country, if they add te.
pîactically the leader in the expansion, not the productive resources of -the country and
merely of the Dominion, but the other the general income of the country, they may
counitries belonging te the British empire. be pardoned if they have, perhaps ini their
My hon. friend teok exception to the ex- zeal, a littie overstepped the bounds and
penditare on immigration. I arn advised spent a few hundred thousand dollars which
by my hon. friend the Minister. of Agricul- might have been saved by a more frugal
tuie that very little ie being done in the administration. Be that as it may, I repeat
way of assisted immigration. What la being the assurance that it will be the policy of
done ie entiîely in bringing in a desirable the goverument te reduce the- expenditure
wIJthin the narrowest bounds compatible
class of agricaltural labourers.
Hon. Mi. LOUGHEED-It was only with with the efficient dischaîge of their duty,
reference to the bonusing of immigrants iand that they are not disposed te engage
in any further works, at any rate until we
that I spoke.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- -see our way to getting through with those
He proposes to diminish it etill fuither.I Ewe have already undertaken.

30

SENATE

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-It is
flot my intention to contribute to the debate on this question, but I would like to
cail the attention of the hion, gentleman
who made the assertion just now that the
insurance on the St. Lawrence has been reduced owing te the improvements whicb
had taken place, te the proceedinga of the
board of trade and the utterrances mad.ý
by those who discussed questions affecting
the navigatfeon of the St. Lawrence
which appeared ini to-day's ' Gazette.!
He will find that the insurance has been
increased, and that a resolution has been
passed callîng upon the Mînister of Marine
and Fisheries, and aiso upon other authorities, to take steps in the direction of reducing the insurance which is new imposed
and the extra insurance which bas been
imposed upon what are termed the tramp
shipping.

kind my hion. friend may have been misled,
or hie may have drawn deductions from the
fact of the immense arnount of money that
han been spent on the St. Lawrence, and
the re.5uit of which'ought te have been
what my hon. friend bas indicated. The
resolution reads:
Be it resolved thêt -the couneil of the board
of trade be inatriicted to tae ouch etep s
nmy be necesry to, inveetigat. an to the cause
of such extra insurance being continued, in
view of the very great imnprovemente which
have been mode in the channel of the River
and Gulf of St. Lawrence ain receint years.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.That might be quite consistent with my
view and my hon. friend's view.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.-I do not know
whether my hon. friend overlooked the
question 'which I asked yesterday, but it
was in the way cf eliciting information,
namely, as te whether any negetiations
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.-I have been carried on between this gevernwiUl certainly cail the attention of the Min- ment and the German government with
ister of Marine and Fisheries te that mat- referenoe te the removal of the reprisais
ter, but I think if rny hon. friend looks a between the two countries?
littie deeper hie will find that there has
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-T
been a material reduction, not perhaps as might« just say te my hon. friend that ne
between this year and Iast, but as between formai negotiations have been carried on.
this year and a matter of seven or eight There have been seme pour-parlers with
years age.
seme officiai cf the German government,
but I would point out te him that we have
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-I amn neyer protected against Germany, and it is
not prepared te deny that, because I have in the power of the German government te
not read the report carefully, but I just cail emancipate themselves completely from our
attention to te-day's paper in which the ourtax if they enly cheese te do so. He
directly opposite statements are made.
will recollect that the surtax was imposed
in consequence cf the Germans deliberateHon. Sir RICHTARD CARTWRIGHT-l
ly putting us in the werst position they
am obliged te my hon. friend for calling possibly could, as a penalty for our grantattention te it. .1 will take occasion to cail ing a specisi faveur in the preferential
it te the attention of the Minister of Ma.
tariff te our mother country, Great Britain,
rine, on whose authority. by the way, I and we intimated te the Germans that it
made the statement. I think, however, be- was net part of their business, what one
cause this is a ,matter that te some extent portion cf the British empire did in respect
cornes under my own purview, as Minister te anether portion cf it, a view in which
of Trade and Commerce, that hie wiIl find I think my hion. friend will sustain me.
that I arn correct in stating that even il Thereupon the Germans shoek their flets
there has been some alteration made re- at us, teok us eut of the category in which
cently in the rates of insurance there has Great Britain was, and placed us in an
been a material reduction within the course
inferior category. They have a kind of
of the last five or six years.
We said.
triple category, like ourseives.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-I wiIl 'If you are going te do this because we
just read the resolution I have referred to. trade on even termis with Great Britain, we
I have no doubt that in a matter of this shail put a surtax on you ' and as we hapHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

JKNUARY 27, 1909
pened to buy from. them about seven or
eight times as much as they buy from. us,
the canny German is beginning to discover
that hoe made a mistake and lie is very anxious to get out of it. He can get out of it
if he pleases. Ail ho lias to do ia te put
himself in the sarne position ho was in
before the imposition of the preferential
tariff.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I amn not criticising the action of the governrnent ini the
matter ; but as I understand it, both tarrif s worked automatically againat the interests of both countries. We found ourselves placed under the generai conventional tariff of Germany, which ia their
higlier tariff.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThey struck us out.of the ta.riff vo were
under before.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-On account of
the favoured nations troatment.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTNo, not on account of the favoured nations
treaty, but on account of oui granting a
preference ta Great Britain.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED - Automaticaily
we carne under that tariff.
Hon.' Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThey automatically corne under ours.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We legislated increasing the tariff practically by ono-third
above the regular tariff. Il seeoma to me
senselea that a politico-economic war
should exist bolveen two great commercial
countries, and in viow of the correspondenco which lias taken place over an arrangement whicli apparontly la being negotiated at the prosent time, it seema te me
it is a matter of intorest ta the commercial
public whether this economic var is ta be
continued..
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWVRIGHTI am nat prepared to say as ta that. I
may take occasion while I am an my feet
ta say ta my hion. fniend with respect ta another matter as ta which hoe inquirodthat was tho very courteous invitation tondered by president Roosovelt ta aur gavernment ta nominate some persons ta appear

31

at'Washingtan snd discuss the question of
the conservation of natural resourcos, that
it la aur intention ta accept il, and ta send
some parties there ta represent us.
Hon. Sir MÂCKENZIE 1BOWELL-Bofore the motion is adopted, my hon. friend
viii permit me te congratulate him on that
portion of lis speech especially which referrod te the effeet whiei vill foilow the
construction of railways through the prairie portions ot aur country. Had I not
known his vaice, and if my eyes were shut.
I shouid have thouglit some one vas nepeating the speeches made by Sir Chaales
Tupper about tventy-five yeans ago, when
lie predicted vliat the nesuit of the consatruction of the Canadian Pacifie Railway
would be. That my lion. friend lias become
a convert ta thase views la gratifying ta
me, particularly wlien I remember the position lie and those vitli whom lie acted in
those days took on that question. I think
there is scarcely a man vIa lias
givon that question any thouglit vIa vili
not agree with himi as ta the effect vhieli
will follow the opening of tlie vat torritory ta the vest of us. Having congratulat.
ed my hon. friend on tIat point, let me
ask a question, if he la at liberty ta ansver. I notioe in the press, particuiarly
the pross supparting the gavernrnent, Ihat
there vas a proposition made, or Ihat the
gavernent intended ta introduce a measune providing for an increase of represen
tation in this Sonate : Iliat is the in
crease of representalion from. the western
partions of the country. We ail know that
-under the constitutional Act thore is no
power ta lucrease or even decrease the representation in tlie Senate, except by petitioning the.imporiai government. I am nat
going ta dlacuss tlie pnopriety ai it, but I
think it would bo very interesting for the
country ta know whetlier the gavernment
intend te introduce any moasure of Ihat
kind. There is another point which we ail
feel vory solicitaus about ; that is how long
the gentleman vlio lias resigned lis seat
in tle lover House ta open a constituency
for the minister of Inland Revenue is ta
romain out ai the Senate. If the predictiens which have been made by the ministoil press in Ontario are ta materialize,
ai course that lion, gentleman will nat be

SENATE
kept out of his seat or out of the honour
of a seat in this House for very many
iiionths. If, however, hie is to remain out
until a vacancy occurs through death or
any other cause, he may possibly be kept
out for a number of years, and every one
will regret that very inuch under the cii.
cumnstances, after hie has sacrificed so
much. If the hion. gentleman would give
us that information, I have no doubt that
others beside Mr. Sloan would be highly
gratified.
Hon. Sir RICHARD
With respect to my hon.
tion, I think hie might
two or three weeks, and
a better position to reply

CARTWRIGHT.friend's last quesafiord to wait for
then I will be in
to him.

since the question bas been raised.
stated that:

HO

The past season ha.s eeen the completion of
the fourteen double-deck f reight sheds, the
system. of grain carriers and the readjustment of railway tracks on the wharfs. The
work is baing carried forward in a systematic and businesaLke manner that refleots
credit on the harbour board, its engineers
and officers, and on the madnister under whoe
jurisdiction the board is working. It is indeed now a pleasure toi offer eur thanks and
appreiation to those who sre so efiicien'tly
carry.lng out the good work.
In order te show that improvements are
in demand throughout the country and no
further away from the capital than Montreal, the next paragraph concerns a demand for a dry dock, and reads as follows:

With our shipping trade increasLng, and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.-What is the date the knowledge that it wid'l1 continue to incarease with the growth of our country and
of the by-electionP
improved harbour facifities, the necessity for
a dry-dock grows greater and greater day
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.- by day and we hope the government wi 1
during
for
This is a question which will engage the providework thisdeepeningthe present sea,-»n.
and improving the
of
The
serious consideration of the government. St. Lawrence channel hue been vigorously carried on during the psst season, a gratifying
With respect to the other very importani
feature being the commencement of the
matter which has been brought up, I do thirty-five foot; channel.
not think it is possible, in view of the lateThen there is reference te the work of
nees of oui assembly, to deal with a question of that importance during this session. the Transcontinental Railway and the Quebec bridge. Ml tbis goes te show that the
Later on we shall consider the subject.
business men o! the country appreciate the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.-The question work that has been done on the chazinel of
was raised by the lion. gentleman from the St. Lawrence.
Hastings as to the amount of money saved
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-W-here does the into the country by the deepening of the
channel and the greater facilities given to surance corne ini?
navigation on the St. Lawrence. I have
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.-It bas been renot the figures before me, but, as f ar as I
duced in ratio te the money spent in imcan remember, they will be found in the
proving the St. Lawrence.
evidence taken before Mr. Justice Cassels
I think my memory serves me weIl when 1
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-I
state that figures were given by some gen- hope my hon. friend did not understand me
tleman qualified to speak as te the reduc. to complain o! the improvements te the St.
tion of rates of insurance on the St. Law- Lawrence? I made no reference to that at
rence, making a sum total which struck me ail. Ail I referred te in that respect was
as very large. The statement which the that the right hon. gentleman made the
hon. gentleman read was made, as far as statement that owing te the improvements
I could understand him, at a board ai that bad taken place, the insurance rates
trade meeting in-Montreal on Monday last. were reduced. That is ail.
He sixnply mentioned one point touching
the question of insurance. I see that Mr.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.-I
Drummond, who is not a party man, the will get the facts for my hon. friend.
retiring president, spoke o! harbour imHoni. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-On th-3
provements and the channel improvementi
which perhaps it would be well to quote contrary, I have always advocated the makHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JANUARY 27, 1909
ing of the St. Lawrence as safe as it can
be .possibljr made. And as ta the dry dock
in Montreal, I have long been of the opinion that ail governments had neglected
,their duty in not providing one at that port.
What I wa±ited to point ont, and what I.
think I did point out, from the utterances
of those.who spoke on the matter ai the
meeting, that instead of insurance by the
Bt Lawrence routé being decreased, it wae
increased.
Hon. Sir RICHA1RD CARTWRIGHT.-]
think you will find that refera to some very
recent action.
SHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-Perhaps so.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.-The hon. gentle-.
man said that lie did not know exactly. the
figures. I heard this diacnssed very olten,
especiaily during the last election, and L
heard the Minister of Marine and Fisheries
make this statement. I heard him make it
on the occasion of placing the last rivet
on the sheds in Montreal, that the décrasse
in the rates in insurance was ta sucli a
large extent on the goods coming into Montreal and the goods going out from the har.
bour of Montreal as ta make up an amount
of $922,000 a year. That ie on the goods
alone. The chairman oi the habour board.
Mr. George Washington Stephens, read the
figures ta the meeting. and, moreover, hé
asserted that if lie iook into consideration
the decreaaed inanrance on the huila of
the Ilslips, ihe a:mount would be equal ta
41500,000 per .annum on the goods and an
the slips céming ita and going ont of
.Montreal.
Hon. Mr.- FERGUSON-I do not intend
ta miake -any reiàks upon this question,
further than ta say ihat I fear the right
hion. leader oi the House je like myseif.
Hie memory je hlot quite sa good as it
was, and J1 have came ta this conclusion
from a statement hie macle ta the House that
the cantraci with the Transcontinental contained provisions by which the Grand
Trunk wonld forfeit the prairie section il
they did not continue ta operate the eastern division. T kiffw whbn my hon. friend
made the statement that he was very wide
ai the mark.
There je ne sucli pro3

vision in the contract of 1903 or the contract ai 1904, and I have refreahed my recellection by looking. np the statutes. I find
also by giving a glance ai the discussion on
the question, that in ihis House more particularly, and perhaps aiea in the ailier
Hanse, the opposition made a mast strennous point againat -the contract on the
ground that there was no guarantee for the
opération cf the road. Thé only guarantee
that was given was a deposit of $5,000,000
which was liable ta forfeituie if the coinpany did not put on a certain amount ai
rolling stack upon the eastern division.
But there is no provision in either af the
contracta, the first one af 1903 or the machfied one of 1904, for any sudh thing as a
forfeiture ai the prairie section 'of the road
if the operation ai the eastern division was
nlot carried oui. There was no guarantee
a-f any kind given for the continued opératien ai the eastern division.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.We will inquire furiher iat that ai a future
trne.
The motion was agreed ta.
BILLS INTR0DUCE1P.
Bihl (A) an Act relating ta the Water Carniage ai Goods.-Hon. Mr. Canpbell.
Bull (B) an Act ta amend the Government Annuities Act.-Hon. Sir Richard
Cartwright.
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock
to-tnorraw.

THM

MAlTE.

OTTÂ&WÂ, Thuraday, January 28, 1909.

The SPEAKER teck the Chair et Three
o'c lock.
Prayers and routine praceedings.
RECONSTRUC TION 0F THE SENATE.
NOTICE 0F RESOLUTION.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-I propose ta brin-,
in resolutions for the consideration af this
Chamber. In* coing so I wish ta state
that I have not consulted the gavernment
non any, member ai this Chamber, nor

REVXSED EDITION

SENÂTE
do the conclusions which I have reached
arise from any conversation that occurred
during the time I was a Privy councillor in
the many deliberations ini the Privy Council chazaber. I think it important 1 should
state those views, because many hon. gentlemen may be surprised at the conclusions
which 1 have reached. They are the result
of over 34 years of experience ini this CJham-1
ber, seventeen on this aide of the House,
sitting as a member of the government and
leader of this Chamber for a nuxnber of
years, and sitting for seventeen years on the
other aide of the House. The opinions I have
formed relate te the constitution of the
Chamber, and I think no more opportune
time could arise than the present moment
for the Senate to give its earnest considerstion to the future composition of this Chamnber. The government of the day have a
majority in both flouses. They are quite
able te carry out any reforma in the Senate
that we think would be beneficial to it. 1
think I would be able to show that if ve
wish the Senate to preserve the position it
assumed at confederation, and its character since, we owe it te ourselves te advocate certain changes in the direction of
what might be cal]ed reformi in favour of
popular representation. Before going«further, 1 will read the resolution, when, with
the permission of the flouse, I shail be
glad to give further explanation inasmuch
as I see by the motion which. bas just been
carried this flouse will not be i session
for a month, and, therefore, during that
month I should flot like te see the resolutions go to the public without some
explanatory remarks as to, the reasons that
induced me te submit the proposais te this
Chamber. I give notice that on Wednesday
the Srd day of March, I will move:
That, in the opinion of the Sonate, the time
kas arrived for so amending the constitution

of this branch of Parliament, as te bring the
mode of selection of Senators more into harmony with public opinion, and with that
object, he will submit for approval, the f ollow.
ing resolutions:

Chamber, that Manitoba, Saskatchewan and
Alberta be each one divided into three elec-

torai districts, and that the Province of
British Columbia be divided inte two electeral
districts, ail for the election of candidates
for representation in the Sonate.
In defining the said electeral districts, due
regard being had, not only te approximately

equalizing.the population in each district, but

te conenience, local intereste and county
boundarie..
2. That immediately after the said electeral
districts shall have been. defined and agreed
upon, a member of the existing Sonate shall
be ailotted to each of the said districts, hav.
ing due regard, as far as practicable, te resilence, local interests or other reasons.
3. That as vacancies hereafter arise in the
representation of the said electeral districts,
the vacancy shall be filled by the electers of
that district entitled te vote for members of
the Houe of Commons.
4. That in order te diminish the expenses
attending over wide areas, and te secure a
larger and freer expression o! independent
opinion, the system of compulsory voting shahl
apply te ail elections of senators; every voter
being required te exerciso bis right te the
franchise, and by ballot, under a penalty. of
ton dollars, te be collected b y the returning
officer and applied in reduction o! election
expenses. Provided that any electer may bo
excused from voting on producing a medical
certificate that his etate cf health did net

admit of hie attendance at the polIs, or a cer-

tificate from the local judge that important
business or other reasonable excuse prevented
hie exercîsing the franchise.
5. That the remaining eight senators in each
cf the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec: the
remaining three senatoe in Nova Scotia and
in New Brunswick, and the two remaining
senaters in Prince Edward Island, and the remaining in British Columbia, whe has not been
ailotted te any constituency, shaîl bo classed
as senaters for the particular province at
large, and as a vacancy arise, in that class,
it shaîl be filled by appointment, as at

present, by the Crown.

6. That the termi for whicb a senator may
be elected or appointed, be limited te eigbt
years.
7. That in order te more nearly equalize
the standing cf political parties in the Sonate,

on the occasion cf a change in the Government, the principle laid down in Sections 26
and 27 cf the British North Âmerica Act
shall apply; that le te say', the incoming admay appoint an additional
ministration
number cf senaters, net exceedîng nine if
lu the opinion cf the Governor General, act-

ing independently cf the Privy Council, the
request is a reasonable oue, but not more
than oue cf the senaters te be appointed. shaîl
be taken f rom auy one province; and that
no more appointments cf senaters shaîl be
mnade for that province until a second vacancy
has arisen; thus revertiug te the original
number of senators allotted te the said province.
8. That the senaters represeutîug the several

1. That the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec
bo each divided into sixteen electoral districts
for representation in this Chamber. That
the Provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunsýwick be each divided into seven electoral districts, and the Province of Prince Edward different provinces be reciuested to meet and
Island into two electoral districts for election suggest tbe best mode of dividing the province
te this Chamber; and that for the present, inte senate electoral districts and also the
and until the four Western Provinces have namne of the senater who will represent each
been given increased representation in this particular district.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JANUARY 28, 1909.
9. That the House of Commons ho askod ta
cSur in the posed changes in the constitution of the Snate.
10. That the Sonate and Houseo f Cominans
adopt a joint address ta His Gracions Maot
the King praying that the British =ot
America Act, and 'the Acte under which
British Columbia and Prince Edward Island
entered the Union, be so amendod as to conform ta the foregoing resolutions.
In a few words, the principle is this, that
two-thirds of this House should be elected.
0f course han, gentlemen are independent
judges, because it does not propose that any
hon. member's seat shail be forfeited. Each
hon, gentleman is a firee agent. My object
is that the Senate shall be perpetuated in
some formi that wiil be reasonable. I fear
it wifl not be unless the Senate itaelf will
take action and recommend some system,
some place in the governinent of this country. that will be acceptable to the popular
sentiment. I may say that in discussing
the basis of confederation the statesmen of
that day conceived that there would be
equality in the Senate, and those two
clauses to which I have referred in the
British North America Act, which I will
read for the information of hon, gentlemen,
would be sufficient ta bring about political
equality if it was thought necessary to pre.
serve the functions the Senate is supposed
ta diacharge.
Section 25 of the British
North America Act reads:

:35

in power they have always had a large following in this Chamber. The Liberals in
two parliaments had not been supported ho
this Chsnxber. At a later stage I will probably make f nither allusion ta the embarraasment ta the governinent from 1873 ta
1878 ini conséquence of the action of the
Senate. At present I simply make that
reference as showiug that at the time of
conféderation it was distioctly assuined that
the parties wonld be equal. The fathers of
confederation were very caref ni ta see that
in the representation of the upper -Hanse
both the Liberals and the Conservatives
should be equally represented. The persanality of the late Sir John Macdonald, no
donbt, in the earlier years. caused a number
of Libera] Senatars ta drif t to his support,
snd that caused the first disturbance. The
oither events, ta 'which I need not now alInde, created a still fnrthcr défection. I
may mention as a fact that Mr. Aikins, 'with
whom I sat ini the aid Hanse o! Assembly as
a Liberai, was eiected as a Liberai in the
Législative Coundil, and yet he transferred
his ailegiance at confederation. But before
confederation cabinet changes took place
very frequentiy. We had an election in 1854
sud one ho 1857, sud one ho 1861 sud another
ho 1863; I arn not quite sure whether it was
in 1864 that Ssnfield Macdonald camne inta
power. I speak subject ta correction. But
If at any tito. on the recomînendation of ho framiug the Confederation Act the fathers
the Governor General the Queen thinks fit ta of confederation
had ho mhod that the
direct that three or six members ho added
to the Sonate, the Govornor Goneral may by changes ho governinent would ho sufficiently
summons ta three or six qualified persons as frequent ta make up any deficiency ho nuinthe case may bo, representing
'qall%
the
three divisions of Canada, add toethe Sonate bers ho either political party. Hon. gentleaccordingly.
men 'w'iI clearly recognize the prhociple that
Section 27 of the British North'America it would be far better if this Chamber were
nearly equaliy divided. As it is naw we
Act reads:
can quite easily sec it is drifthog entirely
In case cf such addition being st any time ho one direction. Since we sat here in 1896
made the Governar General shall not summon any persan ta the Sonate exoept on a eighteen gelitlemen who represented the
further like direction by the Queon an the people of Ontario, Conservatives, have dis
like recommendation un til oach of the. three
divisions of Canada is represented by 24 appeared. The places of those have been
Sonatars and no more.
taken by eighteen Liberals. There are taThe necessity for that was apparent, in day from that province, which now I may
f act it appeared that a time might arise say we ail know is represented by the Conwhen the governing power, the people, asý servative party ho the provincial Hanse,
represented by the Hanse of Cominons. and which province is iargely represented
might have their views thwarted by the ma- by that party ho the Hanse of Gommons.
jority in opposition in the upper Chamber. only five senatars from Ontario in this
The Conservative party in this country have Chainber. It is nat pleasant ta foreshadow
been extremely fortunate. When tbey were events ho the future that will involve

.>0

SENATE

changes, but it is naturally forced to everyv who ha ve sat in the
House ai Cammans for
man's mind what will arise at the end of a numi )er ai years- say
ton years-if tbey
the termn during which this government is are pee rs, shahl be entitled
ta be added ta
likely to, hold office. Will there be a Con- that n timbor. It is caiculated
tbat will
servative. senator fromn Ontario? That is bring 1.30 mare inta, the
House of Lords.
the question. Can the constitution of Can- There re princes ai the
royal blood wbo
ada be defended if one of the great politicai wiil he ontitled ta,
ait in tho upper House.
parties is entirely ignored in the upper 1 shall naw road fromn the
repart, onlv
ChamberP 1 think it requires no very seri- issued last montb, giving
tho conclusions
Oua cansideration te see that this Chamber of that camnnittoe.
It is important that at
would go down i the judgment of the peo- this jun eture we shauid recagnize that
when
pie; that nothing couid save it. We have 80 stab le an institution as the
bouse of
now the example of Ilhe House of Lords, Lords, srbicb bas lasted 900 yoars,
feois that
which has been enacting legisiation rather it is oh liged ta give way ta, public
opinion
contrary to the spirit of the Liheýal govern- it is ha rdly passible the Senate
ai Canada
ment. Mr. Asquith, as premier, bas had can sta nd unlosa it can be justified
bofore
very great difftculty with bis Bis. The the cou~
ntry. Here is the amonded resoluLords have thrown out severai, and public tion on tbat suhject wbich
was moved by
opinion is -aroused, and wbat is the con. Lord R osebory and concurred
in hy tbc
Bequence? It bas forced tbe Lords to con. committ ee:
sider the reconstruction of tbeir chamber.
It il
They are now. actively engaged in the direc- posebery îoved by tise Lord ]Rosehery <Earl of
jta
tion of amending the constitution. That graph, v.iz. - in6ert -the foliowu.ng flOw par.earl oe fgures t]
Chamer
as toodnowforneary on fiIt wiii ho seen by reference ta, thse foliowing
Chamer
as soodnow or
thousand years. Families that bave had re- rangemej hat the Hause af La-rds under the arrits suggested would
presentation on the peerage floor for the -3 peera s f the blaod royal, maber 350, viz.:
200 representatives el4
last three or four centuries will cease ta quaiified ected by thse hereditary peers, 130
peers, 10. spiritual lords af parliahold seats in the House of Lords within one ment, ai id five lards af appeal in ordinary.
yearfro ths
tine.Lor
om-To these
.yea frin Lrd Rosber's cin-crement must ho added a, possiible annu-al inhistim.
oseerys
imittee, appointed ta consider what changes of 40, th ai 4 peers for life, up ta the number
us bringing the
-were ahsolutely necessary on certain points. House ta something undertotal number af the
400.
vas made up of 25 of the leading members
A -pro]
position is also naw being considof the House of Peers. Lord Lansdownc, ered qui
ite i lino with clauses 26 and 27
as you ail know, leads the moat important which I
bave read ta the Chamber,' and
element in that House. Lord Rosebery is which I
think are necessary if the canstitu.
an important figure, but still ho bas nat the tian oft
bie Soniate is ta ho presorved in the
influence that the Marquis of Lansdowne direction
I have indicatod. I am reading
bas.
now fron 2tbe repart ai the committeeofa the
. Ho bas given bis adbesion to the princi. Hause o~fLards
which was only printed
pie that only certain of the peers shall b;ý last mon
.th. This principle applies particu.
entitled bereafter ta ait in the Huse of larly noe
w ta Canada, and I invite the atPeers, that a peerage per se gives no night tention of
the Hause ta, iL in cannoction
to, a seat in ibat House; that bereaiter with the
views I have exprossed, that in
only those who can be classod as Lords order ta
give strength ta, any govornment,
of Parliament will bave seats. The peerago it shall
hiave somo respectable foliawing ini
consista of about 665 members, including this Cha
mbor, and the priviloge should be
the Irish and Englîsh peers. The pro- oxtendod
of anticipating appointments by
position is this, that they shall meet and naming fine
or any nuinher tbat may be
eiect, flot for eigbt years., but for a termn cansidere
d reasanable ta this bouse. The
of panliament, 200 of their number ta repre- clause w]
hicb I am about ta read is 33:
sent that body in the House of Péers; that
ail the poors wbo have filied bigh offices,
Within recent years the bouse of Lords
cniticised nat sa mnuci for any alcabinet ministers, secretaries in the van- has been :apacity
leged inc
ta perfarm. efficiently its
oua dopartmnents, the Gavernor General af legislative functians, as an account of the unevtn
waist ributian ai paitical parties within
Ca'nada, the Vice-Roy af India, gentlemen
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT.

JANUARY 28, 1909.
It is obvious tha-t difficulties between the two
Houses must arise when a government is in
power which is supported by -a large majority
in the Bouse of Commons and only by a smali
minority in the Bouse of Lords.
The oommittee do flot wish ta imply that
in their opinion, tlie majority in the lEouse
cf Lords should be made meclianically te correspond witli the mai ority in the House of
Commons, but they feel that the party ini
power ini the eleùted chamber should be able
to count upon a substantial foilowing in the
Bouse of Lords.
Then clause 35 reada as follows:
In order to bring the Bouse more into
harmony witli changea cf political opinion
in the country, some members cf the cernmaittee desîred that persons experienced in
local or municipal administration should be
introduced from outside et each general electien to sit and vote in the Blouse of Lords
for the duration of the parliament. To eflect
this abject various proposais to admit to the
Bouse elected representatives from aounty
councils and municipal corporations, whether
peers or not, were discussed. On this capital
question the committee were almost equally
divided and were, therefore, unable ta make
any recommendation.
I quota this ta show the drift cf public
opinion even in England, wliere the-Bouse
cf Lords itaelf recognizes that in order ta
preserve that body they must introduce the
principle cf election, and give an incoming
administration the riglit te increase the
nurnber cf its supporters in the upper
Chamber. They ail agree on the firat proposition to which I have referred, that is,
of the 665 peers 200 aliould be elected ,ta
begi with, and that even election will
not give a life seat in the House cf Lords
but only a seat for that parliament, so
you cari quite see -the feeling cf the
Bouse cf Lords is that they have fallen
behind the times and want ta recover their
position. Now, I do not want to see thc
Senate cf Canada fail behind the times. It
is made up cf men wlio are quite up ta date
and recogniz *e -the riglita cf the electarate
of this country, and I have confidence
enougli in the lion, gentlemen who now
listen ta my voice that they will be equel'
ta the occasion and will devise some means
by 'which we shall get more in line with
the public sentiment cf this age. I submit
my proposition as an improvement at a]]
events on the constitution we now have.
It does flot disturb the gentlemen who occupy seats in this Cliamber now; it brings
about the change in a graduai way. It is
not revolutionary in any sense; but post-

37

pone it another five years and 1 cannot
foreshadow the consequences. Il the House
of Lords has-been obliged to give away ta
publie opinion, will flot the Senate of Canada be .obliged ta foll'ow the saine course
in this country where popular viewa are
more freely expressed and the clamai of the
people are represented in changes ta a
greater extent than in EuropeP It ia flot
only i Great Britain. but in every country
.inEurope that this desire for change has
benmanifest. Countries that 50 years ago
were governed by the aristocratie claasea
have had ta yield ta the popular demand
for representation in the upper chamber,
and it lias been granted. If it had not been
granted, a revolution would have ensued,
and i some cases the changes have been
brought about by revolution.
The plan
which I suggest for an elective system. is
flot open ta any objection. In large areas.
the big man in that area will be the one
selected. In a smaller way that waa the
effeci in the early fifties. From 1850 up
there was a determined expression of opinion in Upper and Lower Canada that the
Legisiative Council should be swept away,
and tliey were swept away. The Legisiative
Council existed for years, but they had ia
give -way. Their patenta were as strong
as ours, stronger in fact, because royal gifts
had greater permanence then than they
have to-day. In the House of Assembly
in 1856 the Act was passed with practical
unnarnity-tie vote staod 80 ta 12, and
not a single member from the province of
Quebec voted ta sustain the nominating
principle. The twelve in minority were
ail members from the province of Upper Canada. I quote that as sliowing the
sentiment at that time i Ontario and Quebec. Bas that sentiment changedP
Not
a bit of it. Give any justification for raising an agitation on that subject and. you
wvill find that sentiment will arise and
be tao strong for this Bouse ta meet or
overcome. We have evidence that the
elective principle operated weil in those
days. It brouglit ta this Chamber men wlio
were distinguiihed in the varicus activities
of life. Mr. Allan, who ornamented the
Speaker's chair, was one of the elected
members. I lad great pleasure, althougli
in opposition to him when lie was Speaker-

id

SENATE

of the Senate, in saying that if bie election
rested with the Senate of that day, so high
was our regard for Mr. Ailan, that his election would thave been unagnimrous.
Mr.
Christie was another elected member who
occupied the chair after confederation. Mr.
MeMaster, bead of the Bank of Commerce, and many other distinguished men
were elected. No finer man ever sat ini parliament than Sir Alexander Campbell. He
was liked by botli sides of the House. He
was reasonable and fair on ail occasions ;
lie was an elected member. Mr. *idal was
one of the most recent in that class, and
hon, gentlemen know the cliaracter lie held
axnong us. He was loved and reapected by
ail. So it was in the province of Quebec.
You liad Sir Narcisse Belleau, Sir Letelier
de St. Just, 'who was my colleague at one
time, Thomas Ryan who was vice-president
,of the Bank of Montreal, and chairman of
the Board of Trade, Montreal, Mr. Sanborn,
afterwards a judge-ail elected members.
I could go over a long list of men wbo weredistinguished in this Chamber, and who
were selected by the people as their repre.
sentatives. It cannot, therefore, be urged
that the elective system which prevailed
before confederation was lin any sense a
failure. In the change which I propose, by
compulsory voting the cost of election wil
he largely reduced. Any man who lias a
riglit to vote should exercise his franchise
on an occasion of that kind, when the destinies o! the country are in the balance.
He should express his view as te the best
men te represent Canada and cast bis vote.
If lie disapproves of .ail the candidates lie
bas oniy te attend and put lin a blank ballot; lie is flot compelled te vote. But certainly any man who gets the franchise and
bas the protection o! the law of bis country
ouglit te take at leat that amail part lin
the administration o! public affaire, te say
who, in bis opinion, is the most honourable
and suitable man te- represent the people in
the parliament of Canada. «xnen a question
naturally arises, why was it at confederation this change was made ? The people
were not consulted, as you ail know. There,
were many large questions coming up at
the conferences held at Charlottetown, Quebec and London. The smaller questions,
and that was one of them in the minds of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

inany, had te give way. Still, the representatives o! the Liberal party did flot yield
theix opinion. The Hon. William McDougall
and Sir Oliver Mowat, both representativtc
men at* the Charlottetown conferenoe and
the Quebec conference, advocated the elective principle. George Brown, strange te
say, altliough ail bis 11f e advocating this
question o! representation by population
and giving the people the broadest power,
by some inexplicable change of bis mind
took the other view for the moment, but te
people liad no opportunity o! discussing it.
If the question were raised again lin Canada
as te tee proper way of constituting this
Chamber, it would be in favour of election
by the people. The people are exceedingly
jealous o! their riglits, and they would insist
upon exercising teeir power. I have suggested what I consider a f air proportion of
the elected and appointed. I had some
difficulty in making up my mind as te what
was tee best proportion. 1 have drawn up
a variety of proposais, and I find that the
proportion frxed in the resolutions seems
heat. Wben tee four provinces te the west
o! the lakes obtain theix complement, it
will bring tee representation of this House
up te 96-24 from the maritime provinces,
24 from Ontario, 24 from Quebec and 24
from, tee weat. That wiil give 32 appointed
to 64 elected, and that I teouglit was a
fair proportion. It would give wliat I think
is necessary te the government of the day,
a ressonable foilowing in tee Cliamber.
The views of the House o! Peers coincide
with my own; you must have, under our
system, a majority supporting the government in one House which the people have
exclusive control over, and the policy of
teat House muet not ini any way be thwarted in tee upper House. The true line te take
in the upper House ia to criticise, amend and
modify, te correct the errors and hasty legis1l7ion o! tee other Chamber, and not te set
itsel! up and advocate something different,
and flot te tlirow out Bis affecting the
policy of this country wbich the House of
Commons liad the right te inaugurate. On
that principie, I conceive, in order to give
the government of the day, wliether Consertive or Liberai, some reasonabie following
in this Chamber, that one-third of the nominations should rest with the government.

JANUARY 28, 1909.
As the House is to have an adjourniment for
a month I thought it only f air, since I had
prepared a sciieme, that hon. gentlemen
should at least know the -views of the one
who drafted the proposition when he prepared this papor. I do not, think I nood
say more ta irnpri-ss on thua body the absalute necossity of not allowing Ihis session
to go without their taking up this que stion
juat as the House of Lords has done. It is'
far botter that il should bie takon up by
tho Senate itsoif, and that we should meot
public opinion, than that a more diastic
achomo should be forced. on the Sonate in
consoquonce of oui refusai. te recognize the
progress of eventa.
I will not anticipato
whal mighl occur if the Sonate is not equal
te the occasion. Tiiere cannot ho two electivo Chambers. The Commonwealth of
Australia is endeavouiing te carry out thaI
proposition. They are feiling. Under th.
constitution in Australia-end I may say
it has not been in existence eight years.
and yet they have had three elections in
that time-if an uppor House doos flot meet
the views of tie lower Chamber afler a
given time, the govornmont have the right
te dissolve pailiement. A man may have
been elected only the year beforo and thua
ho forced ta soek re-eloction. The tenure
is limited te six years; every liii.. yeais
hall the House is renewed, and if an upper
Houa., aithough recently from the people,
doos flot accord 'with the lower house, the
gevernmont have tie right ta dissolve par.
Humient. I cannaI seo that a Hanse tina
constituted can ho considered an independent body if at the. will of the governmenl of
the day. althougi recently elected by the
people, it can ho dissolved.
ÂPPOINTMENTS TO SENATE OFFICES.
The Speaker read the following memorandum:
The undersigned hau the honour ta represent
that the services of two pages were required
at the. cpening of the. present session of parhiament, owing ta two of the four who were
in attendance lest session iiaving outgrown
their usefuiness as suci. That in the. absence
of the Speaker, the Clerk, as has been the
customn hitherto, appointed Coleman Gillespie
and Clifford Russell to fill the positions, suhjet to the. confirmation of the Senate.

39

The undersjgned, therefore, recommexids
that the said appointments be cc>nfirmed, et
the. auase salery as the other pages.
J. K. KERR,
Speaker of the. Sonate.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.-Does the Sonate de.
cide, or is the malter te ho roferred ta the
Standing Committe. on Internal EconomyP
Hon. Mr. POWEBR.-Under the Act 1h.
Speaker is the authority, not 1h. Standing
Comxniîtee. If o.ny bon, gentleman thinka
this report should ho laid on the table until
to-morrow, in accordance with oui rulos,
tiaI wauld be a proper course to take.
Hon. Mr. LkNflRY.-We are taken a
little by suiprise, and ponhaps it would ho
as weil te lot 1h. matter stand unlil temorrow.
Hon. Mr. WATSON.-I understand tiiat
under 1h. now Act the Speaker has te make
the. appointments for lie Sonate Ciainher,
and they have te b. concuirod in. In 1h.
past 1h. Internai Ecanomy Committe. have
made recommendationa.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.-May I paint out
te hon, gentlemen Ibis view cf the. question,
that in maltera cf this kind il might ho
desirable, whie il is net incumbent under
the Act thaI il ahould ho dono, tiat istead of il being referred te lis Chamber
il might ho referred te tho Internai Econamy Committe., and lhe report from liat
cammittee adopted without discussion. Il
wouid ho much botter, whore questions have
te ho asked and information given relative
te liese smail appointments, liaI liat
siould bo dano.
The. SPEÂKER.-Tiis is a malter which
we are initiatilig and w. sheuid net ho
hasty in taking action te-day. Under sectien 22 cf tho Civil Sorvice Act, the Speaker is croated a head ef a department for
lie puiposes of tho Act, and tho clerk of
the. Hanse is croated a deputy head. Appoinîmente te the position cf messenger and
other positions i the lower grades dotermined hy tho Governor in Council, may ho
made by the. Governor in Coundcil on the
recammondation of the head cf a department, based on a report in writing cf lhe
deputy iiead and accompained by a certifi-

SENATE
cate of qualification from the commission,
if his appointment requires examination.
So the matter rests in this way. The position of Speaker here is very much the same
as the minister of a departmnent. The mtinister'sappointmentwould flot be the subject of
reference to a committee. The responsibility of rnaking the appointment is on the
head of the department, and he can make
the inquiries which are necessary as to the
qualifications of those filling the minor appointments, and the responsibility is on
him that that shall be done. It seems to
me, while I would like the matter to stand
cver until to-morrow for consideration, we
would make a mistake to refer it to a cornmittee for consîderation.
It practically
cornes to this: The Speaker must take the
responsibility of submitting appointments
that he is sure the Senate will adopt.

Comrnittee, and is approved and recoinmended by them. This is a mere suggestion, but it may be worth while taking it
into consideratioin.

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT.-It seems to me,
on reading the section referred to, that
nèither the House nor the Committee on
Internai Economy have anything to consider. We have deprived ourselves of that
privilege or function, because by subsection 2 of section 3 of the Act, so much of
this Act as relates te appointments aud promotions shall apply to the officiais of bôth
Houses of parliameut. I take it that under
section 22, when the deputy head has made
a recommendation te the head of the department, who, in a sense, ia the Speaker,
that is the end of it.
The Governor in
Council upon that recommendation makethe appointrnt without any refereuce to
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.-The Senate take the this House or.any committee of this House.
place of the Governor in Council, snd the
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I think clause 45 is
Speaker makes his report to the Senate the
saine as -a rninister would make it to the the one which governs. It says:
Governor in Council.
Wiieuever under sections 5, 8 and 10, 21
and 22 of this Act, or under the Civil SerThe SPEAKER.-Minor appointments.
vice Act, eny action authorized or directed
to be taken by the Goveraor in Council, or
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.-This being a new by order in counci1, ouch action in respect
Hlouse of Cornmons
departure, what action we are going to take to the officers of the taken by the House or
the Senate sheai be
of
will be a precedent, and we should move Cominons or the Sonate se
ca-se xnay be by
slowly. Takimg up the view of the hon. the re"oution.
Speaker that the Speaker of the Senate i.a
So the Senate is substituted for the Govempowered in the same manner as a min. ernor in Coundil.
ister of a department, and that the report
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the House will parmay not be submitted to the Internal Econorny Committee, I beg to offer an objection, don me for saying a word on this matterwhich may nof be serious. It is this, that because this discussion is quite irregular.
before a recommendation made by a min- this being a notice cf motion. The natural
ister of the Crown la accepted it goes to course would be that any action dealing
His Excellency the Governor General snd with the staff cf the Senate should originate
is submitted to the Privy Councillors. Pro- with the Comrnittee on Internai Ecouomy.
ceeding in a similar way and in order to That committee report, and then, if their
protect our Speaker whose recommendations report meets with approval, the Speaker,
may not be accepted, I would give him the as representiug the House, makes the resamne safeguard as the ministers respec- commendation under the Act. I think that
tively have in their own depart1ments, the practically would be the best way to carry
Privy Council, or what is equivalent to the out the Act. I arn not raising any question
Privy Council, the Internal Economy Coin- now as to the action cf His Honour the
mittee. The recommendation of a minister Speaker in this particular matter. This
is handed to His Excellency. It bas to pass vacancy was one which existed at the openthrough the Privy Councîl, and so when the ing of parliameut, and it was desirable that
recommendation of our Speaker cornes be. those additioual pages should be appointed
fore us it has passed by the proper channe! at once, aud his Honour the Speaker bas
in to the bands of the Internai Economy acted under the Act; but in future, in
The SPEAKER.

JANUARY 28, 1909.
dealing with appointments of a different
character, before the matter cornes before
the Speaker, it should be considered by the
committee, and if the committee's recommendation meets with the approval of the
Speaker of the House, then it goes.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I should just like
to Bay, as chairman of the Committee on
Internai Economy and Contingent Accounts,
that I was entrusted to perform the duties,
as chairinan, in providing messengers, &c.,
until my successor was appointed at the
commng session, and i recommending the
appointment of those two 'pages I think I
was carrying out the direction of the committee in recommending those appointments.
The SPEAKER-Emergencies have to be
provided for as in this case. There were
messengers wanted for the opening of the
House, and there wasý no Speaker; some one
had to undertake the responsibiity of making the selection, and on inquiry as to that.
the Speaker afterwards approved of what
had been done and the report is now before
the House. Perhaps it had better stand
over tili to-morrow.
The paragraph of the repo rt was allowed
to stand.

41

them, Mr. Bernier, was i the habit of participating in oui debates, that both these
gentlemen during the considerable period
they remained members of the House were
very constant and faithful in their attendance at the Chamber here and were very
useful and estimable mnembers i performance of the duties of the varions cominittees
te which they were assigned. I am suie we
will ail very much regret that these gentlemen should have been summoned. away.
One of these gentlemen was a representative in an especial sense of a section of my
own province whom we have been able te
replace by a. countryman of his own, and
the other was a gentleman who belonged te
a different nationality but who, I have
every reason te believe, was very much respected and very much looked up te by the
members of his own religion and race. In
his case in particular, the gentleman from
the province te wbich he belonged I am sure
will u.gree with me in regrettig that he
should have been summioned away. Both
of these gentlemen had attained an age at
which it was only natuial that their term
of life ahould expire, and both, 1. believe,
lef t behind them high and unstained reputations' as citizens and men who were in
every way worthy of the high honoui that
had been conferred upon them.

The SPEAKER. There is an item in the
report providing for the appointment of
Arthur Hinds to act as stenographer te the
law clerk of the Senate at a salary of $75
a month. It is not an easy matter to get
a competent shorthand writer, and unies s
you engage a man at once some one else will
employ him, and it is necessary te act
quickly. In. this case we took the responsibility of placing this man in the position.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That can stand over.
The item and following- items in the report were allowed to stand tili to-morrow.
DECEASED SENATORS.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTSince we lest met, we have had to regret the
loss of two gentlemen who nave been for a
very considerable time members of this
House. I had not the pleasure of beingr
intimately acquainted with these gentlemen, but I believe I arn perfectly correct in
saying that although only one, I think, of

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I join i the
s entiments of high regard and esteem which
have been expressed by my right hon.
friend with reference te the loss by .death
Their
of the hon, gentlemen referred te.
coileagues on this side of the House had
always entertaied for those hon. gentlemen the deepest sentiments of friendship..
For a great number of years Mr. Merner
was associated with the activities of this
Senate. Before his entry into the Senate,
he had for many years been a member of
the House of Gommons. Although he neyer
teok an active part in the discussions of this
Chamber; yet there .was no member of the
Senate who concerned himself more deepl y
in its deliberations than that hon. gentleman did during his lifetime. He was a rare
example of a gentleman coming from a
foreign country in his early days, identifying himself with our institutions of Canada and hecoming one of its leading public
men. He 'was actively identîfied with not

SENATE
only the municipal institutions of the
particular part of Ontario in which hie
lived, but te a very marked extent with
the origin, growth and development of
the manuiactuiing industries of the county
in which he settled. During the period
that hie was with us hie disposition was
of that character by which hie was endeared
1Imight say to every hon, gentleman on
either side of the House. Mr. Bernier
was te a very large extent an associate
of my own, coming as hie did from one of
the western provinces. Formerly hie had
been a citizen of Quebec, but in the very
early days, almoat thirty years ago. hie removed te the province of Manitoba. Very
few gentlemen in that province had been
more identified. with the development of the
educational, municipal and governmental
institutions of Manitoba than was Mr.
Bernier. He interested himself in te
institutions of higber education and had
been for many years buisar of the University of Manitoba, also superintendent of
education of the Seperate echool systemi
in that province.
He also had been
identified with the provincial institutions
of governinent for many years and from the
time of hie appointment to this Chàmber
down to the time of hie death hie had been
a verv active and useful member of te
Senate.
He was a gentleman with very
fixed convictions and neyer hesitated te express the opinion which hie possessed, notwithstanding the differences which might
exiet in the minds of other members re,
speciing those particular matterâ. We ail
admired him for the courage hie possessed
and for hie manlinese in giving expression
therete. I arn suie the sympathy and the
condolence of tels Senate will be extended
to the members of the families of these departed gentleman. We entertain a deep reigret for their lose from anionget us as well
as profound respect for their memory.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC (in French). It is
with a profound sentiment of sadness that
1 join the hon. members who have preceded
rue in deploring the lose which. the Senate
.and the country have sustained by te
death of the hon. Senaters Bernier and
Merner.
I was particularly weli acquainted with
-the Hon. Mr. Bernier, with whom I mainHon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

tained the warmest friendship during ail
the time hie occupied a seat in this hion.
House.
Good literary mnan, perfectly instructed,
a man of integrity, in work or in pleasure
showing excellent judgment, the Hon. Mr.
Bernier rendered, and was able to render
time and again, preceous services to his
country. He did flot speak frequently in
this Ohamber, but every time that hie took
part in a debate hie conducted himself with
caîmnness, dignity, sincerity and courtesy,
and hie deep and intelligent arguments were
followed with attention and listened te with
great interest. Our colleague hae died at a
comparatively early age, but few men have
done more for their country. His earnestness, hie Intelligence, his love of work and
his honesty placed him in the front rank
ini his early life. He was yet but a student
when hie engagea in journalismn and was
one of the principal editers of the «Courrier'
de St. Hyacinthe, where his writings were
always marked with the greatest sincerity
and the highest patriotism. Only a few
months aiter having been admitted te the
practice of hie profession, his high menit
was recognized and his professional success
led te hie nomination as Queen's counsel.
I amn convinced that if hie had remained in
the province of Quebec hie would have
played an important role and soon been
considered one of oui firet lawyers, for such
was his prestige that hie was elected president of the Society of St. Jean Baptiste at
an age when young men give little attention
to public affaire. However, oui late colleague did not find ini hie own province a
field large enough te employ ail his energy
and ability, and in 1880 hie moved to Western Canada, where the need of men of his
worth was keenly felt. There, as in the
province of Quebec, it teok hlm. but a short
time te make himself appreciated, and hie
has successively occupied tee positions of
Superintendent of Educetion and Assistant
Clerk of the Legislative Âssembly in the
province of Manitoba; was the life and soul
of a great number of benevolent societies,
rnayor of St. Boniface for a nuznber of years,
and, apart from hie numerous and interesting articles on different subjects, published
an important pamphlet on the climate and
resources of Maniteba. The members of

JANUARY 28, 1909.
this House who had the advantage of hearing the grand and beautiful speech which
lie delivered on the Manitoba -school question will agree with mue that bis work on
that question will be considered a sufficient
monument'to perpetuate bis memory as a
distinguished man. The death of Senator
Bernier is a serious loss te bis faxnily, te
the Senate anid te the country, and I pray
the f arily of him whom I had the honour
-of counting among the number of my intimate friends, te except this expression of
my very warm and sincere sympathy.
The death of the late Senator Merner is
also a great loss te the Senate. He wus a
mani whose counsel was always appreciated,
anid who counted as many friends as there
are Senators in this Charnber.
BÂTES 0F INSURANCE ON THE ST
LAWRENCE.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWIGHT-I
may mention te my hon. friend opposite
as it is a matter of considerable interest.
that li regard te the question that was
raised, I th"n, by the hon. gentleman from
Hastings, about rates of insurance, I referred the matter te the Department of Marixie and Fisheries, and they have fuxnished
me with a report which I lay on the table,
in which, apparently-of course the House
will.uxiderstand I arn juat giving the report
as received from. them-the saving In lisurance during the paut eight years, from
1900 te 1908, amouxits on huila and exporta
only, making no reference te the savig on
goods imported into the St. Lawrence, te a
sum, cf $6,121,759.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Can my hon.
friend say what the percentage of reduction
la?

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe chief reduction appears te be lin the
ixisuraxice on vessels, whicb. is given there
i detail. This reduction would appear te
amouxit te something about 10 per cent. It
used te be 5 per cent, and will be reduced
te 4j, but my hon. friend can see the details in the paper. The question, lie wilI
remember had been brought up by the bon.
gentleman 'wbo sits behind me in reference
te a statement of mine, and I thought it
was weil the report of the Department of

43

Marine should be laid on the table accordingly.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-As my hon. friend
bas subrnitted some information relative te
the discussion yesterday, perbaps he would
be prepared te give us the resiilt cf an inquiry lie proinised that he would make into
the question as te the security of the Grand
Truxik Pacific witb regard te the operation
cf the eastern division, li the right cf forfeiture cf the prairie section if they failed
te operate?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
will bave that looked into and will report,.
I was going to say at an early period, but
judging from the resolution we passed teday, I will say as soon as possible atter we
meet again.
THE STEAMER «MONTCALM.'
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE--Can the right
bon. minister give us any information i
regard te the steamer ' Montcalm?'
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
applied te the Miister cf Marixie and Fialieries in respect te that matter, but I regret
1 found that he was confined te bis house
through illness and I was unable te obtain
a reply from hlm.
REPORT 0F BOARD 0F RAILWAY COM.
MISSIONERS.
Hon. Mr FERGUSON-Miglit I ask my
bon friend wben we may expect tbe report
cf the Board cf Railway Commissioners?
The year expired on the 3lst Mardi last and
we have no report.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTTbe report cf the Transcontinental Railway
Commissioners P
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No, cf the Railway Commission for the year ending Marcb
31, 1908.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-1
will make inquiry.
COIdMITTEE 0F SELECTION.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON moved the adoption
cf the first report cf the Committee cf Selec-

SENATE
tion, appointed to nominate the senators te of the members on the different committees.
serve on the several standing committees The proper way to arrive at it would be tu
for the present session.
have a striking committee composed of one
meniber from each province. I amn giving
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that the usua] this as a notice of motion for next year. If
way to adopt that report-en bloc, or each the suggestion is flot adopted, I will then
committee P
move it as an amendment.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-En bloc.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CÂRTWRIGHT-I
will take note of the suggestion of rny hon.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The, whole of it P friend. Possibly it may be found expedient
that we should enlarge the size of that cornThe SPEAKER-Yes, that has been the rnittee a little, but we can discuss it later
practice since I have been here.
on.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-While I have no objection to the report of the committee, I rise
to offer a suggestion. Since 1 have been in
this House I notice that there has been
quite a bit of friction about the appointment of the striking committees. I do not
wish to make any motion with reference
to the report of this committee.
It has
been rnoved by the leader of the House and
adopted; but I think the better plan to appoint a proper striking comrnittee would
be, to name one representative frorn each
of the nine provinces on that commyittee
That would give nine members. I find
some provinces are lef t out, and some provinces have two representatives. The committees are very important, and there are
important questions coming before
the cernmittee. It is a cornmittee that practically
decides ail matters coming before them. The
House seldoma rejects the report of a
cornmittee. Questions corne up affecting
the welfare of the provinces, and I thînk
that each province should be properly represented on the different committees. 1
find on going through the committees as
they have been struck by the present strikin," committee, that some of the provinces
have a large representation on a cornmittee,
while other provinces have no representation at aIl. Take the committee on Standing Orders, which is the gateway through
whichi ail legisiation affecting the railways
and affecting the western part of this country particularly enters this House. Saskatchewan is left without representation
on that committee. I do not think that i3
fair. There should be a proper distribution
Hlon. Mr. GIBSON.

Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I wish to cail the attention of the Housse to an anornaly in
the construction or make up of this committee. I heard the hon. ex-leader of this
House state that the Liberals have always
stood for representation by population. We
to-day in this House stand sixty-one te
twenty-six according to politicai division.
and I find that on the Striking Comrnittee
the 26 have as rnuch to say as the 61; that
is they are four te five. That is an anomaly
that should not be allowed to exist any
longer. I have been in consultation with
some hxon. members of this 'House and
they quite agree with me, and I take occasion to cail the attention of the Houso
to the fact that the administration of the
House should be manipulated by the majority and net the rninority. As the hon.
gentleman from Saskatchewan bas just
stated, the legisiation of this country is
large]y in the hands of our committees. We
know that, and why should the rninority
have as much right te dictate who shail be
on the committee as the majorityF I amn
not rnaking any formai objection to the
present construction of the cornmittee. Tt
is too late te do so. Il I had been here
when the comrnittee was struck I would
hive called the attention of the hion. leader
of the government in this House to the
fact; but it is too late now, and like rny
hon. friend from Saskatchewan, I cail the
attention of the hon. senaters to this matter. It is not that I arn against any of the
hon. members on the commîttee, but surely
if we are going te stand by our principles
%,xe should have representation by population.

JANUARY 28, 1909.
Hon. Mr. POWER-As a member of the
ccmmittee I may be allowed te say a word
or two. The objection taken to the composition of the Striking Committee by the
hon. gentleman who bas just resumed bis
seat, is not one which will commend itself
ta the judgment of this House. As stated
by the hon. gentleman, this House is m~ade
up cf 61 supporters af the government, and
26 hon. gentlemen who are opposed te, thp,
government.- I take it that whatever te
complexion of the Striking Cammittee may
be, the 61 gentlemen who support the government in this House are quite able te
take care of the interests of the government
aide of the House; and we simply foilowed
the old practice with respect ta this coinmittee, of flot removing gentlemen from the
committee, even though there is a change
in the composition of the lieuse. I remember when there was a very'small body
of members who sat at the Speaker's left,
and when we.were allowed by the great
majority af that day ta have a very censiderable say in dealing with the patronage
of the House.
In teis House we should not undertake ta
draw party lines where they are uinnecessary. If it is absolutely necessary to do s0
we would. With respèct te the«objection.
made by tee hon. gentleman- from Prince
Albert, I remember that on a former occasion the hon. gentleman objected because
there were not a sufficient number of memnbers from. the west on the Railway 0Cmmittee; but 'when inquiry was made it waa
found that a mai arity cf the members from
Alberta and Saskatchewan were 'on that
committee. In the present casé bis coinplaint, although made in general ternis,
cames. down ta a complaint that ail te
lirovinces are not represènted on the Striking Committee, and on tee Standing Orders
Ccmmittee. The duty cf the Standing Orders.-Committee la simply ta see that te
rules cf th.e House have been complied with.
I ask any hon. gentleman what on earte
lias tee province from. which a member
cames te do with a quiestion wbether te
rules have been complied with or nat P
When an hon. gentleman bas nothing more
serions te complain cf than that, hie bas
very littie ground for a grievance.

A5

Hon. Mr. 14OSS (Halifax)-By the deathi
of Senator Lovitt, member from Yarmouth,
there is a vacancy on the Railway Committee.. By right the appointment should be
fromn the province of Nova Scotia; but.the
commnittee in their wisdom are giving tels
position te, a man from Ontario. I think
Ontario bas too much already and should
allow this position to go ta the province of
Nova Scotia.
The motion was agreed ta.
ACCIDENTS AT RAILWAY CROSSINGS,
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I should like ta ask the
leader of the House in view of the large
number of appalllng accidents at railway
crossings recently reported, whether any
action has been taken 'by the government,
or any one representing the governinent P
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
entirely agree with the sentiment expressed
by my hon. friend. I have long felt that
the carelesaness of the railroads ini this
matter, regarding accidents which have occurred. at railway crossings, should receive
the attention of parliament. These accidents at railway crossings have been a disgrace ta the railways and te parliament and the governiment. I have myself over -and over again personally
Ralway
called the attention of *the
Commission, and priai- te 'that the attention of the officers' connected with the
Rafiways and Canals, to the scandalona
state in which many of thèse crossingé
were in localities *ith wffich I *as intimately acquainted, and deeply as lIéreÈét
the lo0ss" of if e which hlas ôccurred'recently
at several places, I believe that orn the
whole it will result in great good by stirring
up parliament and the governinent to, take
vigorous action in the way'of preventiiig
these accidents in future. My hon. colleague, the Minister of Railways, lias this
inatter in hanýd at this moment, and I trust
I shaîl speedily be i. a position ta, inform
the House that, proper measures have been
taken to prevent the recurrence'of these
unhappy disasters.
The Senate adjourned until to-morrow.at
three o'cIoclc.

SENATE
THE SENATE.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Publie Bills need
not necessarily be referred to a Standing
OTTAwA, Friday, January 29, 1909.
Committee. They go te Committee of the
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three Whole.
o'clock.
Hon."Mr. LANDRY-But it must go to
a Committee of the Whole also.
Frayera and routine proceedings.
WATER CARRIAGE 0F GOODS BILL.
0 SECOND

READING.

Hon. Mr. CAMPB ELL moved the second
reading of Bill (A) An Act relating to the
Water Carniage of Goods. He said: This
is precisely the same Bill as was passed
last year by the Senate. Hon. gentlemen
will recollect that a very thorough inqu.r
was made in reference to this measure. The
parties interested, both for and against,
were allowed an opportunity to present
their views before the Committee on Banikirig and Commerce, and the resuit was that
in the end an agreement was reached. The
shipping interests were satisfied with the
Bill as it was amended, aïid it passed the
Senate unaninxously, but it was Bo late in
the session that when it went to the House
of Commirons the time for discussing public
Bills had elapsed, and consequently there
was no ôpportunity of passing the Bil.
The government, I may isay, were anxious
to have the Bill passed, and did cail the
order in the latter part of the session, but
sme members objected that it was such an
important measure there was flot sufficient
time te consider it in the closing dayst of
the session, and, therefore, if was left over
tiil this year.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not think it
was distributed.
Hon.
it. 0f
it can
like te
so that

Mr. CAMPBELL-I have a copy of
course if any hon. gentleman objects
stand over, I suppose, but 1 would
get if through as soon as possible
it cati go to the House of Commons.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Last year it was
referred te a eommittee on account of flhe
opposition te the measure, and the desire
of some parties te be heard.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think we are not
in a position te pass it to-day because it
must be referred te a Committee of the
Whole.
The order of the day was discharged and
placed on the orders of the day for the 25th
of February.
GOVERNMENT ANNUITIES ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
CARTWRIGHT
Hon. Sir RICHAKRD
rnoved the second reading of Bil (B) An
Act te ainend the Governinent Annuities
Act, 1908. He said: There is no question
of principle involved in this. Ifs objeet is
f0 make one or two ainendmets which have
been suggested by the Department of Jus.
tice te make a little more clear the obvious
intention of the measure, and f0 enable,
under certain conditions stated therein, a
mati who has acquired an annuity to make
a certain division with lis wife in con.
iormify with the rules and regulations laid
down, a proposition te which I arn sure the
House will not oppose any objection. The
discussion of the Bihl can be postpotied unfil
it is referred fo commiftee. If any hon.
gentleman wanf s to diseuse it now, I would
prefer to let the second reading stand.
I
propose mest to take a stage for fthe Bill
now and after we refurn if cati be discussed
fully in commitfee.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There will be no delay at ail, because it must be referred te a
committee, and the committee cannot sit
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Since the hoti. genbefore the 25th. I think the govertiment tleman is in no hurry, I should like to have
will have ample time to have the Bill the second reading posfponed unt il we can
printed during the recess.
have a French copy of the Bill.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

JANUARY 29, 1909
The order was discharged and the Bill
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-As I knew that
was fixed fur the second reading on the 25tb the. powers of the Speaker 'would end at
February inext.
the. opening cf the new session, I felt it my
dnty te leave te my successor the obligation
APPOINTMENT 0F SENATE EMof conforming te this'Act and preparing
PLOYEES.
these memoranda for the Senate. I understand from the Speaker that hie is new preMOTION.
paring the classification, which will' be
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the adoption ready when we
nert meet.
of the memo. from the Speaker of the Senate recommending the appointmient of two
The SPEAKER-Tii... two appoitments
pages.
are vacancies which occurred bel ore the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I should like te cali opening cf the House.
the attention of the Senate to section 8 of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn not attacking
the Civil Service Act whioh. reads as folthese nominations. My whole object is to
Iowa:
see that we proceed regularly. Because if
8. As soon as practicable alter the, coming we make the nominations before doing wbat
into force of the Act, the. head of each department shail cause the organization of the I think is obligatery under the law, I do
department te be determined aud defined by net know what stand the Civil Service Comorder ini council, due regard being had te the mission may
take. I arn suggestinig a
status cf each offioer or clenk as the case
tnay be.
measure of prudence. I have stated ail I
2. The order in council shail give the names
cf the aeveral branches, with the number and have te, say, and the Senate can do as it
character of the offices, olerkships snd other pieuses.
positions in each, and tiie dûties, tîties and
salaries thereafter to pertain thereto.
The SPEAKER--I was about te add that
3. Âfter beiug so determined snd defined,
the organisation cf a department ehail net the. commission have signified that they
b. changed except by order iu council.
4. Copies of such ordere in conucil shall b. consider that they have nothing te do with
sent te the Commission.
appointments cf this character and will net
interfere with them.
This section f ails under the provisions of
section 45, which substitute for the GovHou. Mfr. POWER-Looking ut section 18
ernor ini Council, the Senate. Hun anything
of the Act, it strikes me that there is sorne
been doue, in accordance with section 8 cf
the Act, before we proceed any furtiierwith question as te the correctness of the view
the appointment or promotion of any em* as expressed by the commission. Section
ployee ini this -depaxtment, because this 18 provides as follows:
must b. called a department? Wti do not
18. erom the. said list the, Commission, on
know what action the Civil Service Com- the application cf the deputy head, with the.
the head,
departmeùt,
mission may take upon this matter, ho. approval cf the. required of any whether for
shail supply
clenks,
cause the commission is called upon te permanent or temporary duty.
2. Tiie selections shail
far
superintend the wonking of this Act. Be- ticuble, ini the order of be. sonames as practhe
ou the
sides the action w. take ourselves the com- Iist, but the, Commiesion may select auy persou who in
examination
mission has something te do, and might qualifications uis auy particular shows special
for
subWet.
3. The Commission shall forthwith uotify
perhaps say te us, the &irt
thing yen have
Âuditer Gento do ia te put yourself in accord with sec- tiie Treasury Board aud the, iu the service
eral of the name sud position
tion 8 cf the Civil Service Act. Penhaps cf .aeh donr supplied. to any department,
sud also of the, rejection cf
the ex-Speaker might tell us if anything during his prcbationary terni.any such clenk
4. Âssigument for temporary duty shall not
has been doue by him, because hie was,
the.
frorn the time the new Act came fite foroe- prejudiceduty. right te assigumeut for pernianent
5. No clerk supplied for temporary duty
Up te the choice cf n new Speaker, the head
shail b. se employed feor more than six
cf a department.
mcnths iu auy year.

SENATE
The SPEAKER-That is
This is as ta messengers.

as to clerks.

Hon. Mr. POWER-This is wîth respect
to the next oneHon. Mr. BELCOURT-I should like to
draw the attention of the House ta what
seems ta me ta be hardly consistent with
the importance of the Senate and with its
dignity, that the Order Paper should he
laded down with three orders of the very
smali importance of the last three items
on the order paper. Order No. 3 reads as
fo]]ows:

these minor officiais. 1 could quite understand when we are dealing with the higher
positions, such as the clerk and the assistant clerk, the House might be very reluctant to debar itself of the power of consultation, but when it cornes to messengers and
packers one would think it would be very
much more consonant with the dignity of
the Senate that it should be leit to the
Speaker. I cannat make a motion now,
but as one of the younger members I may
be permitted to make the suggestion so that
it may be deait with at a future time.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Could we by a
Consideration of the Memorandum from simple resolution override the law?
the Speaker of the Senate recommending the
appointment ai two pages.-(H-on. Mr. WatHon. Mr. BELCOURT-If my hon. frîend
son.)
will follow closely he will see that it can be
Order No. 4 is:
deait with by a g3neral resolution. Section
Consideration of the Memorandum from 45 reads:
the Speaker of the Senate recommending the
apontment of a sessional clerk in the Law Wherever under sections 5, 8, 10, and other
sections mentioned there, any action is aulerks offioe.-(Honý Mr. Watson.)
thorized or directed to be taken by the Gwovernor in Council or order in council, such
Then we have order No. 5 which reads:
action with respect 'to the officers, clerks or
Consideration of the Memorandum from employees of the Hanuse of Commons or the
the Speaker cf the Senate recommending the Senate shahl be taken by the House of
appointment of a sessianal messenger.-(Hon. Commons or the Seënate es the case may
be, by resolution.
Mr. Watson.)
lI we can deal with -that individually,
That this high and important body should
why cannot we deal with it collectively, and
be expected to deliver 'itself solemnly and
pass a general resolution authorizing the
aeparately on three very smail matters ai
Speaker to deal with these matters as they
this kind seema ta me hardly, to'be consistoccur?
ent with the dignity and importance ai th-e
Senate. I hope some means will be found
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The memo. instead
by which these matters of detail shall be af beîng for one case would be for threc
leit in the hands ai the Speaker. 1 think cases.
the appain tment of pages, messengers and
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Yes, we would
seesional clerks, and ail mina? employees
deal with them collectively.
of that kind, should not be made the subject ai debate in this Hanse. tinder secHon. Mr. LKNDRY-That would be more
tion 45 we mîght very well adopt a genera] dignified.
resolution whieh would enable the Speaker
The SPEAKER-The difficulty is that
ta deal finally with these m atters. If that
these appointments were made at different
section were carried out literally, I suppose
every time a page was appointed a resolu- times. The copy of the letter sent by Wm.
tion ai this House would be required ta Foran, secretary of the Civil Service Comsanction the appaîntment.
What wou]d mission, to the clerk of the Senate reads as
seem ta be mare consonant with the dignity follows:
ai this House would be the adoption ai a
January 18, 1909.
Sqir,-I arn in receipt of your letter of this;
general resolution which would place in the
the
of certificates of
handa ai aur Speaker the appointment of date. requesting favour issueClifford Russell and
qualification in
of
Hon. Mr. POWER.

FEBRUARY 25, 1909

49

Hon. Mr. WATSON-Or somewhere else.
Coleman Gillespie, whom it is proposed ta appoint as pages in the Senate, under section
22 of the Civil Service Amendment Âct. 1908.
The motion was agreed ta.
reply, I beg to the employment of sesin the. CommitssionersBay that in the opinion
of
The Senate adjourned till Thursday, Febsional help either as clerks or in subordinate
positions dos not corne under the operation ruary 25. at three o'clock.
of the. Act in question, and that no reference
to the. Commission is, therefore, necessary in
the matter of such appointments.
I may add that this view is concurred in
by the Deputy Minister of Justice.
1 have the honour to be, Sir,
THE SENATE.
Your obedient servant,
WM. FORAN,
Or'rÂwÂ, Thursday, February 25, 1909.
Secretary.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
So that it 'would be quite open ta have o'clock.
such a resolution dealing with it in the
Prayers and routine proceedings.
manner suggested at a later date. In the
meantime I will submit the present motion
BILLS INTRODUCED.
to the Hous.
Bill (No. 6) An Act to amend the Railway
The motion was agreed ta.
Act.-(Hon. Mr. Ells).
Bill (No. .8) An Act to amend the DominTHE RESTAURANT COMMITTEE.
ion Lands Act.-(Hon. Sir Richard CartHon. Mr. YOUNG-I move that the wright).
Bill (No. 9) An Act respecting the Bransecond and final report of the Joint Comdon Transfer Railway Company.-(Hon.
mittee on the Restaurant be adopted, and
Mr. Young).
that the foilowing hon. gentlemen be ap.
Bill (No. 10) An Act respecting the Brazilpointed as the committee: Hie Honour the ian Electro Steel and Smelting Company,
Speaker, Hon. Messrs. Camnpbell, Watson, Limited.-(Hon. Mr. Kirchhoffer.)
Lougheed and Landry.
Bill (No. 11) An Act to incorporate the
Canada Western Railway Company.-(Hon.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Before the motion ie Mr. Watson).
put ta, the House, 1 ahould like ta know
Bill (No. 12) An Act respecting the Colwhether ail the hon. gentlemen whose lingwood Southern Railway Company.names have been mentioned as members of (Hon. Mr. McMullen).
Bil (No. 13) An Act respecting the Grand
the cominittee take their meals at the restaurant, because that is an important mat. Trunk Rahlway Company of Canada.-(Hon.
Mfr. Gibson).
ter.
Bill (No. 14) An Act respecting the Huron
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I am flot clear on and Ontario Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
that; if the hion, gentleman will allow bis Batz).
Bill (No. 15) An Act respecting the Mexiquestion ta stand.
can Land and Irrigation Company, Limited.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-This cominittee was -(Hon. *Mr. Kirchhoffer).
appointed for the purpose of acting as a
Bill (No. 18) An Act to amend the Animal
Sir
Act.-(Hon.
Diseases
joint comxnittee with the committes of the Contagious
other Hanse, and they should, as soon as Richard Cartwright).
possible, be in a position ta do business.
Bill (No. 19) An Act ta amend the Post
and for that reason it is desirable that the Office Act.-(Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright)
motion should be carried now. I think al] Bill (No. 20) An Act ta amend the Govthe hon. gentlemen named, up ta the pre- ernment Railways Act.-(Hlon. Sir Richard
Cartwright).
sent, take their meals at the restaurant.
Bill (No. 21) An Act ta amend the RailHon. Mr. POIRIER-Or somewhere else. way Act.-(Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright).
4

uRvisun EDIrXON

SENATE
Bihl (No. 24) An Act respecting the Edmonton and Slave Lake Railway Company.
Bill <No. 26) An Act respecting the Rootenay Central Railway Company.-<Hon. Mi.
Perley).
RAILWAY STATISTIOS.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON moved:
Thait an humble Âddress b. presented to
Bis Excellency the Governor General; praying that Ris Excellency may be pleased to lay
before the Sonate copies of a Il requests to the
Board of Railway Commissioners by the Minister of Railways, under Section 28 of the Railway Act, and also copies af aUl Orders in
Cauncil made wi'thin the last twelve monthe
respecting level crossings by railways over
publie highways, the dates of msking such tequests or Orders in Council ta be given.

tics to, the public. It seerns to me this information should corne in the legal andl
proper manner through. the representatives
of the people in both Houses of parliament,
according to the law, -instead of being deait
out, ex-parte as it were, to the press as in
the present instance.
Han. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
shall cal attention to the matter forthwith.
I think the report bas not been printed.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn speaking of
two reports, the report of the Railway Cominissioners, which was subrnitted ini manuscript to the House of Commons on the
29th of January, but bas flot yet been submitted to the Senate ini any forrn, whîle the
law requires that it shall be presented to
both Houses within fifteen days alter th(,
He said: I wish ta eaUl the attention of apening of parliament.
the right hon. gentleman who leads this Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-We
House to the fact that the Senate bas nat adjourned, I think, an the 29th.
yet been put in possession of either the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-And there is the
Railway Statistical Report or the report af
the Railway Commissioners. In one case, volume of railway statistica which, under
that is with reference to the statisties, the the Act, should be laid before both Houses
law provides that they shall be laid before of parliament within twenty-one days alter
bath Houses of parhiament within twenty- the opening of the session, but whîch bas
o ne days aiter the opening of the session,' not been presented to this House and had
and, in the other case, that the report shalh not up ta to-day been presented to the
be submitted within fifteen days alter the House of Commons.
opening of parliament. On the 28th of JanuHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTary I made an inquiry as ta when wie might That, of course, would be from the Departexpect to, get the report of the Board of ment af Railways.
Railway Commissioners, and the right hon.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have no desire ta
gentleman was good enough ta say that he
wauld look into the matter. The day fol- interfer-.
lowîng, the report, in manuscript, was subThe SPEAKER-I do not know whether
mitted to the House of Commons, but it the hon. gentleman bas considered that perhas nat yet been submitted to the Senate. haps this motion is unnecessary and possiIn this matter twa things appear; first, a bly out of order. An -address to His Exgreat laxity an the part of these boards ceilency is not required now that the Railin the performance af their duty under the way Commission are under the direct conlaw, and, second, a slight thrown, whether trol of parliament. Formerly, when it was
wantonly or not, at this House in not treat- the Railway Comrnittee of the Privy Couning it in the same manner as the House af cil I suppose an address would be required,
Commons bas been treated with reference but the Railway Board are now the minto the report of the Board ai Rnilway Com- isters af parliament under the Act of Parmissioners. While this slight bas been cast liament, and a simple order of the House
on the Senate and while this lnxity i the is ail that would be required without havperformance of duty is evident, the Board ing an address to His Excellency. I supof Railway Commissianers have apparently pose it can be done either way.
been supplyin.g information ta the press,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think my hon.
perhaps through the minister, and furnishing very important staternents and statis- friend the Speaker, if he looks into the matThe. SPEAKER.

FEBRUARY 25, 1909
ter carefully, will corne to the conclusion
that the motion is perfectly right. It la
quite wîthin the compentency of parliament to invoke the power of the Governor
General at.ail times on ail questions. We
have sometimes taken another course and
moved that an order of the House shouid
issue, but I purposely adopted the
course I have taken because I found we
had very great difficulty last year inx getting returna from the Board of Commissioners. They gave my hon. friend the then
leader of the House a good deal of trouble,
and intimated that they did not think it
was their duty to attend to such matters
as furnishing returns to the House-somnething to that effect-and therefore 1
have adopted the course which I thial<
la open always to members of parliament,
to make a motion that an address be moved
to the Governor General in order to get
any information required ini regard to gevernynental affaira. My motion is a double
one. It flot only èails for some information
from. the Bailway Board, but it also asks
for certain orders in coundil, if any such
have been passed.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I should like to ask
my hon. friend from Marshfield if, in the
interests of parliament and ;business, ha
would flot agree to a slight alteration in
the wording of his resolution: It wiil be
noticed that the hon. gentleman asks for
copies of ail requests to the Board of Railway Cominissioners and also copies of ai,
orders in coundil made within the last
Now, there have been
twelve months.
many applications to the Privy Coundil
and there have been many orders in
council, and I think if the hon. gentleman would content himself by asking for
abstracts or summaries of the requesta and
the ordera in coundil he wouid save a
good deal of unnecessary clerical labour on
the part of the officers of the Railway Commissioners and would attain the end he
wishes to attain just as well. You ses at
the close of this resolution it ia set forth
that the 'dates of making such requestq
or orders in council shall be given. That
will remain, but if the hon. gentleman wilI
just aubstitute extracts or suminaries for
the word ' copies,' he would save a good
deal of unnecessary work.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If my hon. friend
represented the government xi the remarks,
which he made 1 would conaider there
was iome force in thern, because then there
wouid be information behind the statement that it involved a great deal of -work;
but I amn informed, and I think on what
is very good authority, that there will not
be more than one or two documents of
either kind in existence te be brought
down, and perhaps no orders inx couneil at
all. I am quite sure it ia not a volumninous
return.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It might be pointed
ont that it wiil involve much more labour
te condense, analyse and make a suimmary
of these requests than te copy them. Better have the full document rather than an
abstract.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWIGHT-I
may aay before this motion is put that 1
have notified the Railway Commission te
f urnish the information the hon, gentleman
asks for.
The motion was agreed te.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (C) An Act to amend the Railway
Act.-(Hon. Mr. McMuilen).
SECOND READING.
Bill (A) An Act relating to the Water
Carniage of Goods.-(Hon. Mr. Campbell).
ANNUITIES ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved the second reading of Bill (B) An
Act to amend the Government Annuities
Act.
He said: This Bull is intended to amend
in two or three small particulars the Annuities Act which was passed last session.
I will juat briefly explain the purpose of
these amendments and we can discusa themn
more fuily, if hon. gentlemen wish, in committee. In the first place, the House may
possiblyrememberthat the Annuities Act as
it stands limita the total amount which can
he paid to a husband or wife or any other
parties te a matter of $600. Now, we pro.
pose in the working of this Act to allow

SENATE
preferred annuities to be purchased at a ceive such an annuity as half the amount
very early age, and it has been represented ivould purchase.
The fourth subclause
to me--and I think correctly-take the merely emphasises the fact that the ancase of a man who chooses to purchase an nuity canriot be transferred. The last subannuity for a child at the age -of ten or section is ta the effect that if any parties
fifteen years, as the case may be, flot com- choose *ta contract themselves out of the
ing into force until the age of 55, and take agreement, the money paid may be rethe case of this child marrying a person turned to them, and the reason is this:
who has in the ordinary course contracted Several parties have applied ta us who have
for or purchased an annuity; it la considered no dependents upon them, and who do not
that it would be a very unf air thing to want, therefore, ta make any provision for
prevent the two parties from receiving the such dependents i the case of their death.
annuities which they had respectively pur- In these classes, which are known as class
chased. I propose in the case of husband <B) as contradistinguisbed from the original
and wife, where this bas been done before classes, if they choose ta enter inta such an
marriage, ta allow each party to, have the agreement they can get a much larger anannuity up ta the extent of $600. That is nuity than they would wbere it is provided
the first alteration I suggest.
The next that i case of their death prior ta, attainalteration would be that where a married ing the age cf 60 or 65, as the case may be,
man has acquired the possession of an an- the money is tu be paid ta their heirs with
nuity that he be ailowed under the restric- compouVd intereBt. If a man chooses ta
tions herein contained to divide this with purchase an annuity and take the risk of
bis wife if he sees fit.
No possible incon- surviving ta the age at which he woul
venience to the state, no possible risk of otherwise receive it on condition of recelvloss can possibly arise if the division is ing a larger annulty, we allow him ta do
made having due regard to the differences so. These are the several clauses i the
of age between the parties. Such a man, Act which we propose ta, amend.
Any
under the Act, would have a certain sumn further explanations I shaîl be glad ta, give
at his disposai. and all that is done here in committea.
is ta ailow this suni, whatever it may be,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-To what extent
ta be divided between the *busband and have
the public availed themeelves of the
wife, the husband retaining not less than
provisions of the Act?
one-half and giving as much of the rest
as he pleases ta bis wif e.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThanks ta the Printing Bureau, I have
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In the event of
the wife predeceasing the husband, what beeu barely able in the last few weeks to
then would be the position of the annuity' get possession cf the necessary documents
Would it revert ta the original annuitant? to place them in the banda of the public
The success bas been of a gratifying charHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-No, acter.
The Superintendent of Annuities
if the husband chooses tu divide it, the teils me that he is in receipt of bundreds
wife becomes the absolute possessor of the of lettera every day inquiring about the deannuity just as if she had purchased it in tails of the acharne, and he bas certainly
the first instance. If she dies first it would raceived nat less than $25,000 and expects
lapse. That would be necessary, more par- ta receive very mucb more as the Act baticularly as the chances are that the lady cornes better understood by the parties ta
would be a good deal younger than ber wbom it is intanded ta benefit. We have
husband, and would, therefore, be in posses- some lecturars at work, one in particular,
sion of the divided annuity for a consider- a gentleman well known ta many members
ably longer time. That would ail have ta of this House, Dr. Sampson, and ha rebe done, of course, according to a scale. ports ta us that vary great interest, wherIf a man had, say $3,000, ta his credit. ever he bas been able ta address any audiand he divided it, he would receive an an- ence, has been taken in the whole question,
nuity in proportion ta bis age. If his wife and that ha finds that the public in his part
were several years younger, she would re- of the work are bestirring themnselves ocHlon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

FEBRUARY 25, 1909

63

tively in the matter of obtaining the re- hon. friand rnay, however, have got actuarial
quisite information. 0f course it is- too assistance cf a superior kind, and have the
soon yet to Bay how far or to what extent Act operating under such guidance. Thare
the Act will be taken advantage of, but I la only one point to, which I wish ta rater,
arn in hopes, as the schemne becomes known. and ib ta perhaps one batter suited for disthat the ad'vantages of it will appeal largely cussion in eommibtee than at this stage;
to the public ini general, and lb may in- that la with raferanca to the division of the
terest rny hon. friends to know that several snmuity bebween man and wite. I should
rather eulogistic commente on lb have been alnost think-although I may be entirely
forwardad ta, me from the Unibed States wrong-bhab the division ls rather srbibrary
press, in many of which they earnestly againat tha woman, especially if the diviaxhort the respective govarnmenba of the~ sion la made at a somewhat advanced stage
various statas to follow oui exemnple and cf ife. We know tha probabilities cf lite
introduce similar legislation. 0f course, as are dacidedly in faveur of the female altar
I said, it will take smre time before wa can 50 or 55 years cf age, while in anothar stage
The
get the thing properiy befora the public, but cf life it le in favour cf tha male.
I thlnk parliament bas no occasion ta re- question la whatber this division should net
pent of tha axperimant tbey have intro- be made on the tables cf the probablltias
duced.
cf life?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn not at al
surprised that a great many inquiries bave
been raceived by the departrnent with refarance ta this law, for the subject le cartainly one on which the public mind, flot
mrnarly ini Canada, but aU over the world,
ia being forclbly directed at the present
tixne, and as affording an inatalment at
laast of legisiabion on a very important subI really wish that befora we had
ject.
deait with this Bill-not because the Bull
itself contains any controversial matter, but
because it affords an opportunity of discussing the progreas that has been madeit had been possible ta furnish information
in detail ta the Hiouse wibh regard ta the
rifles and regulationa that may have
been passed regarding ib, and also that
we sbould have information ais bo the
staff that has been appointed to carry
1 arn
operabion.
this measuire mbt
aware that the right bon. gentleman
has taken charge of it in his own
departrnant, wbich is very weil, as ha bas
been the originator of the legisiation, and
while ha prasides over the depariment ib is
desirable that he sbould lend it his tombering care in ibm inibiabory stages; but I had
sme littie doubt as ta. whebher my hon.
friend would be equipped with properly
skilled officiais te operaba a very tachnical
Act such as this la. There la no doubb if
the Insurance Daparbrnent bad charge of
ib they have men who are very competant
to handle a subject of this kind. Mv rirbf

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Ib
will ba.
Hon. bEr. FERGUSON-At oe tima in
the if e cý the pair the woman would have
a rigbt ta accept lesa than one-half, bait
thare mighb be another time when she
should have considarably more than oehalf, if a division was made. I think ib
sbould be made se as ta anable a coupla
ta have the annuiby baken, first in tha namt
cf oe and divided as bebwaan the two. Il
tha annuiby la paid only ta the man and
ha dies it would ail drop, whereas in tha
case cf a division with bis wlfe, if ha dies
lb is conbinuad for bbe wif e as long as sha
lives.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
would have great pleasura if I could do me
in laying on bbe tabla cf the House copies
Df the various tables of annuities aubhorized
by ordar in council. I shaîl endeavour ta
get them before this Bill cornes up for the
next reading. I rnay inform the hon. gent'.rnan further that these tables hava beau
cs-reful]y prepared by actuarias cf the Insurance Dapartrnenb and it necessarily delayed us a little, but lb was proper that lb
ishould ba done. They were amployed for
s7evaral waaks in carefully workung out the
varions sornewhab intricabe debails under
wblch annuibies could be granbed at varioua aoees and in various conditions. Mv
lion. friand will flnd that these have been
carefully ]ooked into and very fully pre-

SENATE
Mon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTpared, and I shall have several copies of
them laid on the table of the flouse be- But when he makes the division the tables
corne into play. If my hon. friend wil]
fore the Bill is taken up in committee.
look at the Act ho wiJl soo that that is
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can my right guarded. The provisions of this Act and
hon. friend say on what principle the divi- the regulations are cemplied with in al
sion between husband and wife is based? I material respects. Supposing a man had an
observe it can be made three months before annuity of $500 a year, and he was of tho
the annuity becomes payable. Let us as- age of 65, it would be uttorly impossible te
sume that the husband has reached ahnost give the wifo at 55 an annuity of hall that
the allotted span of life, and the wife is a ameunt. She would got whatever annuite
young woman; what will be the position of one-haîf of the money at his disposai would
the government with reference te the pay- purchaBe.
ment of that half annuity to the wife P
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That point ap.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My pears ta be reaaonably cloar. The division
hon. friend will remember that we grant no between the man and his wife wull be based
annuities until the age of 55 has been at- on the principlo of probabilitios of lile to
tained, except in certain cases of disability. some extent, I suppose?
The position would be somewhat this: We
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTwill suppose a man has $3,000 to his credit, Necessarily.
and that he has purchased an annuity of
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That is where I
say four or five hundred dollars. One-hali
of that surn or more he would retain if he think the provision that the wife should
chooses, because it is his own property ta receive one-half requires more considerado what he pleases with; one-hali he would tion. Supposing a man and his wifo are
apply to purchasing an annuity for his of the same or nearly of the same age, the
wife, under the rules and regiilations whicbi annuity la bought first on the lifeocf the
apply to granting annuities to females. If man and is payable, say, at the ageocf 65.
the lady was 55 and he 65. she would get At 64 years of age a proposition is made t:
whatever annuity she wouid be entitled to divide the annuity with his wifo. Wo ail
if she had put down $1,500 te purchase an know that at that ago the probabilities of
lile are largely in favour of the woman,
annuity at that age, and se on.
and that a much Bmallor amount of money
. Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What I cannot would buy a certain annuity for her than
appreciate about it is this: The husband for her husband, while tho whoe thing has
may have been paying for some years, but beon basod on the probabilities cf the life
in three months before the annuity becomes of the inan. Therefere, it should seem te me
payable he makes a division.
this restriction te one-hall sheuld not be
thero at ail, becauso it would alew a larger
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- proportion ta bo paid ta the woman. Tho
The annuities are ail made quarterly.
government would ho gaining by it if they
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I mean bel ore divided it, and did not give tho wife what
she would be ontitlod to recoive under exthe lapse of time.
pectation of 111e.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-We
When he becomes seized of bis annuity he
givo ber ail she is ontitlod te. Thero would
can divide it.
be ne attempt te gain onc farthing for the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before he is on- gevernmont. Take the case cf a lady who
Vitled te his flrsl payment he makes a is a geed deai yeunger than her husband;
division with his wife, who may be much it may net bo expodient te aliow tho husyounger than he is. The tables on whichl band ta divest himself entirely, at the inthat annuity would first be taken out would stance of bis wife, of the annuity which ho
be based on his age, net contemplating the has purchased. I think they might f airly
go into a co-partnership there. I do net
division.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHIT.

FEBRUARY 25, 1909
think that any practical trouble will arise,
but no advantage whatever will be taken
of the female in such a case; she will get
whatever annuity she wouùld be able to purdbase with one-haif the amount at the
man 's credit. My hon. friend will notice
that the whole principle of these annuities
is that up to a certain point they accumulate to whatever suin is requisite to purchase the annuity.
There is a certain
arnount at the rnan's credit, and when he
attains the age at which he chooses ta take
bis annuity, he is entitled ta divide the
amount at bis credit equally between hinxself and bis wife. That is ail we propose
ta do, but it is left with hirn ta decide, up
ta the arnount of 50 per cent, what he wifl
give bis wife.

in the extreme. For instance, for bmnding
our debates, 1 understand, a work which
wculd be liberally paid for at $1, they
charge $2.25, and this is, of course, with
the cbject cf showing that the institution is
paying its way. I tbink we got oui work
done rnuch more prornptly and mare cheaply under the cld system cf contracte. The
introduction cf the present system tock
place, I think, in 1883, and we bave had a
reasonable experience with it ncw, and its
refcrm really rests on the geverninent. 1
have ne doubt rny hon. friend ta my right
will be «lad ta give them assistance.
He
ought to understand the Printing Bureau
pretty well. Hle will be glad te lend bis
help te any scberne whicb rnay improve the
present condition of the public printing.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn very glad W
hear frorn tbe right bon. minister that the
regulations rnade under this Act cf last
session have at lengtb been printed. Speak
ing for the province frorn which 1 corne, I
may say tbat there wae a great deal of
interest taken in this system of annuities
there, but tbere was no way cf getting information with respect ta the working af
the Act. Not only were the regulations flot
made public, but, as a rnatter of fact, the Acts
cf last session bave only been diaributed
since the beginning of tbis session. Now,
1 amn glad to bave the chance af saying that
1 have always approved very strongly cf the
measure wbich the hon. gentleman bas
introduced. and 1 arn pleased to know that
the delay bas not been tbrough any fault
cf bis or cf parliarnent. My bon. friend
to nry rigbt, the bon, gentleman frorn Ottawa, bas apparently the feeling that thig
Senate is net properly discbarging ità functions and is not satisfying tbe public. Now.
in rny opinion, the Printing Bureau, wbich
was so long under my hon. friend's contrai
bas given us rnucb more reason ta be dissatisfied and given the public more reason
te be dissatisfied than bas the Senate, and if
there is a question cf abolition or reconstruction, 1 sbould suggest ta rny hon. friend
that he should devete a littie of bis leisure
time to devising a plan either for getting
rid of the Bureau altogether or for imnrovin.z its working. The operation of the Printinc, Bureau costs a great deal. The nrices
that are charged for services are exorbitant

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn sorry rny hon.
friend bas net personally inquired ite the
working of the Printing Bureau. Those
wbo have inquired bave corne te the conclusion that it is ahead of anything on the
continent. There is nothing in England
or the United States whicb will at ail com*
pare with it. The reports cf the preceedings
in Congresa are net furnisbed for a week
after tbe speeches are delivered. In Lon.
don, except the amall fragments which ara
published in the daily papers, the speeches
made in parliament are, not distributed for
four or five days afterwards. It is fdle te
discuss the question of cost, and I do not
tbink hon, gentlemen expect me ta dis.
cuss it. There is no rnoney made in the
Printing Bureau, such as was made hy tbe
contractera. We know very well that when
the public printing was given out te contractais very large sums af rnoney were
made. There is just tbis difficulty about
the institutien: It was erected and criginally equipped for about one-fiftb or onesixtb cf the work that is now being per.
forrned there, and as a consequence a very
large arnount af work bas ta be given out
in Montreal, Ottawa and Toronto. Few
gentlemen, except those who have made
inquiry inta the matter, bave any conceptien cf it. 1 challenge anybody ta say that
a more carefully managed institution than
that exists in Canada to-day. There are
always eomplaints ai delav. because the
work is so far in excess of 'the cararitv cf
the building and machinerv that it is im-

SENATE
possible to
ence o the
of $2.25 per
of binding.

keep pace with it. In referbinding, I presuine the charge
volume refers to a special class
That ia a superior clas-

Hon. Mr. POWER-No,
oui own debates.

the sake of the country. Four per cent, I
think, is not too much to pay i Canada
for some tume to corne, but it is a liberal
allowance ail the> saine. However, I 'will
the binding of mention that matter to my colleagues and
advise my hon. friend.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The statutes are dellvered i Ontario for, I think, $1.25 a
volume. It is the first tixne I have ever
heard of any extravagant charge for binding. There is no money for the institution.
It is ail for the Crown. There is no profit
outaide of that.

Hon. Mr. POWER-The confining of the
benefit of this system to Canada is, I thinkr,
a right and proper thing if for no other
reason than that it affords an inducement
to outsiders to corne into Canada.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I would only go
as far as Canadians, natives of Canada temHon. Mr. FERGUSON-May I be per- porarily residing elsewhere.
mitted to make a suggestion to my hion.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
friend which hie can consider up to the tine was read the second time.
we go into commrittee? In looking over the
The Senate adjourned tilI three p.m. to.
Bill with some friends who took a lively
interest i the legisiation, it was noticed morrow.
that only residents of Canada can take
advantage of the Act. My hion. friend might
consider the suggestion whether Canadian
born British subjects, though temporarilv
THE SENATE.
resident i Newfoundland or Great Britain,
the United States or the West Indies, might
Ottawa, Friday, February 26, 1909.
take advantage of it, as well as those who
were residing i Canada at the time. There
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
is flot what you may cail a straight o'clock.
gratuity to anybody in the Bill. It is
Prayers and routine proceedings.
pretty much 'You pay for what you get,'
and I think we might go a little fuither
RAILWAY STATISTICS.
and extend it to natives of Canada, although
they rnight temporarily be Tesiding at the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT laid
time they make tiheir application in the
on the table of the House the report of the
'United States, New-foundland or West
Railway Statistics. He said: If the House
Indies.
will permit me I take the opportunity of
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I mentioning that I have required the Dewill take it into consideration, but my hon. partment of Railway and Canals to permit
friend will .notice that we make no profits a copy of the report of the Board of Railout of this. We tax the people of Canada way Commissioners to be laid on the table
to some amail extent, a very small extent, of this House. They state that the Act
for the maintenance of our staff and the only requires the report to be laid on the
diffusion of information about it, and, more- table of the House of Gommons; but I amn
over, that the allowance of four per cent not sure of that. My hon. friend opposite
is a pretty liberal allowance. It is rather thinks that is an error on their part.
better, I think, than the average insurance
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That was a procompany would give.
vision of the original Railway Act, but we
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Not very lîberal
amended it in this House last year, requirnow.
ing that the report should be laid before the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-We Senate as weil as the Huse of Gommons,
do flot expect money will always be as tight and I presurne that Mr. Payne has been
as it is just now-at leasf I hope not for consulting the uriamended Act
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MARCH 2, 1909
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
presume so.* I shail see that it is attended
to
1 intended to lay the report on the
table whether it was requlred or not.

Assistant General Passenger Agent's Office.
H. A. Price.........$150
00
J. O'Reilly.........70
GO
Victor Pelletier.........90
GO
George Strubbe.........9850
J. Schultz...........
GO0
O. J. Browning .... .... ......
60 GO
BILLS INTRODUCED.
The number of employees at prissent is
Bill (D) An Act to ineorporate the British
nineteen, and their naines and salaries are
Colonial Fire Insurance Company.-(Hon.
as foilows:
Mr. Choquette).
Assistant General Freight Agent's Office.
Bill (E) An Act to incoporate the DoW. H. Olive.........$166
66
minion Burglary and Plate Glass Insurance
R. E. Perry.. .... .... .....
1500GO
Company.-<Hon. Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
A. R. Evans..........110
GO
Miss J. M. McGregor.......50 GO
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, 2nd
P. J. Demers.. .... .... ......
55 GO
S. A. MeQuestion........900GO
March, at three p.m.
J. A. Chabot..........85
GO
T. Ahearn...........750
G. A. Ambrose ....
.... ......
40 GO
A. H9. Maguire.. .. ....
......
75 GO
Miss A. V. McGregor.....400GO
J. J. B. Charbonneau.....G GO0
Alfred Greene.... .......
50 GO
THE SEXATE.
A. Charest .... .... ....
... 20 GO
OTTAWA, TUESDÂY, March 2, 1909.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedinge.
INTERCOLONIAL RAIL WAY EMPLOYEES IN MONTREAL.
INQUIR.Y.
Hon. Mr. TESSIER, in the absence of
Hon. Mr. Choquette, inquired:
1. What was the number cf employees in
the office of the Intercolonial Railway in
Montreal, July .1, 1908 P
2. Their names and salaries?
3. Whiat is the number of employees at prement P
4. Their names and salaries P

Assistant General Passenger Agent'a Office.
H. A. Price.........$150
GO
J. O'Reilly ..........
700GO
George Strubbe.........93
50
J. Schultz..........25
00
O. H. Browning.......600GO
CLASSIFICATION 0F SENATE
PLOYEES.

EM-

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the orders of
the day are called, I should like to inquire
if the classification called for by the provisions of the Civil Service Act respecting
the Senate, bas been laid before the HouseP
By the Civil Service Act the Speaker of
the Senate is the head of a department,
and hie is required to submit te this House
a classification of ail its employees. Has
that been done? If not, when may we expect it to be doue?

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.On the first of July, 1908, there were
twenty employees. Their namnes and salThe SPEAKER-The classification is in
aries are as foilows:
course cf preparation, and I expect it will
be submitted to-morrow.
Assistant General Freight
Agent's Office.
W. H. Olive.........$168
68
SECOND READING.
R. E. Perry..........150
00
A. R. Evans.........110
GO
Bill (No. 9) An Act respecting the BranMiss J. M. McGregor......50 GO
P. J. Demers.... .......
don Transfer Railway Company.
55 GO
S. A. MeQuestion........90 GO
J. A. Chabot..........85
GO
BRAZILIAN ELECTRO STEEL ANI)
T. Ahearn...........75
00
SMELTING COMPANY BILL.
G. A. Ambrose.........40
GO
A. H. Maguire.........75
GO
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
Miss A. V. McGregor......40 GO
J. J. B- Charbonneau.....60 GO
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER moved the
Alfred Greene.........50
GO
second reading of Bui (No. 10) An Act reT. J. Elliott..........20
GO

8

SENATE

specting the Brazilian Electro Steel and out our having any information whatever.
Smelting Company.
It seeme to me that if Canadian capitalists
are desixous of entering upon investements of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the mo- this kind in a foreign 'country they should
tion is put, 1 arn unaware whether my seek their legisiation in that country, shoùld
hon. friend could give any explanation of take ail the risks incident thereto, and
this Bill, and also of Bill (No. 15), but they should not hold out to the investing pubaeem to be very objectionable in their lic within the Dominion this clasa of legisfeatures, and it is a question as to whether lation which impliedly says it bas been apthe House should commit itself to the prin- proved of by the panhiament of Canada.
I
ciple of the Bill upon the second reading. think the principle involved in this Bill
Hon, gentlemen will observe that there is is objectionable for- that reason. While I
no information given in the Bill itself ae to do not object to the Bill going before the
what the objects of the promoters may be. committee, yet 1 desire to take exception
We purport to give to a company that to the principle of the measure on the
seemingly has been incorporated under the second reading.
Companies' Act rather extraordinary powers
in a foreign country. The Bill before us
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I suppose I am the
purportà or proposes to give power to a guilty party ia this inatter. Some four or
company that bas received Jettera patent five years ago, acting in my official capacity
under the Companies Act to carry out cer- as Secretary of State, the firat application
tain large undertakings in the Republic of came from a company in Halifax, of which
Brazil. There is a similar Bill, No. 7 on Mr. Ross was the chief. They had entered
the orders, Bill (No. 15). which proposes to upon a certain undertaking in Mexico, thse
carry out similar objecta ini the Republic of development o! electricity by water-power.
Mexico. Upon the face of the Bill there which was there in abundance. There were
are no names and nothing to, indicate the railways in Mexico hauled by mules, and
character or scope of the company.
It the company represented that if a charter
seema to, me that there ia a vital principle were granted by Canada the Mexican govinvolved in granting legisiation of this kind. vernment would be very glad to give them
First, from a constitutional standpoint, as authority to act under it. They held in
to whether the parliament of Canada bas high esteem any Act of the parliament of
power under its extra territorial powerE Canada and any power given to Canadian
to give
extraordinary
powers
to, a Companies. It was rather a shock at flrst.
company of this kind to carry out particularly considening the large amount
certain physical
works in a foreign involved. The first compan'y formed hadl
country.
The Bill inbefore us pro- a capital of $17,00O,000, Canadian money.
poses to give righte
this compamy ta The company were eaninently succesaful and
build railways and
-r public works in enlarged their capital. I think they came
the Repubhic of Bni
We graciously and te the parliament of Canada for these
courteously providE
%at it may be done powers. However, they were so success!ul
subject te the laws L,. force in the Republic that other companies were formed and
of Brazil; but, notwithstanding this, we carried on similar ventures there. I do not
empower the company to do these works. think it bas in any way damaged the charThere is involved in thîs the further pnin- acter of Canada. On the contrary, it has
ciple as to whether it is sound policy for tended largely to increase its credit. The
the parliament of Canada to, permit the foundation of the money, of the capital,
diversion of funda or of money from within came from Canada.
The company then
the boundaries of Canada into a foreign isaued bonds, which were cashed on
country for the purpose of carrying out the British market, and very large sums
such works as we greatly need within th.ý of money have been made' and Canada gets
Dominion of Canada. We are practically the benefit of the interest. They get a very
asked to place the imprimatur o! the par- much larger return in that way than thev
liament of Canada upon an undertakinm' could get if the money were invested in
to be carried out in a foreign country with-I Canada.
Ail the returns corne back to
Non. Mr. KIIICHHOFFER.

MARCH 2, 1909l
Canada. Youi right as well prohibit the
Canadian banks from establishing branches
in Mexico and the West Indies. We know
that a number of our banks are doing large
business in the central and sout.hern part
of the two 'continents, and 1 really see no
objection to it. Any profits that are made
corne iback to this country. If they maire
10 or 15 per cent or whatever it is, we get
the benefit of it, and I cannot conceive
that the parliament of Canada ought ini
any way to interfere with that. As a rule.
I granted very much larger powers to
companies doing business outside of Canada than to those operating in Canada. I
usually took an assurance from them that
the company's powers would not be exercised within the Dominion.
The government of Mexico and the governments of
other countries to the south of us were
quite willing that those companies should
exercise the powers given them. 0f course.
where they are carrying on their business
in Mexico, Brazil or the Argentine Republie, they do it subject to the laws of the
country in which they operate, but those
countaies considered that the law of Canada
was axnply sufficient and it did not need sny
addition there, and so there has been prac.
ticaily no interference with the companies
chartered in Canada. I cari see no possible
objection to this parliament gr.anting additional powers, and if the powers are larger
than the policy of this country recognizes,
insert a clause that they shail only be exercised outside of the Dominion of Canada.

59

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
is not answering the question which I put.
The hon. gentleman gave the general view
which he took of it, and the fact that a
large number of companies had been
formed, I asked him if he could inform
the Hous who cornposed the Brazilian
Electro Steel and Smelting Company, to
whorn we are now giving these powersP
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no. I think it quite
proper that the cornrittee should be advised regarding that. It is for parliarnent
to ask who are the present incorporators,
who are the shareholders of the company.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
is no information of that kind in the Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.

I suppose not.

Hon Mr. CLORÂN-Could not the promoter of the Bill give the information to
the House. The Bill stands in the naine o!
the hon. gentleman from Wolseley.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-No, the hon. Mr.
Kirchhoffer.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The promoter of th-ý
Bill should give the information required.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-1f this company
is organized, and its shares are spread over.
there is a list of shareholders, and a board
of directors, so that if there is any object
in getting at those names they can always
be obtained ini the commîttee.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is easy for the proHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is what I moter of the Bill to give us the information
when it is asked for, and the House is
object to.
entitled te it.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Can
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If it is s0 easy to
the hon. gentleman tell us of whom the
o'btain the information, why do we not
company is composedP
get itP
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I incorporated a dozen
companies, perhaps more, with very large
capital. They were all capitaliats in Canada. Mr. Ross. so largely connected with
the coal and steel company, was one of
the first to organize a company down in
Halifax. A number of others followed their
example. They have ail been men of high
class and large means, who found they
could ernploy their money more profitably
outside of Canada.

Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I ahould be
very happy to give the House every information in regard to this, but I arn not
in a position to do so, because I have not
got it myseif at the present time. I see no
reason why the Bill should not be read
thesecond time, and go te committee, whee
the parties could furnish the information,
and I do not see that I should be prejudiced in the House because I have not
the information.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That is clear enough.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The committee
would only have authority to deal with
the details; they could flot deai with the
principle.. The observations made by the
hion, gentleman from Ottawa (Hon. Mr.
Scott) do not meet the position which I have
t;aken upon it. The hion, gentleman, in
exercising his powers as Secretary of State,
granted letters patent to such companies,
as hie says, for the purpose of permitting
Canadian ,funds to be use 'd in ,foreign
countries to, construct publie works, and
stipulated particularly that those powers
should not be exercised in Canada. My
hion. friend bas referred te the powers
given te the banks, but there is nothing
analogous between the two. The bancs
boan on liquid securities in foreign countries, and are able, on call, to realize on
those securities ini the event of the money
being required, but by this Bill the capitaliste of Canada are mnvied te put their good
money into foreign countries that are revo]utionary in their character, trusting sometimes te get large profits whbich may corne
te Canada under abnormal conditions, but
which xnay neyer materialize. I object te
the .principle of the Bill; it is flot sound
policy to encourage this claes of legisiation.
If our capitaliste are desirous cf investing
in foreign counitries, let thein take the risk
of doing so, but the parliament cf Canada
should flot intervene to assist them in doingHon. Mr. SCOTT-The Bank cf Montreal
is doing a very large business
Mexico,
just the same sort cf business in is doing
it
in Ottawa, discounting notes and lending
money on securities. It could not recaîl
ite capital on twenty-four heurs' notice, or
possibly on three months' notice.
The
bank bas an excess cf funds and is doing a
legitimate business.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The bank is net
building railways.
Hon..Mr. SCOTT-Thev may lend money
to the railways on proper security. This
country is getting the benefit, because the
profits are coming back te Canada.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What
profits?
Hon. Mr. KIRCHRTOFFER.

kind of

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Large profits derived
frem the industrial cempanies I have described, such as the street railway cf the
city cf Mexico. That stock is a high claas
security. The company has no difrculty
in getting money in England on ite bonds.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-There is ne
reason why this Bill sheuld be forced. on
the House until we have the fullest information with regard te it. I should prefer te have it stand until Friday next.
The order was discharged and the second
reading was fixed for Friday next.
CANÂDIAN WESTERN RAIL WAY COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the second
reading cf Bill (No. 11) an Act te incorporate the Canadian Western Railway Company.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Why is there nething
on the orders cf the day te indicate whether
the Bills are printed in French and English?
Hon. Mr. WILSON- -We are asked te
sanction this Bill without any explanation
whatever from the promoter. That is unfair and unreasonable. No doubt we will
be told that the îhnformation will be furnished when the Bill is before the Railway
Commîttee, but it must be rernerbered
that we deal with the principle cf the Bil
at the second reading. We decide whether
it should go through parliament or net, and
the least the premoter should do is te explain why this legisiation is sought. This
bas net been given. Let us decide once
and fer ail that when anybody moves the
second reading cf a Bill he should be in a
position to explain why it should pass. Let
us try if possible te show that we are ef
*Éeme use, that we can criticise at ,least if
we cannet initiate measures. Unless we
do that we shall net be regarded as a very
useful body. Let us make a commencement
now and demand full explanation at the
second reading of every Bill that cornes before us.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The object cf this Bihl
as set eut in clause 7 is as fol]ows:

MARCH 2, 1909
7. The company may lay out, construct and
operate a railway of the gauge of four feet
eight and one-haif inches.
(a> From a point on the International
boundary in the province of Alberta, between the east aide of range twenty-three
and the weet aide of range twenty-eight weet
cf the fourth principal meridian, ta a point
on the Crow's Neat Paus Une of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company between Cowle
and Pincher Creek, thence northwesterly following the valley of the north fork of the Old
Man river ta a point on the Livingstone
range of mountaine at or near section thirtythree, in township ten, range three, m'est cf
the fifth principal meridian, thence through
the pass in the Livingstone mountaina at the
lait named point, and northerly up the valley
of the Livingstone river, te a point on Hiçh
river, at or near township aeventeen, in
ranges four aud five, west of te fifth principal merîdian, thence northea trly by te
most practicable route to the cit of Cary
(b> Prom a point on the middle branh
at or near its junction with the Livingstone
river, thence to a point in the Rocky mountains west cf Gould'a Dorne, thence through
pass Elk
afcfthe in the Rocky mountains te the valley
river, by the most practicable
route, thence southerly down the valley of
the Elk river ta 9. junction with the Canadian Pacifie Railway and the Great Northern
Railway, in the Elk valley, at or near the
village cf Michel.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My hon. frieud.
I think, ie reading frorn the Bill as it m'as
introduoed. The clauses are very different
as passed by the House cf Comnmons.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do net see anything objectionable in chartering the cernpany. The other provisions cf the Bill are
such as are usually found ln railway Bills.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I do net ihink we
otight te be governed by how it m'ent
through the Commons; we should cousider
it for ourselves.
Hon. Mr. POWER-On the face cf tIit
Bill there does net seern te be any reasen
why it should not pass.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Clause 7 does net
disclese the fact that this hune intersects
the boundary cf any province. I amrnGpt
well enough inforrned locally te say m'hether
that je se or not. If the proposed railwav
is ail wlthin one province and the Bill cou
tains ne declaration that the m'ork is fthe general advantage ef Canada, we have
ne right te proceed with it.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The clause states
that the line is te begin at a point in the
province ef Alberta and pass through the

61

Recky mountains and terminate at or near
the village cf Michel, m'hich, ie in the province ef British Columbia.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--The
peint m'bich has been raised te-day has
been brought up on other occasions. The
mile je that we affirrn the pminciple of a
Bil on the second reading. If it is te be
understood here, as it m'as in the Gemmons
somne years ago, that you are net bound te
the principle et a Bill at the second reading, but that you m'ill be at liberty to deai
m'ith it lu committee or at the third readS.
ing, there would net be much force in
the objection taken by the hion. senater
from. St. Thornas; but the mule may be invoked in the committee. If su attempt
should be made in committee te make any
change in the Bill which would affect the
principhe, it might be objected to on the
gmound that the principhe m'as accepted on
the second meading. For that reasen, the
point taken by the hou. senater je important
and the Senate ehould decide whether we
are te follow the practice that bas been folhom'ed for se many sessions cf sirnpiy meading these Bille and sending thern te the
comnittee te be considered in detail. We
should afflrmi seme principhe by m'hich we
shail be guided in the future. This Bill
may be ail ight enough.
I have been
threugh the larger portion et the section
ct ceuntry through which it le proposed te
build the road, but I arn net prepared te
pus su opinion as te the actual necessity
for the road, uer arn I prepared te give an
opinion on the principle of the Bill other
than the genemal principle, that Tailways
are advantageous te the countries through
which they are coustructed. I do net objeot te the principle of this Bml, se far as
I understand it, but there are other Bis.
euch as the one which. bas been under discussion this atterneen, in which. a very
important principhe is invohved, and I
throw eut the suggestion as te hem' far that
principhe should be iuveked lu the future.
The gevernment should give seme opinion
en this question. They are the custedians
cf the preceedings ef the House and the
respensibility le a vemy great ene. I weuld
strengly imprees on the leader of the
Heuse the necessity ef taking- some definite,
position on this question.

ti2

SENATE

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If
there was anything out o! the ordinary in
connection with this proposed legisiation,
then, undoubtedly, it would be very well
Vo have a discussion upon it, but it is a
mere ordinary railway Bill, as I understand it Vo be, similar to hundreds we have
passed. The better place to discuss the
details of it, which are the important parts,
is in the Railway Committee. That has
been the invariable practice in both Houses
and I see no special reason for departing
from the practice unless there is some
special peculiarity in connection with an
individual Bill which calîs for the attention of the House en the second reading.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-We do not all hap.
pen to be fortunate enough to be members
of the Railway Committee; therefore we can
take no part in threshing out the details
of railway Bills. We can attend the meetings of the Railway Committ-ee, of course.
but we are looked upon as individuals who
do not understand the nature of the
measures under discussion.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-The promoter of the
Bill should be in a position to tell us all
about it. I understand that the road is
Vo be built through a pass, and it is a very
important question whether that pass wil
accommodate more than one line. If not,
the government should look a! ter that.
They should not depend altogether on the
Railway Committee examia1ng inVo the
details o! this Bill. I do not wonder that
we are charged occasionally with neglect
o! duty, and I, therefore, would suggest
that the Bill be allowed to stand over for
for a few days until we have an opportunity to look into it more carefully.

So far as the Railway Comm jttee is concerned, any hon, gentleman has a perfect
right to be present at its meetings and discuss the Bills coming before it, though
senators who are n*t members of the
commjttee are flot allowed to vote. The
promoter of this Bill will appear before
the comxnittee and give any explanations
that may be called for. I know something of the country through which it is
proposed Vo build the raiiway. There is no
doubt as to the necessity for the road.
There are great beds of coal in that section
and there will be plenty of wheat from
the land to furnish traffle.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
was read the second time.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved that the Bill
be referred to the Committee on Railways,
Telegraphs and Harbours.
Hon. Mr. LAIDRY-I have already asked
a question that has not yet been answered.
Why is there nothing on the Orders of the
Day te indicate whether the Bis have
been printed in French and English?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The source of
the error is being looked into.
Hon. Mr.*FERGUSON-I think that the
explanation is that when the Minutes
were printed, the Bis perhaps were not
ready.
The niotion was agreed to.
COLLINGWOOD SOUTHEEN RAILWAY
COMPANY'S BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) (in the absence o! Hon. Mr. McMuilen) moved the
second reading o! Bill <No. 12) An Act
respecting the Coilingwood Southern Railway Company. H1e said: This is merely a
Bill to extend the time for the commencement and completion of the railway mentioned therein. It involves no new priitciple.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON I see no reason
why this Bill should stand over. It is
simple in its character. We have passed
such Bis hiindreds of times. If the proposed railway is to intersect the boundary
of a province it comes wîthin our jurisHon. Mr. WILSON-The hon. gentleman
diction. This is an entîrely different measure from the other Bill which we have had who moved the second reading of this Bill
knows the location o! the road mentioned.
before us to-day.
He knows also whether it is a provincial
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The Bill explains or a Dominion line. I think it has been
itself; its object is to construct a railway. before this parliament several times. If
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELT.

MARCH 2, 1909
we are going to incorporate ail provincial
roads and give themn a federal charter, it
is weil te understand that at the outset;
but if the provinces have the power to deal
with local railways, why does this company
not go te the legisiature at Toronto for the
rights, powers and privileges which it requireisP At the isecond reading of the
Bill, we should know ail about it, and we
should be teld whether the governinent of
the day regard it as a federal or a provincial work-whether they are encroaching
on the rights of the provinces or not. They
are responsible for this legisiation. We
should not be held responsibie for the legislation. The government of the day, through
their Minister of Justice, should tell us
whether this is a federal or a provincial
measure, and, when they do that, we may
be in a better position te say 'what we
should do in reference te it.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. genI suppose, that
tleman has noticed,
this Bill is not for the incorporation
of a company; it is simply a demand by the company for an extension of tirne. Ail the questions tihat
the hon. gentleman thinks should be deait
with now were decided when the Act was
passed. It is sirnply a question of expediency, to ascertain if the company is in
a position te dlaim an extension of tirne
for the building of the railway, and that
can only be decided in cornrittee.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-If a wrong was perpetrated when the original Bill wss passed
at a previous session, is there any reason
why we should continue that ivrongP I
do not think so.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I arn sure the hon.
gentleman from, St. Thomas has no desire
te obstruct legisiation, and bas no desire
personaliy te oppose this Bill; but I should
like te point out to my hon. friend this
condition of things: it is well enough to
talk about provincial rights in regard to
a great many matters that corne before us
which can only be treated as provincial
affaire, but when it cornes te a question of
railways I think-and a large number of
the hon. members of this House agree with
me-that the time bas passed when railways should be incorporated by the pro-

vincial legisiatures at ail, for the very
reason that we now have a Railway Commission. Their powers are lirnited to railways chartered by the Dominion parliament, with the resuit the railways whieh
have oniy Ji provincial charter are irot
obliged te take the freight or te enforce
their freight or cars upon railways chartered by this parliarnent. Any one who has
been in the habit of shipping goods from
one end of the country te the other knows
the difficulties that arise when you have
te borrow cars of another railway te go
over a provincial road for the carrying of
freight. I think Canada is growing big
enough and strong enough te enact legislation which would give powers te the
Board of Raiiway Commissioners to cornpel ail the raiiways te receive and exehange
cars and freight over each others roads. As
the matter stands te-day, that is the root
of the evil, and while that condition of
affaire obtains the commissioners are sirnply
heipleas with regard te enforcing their
orders upon provincial lies.
Take the
matter of crossings, or anything else that
has been deputed by parliarnent to the
Railway Commission, they are absolutely
without power over provincial lines, and
I contend that the time bas arrived when
ail railways in Canada shouid be treated
on the same principle. We used te admit
that ail railways that crAss a trunk road
or that cross a public canal and so on,
should be given a Dominion charter. I go
fruther and say that any railway which
runs along side of a tewn where there is
another railway in existence, should be
compelled to interchange cars and freight
over each other roads. That is a matter o!
far more importance than the question raised
by the hon, gentleman from St. Thomas.
Hie knows, and every hon. gentleman knows,
that we are asked time and again to either
itiake up a Bill for ourselves or for an
absent member, where it is quite ont of the
question that we should have a proper
knowledge of the measure. My han. friend
knows, and no one knows better than he,
that every railway seeking for legisiation
is represented before the Railway Committee, and the information which it is not
possible for the member to give can be
furnished by those representîng the cernpany, who have a right to speak for the

SENATE
company. I arn bound to pay rny hon.
friend the compliment that he is a very
regular attendant i the Railway Committee, for which I give him crédit, and there
is littie législation before this House i
which he does flot take an interest. AIthough he cannot vote in the Railway Committee, he has a right te raise his objections against any Bill that may be under
consideration ini that committee. I agree
with hlm, that where there is anything
extraordinary in a Bill, if it is in the
power of the promoter te give the explanation te the House, he shou]d do so,
because there is a much larger number
of members in the House than i the
committee, and it may be better in that
way. But our Railway Committee is composed of nearly two-thlrds of the whole
Hous, and -there hias neyer been any
objection tsken-in fact no objections can
be tsken- te a member going te the Railway Committee, as f ar as that is concerned.
My hon. friend knows very well that it la
not in the power of many members, offhand, te give an explanation of a Bill, they
rely upon the explanation being given to
the coimlttee by the promoters when it
cornes before them.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-The hon. gentleman insisted strongly upon the fact that
this legislation iê absolutely necessary te
be passed by this House. Will he tell me
whether it is per se a provincial or a Dominioni BiHP Dnss this corne under the jurladiction of the province according te the
rights of the province, or does it revert to
the Dominion?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I have no objection
to answer my hon. friend. I think if he
would listen to what I say he would bd
satisfied. 1 wss in favour-and I arn proud
to think a large number of this House are
in favous-of ail railway charters ernanating frorn the Dominion parliarnent, so that
oui' legislation would be effective upon every
railway, and aIl roads shouid be treated
alike. 1 judge frorn the nature of the Bill
that this railway is wholly within the province of Ontario; but, supposing iAis, the
other railways cannot be forced to accept the
traffic that cornes over this line, and the
soo-ner these restrictions are rernoved froro
the railways the better. What we want in
li.

'Mr. C(UBSON.

Canada, and what I arn sure does rnost for
the development -of the country, is railway
enterprise.
Hon. -Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
opinion expressed by the hon. gentleman.
and his whole speech, would necessitate
a change of the constitution before we could
act on it. We are not here te legialate ini
accordance with individual opinions as
to what the constitution should or should
not be. I arn fully in accord with the
sentiments uttered by my hon. friend, and
have been for a great number of years, that
ail railway companies should be incorporated by the Dominion parliament so as
to avoid rnany difficulties which, have occurred in connection with crossings and
connections; but we cannot deal with that
question here until we change the constitution, and it is utterly useless te discuss it
unless it is upon an address to change the
constitution as we find it to-day. But the
point raised by the hon, gentleman from.
St. Thomas is a different matter. It ha&
been pointed out by my hon. friend opposite, the first lieutenant, that we are not
incorporating a cornpany, we are dealing
with an Act already upon the statute-book.
which. has been passed by the parliament of
Canada. The incorporatore have failed te
carry out the provisions of that Act, and
the question before us is to say whether
we shail extend the tirne for the commencement and completion of the road. If we
think they have had sufficient time, and
that there lias been nothing done tewards
the surveying or the commencement oi the
viork, and that we conclude it is one of
those bogus, speculative charters, then it
is our duty te reject this Bill. Otherwise,
if they give a bona fide proof of their intention and their ability to construct the
road, even in the near future, then there
can be no objection to giving an extension
of the tirne in order to enable tbern to do sno
Hon. Mr. WILSON-While I hope 1may
improve very rnuch by the lecture I havc
received from rny hon. friend from Bearnsville in reference to what is right and proper and rny duty, I mnust confess that his
line of argument would not be the same if
I were considering a rnatter of anv importance, hecause, forsooth, he says there
are a lamie number of rnembers of this

MARCH 2, 1909
flouse who feel that ail railways should
be incorporated by the Dominion parliament, and, therefore, this Bill ought to
become law. I do not look at it in that
light. If I, for instance, feel that such ia
flot the case, or if I feel the same as he
dosa, I would have the strength of my convictions and I would corne before parliament and contend that so-and-so should be
done. I should initiate an agitation li the
country to prevent the local legisiatures
claixning such rights. I would flot corne
here and say that because I and a few
others were in favour of a certain company
being incorporated by'a certain legislative
body, that, therefore, those who do not
agree with me should be compelled to submit to the opinion I formed. His opinion
may be very good, and it may not be very
good. fis opinion may be very popular.
fie speaks about the Railway Commission.
I want to know what right the Railway
Commission would have to interfere with
a provincial Bill> Have we not a Provincial
Railway Commission in TorontoP They look
after their own iterests, and we- therefore.
have a right to expect that iheyý will do
so. Does he want to take from. them the
authority they have obtained from the local
legisiature? It appears that he does. He
is desirous of sweeping away ail the rights
and privileges of the provinces snd concentrating those rights in the Dominion
parlianient. No doubt he bas a right to
make that contention. But so long as provincial rights are in existence, so long as
we. are subjeci te the Confederation Act,
I arn disposed te conserve and respect ihosa
rights and1 to submit te what the legiala.
ture have a right to expect us -te do here
in the Dominion. If we are not prepared
te create a atronger feeling adverse to the
Senate in the flouse of Gommons 'we ehould
not try te wrest from the local legialature
ihat which they have a constitutional. right
to enact.
Hon. Mr. POWEB-The hon, gentleman
from St. Thomas has told us that he proposes to raise his voice whenever he thinka
proper in connection with a railway Bill
or any other Bill. I have a great deal of
sympathy with the hon. gentleman. I feel
however, that in raising' his voice on an
occasion like the present, it is something
5

like the voice of one crying in the wilderness. I have no objection ai ail te the hon.
gentleman raising his voice in connection
with every measure that cornes before the
flouse, but as a humble membèr of ibis
body, I object to the hon. gentleman raising his voice in ihree separate speeches ai
one stage of the Bil.
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middlesex)-This railway was tacorporated in 1907. It was declared in the Act of 1907 te be a railway
for the general advantage of Canada.
Whether that declaration was wise or otherwise is not for me to aay, but it bas placed
it entirely within the jurisdiction cf the
flouse, the flouse having already so declared, so that the question *of provincial
rights could not be raised very properly
at this stage, unless we set aside the actiop
of the flouse as already confirmed in the
year I have mentioned. I agree with my
hon. friend that we should hesitate te interferei with provincial rights. fis chanipionship of that great principle of our constitution is creditable, *but that principie
is not raised ai ail in ibis case.
I is
already settled by Act of Parliament that
tbis a work for the general advantage of
Canada. The provincial legisiature could
not inoorporate snch a Bill; I doubt if it
could arnend it, and we are merely asked
to ertend the trne; so that the question of
provincial rights is not raised.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
read a second tume.
GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY COMPANTY
BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. GIBBON rnoved the second reading of Bill (No. 13) An Act respecttag the
Grand Trunk Railway Company of Canada.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We should have
some explanation of ibis Bil.
Hon. Mr. GIBBON-The only explanation
I can give to the flouse or to my hon.
friend from Prince Edwazrd Island is that
I find the Bill was brought over from the
flouse of Gommons and placed in my name.
Evidently the desire of the company is ta
issue consolidated debenture stock.
The
Bill refera to the banking conditions and

'REVISED EDITION

SENATE
the POWer to issue stock, and the wholE
of grade animais, $150 for each horse and
matter has to be approved of by the share. $60
for each head of cattie, and $15 for
holders and the owners of the road. I have
1each pig Or sheep; and inithe case of pure
Do doubt that when the Bill cornes befori breed animais,
$350 for each horse, $150 for
the Railway Oommittee we shail have thE each
head of cattie and $50 for each pig
solicitor or Mr. Wainwright or some ont
or sheep.
representing the Grand Trunk Railway whc
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--Can the hion.
wili be able to give us the information,
gentleman say what the present limitation
which I must admit I have flot got.
is?
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
was read the second time.
think the present limitation ia $60 for each
HURON AND ONTARIO RAILWAY COM. head of cattle. I was under the impression
that the present valuation was considerably
PANY BILL.*
less, and that for the purpose of encourag.
SECOND READING.
ing the breeding of' thoroughbred cattie
Hon. Mr. IRATZ moved. the second read- they had raised it.
ing of Bill (No. 14> An Act respecting the
Hon. Mr. POWER-No.
Huron and Ontario Railway Company.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Tha
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-With regard to, object is plain enough. The Bill
states
this Bill I think the question cornes up that the value shail not exceed
these
as to whether it is withjn the juriadiction amounts.
As the honourable House is
of this parliament, and it arises in this aware, it has been, unfortunately, necessary
way: I know we have passed several Bis to slaughter a very considerable number
of
dealing with this company, and with thia animais to prevent the spread of dîseases,
particular railway, but hast year a returu and I understand from the Minister of
Agriwaa laid on the table of this House from culture that hie wants the alteration
made
the Board of Railway Commissioners in for the purpose of giving hlm some slightly
Which it was declared that this was not greater powers i the case of a possible
a railway which came under the control of outbreak of an epidemic such as took
place
the board.
lately in the United States in regard to the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Did they give the foot and mouth disease.
reason?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That it was not not the hon, gentleman think the price
declared to be a road for the general ad- quoted here us very highP Would it not
be an incentive to dishonest people to turn
vantage of Canada.
their grade cattle upon the railway and
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill have them killed.
was read a second time.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTANIMAL CONTAGlOUS DISEASES ACT This refera to cattle which are destroyed
ini accordance with the provisions of
AMENDMENT BILL.
the Contagious Disease Act under the order
of the government. My hon. friend knows
SECOND READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT that we have had on several occasions to
moved the second reading of Bill <No. 18) destroy very large quantities of cattle of
An Act to, amènd the Animal Contagions various kinds in order to, prevent the spread
of disease. I think the value is a twoDiseases Act.
He said: The object of this Bill, which thirds limit, but there is also an absolute
I have received from my hion. friend the limit which must not be exceeded.
Minister of Agriculture, is chiefly to fix
Hlon. Mr. FEIRGUSON-1 understood rny
a lirnit for the arnount of compensation hon. friend to, Bay that the
figures had been
which is to be paid in the case of the de- increased-that they were larger
than they
struction of certain animais. In the case were in the original Act.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

MARCH 2, 1909

67

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-So that valuation to section 6 as being more
I understood from Mr. Fisher, but I will convenient, and hon. gentlemen will observe that clause 2 of the Bill reads as follook and see.
lows:
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I remember when
Section »7 of the said Act i. amended by
the Bill was laid before the House
adding after the word 'animal' in the second
that several hon. gentlemen took ex- line thereof the words, 'determined. as aforeception to the smallnea of the amount said' and by atriking n after the word
aiected,'
ail the words
-that the limit for compensation was up to and in the forthline, 'sheep.' in the
including the word
fixed too low. I think that this is tenth line.
batter, although I amn not able to
It is simply to make section 6 more comcompare the figures. I shouid say they prehensive, and I suppose it has been found
appear to be reasonably fair. 0f course, desirable in the operation of the Act.
it does not follow that every grade cow
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
should be paid for at $150. That is the
limit beyond which no award can be made. read the second time.
I presume they will be valued from that
downward, according to what would appear POST OFFICE ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
to be their actual value. I think the limit
SECOND READING.
of $150 is a proper one, because there are
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
cows worth that and more thaxi
many grade
moved the second reading of Bill (No. 19)
that.
An Act to amend the Post Office Act. He
Hon. -Mr. LOUGHEED-There must be said: 1 may say to my hon. friends that
some other explanation, because the present the intent of this Bill is to enable the Post
provision is the same as that embodied in Office authorities, ini the case of registered
this BiIl
These are exactly the figures articles, to make compensation net exceedcontained in section 7 of the Act.
ing $25 for losa, as they put it, in the trans.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I mission of registered domestic articles,
have not received-and perhaps I should whatever 'registered domestic articles ' may
not introduce the Bill until I had receive.1 be.
-a formai brief from the department. The
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does this extend
Minister of Agriculture very recently re- to money?
turned from Washington, and I had only
an opportunity of having a conversation
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The
with hini, and I may have misunderstood words used are 'registered domestic artihum, but I did underatand hini to say that cles.' I believe the Postmaster General has
this gave him slightly increased powers the other question under consideration. I
If the hon. gentleman doubt myself whether we can very weil excf compensation.
thinks it necessary, I will defer the second tend the compensation in the case of money,
reading.
looking at the great facilities for the transmission of money from place to place at
HEon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We can have an very small cost to the sender; but quesexplanation in committee.
tions have arisen on seversi occasions as
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I te whether the Post Office authorities should
have no intention cf pressing it beyond the be permitted to compensate for injuries
ordinary stage, and I intended to have a done to articles transmitted in the ordinregiilar brief supplied to me when we wert ary course through the post. The hon. gentie man knows that a good deal of business
into committee.
is now done in the way of transmitting
Hon. Mr. POWER-There is net any parcels by post, very much more than formchange, se fqar as I can see, in the values erly.
attached to the various animais, but the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
valuation in the chapter cf the Revised
Statutes appears in section 7, and what this are we te understand by the words 'domesfirst clause in the Bui does is te transfer tic articles?' I suppose that is the intro5à

SENATE
duction of the principle of compensation GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS ACT AMENDfor registered parcels?
1MENT
BILL.
SECOND READING POSTPONED
Hon.. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
understand that is the meaning of it, but
The order cf the day beirig called, second
1 candidly conless to rny hon. friend that reading Bill (No. 20) An Act te amend the
1 arn some'what at a loss to underatand ex- Government Railways Act.
actly what ' registered domestie articles'
Hon. 8ir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
may be. It is a phrase which the Post
meved that the order be discharged, and
master General has, introduced.
that the second reading be fixed for* ThursHon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-Some definition day next. He said : I may mnform the
uhould be put upon it. In England the flouse that I propose te make a change in
other day a couple of suffragettes wereý this Bill te indicate more clearly that it
posted by mail to the Prime Minister of is confined te the Exchequer Court.
England.
I wonder if they would corne
Hon. 8ir MALCKENZIE BOWELL-WilI
under the head of «domestic articles ' for
the hon, gentleman censider the question
which compensation could be claimed?
of placing the Intercolonial Railway under
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I the Railway Cemmission?
should say they weuld be very questionable
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTdomestic articles.
That point ha been raised several times,
Hon. Mr. LOUG HEED-The phrase does but ne decision has been arrived at about it.
flot appear in the interpretation clause of
The motion was agreed te.
the Act, nor in the clause of the Act which
it is proposed te amend, se, pessibly, rny
o
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
right hon. friend at the cornmittee stage
will have soine explanation to give as to
SECOND READING.
wvhy this particular phrase has been used.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
There certainly should be some interpretamoved the second reading cf Bill (Ne. 21)
tion given.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-It may refer to articles An Act te amend the Railway Act. He said:
registered in Canada and net going outside This proposes te allow the Board cf Railway Commissioners te settle disputes which
the country.
arise with respect te electricity derîveci
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I from water-power and aIse te -require rnuch
admit the phrase is susceptible cf several fuller returns ini various cases from the railpossible explanations..
way company. It is somewhat long, and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is desirable there are a good many clauses li it, though
te avoid ambiguity, particularly in dornestic none cf material importance except with
respect te that oe provision.
matters.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bfi
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- was read the second time.
Particularly in the case cf such possibilities as the hon. gentleman has suggested,
Hon. 8fr RICHARD
CARTWRIGHT
when damsels cf more or less uncertain age moved that the Bll be referred te the Cornmay be transmitted by post te ministers. I mit tee en Railways, Telegraph and Harshail endeavour before the commititee stage boums.
te obtain from the Poetmaster General a
Hon. Mr. POWER-I observe that the refull description cf what 'registered domesturns are te be made fer periode ending
tic article ' in his conception of it may be.
with the last day cf June, and in ene case
With that understanding we may as well
the hast days cf January and Juhy. I simply
let it pass and take it up on Thursday in
caîl attention te the fact. If the departrnent
cornmittee.
have deliberately selected these days, I
The motion was sgreed te, and the Bill have nothing te say; but I should have
was read the second time.
supposed that as the financial year has
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MARCH 2, 1909

69

been altered, the dates in this Bill with
Bill (No. 35) An Act to mncorporate the
respect to the returns might be altered to Salisbury and Harvey Railroad Company.correspond.
(Hon. Mr. Domville).
Bill (No. 38) An Act respecting the CanaHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
think the railway companies would prefer dian Northern Quebec Railway Company.
these dates, but I will make inquiries on
The Senate adjourned until te-morrow at
thé subjeat.
three o'clock.
The motion was agreed te.
SECOND READING.
Bill (No. 26) An Act respecting the Koot.
enay Central Railway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Perley).
GOVERiqMENT ANNUITIES
ACT BILL.

THE SEKATE.
OTTÂA,

Wednesday, March 3, 1909.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
AMENDING o'clock.

Prayers and routine proceedings.
POSTPONED.
BILL INTRODUCED.
The order of the day being called, ComBill (F) An Act te incorporate the Govmittee of the Whole House on Bill (B) An
Act te amend the Government Annuities erning Coundil of the Salvation Army of
Act, 1908.
Canada.-(Hon. Mr. Ros, Middlesex).
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before going fite
committee on this Bill, my right hon.
friend, the leader of the House, gave us an
assurance that the rules and regulations
would be laid on the table.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
ordered copies of the rules and regiilationq
as approved by the Privy Council te be
.sent te every senater. If they have not
been sent, I arn very sorry. My instructions were given two days ago.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Perhaps my hion.
frlend would flot object te the committee
risingP
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If
my hion. friend wishes I will let the Bill
stand.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON, from the committee,
reported that they liad made some progreas3
with the Bill and asked leave to ait again
to-morrow.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (No. 31) An Act to prevent the payment or acceptance of illicit or secret commim.ions and other like practices.-(Hon.
Sir Richard Cartwright).

IMPORTS OF ALUMINUM.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. DÔMVILLE moved:
That an humble addrecs be presentedi ta
His Exoeilency the Governor (3eneral; pray.
ngthat Rie Excelenqy will cause te be laid
bef re the Senate a return of importa of
ozide of aluminum, for the -ears 190M, 1904,
190, 1906, 1907, 1908, with value.
And also, a return of exporte of aluminum
for the same years, with values.
He said: I desire te call the attention
of the countr y te the rapid increase in the
production of aluininuin in this country.
There is no record of the production pre
vious te 1905. In that year the production
was 2,469,382 pounda. In the following year
the produc
ntion was 3,008,122 pounds. In
1907 the production vas 5,351,58M pounds.
the value of the production that year being
$ 1,051,212. The increase is nearly doubled
every year. As this metal is produced from
dlay known as oxide of aluminum it ia
most important that the attention cf the
country should be cshled to sorne of its
aspects.
We have in this country smething that vill produce money without asking bonuses or outside assistance, .and my
object in bringing the matter before this
honourable Chamber is to show the publie
abroad that we are turning oui attention

4U

SENATE

to the valuable elements that we can pro.
duce in this country.
We have natura]
wealth lying aIl around. I move for aui
order of the House for this informationflot an address.
The motion was agreed to.
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS moved the second read.
ing of Bill (No. 6) an Act to amend the
Raiiway Act. He said:. In moving the
second reading of this Bill, I do not pro.
pose to make extended observations on a
subject that has been already thoroughly
discussed in the parliament of Canada. It
was before the Senate lest year, and every
hon, gentleman must be prettv well in.
formed as to its provisions. The Bill proposes to strike out section 275 of the Rail.
way Act, and to substitute the following
therefor:
275. No train shall pass over any hîghway
crossing at rail level in any thickly peopled
portion of any city, town or village at e
greater speed thon ten miles an hour, unlese3
sucb crossing in properly protected, or unless
such crossing is constrncted and thereafter
duly rnaintaîned in accordance with the orders,
regulations and directions of the Railway
Coxnmittee of the Prîvy Council and of the
board in force with respect thereto. The
board may limit such speed in any case to
any rate that it deeins expedient.
2. The company shaîl have until the first
day of January, one thousand fine hundred
and .ten, to comply with the provisions of this
section.
The Bill simply provides that unless e
highway crossing le properly
trains sali not run over it atprotected
a fastel
rate thon ten miles an hour. The whole
question of the level crossing of railways.
both in Canada and the United St.ates
from the very large nuinbers of persons
who have been kiled by passing trains
is calculated to excite very great feeling
-a feeling that sufficient protection bas
not been given to the public, and bas,
therefore, created in the minds of the
people a feeling that the railway companles are reckless and indifferent to the pub.
lic welfare so long as they can run theii
trains at a bigh rate of speed. 1 do no.
share that view of it, but there is, no
doubt, a general recklessness with regard
to the epeed not only of trains but of automobiles and of other modes of proHon. Mr. DOMVILLE.

gression on which the sober, calm judgment
of the people should be invoked. An effort
should be made to compel safety for the
public who use the hîghway.
The higli.
way is. the property cf every man who uses
it, and the publie are entitled to consideration and care. 1 tbink that point
will not be disputed, and, therefore, the
regulations made by the legislatures cf
the country should be of such a character
as to give the public a reasonable degree
of security. This particular measure bas
been before parleament four or five times.
Its provisions were framed alter a considerable degree of discussion and conference
among the members cf the House cf Comnmons.
A committee was appointed, te
wbich it was referred,, and althougb the
Bull as originally introduced was partially re-arranged, it came finally from the
committee that considered the matter in
the form in which we bave it here ncw.
It met with the approval of the late Minister of Railways (Mr. Ermnerson), it met
with the approval cf the government cf
wbicb be was a member, and witb tbe approval cf the House of Commons, which
tbe government led. It came to the Senate, and the Senate did not pass it. In
another session a like Bill was passed. It
also came te the Senate and again the
Senate did flot pass it. This House devoted a great deal cf trne te the consideration cf the Bill in the committee, andso altered it-I will net say emasculated itthat the vital principle cf the measure
was reduced to sucb an extent that the
Bill was considered useless and it went
no furtber. Since that time we bave had
a general election, and, there is another
House of Commons chosen directly from
the people, and they bave again passed
the Bill. Any body wbo followed the discussion cf the matter in the other branch
cf parliament knows that there was practically no opposition offered te the measure, it was so wefl understeod and its
provisions were thoroughly agreed to. At
the request cf the*.Minister cf Railways,
when the measure reacbed its third reading, it was allowed to stand for some days
tili he could communicate with the head
of the Railway Commission with regard
to if, and see if that commission had any

%ARCH 3, 1909
changes to suggest with respect to it.
After some time the Bill came up again
for the third reading and the Minister of
Railways did nlot choose to interfere and
the Bill went tbrough. Now it has corne
to us. I do 'not say that the Senate should
pay particular attention te the populsi
voice, but it would seem te me, if I did
say so, that it would be a reasonable remark
to make, and that it would be justified
under oui constitutional practice that the
voice of the people must eventually be
heard, and I should think the Senate, having this remembrance of the past and af
the fact that a new House of Commons
has adopted precisely the samn nieaaure,
should give this measure a better consideration than it gave before, and deal
fairly with it. Within the last month or
two there have been a number of accidents
at -crossinga, particularly in Ontario, and
the people have been very 'much excited
on account of the fatalities which have
occuired. That istate of affairs cannot continue without interferring with the feeling
of security and respect for the management
of railways which they would like ta have.
1 do flot intend te go into any statisticai
statement at ail, because we had it before
us st year. The Governinent Railway
Report for the year ending 3Oth June, shows
that there were killed at highway crossinga
51 perzons, 30 persans at urban crossings,
and 21 at rural crossings. There were 68
persons injured, making a total -of 119
killed or injured. I do not know how far
these figures may be correct. Probably
the number wouild be larger if one kept a
file of the newspaper clippings, but the
fact that the government railway management have gone into the collection of these
figures and are endeavouring to get some
basic facts with regard te the whole matter,
shows that it is pressing itscîf upon them.
The figures submitted te the Railway Commission somewhat differ. They -are for a
difierent period. I think it would be a good
idea if the two authorities brought their
estimates down for the some period so
that we would know how f ar they would
agree. The Railway Commission make
their return te the Slst March, which is
the end of the financial year. They show
44 killed and 47 injured. There are in the
country about ¶15,000 highway crassings.
0f these 3,150 are guarded, and 11,884 are

nat guarded' It is perhaps not necessary
that ail should be guarded, but there ought
te be some arrangement that the trains
shail go at less speed than they do, and
the speed beyond which it is not proper
for trains te run should be settled by parliament. The Bill provides only for trains
passing over highway crossings at rail level
in any thickly populated portion of- any
city, tewn or village. It is prepared in such
a way that it shail not put upon the railways the necessity of reducing speed at
places where protected crossings sre not
necessary, but only in such places as they
are necessary, and if they do not protect
such crossings then the maximum speed is
ten miles an hour. Hon, gentlemen understand the measure as well as I do, and it
is not necessary to tske up time in explaining it. It is a matter of great importance, and requires fair and calm consideration, and I hope in moving the second
reading that I have not said anything te
injure any one's feelings.
Last year I
adopted a middle course, but as 1 have
thought it over during the year and have
observed the .large nuxnber of railway accidents which have occurred at crossingB, the
nuinber of people killed and the misery infiicted by these accidents, I have corne ta
the conclusion that some effort ought te be
made to put an end to or, at any rate,
minimize the danger.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-This unquestionably is a very important measure. It is
one that was before the Senate last year
ftnd received very extended consideration.
WVe know that level crassings have existed
in Canada over every system of railway that
we have had. A great many changes have
taken place both on the Canadian Pacific
Railway and Grand Trunk Railway. Where
ever there is a very heavy increase of traffl,it is necessary that seime protection should
be afforded eithcr by gates or watchmen.
1 believe the railways have made very commendable efforts te accommodate and protect the public at important points where
the trafflc has very considerably increased
fromi what it was saine years aga. I arn
suie it is not the desire of this Chamber ta
hamper in any way aur great railway sys.
tem in this country, at the saine time 1
admit we want te do everything wc can ta
pratect the lives af aur people, and it is

SENATE
well that any Bill in the direction of bettering the conditions as they now exist should
receive careful consideration. When this
Bull wau before the other Chamber recently,
the hon. Minister of ]Railways intimated
that he had under consideration a measure
that woiild cover the whole point. He was
getting it i shape, and he intended to introduce it~ at the earliest hour he could.
It would cover largely the provisions of
this Bill. and do it in a manner that would
be, to sorne extent at least, acceptable to the
railway companies as well as to those who
have to cross the railway tracks. I have
taken t.he privilege of introducing a Bil]
myseif, the second reading of which wil]
corne up on Friday next. It deals with
parties driving up to railway tracks in
vehicles and recklessly crossing without
'waiting to ascertain whether a train is approaching or not. We deplore very sinoerely the accidents which have taken
place. We deplore the number of lives
which have been lost, butý it is not ail the
f ault of railways. The fanît largely rests
with the people themselves. They have
become so accustomed to railway tracks
that when they corne to a railway crossing, in many cases they cross it as indifferently as if it were an ordinary wagon
track. The fact is, in rnany cases they
take no notice at ail. I think there shouli
be an amendrnent to our law to provide that
when a man drives up to a railway track
he should corne to a standstiil before he
attempts te cross it. If that rnethod were
adopted by people crossing railway tracks, I
believe one-haif the accidents would net occur. How can any man be expected to hear
the approach of a train with the wheels of
hbis vehicle rattling over the stones and gravelP He cannot possibly do it. He is looking at his horse. He ie watching the 'vehicle
and looking at the track he has to cross,
but his eyes cannot look up and down
the track while he is looking after the
animal he is driving. Hie should be obliged
by law to corne to a standstill before attempting to cross. If a law of that kind were
passed, in rny opinion, it would educate the
people that they jaave a duty to perferm;
the whole responsibility must not be thrown
upon the railways. The railways are doing
their duty and if the g-eneral public were
as careful as they ought to be, one-haif of
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN.

the accidents would not occur. In vîew
of what the Minister of Railways has said;
i view of the iact that 'he has promised
to hring down a Bill dealing with the whole
question in a manner that will give a very
considerably increased protection, and
which I have no doubt will meet the approval of the Tailway companies, I think
it would be weil that we should postpone
the further consideration of this Bill until
we see what measure the Minister of Railways will submit to parliament. I therefore meve that the debate be adjourned for
one week.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I should like to ask
the hon, gentleman why the Minister of
Railways did net stop this Bill in the
House of Gommons, if he was going to
bring in another that would cover the same
groundP I do flot think there is any such
direct staternent from the Minister cf Ifai1ways as the hon, gentleman sys.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-The Bill was
stopped three times by the Mînister of Railways, and he urged delay until lie matured
his -measure; but, under the circumstances: he thought they would pass this
Bill as it had been passed by the Cernmens before, three times. It did net pass
this House. We threw out the Bill last
year. It has reached us again and we do
net want te treat it disceurteously because
this is a very important question. AUl I
ask is te allowthe Bill te stand until we
can see what the rninister's Bill i like.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-Although I intend.
eut cf courtesy, te second the motion of my
hon. friend, I may say that it is my determination te vote against it.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Whether the debate
should or should net be adjourned, it is
hardly f air te shut off the discussion suddenly. The House should have an eppertunity of expressing its views on the subject. Later on we may have another Bill,
and I arn inclined te think 80 frein the appearance cf the Order Paper.
Let each
Bil corne up on its own merits. There is
ne necessity te shut off discussion on this
measure. I have ne feeling one way or the
other, but it is hardly fair te the hon.
gentleman or te his Bill, te shut off discussien new.

MARCH 3, 1909
The SPEAKER-I do not think
motion at all abuta off discussion.

73

the way of 'what appears to be public opinion
as repeatedly expressed by a former parHon. Mr. FERGUSON-A motion ta ad- liament, sud accentuated by a jarlissnent
jouin the debate should not be made at ncwly elected by the people, affirmiug
this stage of. the discussion. My hion. friend tlie principle of the Bil sud affirmiug it
lias put his owu views before the House. uuanimouàly. The railway statistica i out
bands are very important. I notice some
and if we are ta have an adjourniment te
information lias been given te tlie press
alow further consideration, other senators
from tlie Railway Board, througli the minsliould have the saine privilege as my hion.
ister, in whicli the fact is stated that alfriend lias assumed for hinseif. I arn quite
thougli we have 207 miles of railway in
willing te be guided by what may be the
Prince Edward Island there lias net been
view of this House as to whether we sliould
a person killed at a level crossing in five
proceed witli the second reading of this
years. That is not because the people of
Bil and vote upon it now or take turne
Prince Edward Island keep their eyes more
te consider, but I must take exceptwidely open than people elsewhere; it is
ion to one statement made by my hon.
not because their hearing is more accuta
friend, and that is with regard ta the attiore that they are more ,careful. I may
tude of tlie Minister of Railways towards remark
that there are more level crossthis Bfi ini the other House. Wlien it
ings on thc Prince Edward Island Railway
camne up for the second reading, the Min- thon on the Intercolonial Railway.
It is
ister of Bailways made a very sympathetic a thickly-peopled country sud
the crossings
speech witli regard te the Bil, but lie are net far apart. The freedom from acpoiuted out that lie was takiug into con- cidents arises simply from the fact that
sideration the wliole question of railway trains are run at a low rate of speed. Tliey
crossings, aud over-head constructions sud
seldom cross a higliway in Prince Edward
suggested that the Bill miglit ha lield over Island at
a higher speed than tan miles
a very short time until lie oould reach a conan hoeur. Witli regard ta the importance
clusion with regard to these matters and
of guarding railway crossings, let me point
liow far lis action would interfere witli this
out some facts tliat are te be found in this
Bill.
Members of the House were very blue-book which
lias just been placed in
unwilling ta consent even -to that; but
our bands. Last year in this House I prodit sthle intercession iof the Premier tliey duced some figures whicli were
understood
agreed.
Wlien the Bill came up a few as reflectiug on the
Grand Trunk Railway_
days afterwards, there was no discussion; witli regard te casualties sud fatalities on
but the Minister of Bailways said 'car- its flue as compared. witli the Canadian
ried,' from lis seat, sud the Bill was read Pacific Railway. I received a letter froin
the second time. Tlie cail of carried by tlie Mr. Hays shortly after the session in which
Minister of Railways-I have it on excel- lie presented the view that I lad not allent autliority-was the only discussion that together deait f airly witl the Grand Trunk
took place upon the Bill, and it passed tlie Railway, and lie referred me te the remarks
House. Now, this measure lias passed whicli I had made. I have looked tliem
the House of Gommons exactly as it stands over tvery carefully, sud I amn free ta
on four occasions. Wlien it taok its present admit that they admit of a construcforma, it was the work of a very able com- tion different from wliat I intended
mittee on both sides of the House, eome tbey sliould bear. I recognize the fact that
of the ministers sud very conspicuous the Grand Trunk Railway renders good
gentlemen i tlie opposition. Tliey board service to the porta of tIe country through
ail the parties wlio appeared before tliem, whicl it passes; tliat if carrnes a very imsud drafted this Bull as it is now before us* portant tralffc. My remarks were intended
sud the House lias adhered strenuously ta entirely te deal witli the question of fataliit for four sessions. In view of the ties and causalties in the case of the Grand
very strong public opinion that is forming Trunk Railway whicl. I thougît were abon this question, it is for 'the House normally higli. I find that I was rather
to'consider whether we should stand in the under flan over the mark, and fthc fatali-

SENATE
ties and casualties on the Grand Trunk
Railway are very high indeed, very
much higher in pro portion to the nuxnber
of qamployees than 'on the competing railway. We have now the returns for the last
year. We find the Canadian Pacifie ]Railway bas 6,426 level highway crossings, of
which 2,888 are guarded. The Grand Trunk
Railway has 3,100 crossings, of which. 99
are guarded--only three per cent of the
Grand Trunk Railway highway level crossings are guarded, whiie forty-five per cent of
the Canadian Pacifie Railway highway
crossings are guarded. 1 arn not 'bring.
ing thi8 up twith a view to making a comparison unfavourable to the Grand Trunk
Railway. They are probably doing ail they
can in .view of the tdifficuIties with which
they are surroundecl, but I want the figures
in these returns to be put side by side with
another table which ie in the same bluebook showing the number of accidents at
railway crossings on these Vwo lines.
1
find, notwithstanding the very large numbeÉ of highway level crossings on the
Canadian Pacifie Raiiway,, that there have
been no casualties of any kind during the
last ltweive inonths at a level crossing on
this railway during the perîod covered
by this blue-book-not a person killed
or injured. I find that on the Grand Trunk
Railway, which has less than haîf as many
crossings, nineteen persons have been killed
and sthirty-eight injured upon its highway
crossings.
I produce this for t2he purPose of showing- how important it is that
something should be done in regard to this
question of protecting such crossings. The
Canadian Pacifie Railway has 55 per cent
stili of its crossings unprotected. Many of
them should be protected, notwithstanding
the fact that no accidents have occurred on
any of those crossings last year. It may
not be the sarne next year' It must be
remembered that the Canadian Pacifie
Railway has a very large part of its system
in parts of the country where there are few
highways, in such places as the Rocky
Mountains and the country north of Lake
Superior. Even in the prairie section there
is less danger at level crossings than in the
wooded or uneven portions of the east. The
bon. member for Wellington has directed attention to a Bill which hie bas himself
placed on the Order Paper, and the proHoni. Mr. FERGIISON.

visions of which hie has explained to the
House. When hie looks carefully into his
Bill he wiil find there will not be much
gained by it, for this reason: the accidents
happen nearly always where trains run
at a high rate of speed. Supposing a train
je running at the rate of sixty miles an
hour, it is not much advantage for a person,
if there ie a high adverse wind, to stop and
listen, because a train running at that speed
and having the width of a f arm to cross
would be on the level croesing in five
seconds. There may be curves to obstruct
the view, and the train crosses the highway at the speed almost of a bullet from a
rifle, so that holding up may be ail well
enough with a slow train, but it will be of
littie benefit in the case of a fast'train, and
there je where the great danger arises.
Last ypar we had a great deal of discussion on this Bill. We searched up ail kinds
of authorities
and
statisties on
it,
and the House came to the conclusion in its wisdom to axnend the
Bill in a certain direction. It je neediess
for me te say 1 did not concur in that
amendment, but it was sent to the House
of Gommons, and that House refused to
consider the amended Bill. Mr. Lancaster,
the f ather of the Bill, made a motion that
the amended Bil should be taken up for
consideration, but his motion was voted
down; so the House did not consider it at
ail. We have this fact before us-we have
the Bill here for the fourth time, and it
cornes te us from a House of Commons
fresh from the people. They have adhered
to this Bill word for word. I do not think
we are called upon te stay our hand because the minieter bas a general Bill of
some character in bis mind, because hie did
not stay hie own hand. He asked that the
Bill should pass. He said 'carried ' when
the Bill came up for the second reading,
and when he did not stay hie own hand, 1
do not think the hand of the Senate should
be stayed now. I have read the discussion
that teok place in the other bouse on the
minister's proposition, and I understand
that hie plan je te deal with the separation
of crossinge which je altegether a different
matter from this Bill. This only deals with
highway crossings at rail level. H1e proposes
a general and comprehensive scheme which.
bas been adopted in some states of the

MARCH 3, 1909
neighbouring country; the object is to separate highway from railway traffie, the cest
of separating cressings more than this matbetween the railway and the municipality,
and I understood him to say the federal
government -and aise the provinces should
contribute. I do net think the provinces can
be called upon at ail, except with regard te
railways which they have chartered themselves. However, that is the plan cf the
minister, and it is for the general question
cf separiating crossings more than this matter cf level crossings and the speed et trains
passing over them..
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I shall vote against
the amendment of the hon, gentleman from.
Wellingten, and in faveur cf the second
reading ef this Bil.
1 desire, however, te
take this occasion te put the Senate right
before the country. The position taken by
the Senate hast session was that the House
was unanimously in faveur of the principle
cf the Bill but thought the measure shouid
be improved, and devoted a great deal cf
attention te ixnproving it in the judgment
cf the House. In the country, I must confeas, the action et the Senate was taken as
being, adverse te the principle cf the Bill,
and as the hon. senater from St. John has
incorrectly stated, 'as having attempted te
emascuhate the measure.. I teck a pretty
active part in the work cf this honourab]e
House hast session on this Bill, both in this
Chamber and in the committee, and I assert to-day, as I asserted hast year, that my
object was net te emasculate the Bull but
te make it effective. I approved then and 1
approve to-day the principle cf the Bill. It
ia our duty te adopt meana whereby
the number of accidents on level crossings may be reduced, and we should
lose ne time in accomplishingý that object.
However, my opinion hast'year and my
opinion now is that the Bill as drafted
would net be effective, and if I were hegal
advisor cf a railway company it weuld give
me ne concern. I shall not enter inte the
reasons which 1 gave hast session, but,
rightly or wronghy, my conviction is that if
we pass the Bil] in its present shape8 instead of having the effect of attaining the
object in view it will have an. entirely ditferent effect. It weuld remeve the safeguard already existing in section 275 of the

75

Railway Act and substitutes nothing for
It. At a future stage I propose to suggest to this House that this Bill, together
with Bill (No. 3). as amended last session by this honourable Hiouse, be Teferred either to the Minister of Justice or to
the Supreme Court of Canada for a report
as to what will be the effeci of each Bill if
it becomes law. The Benate bas been placed
before the public in the position I have~
mentioned, and the House cf Gommhons bas
not treated the Senate with the deference to
which it is entitled.
This House having
given a great deal of attention te amending
this Bill hast session, and having sent it
back te the House of Gommons, it was entitled te have the amendment considered. It was stated that the amendments
came too late in the session before that
Chamber, and such was my conviction; but
I notice that- the hon, gentleman from
Marshfield stated thaa a motion made by
Mr. Lancaster te have the Bill as
ainended taken up for consideration, was
voted down. This is the firat I have heard
of it, and I should be very glad te see the
statement in the Hansard of the House of
Gemmons. But whether the Hlouse of
Gommons refused. te consider the question
last session or not, the amendment should
have been taken up in that House this session'in some forrn or other. That wa.i
not done. Therefore, it is incumbent upon
this House te take issue with the House
of Gommons on the question, and I shall
move at a future stage ai I have indicated.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I amn glad te hear
that my hon. friend from De Salaberry is
again te give this measure the consideration it deserves, and which he is quite able
to render. There is a mistaken idea as te
the attitude of the Senate tewards this Bill
throughout the country, and the mistake
comes net from withmn the House, but
largely from the prometer of the Bill hlmself. To a layman like myself the Bill
seeme te be contradictory. It firat oeduces
the speed cf railway trains and the last
clause gives the Bailway Commission control over the subject. Every one must deplore the number of hives lest year by
year on railway crossings, but, as the hon.
senator from Wellington bas very wisely
pointed out, a. great many of these accidents

SENATE

are due to the extreme carelessness of the huudred yards or perhaps one hundred and
people themselves in crossing the track. fiity yards West of this same crossing there
1 amn glad to find the hon. senator from is another overhead bridge, but luterveniug
Marshfield giving such an excellent ac- between that overhead bridge and that
count of the care exercised by the people level crossing on Uic west
end of that staof Prince Edward Island; but I do not know tion,
there is an arched subway, and if
whether it matters much to a person who
these people who were driviug home, iuis injured or killed in a railway accident
stead of going further eastward through the
whether the train is running at the rate
village and takiug the level crossing, had
of ten miles an hour or at forty miles an
taken the subway or thc overhead bridge
boni,. I ean point to a case in my own
by the Roman Catholic church in the vil couuty as an illustration of what I amn
lage of Grimsby, we would not have heard
saying. It is a case in connection wit'i
which the promoter of this Bull Most un- of anything of these accidents. 0f course
justly criticised the action of the Senate. thc people in Grimisby as well as elsewhere
I have iived iu that neighbourhood. fromn a in the province of Ontario4 and 1 daresay
boy, and amn familier with the conditions ail over Canada were horrifled at this conprevailing there. In the village of Grimsby, dition of things, and this House le blsmed
immediately cast of the station, there is a because such an accident occurred, and it
public highway whlch by day is under the is said by the promoter of the Bfi Uiat the
ccntrol. of a watchman. During the day, Senate were .whoily respossible for it. If
and up te a reasonable hour of the night. this House shall put upon thc railway comthe watchman is on duty. The serious ac- panies a condition that trains shall not
cident which recentiy took place at the par- mun over these crossings at a greater rate
ticular arossing occurred at about three of speed than ten miles an hour, is it not
o'clock in the morning when hardly any en- aiso encumbent upon this House and this
giucer would expect people teo be croeing parliament te put conditions aiso upon
the highN ay. 0f course, that la no reason people who are using the highway at danwhv the £ngineer should not be on his gerous places? An investigation took place
gaard. These people had been at a dance by the Railway Commission. who ordered a
in a neighbouring village and were return- crossing te be put in at the cost of Uic raillng home lu the morning.
They had had way and thc municipalities. At St. Cathquite a load, and at or near Grinsby, some arins, this is what the hon. gentleman
of them. got off and the remaluder pro- who is Uic promoter of this Bill had te say
ceeded deliberately te drive over this level with regard te it in an interview publisheà
crossing without looking te the right or in thc Hamilten «'Spectator «:
the left te sec if a train was approaching.
Kiiled
The young lady who escaped from death Five People Blames at Grimsby Crosingthe Senate.
said that they were se muffled up that they
St. Catharines, Jan. 16.- I au only say
,could not hear the sound of the train or this, it should have been four senators who
thc whistle of the engine. In view of the were killed instead of those poor people at
Grimsby this morning,' was the rempark of E.
fact that there were three men in that A. Lancaster, M.P. fr Lincoln, when asked
sleigh, and Borne Who, had relatives previ- what he had to say about the accident, in
view
father
ously killed on that very spot, don't level of hie being the '«Yes,' of the Lancaster
crossing Bill.
added Mm. Lancaster, indignantly, ' I could name yen forty
you think that some caution should have
senators who might better have been killed
been exercised by these people, where there than those innocent people.'
were women and chlldren in the sleigh. at
'The Senate has year after year killed my
that hour of the morningP It would not Bill, which was intended to protect juet such
level crassings as this in towns and villages
have taken ane minute for one of the men ail over the country. It took four years'
figtig on my part to get it through the
te have gone forward and looked up and
Hanse of Commons, and then. when the Sendown te see if the tracks were clear. But ate got hold of the Bill they threw it out.
more than that: the railway cornpany have The first lime they got rid of it on a techniThey referred
to the Railway Cernwithin one hundred and fifty yards east of cality. who defeated itit on a vote of 17 to 16,
mittce,
this point an overhead bridge. East of and then the Senate, with colossal wisdom,
this particular crossing, and about one held that they could not overrule the action
of their own committee. The two years since
i1*n. l'. (JIBSON.

MARCH 3, 1909
they have simply defeated the Bill on the
ground that it was not necessary.'
Mr. Lancaster added that it was not surthat the Senate
prisingone considered thatthrew ont his Bill
whie.
two-thirds of the
senators who voted againat it were either
counsel, solicitors, surgeons, directoîs or
ehareholders" of railways 'e
Snt uh
to be abolished, and ILamn going to moTo in
that direction myseif.

under crossing and this crossing nt
Grlimsby is exactiy as I described it,
yen cannot cross under it, or over
it, by a highway bridge.
A statement
was made in Stratford- the other day by
the general manager of the Grand Trunk
Railway at the opening cf the shopm there,
that the company were making as rapid
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This was an iLn- progrees as it was possible for a cornpany
terview given to a newmpaper, or something
te do with regard te pietecting the dangerof that kind.
ous ciossing upon the line cf îailway, and
if rny rnemory serves me right, hie mentionHon. Mr. GIBSON-Yes.
ed the f act that on the Grand Trunk RailHon. Mr. FERGUSON-It was flot stated way system there were over 50,000 level
in the Hlouse cf Commons.
ciossings. Even if there were only haif of
Hon. Mr. GIBBON-Oh, no, hie knows that nuxnber, it muet surely be allowed,
in the judgment cf the Houme, that tirne
better than that.
should be given. I agies with what has
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think I have been said by my hon. friend. fromn St. John
meen it stated that sme two or three years that steps should be taken that the rnost
ago sorne people were killed at this very dangerous crossings should be protected
sarne ciossing.
fSst. I do net know how far apait the
railway stations are in the province cf New
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Yem.
Brunswick, frern whsre hie cornes, but I do
Hon. Mr. FERGUBON-Ând 1 think I may that in the province frorn which I
have also seen the statement that the corne the railway stations are not ver.-.,
Board of Railway Commissioners have much more than five ci six miles apm.rt,
oîdered this crossing to be protected ince and I leave it te any man who has any
practical knowledge of railway work and life
this luat accident.
to say if it would net be a physical impossiHon. Mr. GTBSON-Yes. I do not think bility for a fast train to slow te ten miles
my hon. friend noticed what I mtated-that an heur and gain spsed again and reduce
relatives cf these people were kiUed on the that speed te ten miles an heur in a five or
very saine spot while ieturning fromn church six mile lirnit. The whole trouble, te my
one Sunday night sme yeais ago.
mind, is this: We are forcing the railway
Hon. Mr. FERGUBON-That establimhed cempanies beyond isason te expect themn te
evercorne this ail at once. I think mymelf
the danger.
that the city of Toronto and other large cenHon. Mr. GIBSON-These people mhould. ties.of population should be the first places
have taken greater precautiens when they where level crcssings should be pretected,
were in a sleigh, with children beside themn and the Bailway Commission are. taking
and especially at two or three o'cieck in steps te that end. In the city cf Montreal
the morning. There are phymical difficulties steps aise are being taken by the railway
in getting mubwaym at rnany cf the level companies; they are being forced te it by
cromings, but if municipalities, where crom- public opinion. I arn sure that the Senate
mrngs are made, weîe cornpelled te pay a will net be slow, as fai as we can do me.
certain proportion of the cost, it 'would not in backing up public opinion te that ex.
corne mc haid on the railways. You cau tent, but we are here te do îight by the
haîdly get farineis te move fromn one con- railway companies as weli as by the peocemsion lins te anether or down into a ple, and ws should do as our hon. friend
valley in eider te cross the track where fromn Wellington suggests, wait te ses what
they would be protected. They will not do schsrne or measure the Minister cf Railways
it. There are places where it is impossible has te lay befois paîliarnent. Hle has state put an oveîhead bridge, and there are tisties. He has the profiles cf every railplaces wheîe it is impossible th put au way in the country under his hands. Re

78

SENATE

has qualified engineers at his commnand to as one hon, gentleman
suggests, care ahould
give hum places where diversions can be be exercised by the individual
crossing the
made, and necessary diversions should be track, as weil as by
the engineer. We pass
made wherever it is practicable and possi- over street railway
tracks every day of oui
ble so that people may pass under the rail- lives, and yet in the city of
Ottawa, te the
way or over the railway without any fear best of my knowledge, I neyer knew
of a
of loss of life. There is no disposition on member of this House or a
member of the
the part of any meinher of this Senate to other House
having been hurt in crossing
shield the railways in any particular, as the street
railways, although the street cars
far as I know. What they do desire, just bn the cities of
Ottawa and Toronto travel
as much as Mr. Lancaster or anybody else, at a greater speed
than ton miles an hour.
is that life and property should be safe. For these resns, I think
we should not
guarded, and that time should be given to compel the raxlway companies
te reduce
the railway companies to overcome the dif- their rate of speed te the impractible
deficulties. It is well enough for gentlemeti gree that this Bill cails for. We
should
here to, say: ' Why don't the railways do deal f airly by the railway and
with the
this and why don't they do that,' but there public, and I think the tirne has
come to
is one thing that we ought to ask for, and do so, and there cannot be
any difference
that is a return from the railways every of opinion se f ar as this House
is conmonth or every six months of how many cerned.
I have had some railway experilevel crossings are being abolished, or bow ence, and know the
difficulties railways have
many under crossings are being made ii te encounter; for that reason I think it
order to obviate loss of 111e. This is would be far bettor te wait for the measure
information that the people of Canada ought the Minister of Raiiways has proposed to
to have, and certainly the Senate of Can- bring down, or at ail events we should hear
ada and parliament of Canada ought to
what my hon. friend from Mille les has
have, so that we would know whether the
to propose in the way of amendments to
railway companies were keeping faith with
the Bill. I think also that we should not
P~-~ requirements of the governinent and
be teo hasty in adopting a drastic Bill like
with public opinion, as there is no doubt
this.
whatever that something has to be done because the loss of life under present conHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My
ditions is serious. At the zame time, while own opinion on
this matter is very
we are willing to put conditions on the rail- strongly in favour
of the Bill. There
way companies, some conditions should
ino doubt whatever lu my mind,
aiso be put on the people who cross over net only that the public at large
feels
the railway. Care is the firet consideration atrongly on the subject of the numerthat a railway man is taught, and care oua accidents that have occurred, by which
is the fint thing that every man who several valuable lives have been
loat in
crosses a railway should be taught, and varions provinces; but I am peraonally
I thinlç some measure auch as sug- aware that the raiiroada have
only themgested by my hon. friend-I have not seen selves
te thank for it, or st least somne of
his Bihl. At any rate, if we are going te the railroads
have only themselves te thauk
compel the railways te observe a certain for it,
if 'the >public mind is excited on the
rate of speed, I cannot see why the saine
subject, because I know of my ow-n experiobligation should not be ixnpoaed upon the
ence, and I think many hon. gentlemen in
people who cross the track. Automobiles
this House can if they please, confirm the
are very dangerous when run at high speed. statement,
that over and over again dîsasand I venture to say that in the streets of
trous accidents have occurred st railway
Toronto, and in the streets of the city of
crossings, and that the railway compames
Ottawa, where there are no under crossings,
have taken no steps whatever te protect
that it is as dangerous te cross the streets,
the public although their attention bas
or more so, than te cross the railway tracks
been repeatedly called to the danger caused
on the highway, because, as a rule, you
by the location of these crossings.
Therecan hear the whistle of the locomotive, and,
fore, I say that I arn strongly in favour of
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

MARCH 3. 1909
the prîncipie cf the Bill, and that I think
it wouid be weib that we should give it a
second reading; at the same time I amn net
prepared te say that even if the House cf
Commons have ever and ever again passed
this Bil in these identicai phrases that
therefore the Senate should be debarred
from the eppertunity cf considering bthe
mode in which tbis dificulty is proposed
te be -deait with. This malter bas been
discussed se fuily in the Senate cn'former
occasions that I do net want to occupy the
lime cf the House. 1 would suggest te the
hon, gentleman from Wellington net te
press his motion for adjourninent, for Ibis
reason, that it wil be baken rather as a
siight perhaps by the House cf Gommons,
and perbapa by a large number cf people
who are interested in this measure, that the
adjourninent cf the Bill is net expedient. I
aise think that my hon. friend the minro.
ducer cf this measure shouid allow the Bill
te go te, the Railway Committee cf Ibis
House again. My bon. friend opposite
(Hon. Mr. Ferguson) dissents. That coinmittee is a good commnittee, a large cernmitIce, I think it musters 50 members of
Ibis House, includmng a large number cf
those practically acquainted with the whole
subject, and I would suggest that we
shouid lct the Bill be read the second time,
that ib go te bbe Railway Committee, who
shahl have time te deai witb it, and if need
be te tsa -further evidence on the subject. Ais far as I can see, the pbraseology
is open te some conaiderabie criticisin, and
I do noa at Ibis moment recollect what
the exact phrases were that were used in
the amendxnents, nor de I desire te isec
Ibis Hlouse engaged i a conflict on a subjedt cf this kind with tbe other House.
But I must say Ibis is precisely one of
those things in which the caim, mature
judgment cf Ibis House may be usefully
exercised. My own impression is that tbii
Bill was rather rusbed tbrough the House
of Gommons ewing te the unfortunate series
cf accidents wbich had occurred witbin a
vcry short space of lime. The House cf
Gommons was net altogether in the mool
and' temper te consider any smendments
or any suggestions Ibat might be made, and~
now is the lime in which I sheuld be very
boath indeed te sce the principle cf this4

Bill refused. 1 should be very boath indeed, as my hon. frîend suggested, to see
it emascuiated so as to become of no
use; but I do think we may very fairiy
consider this Bill carefuiiy and see
whether"we cannot xnake it a workabie and
effective measure. There is need for it;
there is no doubt about it. I cannot acquit
the railways, at ieast 1 cannot acquit some
of them of careiessness in respect of the
protection and proper guarding of the crossings; at the saine turne I amn bound to say
that I ean see that this clause as worded
may be the means of subjecting not merely
the railways, but the whole public, to verv
great incpnvenience, and very great difficulty in carrying on the business of the
country. The words are that the trains
shail not travel at a greater speed than ten
miles an hour in passing at rail level in
any thickly-peopled portion cf any city.
town or village. There are an enormous
nuinher of crossings which might or migbt
flot be heid to corne within the scope cf
that provision. I would flot like to speak
authoitative]y on the subject, but it would
net in the least surprise me if there were
found bo be along the bine cf the Grand
Trunk Railway eight or nine hundred crossings between Sarnia and Montreal which
might be more or less held to, be within
the scope cf this Act. It would be absoIutely and utterly impossible for the trains
now in use te preserve anything like the time
schedules that the public demanda if they
were obliged by iaw te reduce their speed
to ten miles an heur over every one. cf
these crossings. If the Board cf Railway
Gommissioners have net sufficient authority
te deal with it, I would desire te see them
empowered with ail the authority that
either House could grant them for the purpose cf guarding and protecting life under
auch conditions. But I arn net at ail certain that the phrase or words used in this
Bill wôuld carry eut the intent cf the promoter cf the Bill, or the intention of both
Ilouses; therefore, whiie 1 would suggest
te my bon. friend that he should net push
bis motion for adjournment on the present
occasion, I wouid aise ask my hon. friend
the mover cf the reselution, that when the
second reading is passed that he sheuld
consent te let the Bill go te the Railway
Cemmittee.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It would have te gc current
jurîsdiction with the Heuse of Gemthere any way.
mons has given considerable time te the
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-In view of thE study of this measure, I will ask the hon.
statement made by the leader of the House, gentlemen if the House o! Gommons paid
1 have no objection to withdraw my motion any attention te the work et the Senate-for the adjournment, with the consent ol if they exaxnincd the value of the work
which this Chamber didP It is my impresthe Senate.
sien that ne measure was given more atThe motion was withdrawn.
tention te, ne measure was beter studied,
ne measure was more critically studicd than
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-In regard te the request that I consent te allow the Bill te this measure coming from the other House,
go te the Railway Gommittee, 1 do not teed and I feel that the House of Gemmons has
that 1 amn willing te do that. 0f course, absolutehy ignored our work. At ail events,
I arn under the contrel of the majority of I felt hast session that this House having
the House and must accept whatever the given censiderable time te the studying of
House does. I do nlot wish te bring up this Bill that when it went te the House
the matter et hast year. It was most un- of Gommons, among the 216 members net
satisfactory in every way. A large nuniber one o! these gentlemen scemed te have rcad
of gentlemen ini the House werc oppesed te our amendments. This measure has oome
sending this Bihl to the committec. The back. The House o! Commons has passed
work of the committee was ne advantage te it. No one has gene inte it seriously.
the ineasure at ail. It hiad the effect of des- There is a demand for better protecti «on.
troying the measure, and 1 do flot wish the We ail want better protection but I feel
same thing repeated. 1 might say further, that of the two Houses this House has acnotwithstanding the observations whicb complished more, and has donc its duty in
have been made and the apparent reason- a more complete way in the matter of doing
ableness of that course, this is a Bil which justice te tic public and to ail parties inhas been passed by the House of Gommons terested. I will vote for the second readthee times without the change of a word. ing of this Bill, but I amn dispesed
te say that if there is any amendment that
tels House feels it its duty to make, we
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Four times.
shouhd net hesitate te do our f ull duty.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-We shall say three If tee House of Gommons agrees with
our
times any-way, and by a new flouse, and amendment, wefl and good. If it dees net,
the Minister of Justice, the Premier, the then there are other ways by which we
Miniater of Railways and ail the members eau come tegether and examine the situaof the goverfiment and lcading members of tion by a conference. Before resuming my
both Heuses have consented te this meas* seat, I should like te make a remark: contire. The Minister of ]Railways h-as made cerning the city o! Montreal. I think this
no promise te bring i a Bihl such as the city bas paid te heavy a toîl by the num.
hon, gentleman from Welington suggeste. ber of accidents recorded at the level crossHe delayed this Bill, or it was delayed, ai ings. Il the nuniber of peophe who have
his request for six days in the House and been kiiled at cressings is considercd, the
then be allowed te go, net with the idea proportion test the island of Mentreal has
that he might proceed later with such a contributed is very considerable indeed.
measure. He may bring i such a measure, The railways entered tee city of Montreal
but 1 tlxink 1 will have te divide the Housr when it was a smail place with, pcrhaps,
on the proposition te ailow this Bill te go twenty-five or thirty thousand o! a popute the Railway Gommittee.
lation. We arc now nearing the 500,000
mark with the suburbs, which arc the outHlon. Mr. DANDtTRAND-Before we vote
growth of the city. Montreal obtaincd
on the second reading of this Bill there is
powcr te devote a sum of $2,000,000 te ce.e
one thing 1 wou]d like te draw the attenvate the tracks et the Grand Trunk Railtion of this honourable House te, and that
way, and it secms te me it is time that the
is the fact that the Senate having conauthorities of Montreal and the Grand
Hon. Sir RICHTARD CARTWRIGHT.

MAlICI 3, 1909
Trunk Railway should get together and seel,
to elevate those tracks in order that they
rnay show a blank sheet, as the Canadian
Pacifie Railway does with its tracks, having no level crossings where they enter the
City.
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
was read the second time.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS moved that the Bill be
referred to a Committee of the Whole on
Tuesday next.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTmoved in ainendrnent, that the Bill be referred ta the Oornmittee on Raidways, Telegraplis and Harbours.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If my right hon.
friend the leader af the flouse, hiad been
present at the meetings af the Railway
Comnmittee, as I have been on two occasions
when this Bull came bei are it, I doubt very
much whether he would think there waa
much advantage in the interest ai the
measure itself or ai the business ai this
flouse, in referring the. Bill again ta the
committee. It gives the railway companies a most powerful advantage. They
came befare the cornmittee with what they
caU their experts, and with the ablest
lawyers in Canada and there is ne ans ta
meet them. What happened last year was
this: these gentlemen made statements before the committee.that ne member ai the
committes was able ta combat on the spot.
It requirsd some investigation. Alter the
carnmittee had made its report, I made
inquiry and f ound, without the slightest
doubt, that a large proportion of the
statements and arguments submitted ta the
committee were erroneous. I submit te
lion, gentlemen that it will be next ta impossible for a proper discussion ta take
place before that committee with the lawyers of the railway companies there ta
lsad the argument. It wili be almoat impossible for the Public Bide of the case ta
be presented as 'it should be in order
that a proper conclusion may be arrivsd
at on the question. This is flot a private
Bill, net auch a Bill -as is usually sent te a
Standing Committee. It is one with which
the flouse should deal in Committee ai
the Whole. I amn sorry I cannot coucur ln
6

the suggestion of the leader of the House.
That brings te my mind some observations
made by my hion. friend the former _Speaker
of the flouse. There is ne member cf tb,
Senate who has been at-ail times more ready
te vindicate the credit and hanour of the
Senate than 1 have been, but, I do miot think
the comparison made by hon. frieud as between the flouse ai Commons and this
Chamber with regard ta the Bill befors us
has been altogaether fair te the Gommons.
My hion. friend hias forgotten part of the
occurrences in the flouse ai Gommons. An
important series of amendments te the Railway Act was introduced three years ago in
the House ai Commons, and Mr. Lancaster
had a Bill on the subject with which we
are now dealing-not this Bilh by any
means. -The House led by the Minister
of 'Rallways on this subject <then Mr.
Emmerson) gave Mr. Lancaster's Bill very
sympathetic consideratian, and it was referred te a committee censisting cf seven
members, comprisiug: such gentlemen as
the present Minister ai Justice, the present
Postrnaster General, the then Minister of
Railways, Mr. Emmerson, Mr. Lennox, Mr.
Lancaster and the late hamented member
for St. John-Dr. Stockton-I think I arn
right in saying that ail the seven were
eminent lawyers. They had several meetings, and heard the railway companies at
meeting alter meeting. They heard evidence frern the railway companies, which
extended over a confsiderable portion ai
that session, and the resuit was they unanimausly submitted this Bll te the flouse of
Commons, and Mr. Emmerson acoepted it
and put it into the Bill amending the Railway Act, which was then going through
the flouse, and as a part ai that Bihl it came
te the Senate. It came te us a day or two
before the clesing of the session and the
clause was stricken eut on the ground that
there was not time te consider it praperly.
I am sure my hon. friend, would not intentionally do this flouse any injustice. and
I want hlm to bear in mind that this Bill
was net the product of rnerely Mr. Lancaster, though he originated it, but the Bill
itself, as it stands, was mare the work ai
Mr. Emmerson than cf Mr. Lancaster. 1
arn told that Mr. Butler, then as now
Deputy Minister of RailwaYs. attended the
meetings ai the committes reguharly and

REVI5ED EDMTON

SENATE
was closely consult-ed on every detail of the terest of this legislation or of the country
Bill. I cannot think there is any necessity ta send the Bill to that committee.
for a reference of this Bill to the Rai]vay
The House divided on the amendment
Committee.
which. vas adopted by the following vote:
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-What I stated
vas that the amendments made to tis Bill
CONTENTS-.
last year vere flot taken into consideration
The Honourable Messieurs
by the House of Commons vlien the amnended Bill was sent to the other chamber.
Béique,
King,
Legris,
Bostock,
Lougheed,
Bowell
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-They were flot.
McGregor,
(Sir Mackenzie),
MoMuhien,
I have hooked up the record with reference Cartwright
Perley,
(Sir Richard),
to the subject. I find that when the Bil Chevrier,
Poirier,
came back to the Commons there were a Costigan,
Power,
Riley,
nuinber of public Bis in the same position. Cex,
Robertson,
When Mr. Lancaster asked that this Dandurand,
Ross (Halifax),
David,
Bill be taken into consideration, a num- Derbyshire,
Roffs (Middlesex),
Soott,
ber of gentlemen started up and de- Dessaulles,
Shehyn,
manded that their Buls should be also DeVeber,
Tessier,
Douglas,
and the government decided that Frost,
taken- up,
Thiom son,
Watson,
they could not take up any of them. I do Gibson,
Wilson,
of Com- Godbout,
not think the action of the House
Yoe,
3sf ray,
Young--O.
mons vas contemptuous ta this House. It Jones,
vas late in the session, and Mr. LanNON-CONTENTS:
caster forced a decision, and an adverse decision vas, of course, against the Senate amnThe Honourable Messieurs
endinent. The House lias four times apMacdonald (P.E.I.),
proved of this Bill without changing a word. Bolduc,
MoDonald
Coffey,
The new House lias commenced its work Comeau,
Cap-Breton>,
by affirming the same principle.
McKay <Trura),
David,
MoLean,
Domville,
McMillan,
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-But the work, BUlis,
McSweeney,
Ferguson,
of the Senate vas not reviewed by the Gilmour,
Montplaisir-15.
Lnndry,
House of Commons.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It certainly was
not revieved, but I vas one of those who
thought that the amendment we put in the
Bill hast year vould have destroyed the
effectiveness of the measure, and I arn very
stronghy of that opinion stihi. I do not know
what miglit be said in favour of referring
this Bill to a smahl select committee, but
certainly, witli the experience of two sessions, sending this Bil ta the railvay committee, vith the strong force of railway
men vho are there as members of the committee-without impunging any of tliemand vith the grand opportunity it gives
the raihvay companies to present their side
of the question without any corresponding
opportunity on the part of the public, 1
do not think it will be conducive ta the inHou. Mr. FERGIJSON.

DOMINION

LANDS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
SECOND READING.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved the second reading of Bil- <No. 8)ý
An Act to amend the Dominion Lands Act
He said: The Minister of the Interior, vhen
lie introduced this Bill, stated that it vas
for tlie purpose of carrecting a misplacement of three or four paragraphs that had
inadvertently occurred in the passing of th.,
Bill through the House, or the printing of
it. There is fia effective change made in
the meaning of the Act.
The motion w-as agreed ta, and tlie
was read the second time.

Bill

MARCH 3, 1909
THE WATER

CARRIAGE
B3ILL.

0F

GOODIS

IN COMMITTEE.

83

was
Hýon. Mr. GIBSON-Supposing there
naprintd form to be had, a written formi
would then be accepted.

Th e amedment was agreed to, and the
Hon. Mr. GIBSON (in the absence of clause as amended was adopted.
Hon. Mr.' Campbell) moved that the House
resolve itself into a Committee of the
On clause 12,
Who]e on Bill (A), An Act relating to the
12. Every one who knowingly ships goods of
water carniage of goode.
an inflammable or explosive nature, or of a
dangerous ntrwîthout before ahipping
=ain full disclosure of ther
the goods
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Is this nature to, and obtaining the permission of,
the Bill that was in charge of Mr. Camp- the agent, master or persan in charge of thebell hast year, without any amendment- ship, is hiable to a fine of one thousand
dollars.
the Bill as it was passed by the Senate last
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-In hune 31 it is proyearP
posed to add the words ' in writing.' That
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-There is no change la in regard to shipping goods of an inin the Bill. It was very late getting down flammable character. They must notify
to the House of Commons and they did not the ship owners in writing s0 that they
will have an opportunity to refuse the
consider it?
goods.
The motion was agreed to.
Han. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-They wouhd
nlot put dynamite or inflammable material
(In The Committee.)
on a steamship carrying passengers.
On clause 4,
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-No, they would not
4. Where any bill of lading or document ship the goods without the consent of the
contains any clause, covenant or agreement
owner. This only amends the former Bill
whereby(a) The owner, charterer, master, or agent in that respect; it provides that the notice
of any ship, or the ship itself, is relieved from
liability for loss or damage to goods arising must be in wrîting.
f rom negligence, fault, or failure in the proHon. Mr. BOSTOCK, from the committee,
per loading, stowage, custody, care or dethem or
hivery to begoods received by the ship; any of reported the Bill with amendments, whicbi
them of carried in or by
or
(b) Any obligations of the owner or chart- were concurred in.
erer of any ship ta exercise due diligence to
properly man, equip, and supply the ship,
SECOND READINGS.
and maire and keep the ship seawarthy, and
make and keep the ship'e hold, refrigerating
Bihl (E) Ali Act to incorporate the Do.
and cool chambers, and ail other parts af the
ship in whjch goods are carried, fit and safe minion of Canada Burglary and Plate Glass
for their reception, carniage and preserva- Insurance Company.-(Hon. Mn. Ross,
tion, are ini any wise hessened, weakened or
Middlesex).
avoided; or
(c) The obligations of the master,- officers,
Bill (No. 24) An Act respecting the Edagents, or servants of any ship to carefully monton and Slave Lake Raihway Company.
handle and staw goode, and to care for, preserve, and properly deliver them, are in any -(Hon. Mr. Young).
wise lessened, weakened or avoided ; that
clause, covenant or agreement shail be ilBILLS INTRODUCED.
legal, null and void, and of no effect.
Bil1 (No. 28) An Act respecting the Union
Station and other joint facilities of the
Grand Trunk Pacific Railway Company and
the Midland Railway Company of Manitoba at Portage la Prairie.-(Hon. Mr.
Watson).
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is absurd ta
Bil1 (No. 41) An Act respecting the Tiisay similar document, it must be a Bull of sonburg, Lake Erie and Pacific Raihway
Company.--(Hon. Mr. Wilson).
Lading, if it is a sîrnilar document.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Mr. Campbell wishes
me to make an amendment to this clause,
in the first line. It is to insert after «Bill
of Lading ' the words «'or similar document or tithe to goods.'

SENATE
Bill (No. 46) An Act respecting the Crawford Bay and St. Marys Railway Company
and to change its name to the British Co
lumbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba Railway (Jompany.-(Hon. Mr. De
Veber).

occasion when the King's Printer was
blamed for something, it was found on investigation that he was not at fault.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose, since the
hon. member from Ottawa has ceased tb be
Secretary ai State, there is no longer any
FRENCH EDITION 0F RULES 0F THE one ta represent us.
SENATE.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On evemy occasion,
where inquiry was made, it was faund that
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the House
adjourne, could we be informed if the the fault was nat the printer's. It has alFrench edition of the miles of the House ie ways been found that somebady whose sigte be distributed very soon? I refer to the nature was necessary had neglected hie
duty. They cannat print without getting
manual.
signed proof s.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
Hon. Mr. POWER-If you cen find anyarn tld they are not yet received from
the Printing Bureau, but bhey are being body ini the world better at makdng excuses than the Printing Bureau, I shauld
printed.
like ta know it.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-Last time I inquired,
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-When I was a memI found that the Printing Bureau could
flot proceed with the printing because the ber ai the flouse ai Gommons and of the
rules had neot been reviseýd.
They were Pminting Cammittee we used ta bring the
ready to print them, but they had nlot the King'e Printer before the committee, and it
authority ta do so until they were finally seeme ta me that the cammittee should
send for the King'e Printer and get an exrevised.
planation fram him.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Who held them
Han. Mm. LANDRY-You may be sure
backP
that I shall cali attention i ta the matter
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The 'translator had occasionally.
held them back.
Han. Mm. DANDURAND-Sumely, if these
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn informed that mules are in type, there should be somebady
whose duty it is ta see that the right party
the transiator is dead.
puts bis signature ta the proof sheets.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON Then the rules are
dead.
Hon. Mm. LANDRY-I should think, as
the hon, gentleman represents the French
Hon. Mr. POWER-In order that this element in the Senate, he wou]d undertake
question of the Printing Bureau, which je that duty.
coming -up continually, may be propemly
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I will.
considered, some member should give notice and bming it up in a regular manner. If
The Senate adjourned until to-momrow at
no other member feels like doing it, I
three a'clock.
eh al be ternpted ta do it myseff.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I should like ta
hear the han, gentleman on the subject.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It would be
THE SENÂTE.
much better if the pnatter could be investiOTTAWA, THURSDAY, Mardi 4, 1909.
grÀted by the Printing Committee, because
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
both parties could theme be heard, and the
King's Printer might be able ta show that o'clack.
it wvas not his fdult. I remember on anc
Prayers and routine proceedings.
HIon. Mr. BOSTOCK.

MARCH 4, 1909
SENATE REFORM.
MOTION.
.Hon. Mi. SCOTT moved:
That when the rosolution for Soýnate roform
cornes up for consideration, he will move that
the following ho the first, second and third
resolutions, the othor reecluitions on the
Order Paper being considored later.
1. That in the opinion cf 'the Sonate tho
time has arrived for so amending the constitution cf this branch cf parliament as to
bring the modes ef selection of senators more
into harmony with public opinion.
2. That the introduction cf an olected element, applying it approximately to two-thirds
cf the number cf sonators would bring the
Senate more into harmony with the principles
of popular government than the present systom cof appointing the entire body cf senators
ly the Crowxi for life.
3. That paragraph 6 cf the resolutions bo
taken Up and considered as the third resolution, but the term be limited to seven years
instead cf eigbt years, as thorein stated.
He said: When I gave the notice cf the
resclutions in the first instance, I assurned
that they would he a subject cf interest te
my colleagues in the Senate. I relied upon
their having taken a note cf public opinion
as it has corne te the surface in the last
twenty or twenty-five years, and that they.
would have reccgnized that a change in
the Senate was imperative. I must say
that my efforts in regard te this matter
have been very much chilled.
I have
asked a number cf my colleagues in the
Senate whether they have read the resolutions or given them any consideration. I
have invariably been met with the answer
that they have not. I then said ' of course
you have nc obeiction to second the resolutions, or some cf them P' The answer I got
waa a shrug cf the shoulder, cr a ccld rebuff, cr a positive refusal. I certainly feit
rather huit at such a recepticn cf the resolutions. I thcught I was doing a service
te the Senate and to the couintry. I have
scarcely icat a day in the sittings cf this
Chamber for 35 years, and I believed that
the conclusions I had reached were quite
justified. by xny long experience on different aides of the House, and occupying ail
that time rather a prominent position.
I think it will be conceded that, if it te
desirable te arnend the constitution cf the
Senate, the present time is opportune. We
are at the opening cf a new parliamentary
term; the political atmosphere is calm, and

though the Conservative party have flot ini
the past, joined in the demand for Senate
reform, as that party always had a friendly
majority in the Senate when they were in
power, yet as the political complexion of
the upper chamber has, for the firat trne
since confederation, undergone s0 marked a
change, that the present opposition are
equally interested with the Liberals ini raking the Senate a more representative body
than it is at present.
At different periods during the last 35
years, the Liberal party have been pressing
for a change in the constitution of the
Senate, and as that party now have a
majority of supporters i both chambers,
there is no serious obstacle to impede
Senate reform, if the two Houses will only
now agree to the propcsed changes.
,Moreover, a Liberal government is in
office in Great Britain and is now engaged
in 50 serious a confiict with the Houae of
Lords that the latter body is preparing te
yield its vested rights te public opinion,
wve may, therefore, count on the hearty support of the Imperial parliament in fadilitating the necessary sinendments of the British North America Act.
Some hon, gentlemen, while admitting the
absolute neoessity for a change in Our constitution, hesitate in taking action, waiting
for a move by the governnient. Can we
have a better precedent for taking the initiative ourselves, than the example of the
House of Lords, which is now engaged in
inaugurating changes that are revolutionary
compared with the moderate proposals in
the arnendments now submitted.
Representati.ves on both sides of the
House cf Lords are uniting, with the desire
cf meeting public opinion. Lord Lansdowne, the leader cf the opposition, and
now slated by the Conservatives as the
future; premier, is taking an active part in
support cf the proposed changes. Then
why should the Senate hesitate in following so pertinent and praiseworthy an example. If we take a pride in following the
precedents prevailing in the House of
Lords, now is the occasion te follow their
lead, and gain some credit for our action;
moreover such a policy would be gratifying
te the people cf Canada, and more particularly to the Liberal psrty, which is pledged
to refcrm cf the Senate. While not speak-

86

SENATE

ing for the governrnent, it could not be British embassies, the composition of the
otherwise than a great relief to the cabinet upper chambers of France, Spain, Portugal,
if the Senate itself evolves such a reformi Netherlands, Denimark, Sweden, &c.
as would be approved by the country.
I have under my hand here those reports.
They have been sornewhat of a guide to me
Hon..Mr. POWER-I should like to ask
the hon, gentleman if this report of which in forrning a conclusion, because they represent the changes that have taken place
he speaks has been adopted?
in the governents of Europe during the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, flot by the House Iast haîf century.
Sorne by revolution.
of Lords, but by, the comrnittee. The 25 others by evolution of the sensible and ramembers who embraced that committee tional men in the cornrunity. It is a rnost
are the strongest politically and personally valuable document, because it cornes froui
in the House of Lords. 'On that particular the hîghest source, the Britishi embassies.
point I shaîl read now frorn the draft re- They give the fullest reports as to, the mode
port, as amended, of the select comrnittee o! electing the upper chambers, its success,
of the House of Lords which was adopted whether the people approve of it or not,
and ordered to be printed on the 2nd of and even go so far as to atate what t1i.
December last, a very recent document.
standing o! the members of the upper
It was moved by Lord Rosebery rto insert Chamber is. That is a pretty good authorthe following new paragraph, viz.:
ity from which to glean the advance madt,
It will be seen by reference to the follow- by other countries in reforming their upper
ing .0gures that the House of Lords, under
the arrangements suggested, would number Chambers under a constitutional forrn o!
350 memibers, viz.: 3 Peers of the Blood Royal, government. I do not think I misled the
2W0 representatives elected by the hereditary House in any way. I did not say
that the
Peers, (130 qualified Peers, 10 -Spiritual Lords
of parliament, and 5 Lords of Appeal in Or- report was adopted by the House o! Lords,
dinary. To th'ese must be added a possible but the comrnittee frorn which it cornes is
annual increment of 4 Peers for life, up to a
powerful body. No doubt there will be
the nuinher of 4.0, thus bringing the total
number of the House to, sorpething under 400-. changes, probably of a much more revoluThe said paragraph was agreed to.
tionary forrn than the report suggests. I
The committee was composed of Lord shail only be wasting time, I presurne, in
Lansdowne, the Archbishop of Canterbury, talking upon this subject, and I confess
Duke of Norfolk, Duke of Northumberland, that my enthusiasrn for Senate reform has
Marquis of Lansdowne, Earl of Jersey, Duke very materially abated. While not speaking
of Bedford, Earl of Lauderdale, Earl of for the governinent, 1 arn sure it would not
Onslow, Earl Cawdor, Earl of Carnperdown, -be gotherwise than a great relief to tht-e
Earl of Lytton. Viscount Selby, Viscount Cabinet if the Senate agreed upon some
St. 'Aldwyn, Lord Clinton, Lord Brodrick. sensible reforrn of which the public would
Lord Blalfour, Lord Kenny, Lord Newton approve. That is as far as I can go. IL.
and Lord Courtney of Penwith. They are would be only a natural thing, if the Senate came to a conclusion that met witl i
not the whole of the committee.
the approval of the press and people of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-WÎiI my hion. Canada. that the government as a responfriend say how this committee was ap- sible body would adopt it, or -at all events
pointed? Was it at the instance of the a policy kindred to that. They rnight not
government?
adopt our view entirely, because there is
the House of Commons and the country
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not think so.
outside to be consulted. We ought to be
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Or sirnply on the in a better position than any other body t-)
know the weaknesses o! our constitution,
motion of the House of LordsP
and we are absolutely disinterested. My proHon. Mr. SCÔTT-The only interference position does not affect the seat of any
with the government was this: After the gentleman in this Chamber. We are n
committee was appointed, they asked the free jury. asked to give our opinion on
government to obtain from the British re- . most important subject, and a more cappresentatives abroad, the ambassadors and able body than any other in Canada to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MARCH 4, 1909

87

give a frank, candid and fair opinion on time, were favourable to the nominative
system. I think I ehall be able to show
the points to which I have referred.
Now, 1 want to show how the Libera] before 1 sit dlown that George Brown and
party are bound hand and foot to this re- Alex. Mackenzie, as years went on, disform. Before doing so, I should like to say covered that they had 'made a very great
how the appointed system was adopted. mistake aud would have been glad to sec
In my opening address, when giviing notice the constitution of this Chamber changed.
The agitation for an elective Senate began
of these resolutions, I explained very
f ully the constitution of the Legisiative soon alter confederation, and in 1874, Hôn.
Council in the old parliainent of Canada. David Mills brought up the subject in the
1 had somes experience of it, having taken Gommons.
The discussion will be found ini the press
part in some of the elections, and, therefore, have a right to know. I venture to copy of that year, April 13. On that oc.
say that, as a rule, the men selected were casion Mr. Milîs expressed the opinion that:
the cream of the community. They might
The &enate would bo more active, and innot have been in ail cases, but 1 mentioned fluential if elected by the people.
the namnes of men who would be an ornaHou. Senator Ross, then Mr. Ross
Some of you hion. (Middlesex) said t
ment in any asseinbly.
gentlemen have sat in the Chamber with
Wo wanted a &enate, ithough not one ini
them. I need only mention Sir Alex. Camp- exact accord with this Bouse, yet in perfect
bell, who was leader of this Bouse; Geo. W. s,.mrpathy with it.
He was decidlly in favour of the eloctive
Allan, who occupied the chair for five
prnile; ho had the utmost confidence in the
>ears; Letellier de St. Just, who was my
d
o
ceptho country, and did not desire to
eoteSenate sppointed in such a way as if
colleague on this aide of the Bouse some
them.
thirty years ago; Sir Narcisse Belleau. I the people were un-fit to elect
Bon. Malcolm Cameron entirely agreed
discould go on and mention a number of
tingnished men 'who graced this Chamber with Mr. Ross. He quoted from the deswho were elected by the people, and I say patches of Lord Elgin, one of the most conthe elccted members were freer to act servative of men, who recommended the
according to their judgment and diacre- elective principle as the best check upon
tion than the appointed men. It will be the legislation of the House of Assembly.
admitted that a man appointed by a par- He coudemued the taking away from the
ticular goverument is under some personal people at the time of confederation their
obligation to be in accord with the goveru- right to elect senators. Mr. Chisholin spoke
ment by which. he is appointed. I was ini the saine spirit. Mr. Paterson held that
going on to explain how it was that the the power of electing senators should be
change was made.
with the people.
Mr. Dymoud (editor 'Globe') denouncedi
At the conferences preceding9 confederation, a majority of the Liberal representa- the present system of appointments to the
tives favoured the elective principle, but Senate.
as the legislative coundillors in Nova Scotisi
In the session of 1875, Mr. Mual again
aud New Brunswick held patents for life, brought up the subj oct. Be moved:
they naturally pressed their right to sit in
That the Bouse go into Commifteo of the
the upper chamber for life, and as there Whole to consider the following resolution:
That the present mode of constituting te
were stiil some life members in the Canais inconsistont with the federal prindian Legislative Coundil, it is easy to Sonate our system of government; makes the
ciple in
undertstaud how lufe appointments came Sonate alîke independent of the people and
respects
and is
to be adopted. So far as the Liberal -party the (Jrown,and that in ether material ought to
our constit7ution
defective,
is coucerned, they were divided. Th~e ma- ho so amended as to confer upon oach projority of the rank and file favoured the vince the power of selecting its own sonators
mode of their selection.
elective principle. I quotcd before. in ad- and to define the
The motion carried, but many dissented
Sir Oliver
dressing this House, the views of
Mowat and Hon. Wm. MeDougail in favour from the mode of selection, preferring to
ci the elective principle, and of Geo. Brown leave the choice to the electors. Among
and Alexander Mackenzie, who, at that the yeas are to bo found a list of dis.

SENATE
tinguished Liherals whose naines and
meinories are cherished throughout the Dominion: Bartlie, Dechard, Bernier, Edward
Blake, Bourassa, Cartwright, de St. George,
Dymond, Fournier, Holton, Huntintion7,
Jette, Killam, Laflamme, Mackenzie <premier), Melsaac, McKay (Colchester), Mills,
Moss, Paterson, Pelletier, Pouliot, Power,
Ross (Middlesex), Ryan, Rlymal, Schultz,
Schriver, Taschereau, Yeo, 'Young.
After the vote bad been taken, Mr. Mackenzie said lie had not discussed the matter before the vote was taken, for the rea.
son that he thought it most desirable that
an independent opinion af the flouse sliould
lie expressed in such a way that there
could be no party pressure of any kind
placed upon any member. He then reierred
ta a time when lie approved of a nominative instead of an elective Upper flouse,
but he went on to say:
On one or two occasions since lie had
expressed the opinion that the view he
then took had nlot turned ont as lie expected. Ho did not mean at ai ta refleet upon any member of the Upper Hlouse
or to express antr opinion upon the wisdom of the course they had taken, but lie
,wished merely to express the opinion that in
the liglit of aur experience lie did nlot believe
that the power of nominating senators shonld
remain in the hands of -the government of
the day. Hie was committed ta no particular
scheme; lie was merely cornmitted to tlie principle that it was desirable tliat there sliould
be a change in the mode of constitu-ting the
Senate, snd it would be the duty of the government te consider, in tlie first place, whether public opinion tlirougliout the country
was in sucli an advanced istate as to justiiy
the government in propasing a cliange to the
legisiature and wlien tliey were satisfied of
that it would be their duty to use that public opinion in arder te procure sucli a change
as would fairly meet, the views of the country.
We ail know that Mr. Mackenzie was frank
and candid. That was the Ist ai March,
1875. 1 have heard it said, and I knaw as
a matter of fact, the lon. George Brown
himself sbared with Mackenzie the opinion
in the first place that a nominative chamber wouldThe the best. As I said before,
the great body of the Liberals did not concur in that opinion. It was not supported to any appreciable extent in the
country. I was told by a gentleman the
other day that Mr. Brown had expressed
himself very strongly against Mr. Mills'
proposition. The 'Globe' did corne out
with an article about the lat or 2nd Mardi,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

1875, which taok the line that it was altogether too soon ta propose any change;
that confederation had nat been li existence eight years at that time, and I
thought that the line taken by Mr. Brown
wiLs a very sensible one. Experience had
noV warranted us in making a change aiter
sa very short a terni, and tlie pith ai the
article in the 'Globe' ia chiefiy an that
point, Hie opposed Mr. Mills' motion tliat
nominations should go ta the provincial
legislatures. I have just talien one paragraph; hon. gentlemen who desire ta pursue the subject further can find it in the
' Globe ' ai Mardhilst, 1875, in the editorial
comment an the speech ai Hon. David
Milîs, an Senate reform:
Not a word lias been uttered on tlie
Senate's sins of omission or commission; not
one instance given of its being untrue ta its
trust, or its listing failed ta correct the imperfect legisiation sanctioned by the Lower
flouse.
We liold it i8 altogether premature and
that it gives the appearance afiînstability
and crudeness ta aur federal arrangement.
Our constitution oi yesterday and attempts at change before time lias been allowed ta discorer its practical deficiencies,
savour oi weakness and not ai power.
When these opinions were expressed,
confederation had been less than eight
years in existence, and in Mr. Brown's
opinion, it was premature ta agitate for a
change. But bis strongest abjection ta Mr.
Mills' proposition was vesting in the
pravincial legislatures, the right ai appointing the senators. I share his views
on that point.
It must be remembered tint 34 years
have elapsed since tint article was written, and that Mr. Brown lad, as years
passed, an abundant evidence ai the failuires ai lii e appointees ta respond ta the
wishes ai the people, when it gratified their
politîcal allies in the Commons, ta witness
the policy ai the government ai the day,
torn ta shreds by an irresponsible Senate.
Let me give you one illustration and Mr.
Brown's commenta on it.
Britishi Columbia entered the Union in
May, 1871. In the llth. paragrapli ai the
agreement, 'Canad 'a undertook ta secure
commencement ai the Pacific Railway within two years fromn date of union, coinmencing construction simultaneously irom
the Pacifie ta the ]Rockies and fram
a point in the east towards the Rocky
mountains.

MARCH 4, 1909
When the Mackenzie administration took, threv out the Bill and that vas the end
office in 1873, the termis had already been of it. Mr. Geo. Brown, after referring to
violated. British Columbia was indignant the order i council of June, 1873, making
and complained to the imperial government. Esquimait the terminus, goes on te sayWe sent a delegate over there; first, Mr. and anybody familiar wlth Mr. Brown's
Edgar, to try' and negotiate with them fer style of vriting can at once discover that
some amicable termis that would allay the he wrote this article himself. He vas s
public feeling there, because as no progress quick, impulsive man and used very strong
whatever had been made and the railway language, a vigorous writer and his sensurveys were not completed, it vas abso- tences carried weight with lhem. After relutely impossible to begin the construction ferring te the order in coundil of June, 1873,
of the line. Mr. Edgar did flot succeed in making Esquimaît the terminus, the article
paliating them. The matter was referred in the 'Globe' goes on to say:
to the British goverument. Mr. Walkem, of
The Tory following of Sir John A. MacBritish Columbia, went over to London. donald in the Commons, and his Tory allies
in the Senate have voted ini favour of a double
Lord Carnarvon was then Secretary for the
First
have
Colonies, and hie heard both sides of the breach of faith- leader thev given discarded
the pledge thejr
had
that the
question and made an award. The first terminus of the Pacifie Railway should be at
part of that award was that the railway Esquimaît, and secondly, they have deliberately accom plished the violation of the new
should be commenced immediately between treaty, made under imperial auspices, by
Esquimalt and Nanaimo. In explanation which the railway fi-cm, Nanaimo to Esqaiof that I may say that in June of 1873 it malt vas to be constructed.
The government had only to treat it as part
vas agreed that Esquinait should b. the of the main lime...
The new terms were in the nature of a
terminus of the Pacifie Railway, the ascompromise in favour
sumption being that the line shouid cross compromise; a between Canada and of peace
and harmony
British
the narrows from the mainland somewhere Columbia; a compromise in the interests of
to the north, and that there would be Et national honour and good faith; a compromise
that involved to the Dominion a eaving inline down through Vancouver island to stead of a further expenditure of public
Esquimaît, and therefore Lord Carnarvon money.
is
been thwarted
stated i his award that a beginning should byIt the these resuits that haveTory opponents
adverse action of the
be made there, because it was directly with- of the administration.
They have exasperated British Columbia;
in the limits of British Columbia, and there
embarrassed the govern ment of Canada, and
seemed to be no practical difficulty in build- set at naught the friendly mediation of the
ing that much of the line. It could flot be Sovereign in the person of the colonial
very long, perhaps 50 or 60 or 80 miles. secretary.
We sympathize vith, the édisappointment
The government of the day, feeling that the' the momentary suspension of the progresa
matter having been referred te the im- may occasion in British Columbia, but it is
te a party, and te party spirit, not to any
perial authority, and having decided that reluctance on the part of the people of Canwas te be the place of beginning, a Bi'. ada, that the delay must be ascribed.
was introduced ini the House of Gommons
Do you suppose that the man who'wro td
and passed by a very large vote, I think that article, near the close of his career,
101 to 60 something. It came up in this would favour the idea of a nominative Sen-'
Chamber and received the six months' ateP Not a bit of it. There were just two
hoist. I appealed te the bouse as it vas causes that defeated the Mackenzie admina matter involving the question of the istration.
There vas at that time the
honour of this country; that the govern- greatest financial depression that had prement of the day vere quite justified in deal- vailed in a hundred years, I suppose, felt
ing with a matter of that kind. It vas not over the entire continent. No government
a subject of our own choosing. We couid live under it. But v. honestly comhad inherited the agreement from. our menced, the moment Mackenzie came into
predecessors, and our position vas an office, and laid down *our programme te
extremely delicate one.
Lord Carnar- build the Canadian Pacific Railway. The
von having made the award, I thought it people demanded it, and v. were willing
was the duty of Canada to accept it and to acquiesce in it. We vent to the country
ask no questions. However, this House, with that policy, and Mackenzie vas re.

%lu

SENATE

turned with a majority of 70, as large a
mai ority as any government has bad since
confederation-I speak subject to correction
-and under those circumstances, when the
people responded to the support of the government in the generous way they did, it
was unfair and unreasonable on the part
of the Senate to set itself up against the
policy of the administration. That policy
had been submitted to the people and the
people had approved of it, and it was the
duty of the Senate then and there to acquiesce. Instead of that, up to the end of
1878. every act of the government, in connection with the Pacifie Railway, I may
say, was thwarted in this Chamber.
I
know because I had charge of most of the
legisiation here,
It was flot alone the
story of the Esquimait and Nanaimo Railway, but we thought, and posterity has at
ail events confirmed the opinion, that the
most sensible way to begin was to build
the Georgian bay branch, to have a port
on the Georgian bay, so that there could be
connection by water at ail events batween
Port Arthur on Lake Superior and what.
ever point we selected. That policy bas
met with confirmation in modern tîmes.
The Grand Trunk ]Railway, the Canadian
Pacifie Railway, Canadian Northern Railway ail recognize that the Georgian bay
ports are the most important for the conveyance of the grain from the Northwest,
and that trade has bult up Parry Sound
snd Depot Harbour and Victoria Harbour.
The Canadian Pacifie ]Railway are going to
spend $900,000 in an elevator there. That
is an objective point, and oniy last year,
when it was discussed in the other Chamber, it was decided that the proper policy
was for the governmnent to extend the In-.
tercolonial Railway to the Georgian bay,
seeîng itwas in the minds of everybody that
this water connection was a most important
on1e; but it was so ridiculed by the action
of the Senate at the tixne the Georgian
bay branch was proposed that it lost caste.
The proposition to build the Georgian ba3'
branch was thrown out, although friends
of the government here came to the support of the Mackenzie administration, but

lakes to Selkirk. Mackenzie was anxious to
build the shortest line, and Selkirk was the
objective point. Just listen to what one
hion. gentleman said with reference ta it.
Sir David Macpherson referred to it i this
way:
I consider the ail-rail line from. Lake
Superior, in the present circumstanoes of the
country, as an exceedingly unwise and unfortunate undertaking. 1 look upOfl it as a
very grave blunder, a blunder that has committed the country to an expenditnre that
caniiot be e6timated, in connection with the
Pacifie 'Raîlway. There is this reat difference between the policy of the late government and the poiicy of the present government, in respect to the construction of the
Pacifie Railway; the policy of the late administration oniy committed the country to
a iimited and defined extent.
We were goîng too fully into it at that
time. Then we ivero blamed because we
brought the Pacifie terminus down to a certain point on the Kamninistiquia river.
A
committee was formed in this House to inquire into the matter. I asked"that the government should have an equal number on
the committee. I made an appeal to the
Senate, but they declined and insisted on
having a majority against the government
of the day on a committee appointed to
consider a question on which this Senate
proposed to censure the government, because the opinion was already formed. They
had condemned the construction of -the
branch from the Northwest to Lake Superior, but after we had decided on going
down ta Kaininistiquia they took up that
question and had a committee on which
they had a majority and condemned the
governinent. I will read one of the paragraphs in the report:

The length of the season during which. the
Canadian Pacifie Railway can be used to
bring the products of the Northwest to the
marts and ahipping ports of the Dominion,
wili depend upon the navigation of the waters
with which the railway will conneet. If it is
made to terminate upon the bank of the
Kaministiquia, its business season will b.
governd by the navigation-not of the great
lakes, but of a sluggish stream of about 350
feet in width. As a rule, the Kaministiquia
river closes, according to the evidence given
before your committee, about eight days
eariier than Thunder bay at Prince Arthur's
they faîled to accomplish anything. Then) Landing, and tihe placing of the terminus of
on
we were blamed-and it is utteriy absurd th. railway the the bank of the river wiii
shorten, by
rame number of days, the
wvhen we look back at it, because we pro- season during which the harvest of Manitoba
posed to build a line from the head of the can be transported through Canada to the
sea-board.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT.

14ARCH 4, 1909
We know that when the Canadian Pacifie Railway Company took the road over,
they declined to make any change ini the
terminus on the Kaininistiquia.
We know that when the Grand Trunk
Pacifie made the survey the other day they
sought the Kaministiquia for their station.
The Canadian Northern had gone to Port
Arthur. I think there is flot room left on
the Kaministiquia to acconimodate ail the
railways. I amrn ot very aggreasive, but I did
feel very much aggrieved on that occasion,
and 1 spoke pretty strongiy, *and I was
called to account for it. I said:
I admit my language was flot parliamentary,
and therefore I withdraw it, but I ask honourabie gentlemen to consider the difficuities I
had to encounter from thé very beginning
with a committee that was seiected for the
purpose of condemning the government in
advance. At the time it was appointed, 1
appeaied to the House for fair-play, but I
was refused it. 1 said it was monstrous that
the goverfiment shouid be subjected to a trial
by the jury of their opponents. I aeked
nothing more than the iowest criminai in
1
the land was entitled to, but I was refused it.
1 asked that we might have an even
number, and I moved on one occasion that
another member be added, and when I did
80 the opposition moved for another, keeping one ahead. Then charges were made
against Mr. Mackenzie that he had entered
into corrupt agreements with Cooper, Fairman and Company for the purchase of steel
rails for the railway, Chas. Mackenzie badl
been a partner at one turne in the tooperFairman concern. They were brokers, buying rails, but'he had left the finm, and at
the time the agreement was made by the
goverument with them, Chas. Mackenzie
had no interest~ in the firm whatsoever. That was flot sufficient for the opponente of the Mackenzie government: on
the shailow pretense that the Premier's
brother had at one time an interest in
the Cooper, Fairman Company, it was
charged that he had received a commission
on the sale of those rails. We ail know
that posterity has done justice to Macken.
zie's memory. We ail know that there was
flot the slightest justification for the charge
that he was robbing the country by giving
an extra price for steel rails to the Cooper,
Fairman Company. However, night after
night, and day after day, the contract wvas

91

brought up in the chamber and the charge
Was made. Then the Mackenzie administration laid out their telegraph lines. They
were comxnenced in our day and the
Senate condemned the location.
We
were building a telegraph line along the
proposed route of the railway and that
was opposed in this -chamber. We were
told muskeg covered so large an area,
of that country that telegraph poles couid
flot stand alone and the crows were
afraid to light on them. I do not
know whether hon. gentlemen remember the story of the Neebing hotel.
It only cost $5,000, and yet the charges were rung about the extravagance
of building the Neebing hotel, and
building it so inferiorly. One of the
sayings made use of was that the studings
were only 3 x 4 instead of 4 x 5, and there
was flot hair enough in the plaster. Such
were the arguments used by the opposition
against the Mackenzie governinent in this
Chamber.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-My hon. frîend wiil
admit that the Senate has very much improved.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, 1 admit that, of
course.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Perhaps it wouid be just as well te say that
thxe principal parties who took action in
the manner my hon. friend refers te were
leading Liberais.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In my judgment they
were not leading Liberals.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is
very easy te see that I am correct, by reading the naines.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn speaking now of
the Senate Chamber.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-So amn
I.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlfene were not many.
There may have been two or three who
had always opposed the Pacifie nailway,
but we were outnumbened here. From. time
te time as the years went on, there wene, of

SENATE
course, press criticisîns on this Chamber. I
do not intend to read them, because 1 think
I have given sufficient evidence that a
goverilment flot ini harmony with the Senate had a very slight chance of carrin
its measures through this Chainher when
there was a majority of gentlemen bitterly opposed to them. I corne down now
ta other evidence af how effectively bound
the Liberal party are ta Senate reform. In
doing sa I shall simply read the resolution
adopted at the convention held in Ottawa
in June, 1893. The largest and most representative gathering of Liberals ever held
in this country. Many members of the
present administration took part in it
The resolution relating to the Senate was:
9th resolution. The present constitution of
the Senate is inconsistent with the federal
principle in our systein of governmnent, and
is in other respects defective, as it makes
the Senate independent of the people, and
uncontrolled by the public opinion of the
country, and should be *so amended as to
bring it into harmony with the principles
of popular government.
That resolution was carried unanimously.
I have copied the words of it as nearly as
I could do so in the resolutions I arn proposing, in order that there may be no mistake about it. I may say, as confirming
the wisdom and soundness of that resolution, that at the time the fathers of confederation were drafting their various proposais, that one relating to the Senate
being nominated carne up. Now I shall
read the opinion af the British government
on that subject. We were then departing,
without a reference to the people, fromn a
principle of a popularly farmed constitution
to one nominnted by the government of the
day. Practicnlly the Chamber was to be
without any responsibility. The members
of it were to be nominated for if e. I shahl
read now from a despatch dated 3rd December, 1864, from Downing Street, addressed
to the Governor General:
Rer Majesty's kovernment are anxioiis to
lose no0 time in conveying to you their general approval of the proceedings of the conference. There are, however, two provisions
of great importance which seem to require
revision.
The second point which Her Majesty's government desire should be reconsidered is the
constitution of the legislative council. They
appreciate the considerations which have influenced the conference in determining the
mode in which this body, so important to the
constitution of the legishature, should be comHon. Mr. SCOTT.

posed. But it appears to them ta require
further consideration whether if the members
be appointed for lufe, and tLeir number be
fixed, there will be any sufficient means of
restoring harmony between the legielative
council and the popular assembly, if it shail
ever nnfortunately happen that a decided diiference of opinion shall arise between them.
These two points relating tai the prerogative
of the Crown and ta the constitution of the
Upper Chamber, have appeared ta require
distinct and separate notice.
They seemed to have anticipated just
the conditions which arase between 1874
and 1878 when the government of the day
found their policy thwarted by a hostile
majority in this Chamber. It had not the
elasticity of the House of Peers, because.
as you ail know, if the House af Peers set3
itself Up in opposition ta the House of
Gommons, the minister ai the day can fill
it up by new appointments. The clause
introduced in the British North America
Act granted lin a minor degree the ane
privilege ta the Canadian government, that
is, of chaosing six members i anticipation
of vacancies. It would have been useless
in our case, because at that tiine the six
would not have been sufficient; stiil we
made application for it. A Conservative
government was in power in England,
and 1 do not hesitate ta say that backstair
influence intervened with Lord Beaconsfild ta prevent the Mackenzie government
gettig even that six. The constitution
is clear. The government' ai the day have
a right ta naine six persans ta the upper
Chamber. It seemed onhy a formality
ta màke application, and yet it was refused, although we were i extremis at the
time. It mnttered nat, however, because
six more Liberals in this House would
flot at that time have given us the numerical strenguth we needed to carry on aur
policy, and, therefore, no more was said
about it, but you can quite appreciate that
Conservative influence-I do not say who
or what did it-wns exercised.
We were
cut short, and no expînnation ai the incident
wa.s ever given that I have heard ai. I have
rend the note ai warning calling attention to
defects in our constitution as far back as
1864, that we were adopting a constitution
that was not sufficiently elastic, and did
not give the majority in the popular branch
af parliament the power ta carry their
mensures through the Senate.
They recognized that it could not occur under th-3

MARCH 4, 1909
constitutional government of England, but
we deliberately framed a constitution here
that was flot sufficiently elastic to meet the
exigencies that were sure to arisa as time
went on. That is a strong point to tske,
and should influence the maembers of the
governxnent to deal with the subjecet since
it was pointed out in advance that the
constitution in that respect would prove
a failure.
In the remarks I have been ms.king on
the subject of the resolution, the appeal
has been made to the Liberals ini this
Chamber to initiate Senate reform and secure the credit of bringing about the long
promised change in the constitution of this
Chamber; i doing so, they will be only
emulating the spirit of the legislative councillors of the two Canadas, who in 1855
voted to abolish if e membership i their
own Chainher. I now desire to make a
few comments on the defecta of the present
constitution.
It will be admitted that the Senate should
be fairly xepresentative. of ail classes and
parties, but if no change is made in the
mode of selecting senators before the present government goes out of office, the Senate will practically representonly one party
in the state. To-day the Liberal party
have no cause for complaint, as will be
seen by noting the political complexion of
this Chaxnber.
Representation.

Liberals.

Ontario .. .........
.. ...19
Quebec..........16
Nova Scotia <when filled). 6
New Brunswick..... -.. 7
Prince Edward Island...
2
Manitoba.. .. .......
3
British Columbia......2
Alberta..........3
Saskatchewan .. ...... .... 3
61

Conservatives.
5
8
4

26

There are reasons why the Conservative
party should support the resolutions. Unless a change is made in the constitution
of this Chamber, it is not improbable that
when the present administration goes out
of office, the Conservative party will not

Ki

have a single representative in the Senate
from several provinces.
At present the Conservatives in the five
western provinces are represented by 9
senators, and the Liberals by 30; yet in the
recent elections the opposition polled in
these five provinces, according te the unofficia] returns, 346,200 votes, nearly onethird of the total vote polled tbroughout the
Dominion, and dlaim. a mai ority i these
provinces of 19,860 votes; yet to-day, the
representation of that party, in those provinoes, is less than one-ninth in the Senate,
and as will be observed, they have on]y
one senater in each of the four western
provinces. The opposition, in taking office, wiIl have te reckon that for one parliament certainly, and probably for two
parliarnents, the Senate can defeat the
policy of a new government.
1 have foreshadowed a condition which
may embarrass the policy of a new admninistration, and which may arise if the Liberal majority in the Senate retain a recollection of the treatment meted out te the
Mackenzie administration that held office from 1873 te 1878.
1 think I have said enough te convince
both sides of the House that if the Senate
is te maintain the respect and approval of
the country, it must tecome more representative in its composition.
I have already.mentioned that 'in 1854
a wave swept over upper and lower Canada condemning the nominated legisiative council. Public opinion was so strong
that it became evident, even to the council themselves, that they had te make
some change. It was undertaken in the
House of Assembly, at which. the upper
House took uxnbrage, the second reading of
the Bill abolishing the nominative chamber
was carried almost unanimously in the
assembly. 1 think there were only 12 dissentients, ail from upper Canada.
Every
member from lower Canada voted for the
abolition of the nominative council, and
for an elective council. The first session,
the Legisiative Council were indignant because it had not originated with themselves.
They declined te pass the measure, but at
the second session they passed it.
For the ten years preceding confederation, the upper Chamber in Canada, con-

SENATE
sisted of two elements: those appointed for
life, and the members who had been elected
at varying periods between 1856 and 1866.
The fresh blood infused from time to timd
gave life anid vigour to the body, and the
independent spirit it displayed on several
occasions won for it the respect of the
whole community; and though the majority of its members were Conservative, yet
when its political friends in the Assembly
ventured on a policy that seemed unwise.
their friends in the upper Chamber did nlot
hesitate to chide them.
Two illustrations
of this attitude recently appeared in the
'Globe' which is day by day, reproducing
articles published fifty years ago.
Just
fifty years ago last month we h4d a very
bitter dispute in this country over the
question of the seat of government.
For
twenty years the seat of government migrated between Toronto and Quebec. We
failed to agree on a capital, and referred
the question te the Queen. When she gave
bier decision in favour of Ottawa, there was
almost universal dissent. In the following
session, 1858, the House, by a considerable
majority, deciared that Ottawa was not
a proper place for the seat of government.
It was a government question, and thc government resigned.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
vote was on the estimates providing 1ffty
thousand pounds to commence work here.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was Pîché's motion
rejecting the decision in faveur of Ottawva.
The governinent resigned and the BrownDorion government was iormed. Subsequently a vote of want of confidence was
passed on that government, and the former
administration came back. The government
having fallen on the question of the seat of
government, practically declined to risk
their seats again. Perhaps they could not
be biamed, having stood firmiy by the
question once before and having resigned.
Some days before parliament met in 1859, 1,
having been delegated by the city here
with the member for Carleton, went te Toronto and discussed the question with the
government. We flrst made preparations to
secure a change of some votes, and assured
the government that if they would agree to
stand or fail on it and to put a paragraph
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

in the speech, we would guarantee that iA
would go through. We had counted heads
and thought we could rely on a sufficient
number to secure the majority. The government. consented, and put a paragrapb
in the speech from the Throne affirming the
principle that parliament should stand by
the decision o! Her Majesty. We only succeeded in carrying it by a majority of five,
a pretty close shave. Three votes the other
way would have defeated the government.
and you gentlemen would not be sitting
here to-day. I quote that incident te show
the independence of the Legislative Council of that day. When the government decided te stand by Ottawa, but i the
meantime going te Quebec, they made no
preparation te come te Ottawa, although
the people here offered to provide buildings
for them. No preparations were made that
year or for a year or two afterwards te
corne te Ottawa. In answering the speech
fromn the Throne the elected element of the

Legislative Couneil teok umbrage with the
government because they were not more
decided, that they had not made up their
rninds te hasten the erection of buildings
nt Ottawa and come directly here from Toronto. The Toronto 'Globe' referred to
the refusai of the upper Chamber to pass
the clause in the shape in which it had
been submitted te them in its issue of Feb-

ruary 3rd, 1859, as.follows.
The government have received their first

defeat-the beginning o! the end.

The upper

B ouse resumed the consideration of the address yesterday afternoon, when an amendnient wss meved by Mr. Campbell, Cataraqui.
to the effect that there was no arrangement
recognized by -the legisiarture that fthe goverfi-

ment shoruid go to Quebec, and that the expense of removing at this time wouid be unwarrantable. ... Mr. Campbell's amendment
met wjth almost universai faveur. Messrs.
Vankonghnet and Ross and Sir E. P. Taché
exerted their powers o! persuasion publicly
and privately. Ail was of no avail. . .. The
arnendment was carried by a majorirty o! ten.

This was a very decided vote of want of confidence, and had it happened in the lower
House there wouid have been an immediate
cal upon the government (for a statement of
their intentions in consequence.
The amendment which was carried was
as foilows:
This House cannof perceive that -the %transfer of the seat of the government to Quebec
for a fixed period until the compietion of the
necessary buildings at Ottawa is invoived in
the duty which devolves upon the executive
o! carrying out the Queen's decision, or that

MARCH 4, 1909
any such arrangement lias ever been reognized by any resolution of the legislature;
and tis House deprecates the expenditure atteading a double removal of the seat of government after the Queen's seleotion of a -fixed
site lias been promulgated.
My point 'is this, that the elective element made the Legislative Council more
independent of the government. There is
enother evidence given of it which is
rather a pertinent one too; a day or two
alter, on the l8th February. At that time
the Legisiative Couneil, being partly elective, a certain number of petitions against
the return of members were presented. I
reai f rom the 'Globe' of February 18,
1859, as follows:.
By a vote of 19 te 12 the upper Chamber
yesterday declared their disapproval o<fthe
partisanship of the Speaker in naming four
ministerialists on the General Cornmittee of
Elections and only ftwo members of the opposition. Mr. Dessaulles introduced the resolution and conducted the case against the
Speaker and the government with tact, clevermess and courage wortky of fthe highest
praise. .. It is quite evlUent that the upper
Hlouse is not in a humour this session te participate in -the tricks and jobs of fhe government.
To take a practical view of these two illustrations, it is highly improbable thaT,
an exclusively appointed Senate would
give so direct a rebuke te its friends in
the other Chamber. The amendment te
the speech from the Throne was moved
by Hon. Alexander Campbell, an elected
Conservative (for Frontenac), and at one
tîme, Conservative leader in this Chamber.
It was supported by Senators Ailan, Alexander, Patton, ali leading Conservatives
and friends of the governinent.
My experience leade me te the conclusion that members in this Chamber continue to be sympatbetic with the party in
the other branch of parliarment, by whom
they were appointed. I quite recognize
that there are exceptions to this rule, and
that very many independent votes are recorded independently of party feeling; but
in questions that arouse political feeling,
we alI give evidence of where our sympathies lie. I quote those two illustrations as showing that elected members feel
much freer to express independent views
than those who owe their appointments to
the government ofthe day.
I shall now cail the attention of members
to the changes that seine European and

95

other governments have undergone in the
last fifty years, and more particularly to
the constitution of their upper Chamber,
from which it will be, noted that Canada
has flot kept pace with the progressive
spirit of the age in withholding from the
people a voice in the selection of their representatives in the Senate.
I may say that much of my information
is drawn from. the reports of the British
embassies prepared for Lord Rosebery's
committee now considering the contemplated changes in the constitution of the
House of Lords.
An exainination into the composition of
upper Chambers -in other countries is a
matter of importance in discussing this
question: Spain. The Senate Chamber consists of three classes of senators,-the total
number being 360.
Class 1. Those in their own riglit.
Class 2. Life senators.
Class 3. Senators elected.
The elected number one-haîf, 180.
Classes 1 and 2 must neyer exceed in
number the elected members. The latter
are chosen, some by the provinces, others
by cities, county councils, and by highest
taxpayers. In cases of the dissolution of
parliament, the elected element may be dissolved.*
Denmark. The Landsting is composed
of sixty-six members-a little less than
one-quarter are appointees, being twelve
nominated for life by the King. Fifty-four
elected by special classes of electors, foreight years; one-half retirîng every four
years.
Every fourth year twenty-seven
new senators are elected.
Sweden.
Upper Chamber consists of
150 members, elected by the county councils, and by the municipal coundils of
Stockholm, the capital, and four other cities. The termi was originally nine years.
Under a recent change in the constitution,
the termi was reduced to six years. The
reform, however, cannot become law until
again approved by a new Diet.
In the Netherlands the Upper Chamber
consists of fifty members elected by provincial states for nine years. In France
there are 300 members elected by an electoràl college meeting in chie£ towns ini

SENATE
each department. The college is composed
of municipal and other bodies.
1 wish hon. gentlemen would give particular attention to the constitution of
Belgium's upper Chamber, as many of the
conditions existing in that country are
similar to those in Canada.
There are two nationalities: The Flemish
who were originally Germans, and the WaIloons who are of French extraction. There
are three recognized national languages,
Frenchi, Flemish and German.
The population is seven millions, being
slightly in excess of ours.
In 1906-7, the number of electors for the
Senate was 1,358,840.
The number of votes on the voters' list in Canada at last election was............1,461,793
Total -who voted.......1,176,104
285,689
Deduct three constituencies carried by acclamation.......22,000
Number who omitted te vote.. .. 263,689
About one-fifth of the voters of Canada
did not go to the poils in last election,
while practically, under compulsory voting, the f ull vote was recorded in Belgium.
I advocated that pri.nciple in the legisiature of Ontario in the late 60's or the beginning of the 70's. The question was
brought up and there was considerable discussion about it, and it 6truck me as a
correct proposition that a man who enjoys
the privileges of the laws of bis country,
who is protected by the police, should discharge the duty devolving upon him. te elect
the best men te make its laws. In Belgium
they take no objection to it. A man pays
a money penalty if he does not vote.
The seven million Belgians occupy an
area. a littie larger than half the area of
Nova Scotia. Their imports and exporte
are more than three times those of ours.
The agricultural population are regarded
as the model farmers of Europe, the available land being cultivated more like gardens.
In December, 1905, the railway mileage
was 2,826 miles, of which ail but 330 miles
was worked by the state.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

That is something for Mr. Graham to
consider.
The number of passengers conveyed by
the State Railway ln 1905, was 145,471,624and by the Company road 17,950,393-and
according te Mr. White, of Chicago, in his
lecture on Public Utilities before the OttaCanadian Club last week, in Belgium, a
man may travel 42 miles back and forth
six times a week for 57 cents. Those cheap
fares eclipse the two cent rate of the member for South York.
I will quote now from the Statesman'i
Year-book, 1908, under the head of religion,
the following:
The Roman Catholic religion is professed
by nearly the entire population of Belgium.
The Protestants number only 10,000, while the
Jews number about 4,000. The state does not
interfere in any way with the internal affairs of either Catholic or Protestant churches.
Full religions liberty is granted by the constitution, and part of the income of the
ministers of ail denotiinations is paid from
the national treasury. The sums granted in
budgets for 1907 <Ministry of Justice) are
7,191,100 francs to Roman Catholics, 102,900
francs to Protestants, and 25,500 francs to
Jews. Subsidies to provinces, communes, and
consistories for the erection of buildings devoted to Protestant and Jewish religions services, 25,000 francs.
They do not bother about the minor matter of separate schools. According to ail
the authorities, Belgium le enterprising and
progressive, and their system should be
worth considering.
The Senate of Belgium consists of 110 members elected for
eight years-half elected every four years.
Eighty three senators are e]ected by the
people, but electors muet be 30 years of
age-27 are elected by county councils. The
present chamber consists of 43 lawyers and
persons belonging to the other professions;
about the same number are drawn from
bankers, merchants and owners of large
industrial works. Compulsory voting is
the rule, under option of a fine-lt works
well. Plural voting gîves to the large taxpayers and to the highly educated, extra
votes-some electers have two votes, others
three votes.
In~ the event of a parliamentary dissolution, the Senate muet seek re-election. I
do flot flnd any record of a dissolution.
When you corne to consider it, they seeni
to be a littie ahead of us in many ways.
Under our system a man employes 500 mern

MARCH 4, 1909
Îh thia factory. Each has one vote. In
beliuni a .znan votes according to his standinig in education; if he holds a degree or
is a professer at coliege, hie bas an extra
vote, and àf hie is a large employer of labour
he mnay have two extra votes. There has
been no complaint on that policy, and it
seems te work very well. I will read now
from t.he official report of Hie Majesty's
representative at Brussels on the composition and functiona of t.he second or upper
Chainher in Belginni, signed by Sir Percy
Wyndhaxn. He Baya:
The property qual{fication insures that the
members of the Senate should be drawn from
classes of a certain finanojal position, or at
ail events, in easy circumstancee, while the
age qualifications of the electora and of the
candidates, together with the. system cf the
plural vote and propertional representation,
meure the existence of a stftle and conaervative element, counterbalancing the elective character of the Senate and the Iow
franchise under which it je chosen. These
qualifications have se far kept from the
oecond chamber any Secialist or Labour element sufficient te effect its general character;
its debates are usualiy cenducted with greater
calm than those of the lower Houie, and if
anything attain a higher erder of menit. Ne
popular feeling exista in the ceuntry against
the Senate, and ne party, net excluding fhe
Socialises, are in faveur cf entirely deing
away with a second chamber, though the
most extreme membera cf the left advecate
the abolition of the property qualification
and the plural vote.
le that net praise, coming from an ambassador living ini the countryP Surely we
are entitled te draw Borne conclusions from
their constitution, whether they may be
wise or otherwise. Then ini Japan the upper Chainher embraces royal princes, barons
who are elected by membere of their order,
and also several classes cf membere who
are elected for a terni of seven yeare.
In the United States, the Senate consista
cf :two senators for each ustate, elected by
the joint votes cf the legielature for a terni
cf six years. The system of election je net
regarded favourably, and in many statea
thecenstitutîon je substantially violated by
public opinion and the voice cf the people
prevails over the law. I have authority
for what I say, that the constitution requix-es that the senators shaîl be elected
by a joint vote of the legialature. That
element cf the constitution je vioiated
year
by year, the increasing number of states
that are violating becoming larger.
The
systeni cf appointment by the local legisla-

97

Lure bas been a failure. In confirmation cf
what I say I will quote. from Mr. Bryce,
minister at Washington. He Baya:There are, or have hein,~ twe diflerent
systems by which it hua been attempted to
render the power cf the States legislatures
te eleot senatons merely nominal. In earlier
yearth
ile
the people waa often expresed prtystate conventions. A noty
ableisac wa in 1858, when the Illinois
State I)smocratic convenftion endorssd Mr.
Douglas, and the Republican convention endorsed Abraham Lincoln, for the position cf
Unitsd States' senator. Tii. more modern
system, je that of primary elections, in which
the opinion of the. votera cf sach political
party je directly expressed in favour cf aspirants previousiy neminated by party meetings, the state legislature simpl
.egitering thie resuits cf the elections. This systsmn
te new in vogue in at liait eighteen states,
Nevada having been the pioneer. by the
enactment, in I89, cf an Act entitled «An Act
te secure the. electien cf United States' senstore in accordance with the will cf the
people. .. ' In some sixtes, particularly in
the southern states, wiiere one pelitical party
je in almeet complets control, the system
bas been put inte force through the st,%te
committees of the party; in others, recourse
has been made te legialatien, as in Oregon,
the two Daketas, Missouri, Illinois, and ethers
where primary elections are provided for by
statuts.
Mississippi, by an Act of 1903
abolished ail neminating conventions, and
provided for the, nomination of ail elective
officiais, including UTnited States senators, by
direct primaries. In some atates, South
Carolina and North Dakota for instance,
-legisiators are subjected by statuts te a piedge
te abide by the primary elections. By the
Oregon law cf 1904 candidates for the legislature are requirsd te sigu a pledge tbat they
wiii, or wiii net, -vote for the senaterial candidate who receives the highest popular vote
,n the primary. That thus system, is the most
avered at present is showa by the. fact that
the last houe cf representatives of Pennsylvania passed a Bill te that eflect by
unanimeus vote <thon gh this Bill has not
bien adopted by the Senate cf that state>,
and byçthe inclusion of a provision for primary elections in the as yet unratified constitution of the propeeed new state cf Oklahoma.
In aIl these cases, cf course, candidates are
the officiai selectiens of the political parties.
It appears the people succeeded in forcing
the legielature. There are instances viiere
a- Democratic state had te elect a Republican and a Republican state had te elect a
Democrat, showing when they were first
elected te the legielature they vers bound
as te how they .were te vote on the question
of the Senate.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-lt is a sort of referendum.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It je dons in different
ways in the different statue. In Mexico, Bra-

TiEVIBCD EDITION

SENATE
zil and the Argentine Republic, the upper
Chambers are elective. The saine condition
exists in the other coumtries of South and
Central America, Canada being the only
country in North or South America having
life appointees in the upper Chamber.
In the Commonwealth of Australia, six
senators are elected for each state, for a
terni of six years; haif the number retîring
every three years. The entire vote of each
state is at present polled for each candidate. In case of differences with the
House of Representatives, the Senate may
be dissolved, and a new election held, when
half will sit for the firat three years only.
It will be, observed that the two houses are
chosen by the saine electorate. Mr. Bryce,
in lis commenta on the constitution of
Australia, regards it as a new problem,
being an attempt te combine the cabinet
rystem of England with the co-ordinate
Senate of the United States, without the
safeguards of either. Re assumes that, as
both Chambers are elected by the people, a
vote of want of confidence in the upper
House could not be ignored, and, if followed by a vote of confidence in the other,
he asks, is the ministry to resignP Because
one House will not support it while il
retains the confidence of the other. He
adds that the problemn cannot arise under
either tbe English or American systems, not
under the English because the two Houses
are not co-ordinate, the House of Commons
being much the stronger, nor under the
American, for while the two Houses are
co-ordinate, neither House has the power
te displace the president or bis ministers.
Mr. Bryce's criticism would apply to a
Canadian Senate, if entirely elective.
In New Zealand the upper Chamber was
formerly appointed for life-the terni is now
limited te seven years.
In the South African Union, the most
recent constitution evolved under the British system bas just been drafted by the
delegates representing the Cape of Good
Hope, Natal, the Transvaal and Orange.
The first House of Assembly will consist of
121 representatives, and tbe Senate of 6416 for each of the four provinces. Eigbt
will be elected in each province, and eight
'will be nominated by the Governor General
in Council for each original province. The
first terni will be ten years, after which
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

parliament may provide for the manner in
which the Senate shall be constituted. It
is not improbable that a good many public
men had te be appeased, and so the long
terni was adopted for the present, being
four years longer than Australia, and three
years longer than New Zealand.
As one of the evidences that when recently engaged in draftmng the constitution
for the South African Confederacy, the political leaders of the four states had, made an
exhaustive study of the most acceptable
and workable methods of administering a
federal system of government satisfacterily,
I observe in the Montreal ' Herald' of the
let March, that Mr. E. W. Thompson had
been engaged te make a report on the Canadian system. The paper adds:
Along wîth his reply on Canadian workings, Mfr. Thompson sent a letter entrusted
to him by Sir Wilfrid Laurier, in reponse to
a request to give his aid for the benefit of
South Africa, and thereby, of the British empire.
The «Herald ' adds that the letter and
report had already appeared in several
Canadian papers-I bad not heard of it,
and cannot vouch for its accuracy.
I can, however, quite understand that the
public men in tbe new Coniederacy exbausted ail sources of information before flnally
deciding on the new constitution.
In my judgment, the elective element in
the Senate should have been larger than
the nominated, and the terni of service
should not have exceeded seven years.
The explanation is that, no 'doubt, many
applicants had te be consulted who
wanted the terni made as long as possible.
When the present government accepted
office, the standing of the parties in the
Senate was 69 te 11. When the present cabinet gees out of office the numbers will ini
alt probability be reversed; in five or six
of the provinces the Conservative party
may flot have a single representative in
the Senate. Can anything be said in favour
of a Chamber where that 'condition can
arise? It would not for a day be tolerated
in any otber country claiming te have a
responsible formn of governmnent.
It is easy te prove that those extreme disparities could net exist if the resolution on
the paper were adopted. Let me give yeu
the proofs:

MAROR 4, 1909

99

Assume that the proposals had becu
Let me give you a practical illustration,
brought into operation in 1896. Since that showing how the new system. would work.
date 58 appointments have been made.
The first elections in the electoral disL. C. tricts would be he]d only when vacancies
15 of these were in Quebec, j would be
arose, and. the elected senlators would hold
appoiiitees..-........
The remiin 10 would probably be
their seats for seven years.
elected libas
..... .... .... ....
10
Thereafter, say for example in Ontario,
Leaving 45 vacancies to be filled, J, say
the sixteen to be elected would be chosen
14, would be Liberal appointees.. . 14
Laig 29 te ho elected-assume Libon an average of two, possibly three in
ole:-*n carr...........
14
each year. No particular excitement would
And Conservatives carry...
...
3 15 arise outside the localities, and very littie
Liberals who were in Senate in 1896..
Conservatives still in Sonate who were
within the district.
iLnere in 1896.............26
The number of voters would be too
46 41 large to peraonally canvass, and unless a
The standing of the political parties ini reasonable excuse were given in eacli case,
Senate ini 1909, Liberals, 46; Conservatives, every vote would be polled. It is a trifi41. Liberals 5 majority.
ing condition te add te the duty of the elecNow, assuming that the present govern- toi wbo enjoys the protection of the laws,
ment go out of office in five years, the vacan- that once in seven years he shal] cast a
cies -occurring ini the meantime would be ballot for the best man to revise the laws
in the %vicinity of 21-that -figure being of bis country. If the electors in Belgium
slightly leas than the average in the past find no cause for complaint 'with a law
12J years. The government would appoint imposing an obligation to cast a ballot,
7; that would leave 14; divide the 14 elec. surely Canadians are not less willing to
tions equally between the two parties-7 perform so slighit a duty' for the benefit
of
Liberals and 7 Conservatives; total 14 Lib. the community. Under this rule of oberala and 7 Conservatives.
liging every voter to cast bis vote, there
In the five years te 1914, Liberals would would be f ai less incentive te bribe
the
have gained 7, which, added to their mavoter.
jority of 5, would gîve them 12 majority
On the basis of the Voters' List for 1908,
when going out of office.
the average number of electors in the SenThe incoming government could at once
ate Electoral Districts
dlaim, 9 under the present resolutions, which
in Ontario would be:.......41,290
would reduce the Liberal majority to 3,
Quebec
"
.
.
.
25,901
and that would very soon disappear as,,vaNova Scotia
".
.
.
19,628
cancieR arose.
«New Brunswick would be ....
... 14,077
It must be conceded that under the pro«British Columbia
...
35,130
posed change the great inequality in the
'Manitoba
"
"
...
28,237
relative numbers. of the two political parties
In Australia, and in some other countries,
in the Senate cannot arise in futur.
senators are elected by the entire vote of
I do flot tbink that those illustrations the state, and the number of electers would
are open te any serious criticism.
They no doubt be larger than the proposed disare based on what bas occurred ini tricts in Canada.
the last 35 or 40 years, and I think tbey
The larger vote over a wide aiea secures
çan be relied on. My object is te secura, the election of a piominent man. Comfor each political party as near equality as pulsory voting would bring to the polls, the
possible, giving the governrnent ~a amail moderate men, who are not partisans on
majority in order that their measures xniglit either side.
A full expression of public
receive fair consideration in the upper opinion wouid be thus secured, and canChamber. Ordinari]y I think they would; didates relîeved from. making a personal
but occasions may corne wben strong poli- canvass. tinder these conditions, bribeîy
tical feeling arises and a hostile niajority and corrupt practices could flot be as sucin Senate may defeat the policy of a gov- cessfully concealed in the larger district as
ernment as bappened between 1873 and 1878. in smaller constituencies.

SENATE
In brief, my conclusions are the followThat the constitution of the Senate
must be amended. That the most important points to be kept ini view are: To
make it representative of the two political parties; this will be best secured by
making it two-thirds elective. 'Under our
system, the government of the day should
have a reasonable following in the upper
Chainher. The right ta appoint one-third,
as vacancies in that class arise, would ini
many cases give the cabinet the necessary
support. If not, the executive should have
the right to anticipate the vacancies by
adding a fixed number, as was provided
for, in the British North America Act.
A Chamber entirely elected by the same
voters, would be sure to clash with the
House of'Commons; but if there is an appointed element in the Senate, that body
could not presurne ta dlaim powers equal
to the lower Chamber.
A larger proportion of the nominated
would disturb the desired equilibrum. That
would resuit if half were nominated. As an
illustration: Goveruments in Canada last
more than one term of five years. In ten
years the vacancies would be at least 40.
Goverpnent would appoint 20. In 20 elections the government would certainly carry
10. The resuit *would be that the government would gain 30 supporters, the apposition only 10.
If the press and the electors of Canada,
approve of these suggestions, arrived at
after thîrty-five years experience in the
Senate under many varied conditions, Senate reform can be readily brought about.
and the upper Chamber will in trne become
a fairly representative body. I have done
my part-the electors must do the rest.
ing:

Hon. Mr. ]ROSS (Middlesex)-I think it
wouid be conducive to the advanoement cf
business if, instead of occupying the attention of the House at this hour I shouid
move the adjournment of the debate and
allow the orders of the day to be taken up.
Hon. Mr. SPEAKER-The motion is not
seconded; there is nathing before the House.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I second the motion
for the purpose of getting it before the
House.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not ask the hon.
gentleman to second the motion unless ha
is prepared to vote for it.
Hou~. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
hion, gentleman seconds the motion he will
have ta vote for it.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not care ta commit myseli ta that.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I second the motion
on the principle of changing the present
mode of canstituting the Senate.
The debate was adjourned until Tuesday
nex.
THE STATUS 0F JUDGES.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Bef are the orders
of the day are called, I shouid like ta inquu-e of the right hon, leader of the House
if any changes have been made in tihe statue
of the Judges of the Supreme Court, or of
the Chief Justices of the ather courts, or
retired Chief Justices, since last sessionP
Has any order in coundil been passed relating ta the judgesP
'Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTMy impression is there is none, but if my
hion. friend wil put his question in the
ordinary shape I will try and obtain an
answer.
ANIMAL CONTAGIQUS
AMENDMENT

DISEASES ACT
BILL.

SECOND READING.
Han. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved the second reading of Bill (No. 18)
An Act ta amend the Animal Contagious
Diseases Act. He said: As I intimated
across the floor, one .af the chief abjects of
this Bill is ta increase the surn which
might be paid in the case of slaughtered
animais. At present the statute fixes a
certain sum, but there is a further pro.
vision, as I arn advised, that the compensation for slaughtered animais should be
two-thirds of their value. The Bill before
us will alter that and allow an amaunt
equal ta that set forth ta be paid. It will
not confine it, as at present, ta two-thirds
of the amount. That is the chief provision
in the Bill. Anather is ta correct an error
made by the revisers.
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
was read a second time.

MARCH 4, 1909

101

POST OFFICE ACT AMENDMENT BILL. masterly mind in defining what a registered damestic article was. Their main abSECOND READING.
ject was te facilitate the transmission ai
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT parcels, and mare particularly owing te the
moved the second reading of Bill (No. 19) iact that under the terma ai the postai conAn Act to aznend the Post Office Act. He vention held at Rome two or three years aga,
said: My hon. friend opposite was desirous at which Canada was represented, and ta,
of learning whether suffragettes could be which we becarne parties, the Post Office
sent by mail under this clause. I have Department ai Canada, has signified its
consulted the Postmaster General, and he willingness te pay an indemnity for lost
is rather of opinion they could, if that sort registered parcels up ta a certain value.
of animal should ever exist here.
Thase are the abjecte ai making this
. Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What I wanted ameudment. I will take the suggestion ai
te know is if $25 would cover the value of my hon. iriend, and if lie chooses himsebf
ta draft an interpretatian clause I shah)
the registered article if loat?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- be glad te consider it.
I amn not conversant with the value of the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTarticle ini othdr countries. There are places Then I shaîl suggest ta the Postmaster
where their value wauld be rather belaw General that lie exercise his talent as a
zero. Generally speaking, I should think draitsman. It is a matter that any body
$25 would cover the average value of an flot expert in those details miglit find same
article which chains itself te a grille, and difficulty in doing
persecutes ministers ai the Crown.
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not care ta,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That particular undertake it.
suffragette wauld be making herself a livHan. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
ing epistle.
there any additional postage te be paid on
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTone ai those domestic articles, or an orThe British Act has been amended to meet dinary registered letter ta imure compenthe case. With respect te. the amount fixed, sation if it should be hast P In other words,
the sum appears ta be $25. which is al- wiil there be additional postage in the way
lowed in a case ai boss or damage of parcels ai insurance ta secure payment for the arai this description in the United States and ticle if it should be hast ?
apparently also in England.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What the ChamApparently nat, as f ar as the notes given
ber desired the other day was ta have some
me show, but that is a matter that is
information given as ta 'what the termn te
capable ai being regulated, under the
domestie article' embraced.
Post Office Act, by the post office authariHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- ties. If they find that the lasses under
That question I also put, and was told it this system prove ta be considerable, then
had references chiefly ta articles sueh as no doubt they would find it necessary ta
are now being sent freelY from one counzry increase the cost ai a registered letter, but
ta anather under the parcel post sYstem, I amn iniormed that up ta the present tirne
which it is desired by the Post Office De- the lasses have been extremely amall, ampartment ta extend considerably.
af
aunting ta as little as one-thousandth
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wauld it not be one per cent, in whidh case the probability
wise ta add an interpretation clause P
is the present rate 'will be sufficient te
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- meet any loss the department miglit pasit would. I will mention it ta the Post- sibly incur. The question ai transmitting
master General for consideration when we moneys tbrough the mails by registered
put this through a Committee ai the letter i.s not one that the post office deWhale. I endeavaured ta extract a correct sires ta encourage. It is putting a great
definitian ai it, but there appeared ta be deal tea mucli temptatian before the emdifficulties in what I miglit cail the post playees ai the post office for one thing.

102

SENATE

and another is that every day throughout
Canada the facilities for transmitting
money, either through the post office itself
i the shape of money orders, or by express, or through the banks, are being
multiplied so rapidly that there is not
much occasion for sending money except
i very amail amounts by registered letter.
The motion was agreed to.
SECRET COMMISSIONS BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD
CARTWRIGHT
moved the second reading of Bill (No. 31)
An Act to prevent the payment or acceptance of illicit or secret commissions and
other like practices.
He said : Do my hon. friends wish to
discuss the priciple of this Bill now? If
so I shall postpone the second reading.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If it is understood that the principle may be discussed
in committee, there is no -objection to letting the Bill take a stage.
Hon. Sir RICHARD ,CARTWRIGHTThen I shall move the second reading 'with
the understanding that the Bill may be
discussed as freely i comniittee as at the,
second reading.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second tijne.

ary haw than heretofore. The details cari
be discussed i conunittee.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Perhaps my right
bon. friend would not object to allow this
order* to stand over?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
have no objection.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not wish Wo
interfere, but the understanding is that the discussion may take place i committee, where
we can consider the exact phraseology o!
the Bill.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If
my hon. friend would prefer to discuss the
Bill at the second reading I have no objections.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That would be
more satisfsctory Wome.
The second reading was. postponed untH'
Tuesday next.
DELAYED REPORTS.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the House adjourns, I should like Wo iquire if any progress has been made with the translation
of two reports placed on the table hast year
-the report on the Civil Service and the
report 'on the Quebec bridge? We have not
yet received the French version of either of
them.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTBill (D) An Act to incorporate the British I am not able to .answer at the moment,
Colonial Fire Insurance Company.-(Hon. but I shahl make a note of it and iquire
Mr. Choquette).
and let my hon. friend know.
GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved the second reading of Bil (No. 20)
An Act to amend the Government Railways
Act. He said: The object o! this measure
is to place the governinent railways more
fully i the position o! ordinary railways
with respect to suits that may be broughit
against it for damages sustained from any
cause. The intention was declared in one
of the previous Acts passed by the House
of Commons hast year, but on looking into
the matter the law cherk advised that certai amnendmients required to be made for
the purpose of bringing the governiment
rai]way more under the control of the ordinHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I should like to
ask the leader of the House if he is able
W6 give us any idea when we are Woreceive
the report of the Board o! Railway Commissioners? It will soon be twelve months
since the close of their year.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI laid that on the table a couple of days
ago.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In print?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt has not been printed, but it was laid on
the table. I had a copy specialhy made for
my hon. friend.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Why
port not in printed formP

is this re-

MARCH 5, 1909
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI have flot received it in any shape except the one mentioned, and that is precisely the way it was placed before the
House of Gommons. I presume the Joint
Committee on Printing will give instructions as to the printing of it.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Why is a different
course pursued with reference to the printing of this report from that of the reporte
of other departments?
Hon. Sir RICHARD- CARTWRIGHTThat is for the Printing Committee
ta
This is flot a departmental report in say.
the
ordinary sense.
Hon. "Mr, FERGUSON-It is a report
called fo r by an Act of Parliaxnent so be
laid on the table cf this House, and it is
a very important one. We want te know
what the commission is doing.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe Printing Committee has charge of it.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It seems extra.
ordinary that there should be a keeping
back cf the work cf this. Rallway Commilssion in the way in which it has been donc.
The year cnded on the 3lBt cf March. The
Act cails for it being laid on the table of
the House, and any one would assume that
it would be laid on the table lîke any ether
document in printed form, and here wc
are nearly twelvc months past the end cf
the financial year and we have not yet re.
oeived this information.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The report has been laid on the- table cf
this House.

103

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTReports cf departments are printed. I do
noi think the rule has been s.pplied te a
case of this kind.
Hon. Mr. COFFEY-The questien of the
printing cf this report has net yet been
submfittcd to the members cf the joint
committce cf both Hous.
A fcw days
age the committce organized and are getting
inta shape for a meeting. This matter may
ceme up for censideratien at our firat,meeting, and if 8e wc wiil decide whether the
report should or eheuld net be printed.
Hen. Mr. FERGUSON-My reason for
calling attention ta the matter is that we
had a great deal cf treuble wlth the statietics of the Railway Commission Beard last
ycar, and I have been looking fer their report this year. We are now ncarly haîf
through the session. First it was laid in
manuscript before the House cf Commens.
and we were oeleokcd. Now, it has been
laid on the table cf the Senate in manuscript, and it has not yet been ordered ta
bis printed. It wiil flnaily be erdered tc
be printed and the resuit wiil be that it
w'Ill be anether month before wc receive
the printed copy, and we are dealing with
matters affecting this board nearly ail the
tiine.
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock
to-morrow.

THE SENÂTE.
01'rÂwA, Friday, March 5, 1909.

The SPEAKER teck the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Ycs, but it was
Prayers and routine procccdings.
not lfor a long time aftcr it was due, and
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.
it is in manuscript, which wc know is net
useful for general reference.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I thei lbrders of the day are called, with the
think my hon. fricnd will find that I arn permission of the Senate, I should like te
correct in stating that the custom ie that caîl the attention cf the House te a matter
the Committee on Printing should decide which affects the veracity of myself and
It will be
whcther a document should be printed or the histary cf the country.
rcmembered that when the hon, ex-Secnot.
retary cf State was discussing the quesHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Why should that tien cf Senate reform yesterday he teck
rule be applied te thi-s document and net the oppertunity ta arraign the Conserte other documents which are printed be- vative party, particularly in the Senate,
fore parliament meets?
fer their action et the time the me-

SENATE
tion was made for the adoption of the
Bill for the construction of the Esquimait
and Nanaimo Railway as a part of the
transcontinental scheme connecting British
Columbia by rail with the eastern portion
of Canada. In speaking of the Senate, the
hon. ýnember from de Salaberry (Hon. Mr.
Beique) said in a jocular way: ' My hon.
friend will admit it is very much improved.'
The following is the Teport of what occurred as it appears in the debates:

being called for, they were taken down as follows:CONTENTS:

Messieurs.
Âikeüa,
Alexander,
Allan,
Armand,
Bellerose,
Benson.

Dumouchel.
Flint,
Hamilton (Inkerman),
Hamilton (Kingston),
MoClelan,
MacPherson,
Penny,
Ryan,
Seýymonr,
Trudel,
Vidal.-23.

Campbell.
Chapais,
Chinie,
Dever,

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-My hon. friend will Dickey.
admit that the Senate has very much im-

proved.
Hon. Mr. 4SCOTT-Oh, 1 admit that, of
course.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Perhaps
it wonld be juat as well ta aay thrt the principal parties who took action in the manner
my hon. friend refera te were leading Li
orale.
Bion. Mr. SU(YI'T-In my judgment tbey

NON-CONTENTS:

Messieurs.
Baillargeon,
Brown.
Bureau,
Carrail,

Letellier de St. Just,
MacDonald,
Miller.
Montgomery,
Muirhead,

Chaffers,
Christie (Speaker),
Paquet.
were not leading Liberals.
Cormier.
Scott,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It ti
Cornwall.
Simpson,
very easy ta aee that 1 arn correct, by read.
Raythorne,
Skead.
ing the namnes.
Ward.-21.
Hon. Mr. SCOT-I amn apeaking now of Ilovian.
Leonard.
the Senate Chamber.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--So arn I.
So it was resolved in the affirmative.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-There were not many.
The question being then put on the main
There may have been one or two who strayed motion, as amended, the saine waa algo reaway frorn the true fold, but we were largely
outnnrnbered here, and it did net make any

difference.
My hon. iriend, the ex-Secretary of State,
then eadded in a most emphatic manner:
I deny positively that statement,' referring te the statement made by myseif. Il
any bon. gentleman who is interested in thio
matter wifl take the trouble ta read the
debates in the Senate of 1875, he wrnl find
that debate on pages 338 and 339. I shafl
not take the trouble ta read it, but hon.
gentlemen will find here the opinion expressed et that time. If hon. gentlemen
will turn ta the Senate 'Journalîs' cf 1875.
at Page 423, they will find the following
recordThe order of the day being read for the
second reading of the Bill intituled: An Acet
ta provide for the, construction of a railway

frorn Esquimalt ta Nanaimo, in British Col-

umbia,
The Honourable iMr. Scott moved, aeconded
by the Honourable 1fr. Penny,
That the said Bill be now read a second
time.
The Honourable Mifr. Aiýkens moved in
amendmnent, seconded by the Honomrable Mfr.
Alexander, 'ta leave out 'now,' and after
time' inserit 'this day six months.'
Âfter debate.
The question of concurrence beîng put
thereon, the flouse divided, and the names
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

solved in the affirmative.
The Hanse continned ta ait until twelve of
the clook, midnight.
In that division four Liberals voted
againat the Bull, and any anc who knows
thé 'history of the political parties in this
country knows very well that Mr. Penny
was <)ne of the leading Liberals of the city
of Montreal, owner and editor of the Moutreal ' Herald,' which was the organ of the
party at that time. Mr. Flint was always
a Liberal, and the late Mr. Dever was a
strong supporter of the government. at that
time. Mr. McClelan was one oi the leading
Liberals of the -province of New Brunswick
and was

afterwards made governor.

Of

those who supported the government on
that occasion, no less than nine were conservatives.
The vote staod twenty-three
yeas ta twenty-one naya. Had the Liberals
voted with their party the motion would
have been loat by 25 ta 19. This -record
shows that nearly one-haîf of those who
voted against the six months' hoiat were
Conservatives. If you turn ta ' Canada
under British Rule,' by Bourinot, you wihl
find the following at page 242:
The people of British Columbia were
bggrieved at the delay in building the rail-

MARCH 5, 1909

105

were macle to
way,difficulty through the intervention arrang2 enough te stray frem hie own party te asthe and several efforts
of the
Earl of Carnarvon, Colonial 8ecretary of sist me. Mr. Dever always voted with thé
State, of the Governor General when lie Conservative party at that time.
'visited the province in .1876,and of Mr., afterwards Sir James Edgar, who wau authorized
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
to treat wi'th the provincial goverument on
the subject. àt the instance of the Secretary
Hon. Mr. BCOTT-It was long after that
government agreed
cf State, theroad from Esquimait to build im- he seceded. Mr. McClelan was a Liberal
mXedit
to Nanaîm
on Vancuver Iuland, to prosecute the. surveys and se was Mr. MeMaster. Mr. McMaster
with vigour and make arrangements for the was a special friend of Mr. Blake's. There
completion cf the railway in 18WO. Blake
Mr.
opposed these terms, and in doig se ne doubt are only two names there that are open te
represensted the views of a large Ïbody of the question, and Mr. Penny's, I say most
Liberal party, who helieved that the govern- distinctly, je there by errer.
ment cf Canada hadl in 1871 entered into the
compact with British Columbia without guEfHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
cient considersttion cf the gravity of the
obliation they were incurring.
The tom-_ bon. gentleman ie net dealing with t.he
mono, however, passed the Esquimait and motion te which I called hie attention.
Nanaime BiR cnly te hear of its rejection
in the Senate, where some Liberals united
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I understeod my hon.
with the Conservative majority te defeat it.
friend te say that it was due te the secession
My only object ini referring te this matter of some Liberals that the Bll was lest ini
ie te show that my statement was correct; the Senate. I .deny that. I admitted that
that the Bill was defeated in the Senùýte two or three Liberals had strayed away
through the action of sorne leading Lib- eom. the fold. At that time Mr. Miler ivas
erals, and that rnnny leading Liberale, ini- voting with me. You will find, if you loek
cluding Mr. Blake, et the tirne opposed thc over the early ' Parliamentary Companion '
passage of that Bill and the construction that Mr. Miller wae put down as a Liberal
of the rond. It is simply a question of and he supported me in many motions at
veracity as between the ex-Secretary of that tirne. There is ne question about that.
State and myseîf. 1 may be told that an Mr. Skead was the only Conservative in
old politician like myseif should net be that liet.
thin-skinned. 1 amn not thin-skinned li disHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Can
cussing political matters, but when the
statement 1 made affecting the history of the hon. gentleman tell me whnt division
what took place in parliament in Limes he is readingP
*passed was contradicted se positively and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn reading the divivehemently, as it was yesterday by the sien on the six menthe' hoist. And I say
hon. gentleman, 1 consider it n matter cf that Mr. Penny's name is there by an
duty te inyseif; and te vindicate my own errer, because he seconded and supported
veracity 'te set myself rlght, and te show me in the motion, nnd that the only rnemthat my statement was strictly correct.
bers who wandered away from, the bold were
two. Mr. MeMaster was a specis.l friend
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn quite aware that of Edward Blake and 1 presume that was
Mr. Blake opposed the Bill in the other the reason cf it.
Cha.mber. 1 said that the majority was
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is.
large. 1 stnted aIse that two or three gen.
tlemen in the Senate strnyed away from all very well for the hon, gentleman te say,
the fold. I think Mr. Penny's name je im- Mr. Penny's name was there by inistake.
preperly rccorded, because he was te
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon, gentlemen
seconder cf my motion. What I stated was ie eplitting haire.
There were only one or
that the defeat of the Bill wne due to the two gentlemen
who voted out cf personal
Conservative party in the Senate.
There considerations.
were only two Conservatives who voted with
me. No one doubts that Mr. Skead was e
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELL-T
Conservative, but he was a special friend muet express my very grent nstenlshrnent
cf mine and eccasionally in this Chamber, at the position taken by the hon. gentle.
when he snw me i a tight place, wne kind man. I rend the names cf nine Conserva-.

SENATE
tives who voted with the Liberal party at hotel and the steel rails purchase are just
that time on the question of the six mont.hs' as far fîom being correct as his statement
with regard to the vote on the Esquimaît
hoist.
and Nanalino Bill to which I have called
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hion. gentleman your attention. I have a pretty good recolcannot find nine Conservatives.
lection of what took place, because I made
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Whc the motion myself ini the lower House in
was Mr. Carrail, of British Columbia? He reference to some of these questions, and
the hon. gentleman had better endeav>ur
was a Conservative.
te adhere strictly te the history of the counHon. Mr. SCOTT-He was a local man.
try when hie attempts to lecture this H-ouse
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Local upon their duty in future.
whatP He was a senator appointed to reTHIRD READING.
present British Columbia and had just as
Bill (A) An Act relating to the Water
much right to vote here as the hion. gentleman himself, and Mr. Chafleis was another Caniage of Goods.-(Hon. Mr. Camppbell).
Conservative and Mr. Cornwall-no one
SECOND READINGS.
will deny hie was a Conservative. Mr. HowIan was a Conservative.
Bill (No. 28) An Act respecting the Union
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, hie voted with the Station and other joint facilities of the
Grand Trunk Pacifie Railway Company and
goverument.
the Midland Railway of Manitoba at PortHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Was hie not a age la Prairie.-(Hon. Mi. Watson).
Conservative?
Bill (No. .41) An Act respecting the TilsonHon. Mi. SCOTT-Was hie not appointed buig, Lake Erie and Pacifie Railway Coinpany.-(Hon. Mr. Wilson).
Lieutenant Governor P
Bill (F) An Act to incorporate the GovHon. Mr. FERGUSON. He was neyer
errnng Council of the Salvation Army in
anything else but a Conservative.
Canada.-(Hon. Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-And did not the govGOVERNMENT RAILWAY ACT AMENDernment reappoint him to the SenateP
MENT BILL.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
SECOND READING.
does not change his politics. Mr. MacDonaid, t.he present member, waa a Conser.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
ative.
moved the second îeading of Bill (No. 20)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He was returned as a An Act to amend the Government Railway
Libera]. Look up the ' Paliamentary Com- Act.
.panion' of 1875 and you will find Mr. MacHe said:- There will be no -objection to
Donald in the Liberal column.
the ;principle of the Bill, which is simply
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And to bring the goveînment railways more
I suppose Mr. Miller was a Liberal and Mr. coropletely under the ordinary law and put
them on a level with other îailways in the
MontgomeryP
matter of damages sustained by animais
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He was a most posi- straying on the tîack. I will give full detaiis-although there are not many te be
tive Conservative.
MACKENZIE BOWELL-I given-when we go into committee.
Hon. 'Sir
would suggest to the hon. gentleman, in a]]
Hon. Mi. FERGUSON-I have looked
sincerity, that it would be better to own into this Bill since I asked my hion. friend
up the coin at once and flot tîy to wîiggle to hold it over yesterday, and I see nothing
out of it. I could show, if I took the time. objectionable in it at ail. I think it is a
that the hon. gentleman's whole stateinent very good measure -and we can have no
in reference to the purchase of the Neebing objection to the second reading being taken.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MARCH 9, 1909
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
The CLERK 0F THE SENATE-The error
was read a second time.
in the minutes referred to in the hon.
gentleman's motion was corrected the nexi
BILLS INTRODUCED.
mnorning.
Bill <No. 23) An Act respecting the AlHon. Mir. LANDRY-I made the motion
berta Central Railway Cuompany.-<Hon. because I saw by the proceedigs of the
Mr. Talbot).
House of Gommrons that Mr. Sproule had
Bill <25) An Act respecting the joint sec- given notice that he intended te introduce
tion of the Canadian Pacifie Railway Com- a Bill to amend the Dominion Lands Act,
pany and the Grand Trunk Pacifie Railway and, in giving hie reasons why that Bill
CJompany at Fort William, Ont.-<Hon. Mr. was brought forward in the House of Commono, he produced a copy of the minutes and
Watson).
proceedinga of the Senate relating ta the
The Senate adjourned till Tuesday next said Bill, and in those minutes and proceedings it was stated that the amendment
at three o'clock.
of the Hon. Mr. Lougheed had been accepted, and he complained that; alter it
had been accepted in the Senate that Bill
THE SEI<ATE.
had been returned to the Hanse of ComO*IAwA, Tuesday, March 9, 1909.
mons, and he did not understand why,
when they received it in the House of ComThe SPEAKER took the Chair at Three mous, the
amendment did not appear. How
o'elock.
did it happen? Somebody must have interfered snd made a change, because when
Prayers and routine proceedings.
the massage firat came *from the Senate
PRECEDENCE 0F JUDGES 0F THE SU- notbing in it related to the amendment.
That was very natural, becau-se it had been
PREME COURT.
negatived in this House, but our journals
INQUIRY.
or minutes of the proceedings reported that
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired cf the gov- it had been accepted and that *a message
containing that acceptance h!ad been sent
ern-ifent:
down to the House of Gommons. However,
Sino. the last session of parliament has any
order in council been passed by the Dominion I hear from the clerk of the Senate that
government aflecting the. social position, the 'Journals' have since been corrected,
either as to precedence or otherwise, which but as we had not the ' Journala '
at the
the chief justices or retired chief justices of
the Supreme Court, or of any other federal time I couild flot see that the correction had
or provincial court, then occupied? .
been made. It -was for that reason that I
If the answer is in the affirmative, on what
date, and what was the tenor of sucli order made that motion so as ta have the correcin concil P
tion properly made. If it bas been corrected I need not press my second motion
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
am advised by the couneil that no aucb because it is just to attain the objeat which
bas been attained since the Bill lef t this
order bas been passed.
House.
CORRECTION 0F MINUTES 0F THE
The SPEAKER-I may etate for the inSENATE.
formation of the hon, gentleman that this
error was made through tbe unrevised ediMOTION.
tion of the ' Debabes,» msking it appear
Hon. Mr. LANDRY moved:
the other way, but that was eorrected the
That the Minutes of Proceedings of the following day. The 'Journals,' the originale
Senate of Canada of -the second distinct sit- o! which I hold in my hand, from which
ting of the Senate on July 17, 1908, be now
i ead at the Table as far as they concern the they we-re made, were 'correct and are
proceedings of this Houe concerning Bull correct up ta this time. I may also stats
(181) intituled: 'An Act te consolidate and
amend the Acte respecting the Publie Lands that I am informed by the Clerk of the
House that Mr. Sprouie was seen on the
of the Dominion,' as amended.

SENATE
subject and the matter was explained
to him. He came over here, saw the
ürigina]s and was quite satisfied with what
eppears here as being the correct state of
affaire.

ly iliformed, in substance at any rate, that a
rider bas been added by the United States
Senate te the treaty as agreed utpon with
our comiisioners.
The resolution in
question was, I understand, communioated
te the commiesioners. I believe that within
Hon. Mr. LKNDRY-That wae since h:ý a few days, perhaps wit.hin the next two.
gave notice ci hie motion ini the House, daye, we shall
be in a tposition te lay the
I su~ppose?
papers on the table of this House and on
the table of the House of Commons.
The SPEAKER-I think so.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Do I understand
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-With those explanations, with the permission of the House. that the resolution je te be hereafter conI wish to withdraw the second motion of sidered by the Canadian commissioners P
which I have given notice and which. ie as
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
follows:
is to be coneidered hereafter by ourselves.
That the entry in the Minutes of ProceedHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Aiter ite adoption
inge of the Senate of Canada of the proceed_uewih place during the second dis- by the United States Senate P
took
tinct sitting of the Senate on July 17, 1908,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTin relation with the passing of Bill 181, intituled: ' An Act to consolidate and amend the That doe not bind us. It remains for us
Acts respecting the Public Lands of the to consider it.
Dominion,' be corected by substituting the
word 'negative' to the word 'affirmative' 'in
line 21 and by striking out the 22nd THE SENATE REFORM RESOLUTIONS.
and 23rd hunes, and the word 'further' in
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the orders of
linos 24 and 25, page 1166 of the printed copy
ci the minutes.
the day are called, I should like to brlng
The motion was withdrawn.
before the Senate a question concerning
our 'Minutes oi Proceedinge.'
The hon.
BILL INTRODUCED.
senator from Ottawa (Hon. Mr. Scott) had
two notices of motion on the paper relatBull (G) An Act to amend the Act relatîng to Senate reform. One containing three
lng te Bille of Exch-ange, Cheques and paragraphe was an alteration of the 'second
Promisory Notes.-(Hon. Mr. Choquette).
motion. The minutes show that this was
moved and eeconded, but.the second series
WATERWAYS TREATY.
of resolutione was moved immediately as
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the orders if it had been amended. When wa-s the
ci the day are called, may I ask the right amendment adoptedP
hion, leader of the House what grounds
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I am not aware, if
there are for the reporte which have recently appeared in the press that the United notice is given of a proposed axnendment
States Senate ini considering the Waterway's before iA is oonsidered by the House, that
treaty has annexed to the treaty a reso- there is any objection to its adoption. The
lution te overcome the objections which motion that I made, seconded by Mr. Perhave been raieed by the senator from ley, applied te the fiast three paragraphs
Michigan? While I presume my right hon. of wvhich I had given notice. I spoke of it
friend may not be prepared te give the as an amended motion.
contents of that resolution te the House
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If I understand it.
or te the country, may I aek him if the the motion made on the 4th of March was
contente of the resolution were made a new motion -altegether.
known te the commissioners representing
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Of which notice had
Canada before the introduction of the
been given.
resolution on the floor of« the United
States Senate?
Hon. Mi. LANDRY-Instead of giving
a new motion, the hion. gentleman -wanted
lion. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The
lion. gentleman has, I believe, been correct- to alter the second motionP
The. SPEAKER

109

MARCH 9, 1909
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-In that case no
notice of the second motion was given.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. gentleman could have withdrawn his motion
and submitted a new one, or with leave cf
the House could have amended the other.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But hie did not do
that.
Hon. Mr.
substitution
tion, and as
of the House

SCOTT-I gave notice of the
and spoke of it as a substitubeing adopted, and the Clerk
macle the change ini the notice.

Bull (No. 42) An Act respecting the Toronto, Niagara and Western Railway Company.-(Hlon. Mr. Beique).
Bull (No. 43) An Act reepecting the Hudson Bay suid Pacific RAilway Company.(Hon. Mr. Watson).
Bfi (No. 47) An Act respecting the Guelph
and Goderich Railway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. McMullen).
null (No. 53) An Act respectig the
Waikerton and Lucknow Railway Company.
-(Hon. Mr. MeMuflen).
THIRD REÂDINGS.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It should have disBill (No. 26) An Act respecting the Kooteappeared from the Order Paper.
nay Central Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I am flot quite so Perley).
Bill (No. 13> An Act respecting the Grand
technical.
Trunk Railway Company of Canada.-Hon.
A LOAN TO THE GRAND TRUNK
Mr. Gibson).
PACIFIO.
Bill (No. 12) An Act reapecting the ColHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before the orders lingwoo&- Southern Railway Company.-ci the day are called, may I ask the leader (Hon. Mr. McMullen).
of the House whether there is any truth
Bill (No. 9) An Act respecting the Branin the statement contained i the papers don Transfer Railway Company.-(Hon.
of yesterday that the Grand Trunk Pacifie Mr. Young).
has applied to the government for a loan
cf ten million -dollars in consequence of ANIMAL CONTAGIQUS DISEASES ACT
difficulties they are experiencing ini the couAMENDMENT BILL.
struction of their railway, and especially in
REPORTED FROM COMMITTE.
the matter of financing? Ia my hon. friend
prepared to make any statement as to The House resolved itseif into a Commitwhether the report which has appeared in tee cf the Whole on Bill (No. 18) An Act
the press is correctP,
to axnend the Animal Contagions Diseases
Act.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Bo
(In the Committee).
far I can make a statement to my
hon. friend, that the Grand Trunk have
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, from the coinittee.
applied for.a considerable advance to enreported the Bil without amendment.
able them to carry on the work that they
are engaged in. The matter, I think, has POST OFFICE ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
been mentioned already on the floor of the
REPORTED PROM COMMITTEE.
Hlouse o! Gommons, and the Finance MinThe Homse resolved itseif into a Cornister will be prepared, I believe, within a
very short time to make a stateinent on mittee. of the Whole on Bibl (No. 19) An
the subject.
The lion. gentleman will Act to amend the Post Office Act.
understand that under these circurnatances
(In the Committee).
I cannot go further than just mention to
him that that 'will be clone.
On clause 1,
Paragraph (k) cf subsection 1 of section 9
of the Post Office Act, chapter 68 cf the reBill (No. 36) An Act respecting the South- vised statutes, 1906, is amended by adding
boss
ern Central Pacifie Railway Company- thereto the words 'and ta compensate for each
not exceeding twenty-five dollars for
(Hon. Mr. Young).
registered domestia article.'
BILLS INTRODUCED.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hion. friend article, but simply the transmission bewas to obtain information as to what a 'tween two points in Canada.
Iregistered domestic article' niight be.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My Quite so. That is what At means.
hion. £riend stated a supposition of what it
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-That is wh*at it is
might be, and the Post Office authorities
rather think that might occur in England, intended to mean.
but flot in Canada. What the Post Office
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But it certainly
authorities intend to do is to distinguish
does not so express it.
between articles registered for transmission
in Canada as against articles registered for
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
transmission abroad, and they say that the tbink that, legally speaking, no difficulty
word 'domestic' is the one which ia used would arise, and my hon. friend knowing
in the United States statute to which they that this compensation being an act of
conform. The other part of it is sinply grace on the part of the government, it wiIl
fixing the linit of compensation. The hon. not be subjected to the strict legal inter.
gentleman knows that at present the gov- pretation that it might otherwise be. 1
erninent are not responsible for registered do not think a particle of mischief will
parcels and, in any case, I think it would arise. Of course, if the hon. gentleman
be as an act of grace that they would be thought the matter o! sufficient importance,
responsible for any loss in the trans- on the third reading hie might suggest an
mission of registered articles. They are amendment, and I shail have pleasure in
now willing ta compensate, on proper submitting it to the Post Office authorities,
cause being shown, wherever it amounts and I dare say they wilI concur. But T
to a sum. not exceeding $25, that being do not think any eerions miachief would
the amount which they are informed ia at arise under it as it is.
piesent paid both in the United States
and in Great Britain. It is £5 in Great
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The foreign
Britamn and $25 in the United States.
It article is already provided for.
seems a reasonable provision, and I presume the House will have no objection to Hon. Mr. POWER-I do flot quite concur
in the view that bas been expressed.
I
it.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand think the meaning which. the ordinary readthat the phrase. 'domestic article ' is to be er-and it is the ordinary reader who is
interpreted as meaning an article posted supposed to interpret the Act-would be
that it meant each registered domestic
between twopoints in Canada?
article. He would neyer consider that it
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-As was an article which went from one point
ini Canada to another.
He would think
distinguished from the word ' foreign.'
that it was either a Canadian article or
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me some article connected with domestic if e.
it would have been very much. better to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He might think
have made it clearer, registered say in
Canada to a post office in Canada. The it related to pots and pans.
word domestic there inight be interpreted
Hon. Mr. POWER-the point raised by
to mean a particular class of article.
the hion, leader of the opposition is weIl
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- taken. I have neyer been able to symBut the word bas been used, and is pretty pathize with the feeling that it is the duty
well established from the use of it in the o! the Senate to risk misapprehiension rather
than amend a Bill coming from the other
United States.
House. I think we are here to amend these
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My bon. friend Bills and to have the laws we pass so
will see that it qualifies the word article, worded that there la no chance of their
whereas it ia not intended to qualify the being misunderstood.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MARCH 9, 1909
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The foreign
article is already compensated for through
an international arrangement, 50 francs being the figure. With the amendment it will
be quite apparent that it is the domestic
article that 'wil get the advantage of the $25
compensation. I think if the amendment
is read with the conteit it will be f airly
clear.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I was going ta make.
this suggestion: Why would it not be better ta change the word d<>mestic and say
'mailed from one post office in Canada ta
any otherP' If words of that kind were inserted, it would avoid any misapprehienaion
as to the meaning of the word 'domestic.'
As in-terpreted by the Minister of Trade
and Commerce, it is intelligible enough; but
the ordinary reader neyer woulld think of
putting that interpretation upon it, because
' domestic article' might be interpreted as
being a tin pan or a kettle.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
will mention my hion. friend's view ta
the Postmaster General. My only desire
is ta make this law as workable as possible.
He can consider it before the third reading
of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is not necessary
to give notice of an aanendment ta a public
Bfi; but in order te avoid any misapprehension, I give notice that I will move
that it b. amended so as ta read «any
article registered from a point in Canada
ta another point in Canada.'
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, from the committee,
reported the Bill withaut amendnient.
GOVERNMENT A}TNUITIES BILL.
REPORTED PROM
The House resolved
mittee of the Whole on
amend the Government

COMMITTEE.
itself into a ComBill (B), an Act ta
Annuities Act.

(In the Commîttee).
On clause 2,
Siubsection 1 of section 8 of the Government
Annuities Act, 1908, is hereby amended by adding at the. end thereof the words, 'exo2pt, in
the case of husband and wife, as regards annuities purchased before their marriage.'

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWIRIGHT-I
mnight explain ta my haon. friend that the
reason for introducing this clause is that
quite a demand seems likely ta arise for
the purchase of deferred- annuities, bath in
the case of people over age, and in the case
of children. It would obviously be a hardship if, after having completed the purchase
of an annuity of three or four or five hundred dollars, and a number of years having
elapsed, that the parties should be penalized if they came te marry another persan who had likewise purchased an annuity. The cases will not be very frequent;
but in such cases, where the transactian
has been completed, or the annuity has
been contracted, I think that it is only
reasonable that no discouragement should
be placed, in a country luke Canada, in the
way of people getting married, and therefore, I propose that in sucli cases they be
allowed te continue their bargain with the
government. It might increase the arnount
at the extreme point te perhaps $ 1,000 or
$ 1,200 in extreme cases, but it is nat lukely
that it would occur often.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 3,
S. The, said section 8 is hereby furtiier
amended by adding thereto as subsectien 5
thereof the, following:
5. When a married man who has purchaeed
an ennuity payable ta himself applies te have
a portion thereof oenverted into an annuity
payable te his wife, the, Minister may make
such conversion, if<a) the application is made not less than
three menthe befor, the time w.hen the anuuity
becomes payable; and<b) the annuity so made a able to the wife
dos net exoeed one-half ofti e husband'a annuity; and-(c) the provieions of this Act and any rejulatione made under thie Act are complied with
in ail material respects.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe reason for this clause is this: It will
happen occasionally-may happen perhaps
frequently-that a man having become passessed of an annuity cf a considerable
amount, may at the time that the transaction is completed and he becomes seized
cf the annuity, wish to divide it with his
wife. To that, I think, there can be no
objection at all on the grounds of public
policy. I thiûk the House will be disposed
rather ta look with f avour on that. We do
not think it would be desirable that any

SENATE
persons should be allowed to strip themselves of an annuity that they have purchased, and, therefore, the limitation is
introduced that a man divide up to onehalf with bis wife; but let us go further.
Cases may possibly have occurred, or might
possibly occur, in which the lady might be
so completely the parainount partner that
she would require hier spouse to strip himself of his annuity altogether. That, I
think, would flot be ini the public interest,
and I propose to lixnit it, therefore, to a
division of one-half.

of the same age, she gets exactly the saine
annuity bie gets. If she is younger, say
five or six years below the earliest age
at whicb abe could acquire the annuity.
it will go on accuinuiating. If she is of
the age of 55 she 'will get whatever the
amount will purchase li the case of a
lady at that turne of life.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-As f ar as I can
gather from my right bon. friend's renairks,
it will not be exactly a division but a new
contract.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In some cases
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTthe clause may operate rather favourably
for the msrried couple. Supposing they are There will be a division of the amount,
about the saine age, and having reached but how mucb it might purchase 'would
within, say, three. months of the age of depend on the age of the wile. Suppos60, it may turu out that the huaband is ing hie bad $3,000 to bis credit, hie migbt
flot likely to live very long, while the wife choose Woretain two-thirds and give to bis
may be very healthy and have a chance wife wbatever one-third. of the money
of living a good many years. It will be Wo bis credit would purchase. He muet
a deoided advantage to this couple Wobe flot exceed bal! the amount. That is the
able Wotransfer a part of the annuity Woonly limitation upon it.
the one who la most likely to live. I do
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Supposing a diviflot object to it. Perhapa it is a preanini
that married couples at that age might be sion is made on that basis, and the two
entitled Wo. But take a case where the should continue to live, there would be
wife may be ten years uxider the age of a larger annuity than the Act provides for
the husband. The part which is conveyed the two of them taken together.
to hier will not be payable bef are the
age of 55. Will the amount go on accumuHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-We
lating until she reaches that age?
would. fot allow the two Wo exceed thé
amount provided by the Act except as in
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I the case hereinbefore provided, wbich would
should say it would. Suppose the huaband not apply. The point is this: The mani bas
who desires Wo make this eettleinent bas a certain amount at bis credit. One-baîf
to bis credit as the accumulation of the of that bie keeps for bimself, the other baif
sums be bad paid, either in1 lump or ini he gives to bis wife. If she is of the saine
instalments, an amount of say $3,000, and age she gets exactly the saie es bie does,
that bis wife ia ten years younger than making allowance for the difference li
hlmnself, be would be entitled at the age longevity. If she is younger than hie is,
of 60, let us say, W $30 a yeax. He could she must take an annuity so mucb amaller,
apply balf oi this Wo
pay for bis own share but thie money would be dealt with just
of the annuity, and the balance hie could as if it were a new contract.
apply in the purchase of an annulty, on
the regular ternis, Wobe paid Wo bis wife
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Does my hon.
on attaining the age of 55 or 60. There friend suppose that in this case, wbere it
cau be no -possible risk of bass or confus- la divided, that the anxiuity woDuld become
ion in carrying out the provisions of the payable to the wife bef are she reached the
statute as tbey appear. The principle tbing prescribed age?
is that.by reason of these various payments,
no inatter how they are made, a certain
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTsumn is placed to the credit of the man. She would bave to wait until she reached
That hie divides witb bis wife. If abe is the age of 55.
Hlon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MARCH 9, 1909

113

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The money vould have the power,
under the regulations, Vo
be in the hands of the governmrent and let
him. take a litie more and give the lady
would be accumulating.
a lile less, taking cars iliat in the ultiHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- mate result it would not exceed the amount
proposede. It can be deait vith by regulaYes.
tion if neoessary. I apprehend, liowever,
Hon. Mr. FERGUBON-Supposing that that tlie numnber of suob cases vii]
be very
they bought~ an annuity of $600, and the small.
entfre amount liad been paid on the liusband's life. Say at the age of 55 ho lias
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Supposing sucli a
paid for an snnuity of $600. HEis vife ia case la possible, there should be some lile
only 45; she cannot, of course, begin to change made i tlie Ast Vo admit of a
receive payments until she reaches the age larger payment than $600 iu such, cases.
of 55, but thxe goveiment has thefr money. My right lion. friend speaks of the chance
of life of a female bslug Isiger than that
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTof ithe maie ai 55. In tlie case I speak of,
Bo far as the husband is concerned, for
the man's acs vould lie 55 and the wife'.
ha is lie would get fui] value. The lady
age 45, and in mcli cases the difeérence is
in a case of th'at kind, would be entitled to
rather the other way.
to the accumulation. She would have $1,500 put to her credit, and as soon as she
Hon. 8fr RICHARD CARTWRIGHTgot to thie age the accumnlated amount But she vould not be entitled
Vo anythig
woiild go to purchase an annuity for lier.
until alie reached the age of 55.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Would not that
Hon. Mr. POWERE-I do not see that it
entitie the two of them ultimately to more vould be a serious miahap if the lady did
than the $600 a yearP
receive over $300. The lav provfldes ihat
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It no annuity sai exceed $600. The case
put by the lion. member from Marshfleld
is possible, Borne sucli case miglit occur.
might in very rare cases, entitle the lady
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It certainly woiild Vo a lile more than vould make up the
ccur il tbis disasritýy i age should exist. $300.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tli 5 principle is
Hon. 8fr RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt would be a comparatively rare case, but recoguized in the ftrst clause that vs passed.
we cau make provision for that if need be. Such a contiugency could be met under
section 2, vhich provides that the huaband
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It would lead Vo and vifs may drav as large an annuity up Vo
a larger amount being paid Vo tliem than $1,200; but that only applies Vo cases vhere
the Act permits, that ia, if $600 is the the annuity lias been uegotiated before
maximum.
marriage.
'here
is no reason vliy
language sufficiently broad miglit flot be
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt is possible, but I would call attention Vo imported luVo the clause to cover thý cases
ibis fact; libers is a considerable disparit-y referred Vo.
between the amounts payable Vo the male
The clause vas adopted.
and the female. Alter the age of 55, the
lady's chance of 111e is considerably better
On clause 4,
than lier liusband's. In the case stated,
Section .10 of the said Ast is hereby repealed
it woiild require considerable accumulation and the following la substituted therefor:.
10. Except as otherwise provided in ithis
Vo bring lier annuity up Vo the full amount.
Act,
That, I think, would probably right itself tereat no property,orrlght, titie, benefit or iniin, undor,
arising ont of a contract
pretty veil; but there la no intention Vo for an annuity shall b. transferable, eiuber at
law or in equity.
deprive lier or hlm of any portion of thie
2. TIhe Miniister shahl
benefi. If the difference vas very material, affected by notice, howevernot; receive nor lie
given, of any trust
affecting an annuity or affecting moneys paid
of course in making the division vs
or payable in respect of an annuity.
REVX5EOD EDITION

SENATE
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTclause was suggested by the Department of Justice, pa.rt]y in consequence
of the introduction of section 2, and part]y
because they thought it desirable to make
the pJiraseology of the original Act a littie
plainer and clearer than it had been.

~Ihis

The clause was adopted.
On clause 5,
Section 12 of the said Act ie hereby repealed
and the following substitnted therefor:
12. When the annuitant or last survivor of
joint annuitants dies before the annuity becornes payable and any moneys have been
paid or deposited as consideration for the annuity,
<a) If there ie no express agreemnent between
the minister and the purchaser of the annuit
as to dealing with such rnoneye, ail suel
moneys shall be paid to the purchaser or his
legal representatives, with interest thereon
at the rate of three par cent per annuin, cernPounded yearly;
(b) If there je euch an express agreement
the moneys ehail be dealt with as thereby
provided.
2. This section shall apply te contracte
annuities entered into before the passing for
of
this Âct.
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What
reason for this?

is

thc

H1on. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe reason is this: The Departxnent of
Justice advise us that under the wording of
the Act-which by the by was slightly
altered from my own draft in the Flouse of
Commons-that without an expressed provision of this kind, we could flot make any
agreement for -the granting of an annuity
for the ter2ls indicatcd in our tables B.
Where Uic money had to be returned with
compound interest in the event of the party
dying before reaching the age of 55, or
whatever other age je agréed upon, we are
able to allow a certain annuity, but there
are a considerable numnber of persons, flotably single woinen and "ome single men,
or men who have no families, wh-o do not
desire te have the money returned te their
representatives, but who greatly prefer that
thcy should have a considerably enlarged
annuity thcmselves. It is to meet express
agreements made with these people that
this clause is inserted. If my hon. friend
will look at the tables, under plan A for
instance, he 'will sec that there is a very
miaterial difference between the annuities
Hon. Mr. LOtTGHEED.

which can be paid to a man at the age of
60 when it je necessary te return the purchase money te his rapresentatlve8 if he
dies and those which can be paid under
plan D when he chooses te take hie chances.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn more concerned in obtaining information as to the
authority thet may be given to the minister te acccpt from the annuitant an express agreement. I do not find that term
used in the Act, nor do I find any provision made for en express agreemient being
entered into between the minister and the
annuitant ; the language in the Act
only refers te a contract.
That carinot be what is in view; this je something
else that je in view.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-WVhat je in view is this: To enable me or
any one in charge of this Act to contract
with those parties which do not wish to
have any money returned te their representatives ini the case of their death prior to
the age at which they receive an annuity,
who prefer the larger annuity and take
their chance of dying in the intereval. The
difierence is very material; it would amount
to as much as bet*een two and three
hundred dollars a year in a great many
cases. You can give nearly a third more
to paities who choose te take their chances
and who do not want to have the purchase
money returned to their representatives.
My hon. friend will see that there are quite
a considerable number of persons who are
likzely te avail themselves of the benefit of
this Act who are not much concerned about
providing for their legal heirs and representatives, but who do want as large an
annuity as possible.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Do I understand
that there may be a departure f rom the
principle cmbodied in the Act of last year,
and that Uic arrangement provided for may
be superseded by an express agreement?
Hon.
Yee.

Sir RICHARD

CARTWRIGHT-

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Under section
12 those moneys would go by virtué of the
statute te Uic heirs of Uic annuitant and
to none other. Now that principle is te be
departed from.

MARCH 9, 1909
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-In
a party chooses to depart from that for the any case, the object
was to give the minsake of getting a large annuity he may do ister the power, if the parties
desire ità0.
as Borne have desired it-to grant a larger
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He may make annuity to those persons who choose to
that money transmissible to some one else. take the'risk of dying before becoming entitled to the annuity. We have two great
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-He clksses, one the class who desire to take the
would have no0 money to transmit; the an- annuity but with this string attached to
nuity would lapse for the benefit of ail it, that if they die before the age of 55 or
the annuitants; it is a sort of tontine ar- 60, or whatever age they may eleot to talcs
rangement.
it, their money they have paid in with
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This language three per cent compound interest goes to
their heirs or representatives. There is andos flot meet that condition.
other class who do flot care for their heirs
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The or representatives, but want a larger anDepartment of Justice says it dos.
nuity, and that is the class for which this
clause is intended to provide.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It inàplies that
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is there a policy
the Act has already made provision for an
express agreemnent.
I cannot find any issued in connection with these annuitios?
thing of the kind.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The Yes.
former Act which we are now amending,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is in that
renders it impossible for the minister--so policy the agreement referred to here
is to
the D-partment of Justice advises-to make be f ound?
any other agreement than the one. That is
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTthe point which iL ia desired to vary, and
thia clause is what the Department of Jus- Yes.
tice drafted for that object. The phraseHon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is something
ology may be more or less subi ect to criti- lilce creating a beneficiary in an isuranc«'
cism, «but they knew what was intended policy. The money that accrues.
if a perand they drafted it accordingly.
son dies before the annuity becomes payHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me able, would go as it is set forth i the
that the language here would not meet the policy, and if there is no agreement in the
conditions mentioned, becatise, under the policy. it is provided here that it shail g.>)
existing Act, there is ne provision made to the purchaser or his legal repreeentafor this express agreement, and this langu- tives.
age evidently presupposes there is a proHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If
visio;n for it in the existing Act.
there is 'no agreemnent. to the contrary.
Hou~. Sir ]RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The
provision ini the Act la that under no -possi- Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It repeals section
ble conditions could the minister make an 12 of the Act and makes this provision in
agreement other than the one specified, lieu of it.
and that was, that he should receive the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTmoney, and i the event of the death of the Yes.
party before acquiring an annuity he must
Hon. Mr. POWER-There is no reasonreturn it, willy nilly, te his legal reprc.
sentatives, including i that, 1 suppose, able doubt as to the meaning of paragraph
(a). If there is 11o expressed agreement,
any one they choose to designate.
then the general rule will be the same as
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEEDj-The Act simply thaJ 'laid dewn in sction. 12 of the Act.
provides that it shall go to his heirs, not In order to provide for a case where there
his legal representatives.
is an agreement, paragraph (b) is put in.

SENATE
Hon. Sir RICHARD
That i*s the objeet.

CARTWRIGHT-

ga to those representatives. The general
rule with respect to life insurance policies
is that the rnoney is te be paid dîrectly to
Hon. Mr. POWER-At the beginning of whatever
heir is rnentioned, and does not
this new clause it says that when t.he ango te the legal representatives.
nuitant or last survivor of joint annuitants
dies before the annuity becornes payable,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTthben if there is no express agreement be-. 1 rather think we had better trust the Detween the minister and the purchaser of the partrnent of Justice.
annuity as to dealing with suéh money%,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We are told that
ail such payrnents, shall be made to the
this clause has been drafted by the Minpurchaser or his legal representative. The
purcha-ser of the annuity may not be the ister of Justice, and, therefore, it shows
annuitant. I rnight, for instance, purchase a good deal of ternerity te cail anything
an annuity for a son or a daughter, and I that it contains in question. However, I
presurne that the annuitant is really the tbink there is a very censidearble anornaly
person who pays, and under this paragraph here. It says: 'when the annuitant or last
(a), in case of the death of the annuitant, survivor of join4 annuities dies before the
I would receive the money. I do net think annuity becornes payable,' the rnoney
is paid te the purchaser of tbe annuity
that is the intention.
wbo, we are teld, is the annuitant birneîf.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If rny hon. friend The money is made payable te the man
would look at the interpretation clause, he who is declared in the first part of it to
will find that the purchaser is alec the be dead. I think it should simnply be paid
to the legal representatives of the annuitannuitant.
ant.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis bas been prletty carefully considered
by the Department of Justice. I callei I am nft quite certain of tbe precise reason
very special attention to these points, and that bas induced thern to use those words,
they drafted the clauses thernselves. Know- but there are one or two sections in tbe
ing the subtieties of the legal mind, I dird Act which I think the leader of the Opnot undertake to prepare the clauses my- position bas under bis band, in wbich very
special agreernents are allowed te be made
self.
between employers of labour and other perHon. Mr. POWER-I arn not quarreling sons in a ainilar capacity, witb respect to
with it. I do not think the definition really granting annuities. I think tbe Departmakes any change. Why net use the sarne ment of Justice, in using these words, bad
words ini the two cases, that it Bhall go to that clase of people in view. Tbe continthe annuitant or bis legal representatives. gency of having te deal witb the ghost of
Then you will be sure; but the word 'pur- an annuitant, perhaps, had not occurred to
chaser ' is net defined in the Act. I only tbem. No barra can arise te tbe annuitant
throw out the suggestion for the considera- hiinself, inasmuch as neither of these
clauses can corne into effect until the man
tion of the minister.
is dead prernaturely.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-l
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That cannot be
will see that the Departrnent of Justice bas
the agreemnent referred te, because that je
my hon. friend's rcrnarks laid before them.
an agreement between ernployer and ernHon. Mr. POWER-There is another pîcyee, not an agreernent between the minthing; tbe existing section 12 provides that ister and the annuitant. This deals with
another clase of agreernents.
the money shaîl be paid te
the heirs.
Here the iprovision is tbat it shall be paid
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTt.o tbe legal representatives. A marr's legs] It would
cever the whole.
representatives are bis executors or administrators, and it is a question whether
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There are two
the rnoney payable under .this Act should beneficiaries, the annuitant and the purHlon. Mr. POWER.

MARCH 9, 1909

chaser, and some distinction should be
drawn between them. The purchaser of an
annuity for another, may possibly have
Borne reversionary înterest. A man rnay
purchase an annuity with a particular
objeet ini view. The Act certainly fails to
draw that distinction between the two. Ba
far as the Department of Justice is concerned, I would point out that there is a
liinited measure of fallibility
in
partment. They have net providedthat defor ai
the contingencies that might arise.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThat may be. I will fot absolutely gainsay that position. However, we can take
tihis through now and will have the -matter
considered at the third reading. If further
words can be found that can make the. matter more clear, I have no objection in the
world to insert them. The sole object I
have in view is to enable me te deal with
those persons who do flot desire to have the
money returned to their legai representatives or heirs or whoever- may dlaim to be
entitled to it.
The clause was adopted.
SENATE REFORM RESOLUTIONS.
DEBÂTE CONTINUED.
The order of the day being cafled:
Resuming the. adjourned dobate on the
motion of the Hon. Mr. Scott, that, in tii. opinion of the. Senate, the time lias srrived for so
amending the constitution of this branoh of
parliament, as to bring the mode of selection
of 'senators more into harmony witii public
opinion, and w'ith thaît object lie will submit
for approval, the following resolutions
1. That in the opinion of the Sonate the timo
has arrived for so amendîng tlie constitution
of thig branci cf parliament as ta bring tlie
modes of selection of senators more into harmony witli public opinion.
2. That the. introduction of an elected element, applying it approximately to two-thirds
of the. number cf senators would bring the.
Sena-te more ixto liarmony witli the, prinoiple
cf

popular

government

than

tlie

present

the four western provinces have been given increased representation in tliis Cliamber, that
Manitoba. Saskatchewan and Alberta bc oaci
on. divided into three electorai districts, and
that the. province cf British Columbia b.
divided into two electoral districts, ail for the.
eleotion of candidates for representation in the
Sonate.

In definiug the &&id electoral districts, due
regard being had, not only tc approximately
equalizing the. population in eacli district, but
ta convenience, local interests and county

boundaries.
5. Thaît immediately after the. said electoral
districts shail have been defined and agreed
upon, a member cf the existing Senate shall
b. allotte<dto each of the. said districts, having
due regard, as far as p)racticable, ta residence,

local interests or otlier reasons.
6. That as vac-incies liereafter arise in thle
representation of the. said electoral districts,
the vacancy shail be filled by the. electors cof
that district entitled to vote for members of
the House of Commons.
7. That in order ta diminiali the expenses attending elections over wide areas, snd to secure
a larger and freer expression cf independent
opinion, the systemn cf caml)ulsory voting shaîl
apply to ail eloctions cf senators; every voter
b.ing required to exercise lis right ta the.
franchise, and by ballot, under a penalty cf
ton dollars, ta b. collected by the. returning
officer and applied in reduotion of eleotion expenses: provided that any elector may b. excused from voting -on producing a medicai certificat. tlist bis state cf liealtii did net admit
cf hie attendance nt the. polis, or a certiflite
from the local judge that important business
or otiier reasonable excuse prevented lis exercising the. franchis.
8. That the. remaining eiglit senators in eacli
of the provinces cf Ontario and Quebec; the.
remaining tiiree senators in Nova Sootia and
in New Brunswick, and the tira remaining
senatars in Prince Edward Island, and the r.maining senator in eacli cf the provinces cf
Manitoba, Saskatchiewan, Alberta and Britishi
Columbia, wlie lid not been allotted ta any

constituenfr- shell b. classed as senatars for
the particular province at large, and as a
vaeancy arises in that class, it shall b. filled
by appointment, as at present, by the. Crown.
9. That in order te more nearly equalize the.
standing cf political parties in the. Sonate, on
the. occasion cf a change in the government,
the. principle laid down in sections 26 and 27
of the. Britishi North America Act shall appLy;
that is ta say, the incoming administration
may appoint an additianal number cf senators,
net exceediniZ nine if in -the opinion cf the.
Gevernor General, scting independently cf the.
Privy Council. the request is a reasonable on.
but net more than on. cf the.senators ta b. appointed, sh-all b. taken from any one province:
and tliat ne more appointments of fenators
shail b. made for that province until a second
vaoancy lias arisen; thus reverting to, the
original number cf senators allotted to the.said
province.
10. That the senators representing the severai
différent provinces b. r uested ta meet and
suggest the. best mode of dividing the. province
inte sonate electoral districts sud also the.

system of appointing tlie entire body cf senators by the. Crown for life.
S. That the. termi for which a senator niay b.
éeqted, or appointed, b. limited to seven years.
4. That the provinces cf Ontario and Québec
be eacli divided into sixteen electoral districts
for representation in this Cliamber. That tlie
province cf Nova Scotia and New Brunswick
b. eacli divided into seven electoral districts,
and tlie province of Prince Edward Island into
two eleotoral districts for eleot ion te this name of the. senator
Cliamber; and that fer the present, and until particular district. wlio will represent esdli

118

SENATE

11. That the House of Commons be asked te
concur in the proposed ohanges in the constitution of the Senate.
12. That the Senate and Hanse of Commons
adopt a joint address to His Gracions
MajesIty
the King, praying that the BritishNrt
America Act, and the Acts under which British
Columbia and Prince Edward Island entered
the Union, be so amended as ta caniorm ta,
the foregoing resolutions.-<Hon. Mr. Itous,
Middlesex.)
Hon. Mr. BOSS <Middlesex)-I mnust
confess that 1 amn soanewhat averse ta entering upon a discussion of the motion
moved by the hon. senator from Ottawa
largely for two reasons. In the firet place,
I. fear that I cannot, in controverting, or attemldpting ta controvert some of the arguments he advanced, treat them with that
delicacy which I would like to treat the
remarks of an hion. gentlemal of bis ag2
andi experience, and I wish to protect myself at the outset by saying that if by any
divergence I should treat them more
strongly than, perhaps, the hon, gentleman might feel I should, that he will
nat attribute it ta any warrant of caurtesy
on my part, but rather ta the difficulty one
bas in expressing himself as tenderly as
he would like ta in dealing with his arguments. In the first place, I feel that there
is, perliaps, nothing very material that
coulci
be
gained
by
a prolonged
discussion on Senate reform in the present
state of public opinion. It would almost
appear from what bas transpired within
these walls during the last four or five
years that the Senate itself iii more anxiour for reform tban the public opinion to
whicb we appear ta be anxious ta pay s0
much deference. In 1906, before I had the
honour of a seat in this House, I understand that for several days there was
prolonged discussion of the question. Last
year a similar discussion taok place, anI
now we are resumning the saime subject,
witbout any proposition before us to 'wbich
we cen attach more responsibility than we
can ta the measures af any private member
of the Senate. I feel that what bas beeu
eaid in this House on the subject during
the last four or five years would, perhaps,
warrant us discontinuing this discussion
unless we had before us a conclusive and
well thought aut proposition emanating
frýom the government andi carrying with it
the responsibility which always attaches
Honi Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

ta a government measure. It goes without
saying that anything we propose involves
an amendinent ai the constitution.
Our
constitution bas already been amended on
five difierent occasions, ini every instance
such amendxnents emanating from or originating with the government. This resolution proposes a more momentaus, a more
drastic amendment ta aur constitution than
any wbich bas hitherto been proposed.
1
feel myseli very strongly that bel are we
enter upon a further discussion af this
question-at least beyond the present occasian-that we should. have submitted ta
us a proposition whioh met witb the approval ai the government, and in regard
ta wbich we would have the assurance
that so far as aur consent was concerned,
if that consent were given, that the measure would be ýpushed through te a conclusion. We have fired sufficient arrows
in the air now ta discontinue such an
amusement, if amusement it is. I might
be mistaken, but I dia not feel that there
is a very strong opinion outside in demanding Senate refarm. The battie bas
not been pushed ta the gates by any means.
Tbe hon, gentleman fram Ottawa said that
the time is opportune as we have just been
through a general election. Sa we have.
but did we bear much af Senate reform in the last campaign? Was there
an election in a single constituency that
turned upon this questionP Did either the
leader of the opposition or the leader of the
government make it one of their foremnost
planks in their respective platiorins? Did
the journalists of the day press, it upon
the public attention as one of those vital
questions demanding immediate consideration? There bas been no such pressure, as
f ar as I can understand. There bas been
no such demand thrust upon the attention
ai the electarate for reiorm ai the Senate.
Outside of the occasional observation ai an
emotional journaliat, or ai a fantastic caracaturist, very little ls said about the Senate. We are not open te the charge that
we have obstructed public legislation. At
least if the charge la made it bas not been
proven. There bas been no petition pre
senteci ta either House in favour af socalled Senate reform. If the question appears ta be urgent, we are making it urgent,
largely by the line we are pursuing. My

MARCH 9, 1909
hon. friend referred to the motion made
by the Hon. David Mille in 1875. -We have
crossed many a river since that time. The
Hon. Mr. Mills was for thirty years or
more a member of parliament after he
moved that resolution, but he neyer repeated his motion so far as 1 can remember.
Even when submitted to the House it was
only carried by a majority of thiee votes.
Twenty-one Liberal members of the House
voted against Mr. Mille' resolution. So
that taking that as a starting point in the
bistory of the movement toward Senate reform, it cannot be said that
it was a movement that distuxbed the publie opinion.,
which agitated either branch of the parliament of Canada which was dismnissed itself.
practically, by the Hon. Mr. MiIls, as a
motion out of which there was littie or no
political capital to be made, if he had that
object in view, or what was not essential
to the successful operation of our constitution, so that we may dismiss that as the
starting point for Senate reform. Then we
were referred te a resolution passed by the
Liberal convention in 1893, a resolution
which indicated in terms, as such resolutuons usually do, that something had to be
done, but how it was to be done, by what
process, was flot stated. However, it gave
a basis for the demand for Senate reform,
and I suppose, se f ar as it goes, it committed the Liberal party to Senate reform.
We have travelled now sixteen years bey.ord the meeting of that convention, and
there is no proposition emanating from the
Liberal party. They were sincere, ne doubt,
and the convention was unanimous in adopting that resolution; but there 'was no
pressure of public opinion outaide to urge
the Liberal party to any further declaration
or action. It was simply a declaration of
opinion to which there was no sufficient
response that warranted the Liberal party
in advancing further, and it not tinfrequently happened that in laying a party
platform, it ie afterwards found by experience that some of the planks, so-called,
may be either.in advence of public opinion,
or may be an assumption of a condition of
publie opinion which might be afterwards
d-'.missed from public attention. So that
taking either of these two propositions as
an indication of Senate reform, they have
been practically abortive. True, there was

corne agitation in the House of Commons
by one party in favour of the abolition of
the Senate, and by another party in favour
o! an elective Senate, but how fer these
appeals to the Hous cf Commons will meet
with the approvel of the members of that
HEouse remains. to be seen.
I, therefore.
arrive at this point, and 1 feel it corne
what strongly, that as it is the government
of the day who je responsible for legislation.
and who je in a epecial sense responsible for
amendments to the constitution, the Senate
would act wieely in ite own interests-I
do not feer Senate reform-and would do
justice to a large question, if hereafter it
were le! t in abeyance until the government
of the day, who je responsible for the legislation, takee it up and as fer as 1 amn concernede, as a private member of the Senate,
I propose treating it in that way. My hon.
friend suggests that the season for reform
is opportune, because of the action cf
the English House of Lords, and he argued
that because they have recommended
that certain members cf that Hous ehould.
be made elective by their own colleagues, therefore that an elective Senate
wae seriouely considered by leading legislatore in Great Britain.
Hie quotatiens from the report cf the House cf
Lords do, not prove quite as much as
would appear from hie statement. Hon.
gentlemen are aware, and the hon. gentleman frem Ottawa has se etated, that
the peere cf Scotland. are elected by
their fellow piers, and the piers from
Ireland eimilarly elected, 16 in one case
and 28 in the other. The proposition of tha
committee wae that the peer ocf England,
or cf Great Britain rather, which number
about 400, 1 think, should, be elected up
to the number cf 200 by their fellow peers,
just as the peers cf Sootlsnd are elected
now. The object cf that course was, as
stated in the report I have before me, firet
te eliminate from the list cf members who
receive a writ cf surmens tc attend1 a sessien cf the House cf Lords, those who are
irregular in their attendance, or perhaps.
who do net attend at all, except under
very strong whip, and, seconly, te elimin.
ste those who take very littie part in the
business, and, thirdly, te reduce the Housc
cf Lords from about 600 te a House of

SENATE
about 400 members. 1 have the report here
before me, and it is quite clear from that
report that the. committee did flot entertain for on. moment an elective House ol
Lords as we understand an elective Senate, for iu their report they state that a
proposition was made that representatives
of county counicils might sit in the House
of Lords to represent that popular element.
Here is the clause, 35:

position 'in the old Legislativii GOuncil
through the favour of the constituents to
whom they presented their case. I do flot
know, however, that these men were more
distinguished members of the old Legisia.
tive Counicil than some hon, gentlemen Who
were sent to this House under the nominative system. For instance, I think the Hon.
J. J. 0. Abbott was a member of this HouBe.
1 kuow we had Sir Oliver Mowat and David
In order to bring the House more into har- Mills, and we had the hiou. senator from
mony with the changes of political opinion in Ottawa and the right hion. leader of the
the. country, some members of the commit- House and a number of distinguished gentee desired that persons experienced ini local tlemen whom, I see ail around mue, of much
or municipal administration should b. introduced from outside at each general election greater experience, and 1 venture tO say
to rit and vote ini the House of Lords for the. without being invidions in my comparison.
duration of the parliament. To effect this o qa
sflesi
h
eaea
hs
hs
eaea
qa sflesluti
Hloua.o
oetdvarious proposais from counity couneils
elte representatives to admit to the
were in the old Legisiative Council.
if
aud municipal corporations, whether peers or the constituents in their wisdom saw fit
not, were discussed. On this capital question
the committee were almost equally divided, t end these gentlemen to the Legisiative
and are, therefore, unable to make any re- Council, well and good, but if you look
commeudation.
vrtelsofeetdmm
r yuwl
The committe. would then have proceeded oe i.la
feetdmihr
i
to inquire whether another and more coin- find-aud I have mentioned only osix or
plate solution of the. difficulty caused by a seven, and I think only six or seven atpossible deadlock betweeu the two Houses ou andaydge
h
a question of grave importance, might flottaednydgeofpmincttte fpoiecta
b. attained by proceeding as a last resort to great body of them-aud there were fortyrefer the issue to the electorate by meaus of eght in all-were ouly such members of
the constitutional expedient knowu as the the Legislative Council as
are frequeutly.
referendum.
But, though much might b. saîd in faveur sent to parliament in 5.ny general eleccf such a proposai, the majority of the coin- tionj. The electors have no divine premittee felt thnt to discuss it, or formulate an
Opinion upon it, would b. beyoud the lirnits science as to the wisdom of men who preirnposed upon them by their order of refer- sent themselves as Vo the sterling integrity
euce.
ot theee men that is pot possessed by others
Those two propositions were considerd whol may have the right to nominat, Vo
by theru and were both rejected. Every thfs 'Chamber. Frequeutly men get into
elective element which might possibly add a deliberate body by votes, 'noV st aIl beto what might be called the popular side cause of their ability, but because front
of the House of Lords was rejected, and varions aud other influences of which every
the only change approved by the. commit-. member is aware. I dO not think this
tee was that the peers of England who re- Chamber as constituted now would compare
preseut England should be elected by their unfavorably with the old Legislative Counfellow peers as in the case of Scotland and cil snd may I ask my hion. friend if it is
Ireland.
not up to the. standard who is Vo blame?
We have no precedent whatever in the We are not to blame. W. have corne here
action of the House o! Lords3 frein the re- under the. constitution, and if by any acciport of thus committe.. My hion. friend dent thi6 Chamber ie flot maiutained up
went ou Vo say that under an elective sys to that high standard to which 1Vis desirkem, as w. had iu Canada for about two able it shoujd b. maintained, we must hold
terms-eight years-a numnber o! men of the governxuent re6ponsible. In olden days
unusual ability were, sent Vo the old Legisla- the Conservative governmelrt made ifs aptive Council, and among those hie in- pointments Vo the Senate, and at the prestanced were Alex. Campbell, David Chris- sent time the government which is now
tie, Sir. D. MacPherson, G. W. Allen iu power, and I thiuk one cf the axioms
sud a few otjiers. These were, certainly, of onu constitution is that Vie country may
men of considerable mark. Thev got their ,hold t he government responsible for its
Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

MAROH 9, 1909
appointment to the Senate under responsihie government, just as it may hold the
governunnt responsible for any other act
of theirs, and if I were disposed to find
f ault with the Senate instead of comparing
this Senate with the old Legielative Counci! I would say to the government of the
day that ' If the status of the Senate is flot
what it ought to be, ycu axe very much to
blame. You should bring into the Senate
men of a standard and of a calibre which
will maintain the dignity.of the Senate and
promote its efficiency.' There is no excusa
if condition exists-a condition which, ini
my own mind, I do flot think exists-and
which I do not think the hon. gentleman
had quite in his mind when he made the
comparison.
Then the hon, gentleman quotes from the
colonial despatch of the 3rd December, 1864,
in which the Colonial Secretary questioned
the constitution of the Senate by the Quebec resolutions on the ground that senators
were appointed for life, and that there was
no provision whereby the number of senatore should be inereased to prevent a deadlock between the Senate and the House of
Comm-ons. That is a fact which stares us
ever i the face, and I doubt very much if,
by any process you can devise, you can
prevent a deeadlock: between this House
and the other. Occasionally a deadlock
occurzed between the House of Lords and
the House cf Oommons. There the power
remained in the hands cf the government, or in the hande cf the King ta increase the Lords in order je overcome
that deadiock. That power was neyer exercieed. It was proposed to exercise it in
1832, and the House of Lords retreated
from the position they had taken, snd King
William, I thiiic it was, stayed his hand,
If a deadiock like that should arise-and it
may srise-we can only trust to the good
sense of either House, either te change its
position or je revise its plan, or je trust to,
sucli pressure cf public opinion on the
Senate as will overcome the deadlock which
may thus prevail. I do not think this
Senate, as at present constituted, would deliberately set itself up je oppose any measure introduced by the goverument which
was generally and almost universally supported by public opinion. We surely have
same judgment. Because we are appointed

for life, it does net mean that consequently
we have cast aur common sense je one side.
Twenty-nine of our members were members of the House cf Commons. In the
House of Gommons they could insist upon
their views, or they could withdraw an expression cf opinion, and could bow je public opinion, if it was s0 desired. Are they
now less amenable je public opinion? The
Senate must be one cf two things: It must
be independent or it must be subservient.
I prefer that it shauld be indepeirdent. But
to came back je the observation made by
the Colonial Secretary in 1864. That observation was made ixnmediately after the
passing cf the Quebec resolutions. It was
the observation cf a Colonial Secretary, and
we know very well that colonial secretaries
do not quite understsnd the public opinion
cf the colonies. What happened? Within
two years cf the expression ai that opinion,
a Colonial Secretary introduced the Quebec resolutions under the name cf the British North America Act inte the House cf
Lords, and asked the approval cf the House
cf Lords cf the resolution ccntaining the
very clause te which the preceding Colonial
Secretary had objected. Which shail we
follow, the Colonial Secretary who objected
je 111e senajers, or the Colonial Secretary
who introduced the Bull in the House cf
Gommons te which the previaus Colanial
Secretary objectedP The argument fails,
because you have placed one Colonial Secretary against another, if'you put it on
that ground. But I think the British North
America Act shows the latter opinion was
the correct one, because cf the fact that it
was supperted by the House cf Lords
withnut a division, and afterwards supported by the House cf Gommons without
a division, and when it was intraduced in
the Hanse cf Gommons the Under Secretary
made this remark:
I think the time has gone by for either the
parliamnent or the government of England te,
attempt ta teach colonies like these (the Canadian colonies) their interesta better than they
can judge cf them themselves.
Se that the result of Mr. Adderly's re.
marks was in direct contravention cf the
remarks cf hie predecessor. I stand by him.
I think the time bas came when we need
net quote in thie House the commente of
a Colonial Secretary, particularly when
thesge are superseded by his successors, and

SENATE
when their supercession is introduced in the
Huse ai Lords and when it is accepted by
the people af Canada. I have said that the
Senate must be independent or subservient.
Which is it going ta be? If it is an elective Senate, I donbt if its independence
will be as oomplete as at present conetituted. I arn not going ta argue that out
at any very great length. It bas been discussed over and aver again. An eleotive
senator will seek re-election very likely,
wil cerfainly seek re-election unless hie is
prohibited froni so doing. In seeking reelection hie may be pandering ta publie
opînion-what a senator should not doflot that hie should set hiniseif up againat
public opinion, but in my judgrnent there
shouid be no pandering ta public opinion.
The one use af the Senate is that it stands
in the way ai that demagogic public opinion which is over-borne by a momentary
enthusiasm, but which on sober second
thought wonld be abandoned by the wisest
and ýnost sensible men; and that bas oc*curred once or twice in England. Take the
Home Rule Bill carried by Mr. Gladstone
in 1893, carried in the Hanse ai Comnions
by a large msjority and iejected by the
Hous ai Lords. What does it mean? That
that Home Rule Bill was neyer reintroduced, neyer repeated in that iorm or any
other iora. 1Did it not mean that the
Hanse of Caxnmons considered that the
Home Rule Bill introdnced by Mn. Gladatone did not meet the sober public opinion
of England, and that thie occasion of the
public opinion ai England being oppased by
the Mluse ai Lords resulted i the interest
of gaod government? I think it means: that.
I do not think it could mean anything
more. But my hon. friend says that the
Senate treated Ma.ckenzie somewhat cavalierbriy n dealing with what is called the
Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railway Bill. 1
had the honour ai being ýa member ai the
bouse ai Commons and naturally enough
I staod by the goverimnent in that case, and,
possibly, if my views were on record-but
Vhey' are 'not, although I have no doubi
what tbey were-I considered the action of
the Benate an unwise one. I wonld like ta
cross-question sanie ai the oId Liberals ai
my own tume, who have watched publh(
<pinian since thase days tiil naw, ta ascertain if they are quite sure aiter ail that
Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

Mackenzie was right and the Senate was
wrong? It m-ay be considered treason on
my part ta question the action af my lead-er. 'I amn as loyal. ta rny leader as any
man need be, but everybody knows that
leaders, like other people, make mistakes.
Mr. Mackenzie's proposition, and the one
which the Senate took up, as you will
observe by reading the report, was flot so
mauch the construction of the Esquimnait
and; 'the Nanaimo Railway as At was the
alternative proposition, that instead of going ta build the Pacifie Railroad as decided
by the ternis with British Columbia, that
hie should have a rnuzed water and railway
systeni froni Ontario ta the west, using the
lakes as far as Fort William and the water
courses as far as Winnipeg, and for that purpose the Fort Francis lock was begun on the
Rainy River.- Then using the American
route as far as Pembina, getting into Winnipeg from Pembina by a short road hie had
built during bis time, and then proceeding
west as leisurely as tume would permit, and
when that railway was completed ta the
west, there would be a railway from the
coast ta Winnipeg, and a branch from
Winnipeg through the UJnited States and
into Canada again and those who did not
like the railway could use the water
stretches route. That was the proposition
before the country, and the proposition to
build the Esquimait and the Nanairno
Railway was regarded by the Senate and
many members of the House of Commons
then as a breach ai faith with British Columnbia. 1 amn happy ta thinh there is nothing that stirs up honest English blood like
a breach of faith. 1 admit the ternis were
rather arbitrary, that British Columnbia
committed the f ault with which Canning
charged the Dutch, of giving too littie and
asking too much. The ternis were very
arbitrary. They were very burdensome. 1
think the'y were unwise. I think easier
ternis could have been made with British
Columbia, but they had been made and
they were approved by the parliament ai
Canada. While they did not require ta
be approved by the parliament af Canada;
they were approved by order in council,
and ratified by Her Mai esty the Queen, and
and they were binding on Canada, and the
Senate took the ground that those ternis
should have been carried out to the letter.

MAICH 9, 1009
It may have been asking the pound of
fleali, but there was the bond, and they
insisted upon that bond, and the British
Columbians also insisted upon that bondperhaps there may have been political feeling as well, but the Senate tbrew out the
Esquirnait and Nanairno Bailway Bill. It
did nlot prevent the construction of the
Canadian Pacifie Bailway, as we are happy
to know. It did not prevent Mr. Mackenzie going on with characteristic energy, to
fuM.il the conditions of the bond, for hie had
put the western section i.nder contract to
Onderdonk & Go., and hie had built the liue
fromn Pembina to Fort Garry, and hie had
made some progress with lis water stretches
route, and 1 think had put under contract
part of the road between Fort William and
Winnipeg.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-All the road between
Fort William and Selkirk was under contract.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex). Showing
extraordinary energy under very difficuit
snd trying circuinstances, and no one could
commend him more highly than those who
have studied his history for lis energy at
that tirne. The attitude of the Senate was
hostile. It was independent, perhaps, in
the light of subsequent events. I amn not
going to characterize the action of the Senate. .I certainly shahl not criticise it too
severely. Then there was the action of
the Senate whereby the Yukon Railway
Act was thrown out. It was the action of
an independent Senate, of a Conservative
Senate, but that Bill was neyer re-introduced. No subsequent effort was made te
introduce the Bull in the House of Gomnmons. If the Senate was wrong, the House
of Gommons failed ini its duty in not pressing it again. I do not know that the Senate was wrong. I do not know that the
Senate, under existing
circurnstauces,,
would be more ready to pass that Bfi than
the Senate which rejected it. I want te
go back to what I laid down before-that
the Senate must be either independent or
subservient. No matter«what the political
complexion of the Senate xnay be, it must
act a judicial part. I have been in association with the Senate now for three sessions, and I speak with the-utmost frank-

123

ness when I say I was surprised, and arn
surprised every day when I see how insignificant sud undiscoverable is the pohitical
element in the Senate. I do not know that
as many men could be gathered under
similar conditions that would discuss public Bille on their merits with greater impartislity, and that would show less political feeling in dealing with Bills coming
from the other House. For instance, last
session I teok su active part in rejecting
what was called the Go-operative Societies
Bill. 1 did se on the grouud of provincial
rights. It was a goverument Bill. Every
pohitical motive would induce me to support it on that grouud, and it was s0 with
many who supported me in my view.
I
feit there was but one course to take, to
rejeet the Bill, because the powers asked
for could be had from the provincial hegishatures, sud had been granted in some of
the provinces. I acted under no polîtical
motive whatsoever, sud I do not know tha:t
those who voted with me on that occasion
were influenced by such motives either.
Their independence on that occasion could
not be construed inte suy desire to embarrass the government. Runîng through
the hon. gentleman's argument seems te be
this thought, namely, this House must be
in harmony with the other chamber, otherwise there is obstruction. Does it fohlow that
his argument was well foundedP The Hlouse
of Lords is neyer in harmony with the
House of Gommons politically, except when
the Gonservatives are in power. It does not
reject many measures, but when it does, it
acts within its right. I have shown that
Bills sent from the House of Gommons maY
well be rejected in the public interest. It
je not necessary that this House shouhd be
in harmony with the House of Gommons.
In the United States they have an elective
Senate, elected by the varions state legislatures. Now that Senate is not in harmony
at ail times with the House of Representatives. I have here a quotation from an admirable work by Mr. Pierce, called *'Amenicsu Usurpation,' in which he says in eleven
Gongresses since 1887, the Senate sud President were of a different stnipe from the
House o! Representatives most of the time.
There were only two years during which the
samne party held the control o! ahh the

124

SENATE

branches of the government, yet the United
States government goes on and undertakes
vast enterprises, constructs a great navy,
builds the Panama canal, deals with interstate commerce, and the two Houses, although flot in political accord, seem to be
animnated by the same patriotic motive to
pass legisiat ion in the general interest.
What guarantee woiiid we have, if we had
an elective Senate, that they would be in
accord? Would there flot be greater danger, if they were in accord, that the purpose
of the Senate would fail? We have an opposition in this House as well as in the
other Ilouse. WThat is the purpose of the
opposition? It is to critîcise the acts of
the government, and, as I have often been
told, is useful to keep the government
etraiglit. It is exceedingly useful, partly
because of its suggestiveness and partly because of its criticism. If there were no opposition, probably the government would go
astray more frequently than they do; and if
the Senate was alwaya in accord with the
House of Commons we would be charged
with beîng merely a registration departnxent
of the House of Commons, a replica of the
House of Gommons. It reminds me of the
remarks made by the orator who was called
upon to make a speech after Burke. He
was so over-whelmed with Burke's eloquence that when he rose he, said merely,
' I say ditto.' Now I do flot want the Senste to be saying ' ditto ' to the House of
Commons unless it feels that ditto is a
proper word Io use. 1 want the Senate to
feel so independent, and be so judicial in
its attitude on ail public questions, whether
constituted as now or elective, that it wil]
have an opinion of its own. Take away its
j udicial attitude, and you destroy its usefuiness. You do not want a Supreme Court
to accept the decisions of a court of appea];
you want it te review decisions. So it is
with the Privy Council, its usefulness is because it reviews the decisions of other
courts. Now, the Senate is a court of appeal. Its business is to criticise, to amend,
to review, to set aside, if necessary, the
decisions of the court below, because we
are in a better
position to follow
our -own independent judgment than is
the court below.
As a rule, we have
had more experience, and are more disposed to attend to details than the
Mfr. ROSS (Middlesex).

committees of the other House. We cannot be said to have been obstructive. Out
of 5,209 Bills sent up from the House of
Commions ini forty-two years, we have only
rejected 115, or two per cent, an average
of less than three each year. If we are
open te the charge of obstruction, what
wiIl we say of the House of Cominons? We
sent down in the same tirne 871 Bills. They
rejected 90, or ten per cent. If either
House is te be found guilty of the charge
of obstruction it is flot the Senate, but the
Commons. We have as good a right to
expect the Commons te pass our legisiation, as the Gommons te tell us to pass
their legisiation. We rejected two per cent
of their Bills; they rejected ten per cent of
our Bills. We made 1,067 amendments to
their Bills& or twenty per cent, and they
made 281 amendinents te ours, or thirtyfour per cent. If either Chamber is open
te a charge of obstruction, it is not ours
on which that charge can be properly f astened.* But my hon. friend refers te what
appeared te him an approaching calamity
in this House, namely, in the course of a
very few years the Conservatives will have
faded sway and the House will be constituted entirely of Liberals. I do not think
that the Senate need necessanily be constituted o! one party, or that there should. be
an equilibriumn of parties in the Senate.
That introduces the political element. An
equilibrium of political parties means the
existence of political parties in the Senate.
I do not want a political party in this
Chamber. If you want to eliminate politics from the Senate, are you more likely
to do it by the elective than by the nominative system? How is a man going to appeal for a seat in the Senate? On some
political issue, of course. H1e is from the
beginning a politîcian, and having got support ss a politician, he expects that support te be continued because he is a politician. We may have been appointed here
because of having been politicians, but it
does itot follow that we will continue so to
be, nor shall I admit what is involved in
that statement, namely that political opinions are necessarily partisan opinions. We
may have politîcal opinions, and yet be
fair and non-partisan and maintain the balance of justice equally. But if political
appointments te the Senate are bad, what

MARCH 9, 1909
wil] you say about political appointments
of varjous other kinds? For instance, look
at the administration of the British empire? The Vice-Roy of India is a politician, and always has been, yet 240,000,000
of people are governed by a politician. Io
that appointment bad? The Lords of the
Privy Couneil, who sit i the judicial committee, are politicians. The judges of the
Supreme Court of Canada, with one or
two exceptions,' have all been paliticians.
The Governors of Canada have ail been poiticians, without a single exception that I
can recail. We had the Duke of krgyle,
Lord Derby, Lord Minta, Lord Aberdeen,
who is at present Lieutenant-Governor of
Ireland, and so on, ail politicians, and
th-tt reminds me that the Lord Lieutenant
Governar of Ireland, the country of ail]
others hardest to gdvern, has always been a
palitician. The judges of ail our courts are
usually selected by the governinent in power
froma their friends. Throughout the world
to-day governments are carried on by politicians. la it an offence ta us that we have
been politiciansP
It adds more -to our
statue than perhaps anything else could.
I admit that in the Houae of Lords men
have been introduced wlio have not been
politicians. Men like Lord Cramer, Lord
Tennyson, Lord Str.athcana, Lord Mount
Stephen, Lord Avebury and others.
The
practice lias not been so much in this
country ta select senators from classes of
that kind as from politicians. If I were
ta offer a suggestion I would say ta the
government: ' You might well look arouixd
and select from those of different callinga
and professions in lufe for appointuient to
the Senate, and 1 have no doubt very
useful they would become.' This Sonate,
composed ai politicians, however, is very
representative. I mentioned last year that
there were nineteen lawyers here, eight
capitaliste, three journaliste, fil teen engaged in agriculture, ten in manufactures,
seven doctors, fiteen engaged in meroanftil e~ursuits, eight in misceflaneous and
three occupied officiai positions in their
varions municipalities. If you compare the
representative character of tuas House witb
the representative cliaracter of the United
States Senate, 'we have nothing ta fear
from such a comparison. If you have an
elective Senate, will you have any more

125

satisfactory resuits? I do not propose ta
follow the hon, gentleman from Ottawa
at any further length on the lime af his
argument, but I now propose ta call at.
tentian ta t-wo phases af thie question
that I think have not yet been fu.ily considcred. The first phase is that the parliament of Canada could not abolish the Senate -If it would. *We, theref are, may dismiss from further consideration that phase
of the question. The proposition In another
place that the Senate should be abolished
is an uncanstitutional proposition and oould
flot be entertained. Why do I say that?
I say so, because the constitution of Canada was a treaty ini the first place, entered
inta by the varions provinces at the conference held in Quebec in 1864. Let me
quote a f ew words from a speech delivered
by Attorney General Macdonald, afterwards
Sir John Macdonald, in the old parliament
of Canada in reply ta a question put by
Mr. Powell, member for Carleton, ta the
effect that it would be reasonable, Mr.
Powell thaught, that the Quebec . resolutions, 72 in number, should be taken up
1And, voted uwon seriatim. Wliat did Sir
John Macdonald say:
ln answer ta the member for Carleton, the
government desired ta say that they presented the scheme as a whole, and would ezert
ail the inffuenoe tliey oould bring ta bear in
the way or argument ta induce the House ta
adopt the acheme withaut alteration, and for
the simple reason that the scheme was nat
ane framed by the government af Canada, or
by the government ai Nova Scatia, but was
in the nature of a treaty settled between the
different colonies, eavh clause of which had
been f ully discuased, and which lied been
agreed ta by a system. of mutuel compromise.
That was the foundation af the Quebee
resolutians submitted ta the aid parliament
ai Canada. And in reply ta Hon. A. A.
Dorion, afterwards 8ir Antoine Dorion, Attorney General Macdonald made this remark:
These resolutions were in the nature ai a
treaty, and if nat adapted in their entirety.
the proceedings wauld have ta be commenced
de nova.

That is, lie would have ta go back ta the
parties by whom. the treaty was formed ta
get their assent and bring it before the
parliament ai Canada again. Let us fortifv
that by sanie further quotations. For instance, I have liere tie praceedings ai tie
conference held i Quebec as contained in

SENATE
the admirable sketch by Mr. Joseph Pope.. The termis were settled between the Dominwho was present at that convention:
ion and the province. These ternis were
It was moved by the Hon. Mr. John Â. subject to ratification, firat by order in
Macdonald, seconded by Col. the Hon. John council of the Dominion government, and
Hamilton Grey (P.E.I.): That there shal afterwardn by order i coundil of Her
be a general legisiature for the federative
provinces composed of a legisiative council, Majesty's Privy Coundil. In looking over
and legislative assembly.
the ternis under which Prince Edward IsThat was one of the earliest resolutions land was adinitted to confederation, 1 flnd
submitted to the conference held in Quebec. this:
It was carried unanirnously, and when the
In case of thse admission of Newfoundland
Quebec resolutions were agreed to, every and Prince Edward Island or either of theux
province feit that it was to be a Senate each shail be entitled to a representation in
the Senate of Canada of four merabers.
which might guard its interests, or whatNow, if you look to the provisions of the
ever value they attached to it, but every
province accepted the Quebec resolutions British North America Act, you wiil flnd
and signed thein at the close of the con- that the Island was ta be represented by
ference with the understanding that there four members in the Senate, and Prince
was ta be a Senate, and it was on that Edward Island came into the confederation
basis thée resolutions were adopted by the with that distinct understanding. These
parliament of Canada. Can we say the terms were ratifled in the foilowing manprovince of Quebec now having agreed to ner:
these resolutions, and having sanctioned
And whereas Her Majesty has thonght fit"
them in the parliament of Canada as we to approve of the said ternis and conditions.
did in the session of 1865, there shall be no0 it is hereby ordered and declared by Her
advice of Her Pri vy
SenateP j1ave we any authority to say so? Majesty, by and with theand exercise of the
Council,' in pursuance
powers vested in Her Majesty. by the said
In the constitution of the UJnited States
Act of parliament, that fromn and after the
there is this provision, that every state ini first day of July, one thousand eight hundred
the Union shail have equal representation and seventy three, the said colony of Prince
Edward Island
in the Senate, and that the suffrage shall become part of shahl be admitted into and
the Dominion of Canada,
flot be withdrawn except with the consent upon the terms and conditions set forth in
the hereinbefore recited addresses.
of the State. I admit if a proposition
emanated fromn the parliament of Canada
Now, one of the terras and conditions was
agreeing to the abolition of the Senate, and that Prince Edward Island should have
ft were ratifled by every province of the four members in the Senate. Are we preDominion, as the original teris were. ex- pared 110W to say that Prince Edward Island
cept in the case of Nova Scotia, then we shail not have four members in the Sencould abolish the Senate, and unless it is ate? We would have just as much authseriously proposed in the resolution for the ority to say that Prince Edward Island
abolition of the Senate to go further and
should flot have four members in the Hous
submit such a proposition to the various
of Commons. Are we going to break faith
provinces of the Dominion, then any resowith Prince Edward Island, and cut down
lution like that is abortive, is premature,
its representation by any act?
My conand of no0 purpose. I propose as a Canadian
tention is that on the ternis of admission,
to stand by the original treaty. I do not
Prince Edward Island and the other provpropose to break faith with Quebece, Ontario, Prince Edward Island, or any other inces entered into a treaty with Canada.
province that came into the Dominion. Let
me fortify that still further, and you will
see the value of it when 1 refer to the admission of Prince Edward Island into the
confederation. When Prince Edward Island asked for admission to the Union, the
movement came from the province. An address was submitted to the local legislature,
which was carried, favouring- confederation.
M:. EOSS (Middlesex).

Hon. Mr. SCOTT. There is no disposition that any change like that should be
made in thse constitution.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I am not
speaking of the hon. gentleman's resolution. I want. to dispose of the prevailing
opinion that one chamber for Canada would
be as good as one chamber for Ontario. I

MARCH 9, 1909
want to dispose once and for ail of the idea
that the Senate can be abolished.
British
Columbia also entered the confederation
upon similar ternis. It was provided that
the province should be represented in the
Senate by three members, and these terma
were ratified by Her Majesty the Queen.
My argument is that we could not abolish
the Senate if we would; that any action
on the part of the parleament of Canada
would be ineffective, unless that action
was approved by the various legislatures
that went into this treaty aud compact, and
it is weil that the public should know that
those who are asking for revolutionary
measures should know now, and once for
ail, that whatever change may be made in
the constitution of the Senate, its abolition
is beyondi the power of the parliament of
Canada.
Now I corne to the other branch of my
subject namely, can we change by Act of
parliainent of Canada the form of appointing senators P My argument is that we
cannot, that any action on the part of the
parliainent of Canada for changing the
constitution of the Senate and making it
elective, is equally subject to the approval
and assent of the provinces that originally
entered into confederation and those that
subsequently joined it.
Let me go back
for a moment to the resolutions that were
approved at the Quebec conference. Here
is a resolution again moved by Sir John
Macdonald:
That the members of the legisiative council
shall be appointed by the Crown under the
great seal of the general government and
shahl hold office during Mle.
Now that was an essential part of the original compact. They were to be appointed
by the Crown and held offices during Hie.
Quebec, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick accepted that, sud when Prince Edward Island sud British Columbia came in, they
accepted that as one of the privileges they
were to enjoy under confederation. That
was approved unanixnously by the whole
conference, and then at London when the
delegates went to England to confer as to
the Quebec resolutions, sud as ta the drafting of a Bull for the Colonial Secretary to
consider, the delegates there agreed upon
the following:

There shall be a general legisiature or parliamient for the federative provinces comnposed of a legisiative council and a House of
Commons.
The word ' Senate ' -then had not begun
to be used. Bo there the action of the
original conferees at Quebec was approved
by the conferenoe of repreisentatives from
Canada when they were accepting a draft
from the House of Commons. But more
than that, the treaty originally formed at
Quebec. and unanimously approved by the
parliament of Canada and the legisiature
of New Brunswick, though not by Nova
Scotia in«set ternis, and confirrned by the
British parliament wss a compact ratified
by the authority of the Crown, and was
signed by Her Majesty sorne tixne in March,
1867. That was a treaty; can we violate it
in any way? If we ean violate it in one
way, we can violate it in another. Is the
parliarnent of Canada competent ta withdraw frorn our French coileagues in the
House of Commons the use of the French
language, or frorn the legialature of Quebec
the privilege it has under the British North
Ainerica Act of using the two languages? If
we can amend the Act one way, we can
axnend it in another way. 0f course the
privilege was given us to amend the British
North Âxnerica Act in sorne respects, but
not in that respect. Here is a remarkable
thing. In clause 93 of the constitution, it
is provided that the provincial legislatures
may amend the constitution except in s0
far as it affects the appointrnent of the
Lieutenant Governor. The legisiature is
given power arnongst other 'things 'to
amend frorn time to time, notwithstanding
anything in this Act the constitution of the
province except as regards the offioe of the
Lieutenant Governor.'
The provinces have exercised that right
of aznendment. They abolished the upper
House in New Brunswick sud Manitoba. I
think they consolidated the legisîstive assernbly, sud the legislative council in Borne
forrn in Prince Edward Island. They have
a right te amend their own constitution,
but you will not find in the British North
America Act that the paýliament of Canada has a right to arnend its constitution in
regard to the Senate. What parliament may
do is here and there stated. Take, for instance, clause 105, where it is provided that

128

SENATE

'unless altered by the parliament of Canada, the salary of the Governor Generai
shail be ten thousand pounds.'
Wherever the parliament of Canada has
power ta amend the constitution, the British
North Anierica Act distinctly says so. Where
it has no power, the Act la sUlent. Was the
parlisanent of Canada within its rights in
making amendmente ini the past? Most
assuredly. The first was ta make it clear
that we had a right to establlsh a province
in Prince Rupert's land. The Manitoba Act
was passed on the authority of the parliament of Canada, but a question was raised
by the Hon. Mr. Mills as to the right ta do
sa and a declaratory Act was passed by the
House of Commons that the parliament of
Canada had that right and confirming the
Manitoba, Act.
Then the question was
raised later, whether the committees cf t.he
House of Cominons had a right ta examine
witnesses under eath, as the committees of
the House o! Cemmons in Great Britain
had. They had no such uight at the time
the Confederation Act was passed, and that
right was conferred upon them. Then the
question -was asked again 'whether in the
admission cf Prince Rupert's land they had
a right to send representatives te the Senate. An Act was passed confirmaing that
right.
Then the question waa raised as ta whether we had the right te appoint a deputy
Speaker. That was the fourth amendment
which was confirmed. The next question
was somewhat broader, namely, the disturbance cf the financial basis cf confederatien by an Act which we passed in this
House last year, making additional granta
te the various provinces under that Act.
Now, you will notice the history of that
Act. Although it was passed by the parliament of Canada, it bas had the tacit assent cf the various provinces. I was myself present at an interprovincial conference at Quebec, in 1887, where I think al
the provinces were represented except British Columbia. I amrn ot quite sure about
Ptince Edward Island, but I know British
Columbia was net represented, and there
we agreed in solemn conclave that the financial basis cf confederation should be altered. I was present at the conference in
Ottawa in 1903, where ail the provinces
Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

were represented through their premiers,
where that agreement was formed. After
my retirement from, office, there was a subsequent conference cf 'all the premiers e!
Canada, who ail agreed on a basis except
British Columnbia.
Se yeu had ini the
amendment cf that financial basis cf cenfederation, net through the legialatures, but
threugh their representatives, concurrence
in the alteration cf the basis of that agreement. I do net think the House of Commons can do it constitutionally in any ether
way. In fact I think it was sailing very
close ta the wind ta do it in the way
they d.id, and they apparently kilt se, fer
you will notice in the scheduie to that Act
passed by the House cf Commons which was
practicaily the Act, «Nothing herein contained shall supersede or affect the terra
specially granted te any particular province upen which such province became part
cf the Dominion of Canada.' They guarded
themselves against any infraction cf the
original terras cf cenfederation by saying
that nothing contain1ed in the Bill proposed
would affect the basis upon which the provinces became part cf the- Dominion cf Canada. Bo that it was very evidently present
ta the members cf the geverument at the
time they framed that Bil, that they were
sailing very close te the wind. Now what
is my argument? My argument is that we
entered confederation with the Senate constituted as at present, constituted se that
the members cf the Senate are appointed
by the Crewn under the great seal, that they
are appeinted for life, that every province
cf the cenfederation was party te that agreement, that we cannot, if we would, as a
House cf Commons, or parliament cf Canada abregate that agreement: It was a
treaty soleminly entered into, and, therefore,
if the question cf amending the constitution
o! the Senate bas ta be seriously considered, we have te proceed about it in a constitutienal way.
New, what woiild be the constitutional
wayP We may begin at either end. We may
beg-in with the provinces and have resolutiens passed from one province te another
until ail have agreed, and then obtain the
concurrence cf the parliament of Canada.
Or 'what would be perhaps a more practicable way, and practical as well, would be

*MARCH 9, 1909
for the parliament of Canada to say: ' We
want an elective Senate,' allow that proposition to go down te the provinces comprised
ini the original conipact and when we bave
the concurrence of ail the members of the
original compact, then it would be our
riglit to coine te the Honse of Gommons and
ask for such a change as was approved
by all the members of the provinces, and
1 want it to go out te the people of Canada that this is the logioal, honest way to
amend the constitution of Canada. Let
there be no agitation in Ontario for that
aimendment to the constitution unless the
people of Ontario know the modus operandi.
Shall we here say to Quebec, who are unanimons in favour of a nominative Senate,
I belleve slmost unanimous-at leaut they
were at the last *conference-shaji we say
to thezu that we shail lay violent hands
upon that compact to whieh you agreed
and to which you would not agree unleas
it was framed i that wayP The constituition contains some curions clauses--one of
them, evidcntly designed to protect the minority refer to Qnebec. You wiii find du the
achedule bo the British North Anieri-ca Act.
I think il was cailed echedule two, a list
of constituencies whose boundaries cannot
be altered by the parliament of Quebec.
Now, there was some object iu makdng such
a liaI. That list reads as foilows: Counties
of Pontiac, Ottawa, Argenteuil, Huntingdon,
Missisquoi, Brome, Shefford, Stanstead,
Compton, Wolfe and Richmond, Megantic, town cf Sherbrooke.
There yen have thirteen constituencies
In the province of Quebec that were by the
British North America Act se unaiters.biy
fixed that they could not be affected by
subsequent legislation. There was an objeet in that. It was te protect certain minorities in these varions.- constituencies, ait
1 understand it. The purpose of the Senate ie similarily to protect minorities. There
la a minority in Canada that conld not be
represented at ail in this House, 1 venture
to say, if the 6enate was elective. Go In
aur western constituencies and you have
no gnarantee that in certain of these the
Roman Cathoiic minority of Canada can
evee obtain a -seat. It is 'quite possible,
and I doubt if there sre unany constituencle that wouid be formed for senatorial
purposes in which the Roman Catholie
9

129

could get a majority and send their representa-tives te the Senate unlees that species
of intolerance which so universally prevails snbsided during such en election. The
object of .the Senate, I understand is, firaI,
to protect the provinces, like the Senate
of the United States. The second abject
was to 1preet the minocrities, and if you
read the confederation deba-tees you will see
th-at was put forward. Have we the right
when these provinces entered inte oonfederation in good faith, feeling that they
would be protected, te change the mode
of protection provided without snbmlttlug
it te their approval? I say we have no
such right. How is the constitution of the
United States changed& In a very invoived
way. There la an agitation now, as the
hon. gentleman from. Ottawa said, in favour
of making the Senate cf the United States
elective, by -popular vote, and thirty-one
states have already petitioned Congruas
bluet that mode of eiection shall prevail,
and in five successive sessions of the Honse
of Representatives a motion was passed ap$pointing a committee te confer with the
Senate to ses if they conld net devise a
means for an elective Senate by popular
vote. There was sonue conaiderabie agitation ki regard te that. What wouid folio w
if Congreas, that is the Senate and Honse
cf Representatives ag-reed upon a pl-an?
Wcnid the constitution of the Senate cf the
Uinited States therefore be amcnded Not
at ail. The constitution regarded the original union of the states as a' compact,
as a treaty, and provided that there must
he a vote of tw4hirds of -the Congruas
and three-fonrths cf the states te agree te
any change in bluet constitution, so that
if the Honse of Congresa adopted a resolution in f avour cf an elective Senate that
resolution wonld go down ta the original
status that entered inte that original compact for their approval or disaipproval.
That la the logic of any Acet or amendment.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Dees the hon. gentleman know that that. compact has been
vioiated ini twenty-five cases?
Hon. Mn. ROSS-It has not been violat
ed yet. Iu Illinois, Wisconsin, Iowa, and
other States, an Act has been passed that
candidates for the Senate shall be voted
upon by their primaries. That is the same

REVIBSD EIDITTON

130

SENATE

as candidates for the legisiature; but that
Act does flot bind the legisiature, and the
legisiature cannot be bound, outside the
constitution, to appoint to the Senate the
men who wiil carry the mai ority of votes.
Ail that it does ie te say that it is advisory, and some states legislatures have resented the interference, and have appointed men flot recommended by the prirnaries.
That is, they rejected the candidates of
the priniaries, and exercised their right te
elect whomever they pleased. Our procees
of arnending the constitution is quicker, in
theory, than the procese of amending the
constitution of the United States; but it
should have the same honest principle permeating it. We do not provîde that the
majority of the etates shall approve of
aniendinents to our constitution in the
British North America Act; but the spirit
of the British North America Act neyer
departs from it. It is there. It has its
vital office and it ie our duty te see that
it je maintained. In Australia the same
protection je given te the eBtates. The six
states elect six senatere each, and if they
want their constitution changed they go, to
a popular vote, and there muet be a majority of the etates te vote ini favour of it, and
it muet be a majority o! the votes of the
whole commonwealth. See the protection?
They cannot be oueted out of their constitutional right unless the majority o! the
states approve, and at the back of that it
muet be a vote o! ail the states. We have
no euch constitutional protection, but what
have weP We have the honour of the men
who are the guardians of the constitution.
We have the honour of Canadians who entered inte the compact with their fellowCanadians from the various provinces on
certain conditions, and that honour should
be as binding on us, nay should be a thoueand fold stronger, in preventing any violation of the terme, than the articles in the
United States or Australian constitutions,
and that honour demande that when there
is aproposition made to revise the constitution, that we should revise it in precisely the same way in whîch it was formed,
with the firet parties thereto. How sacredly does Britain guard the treaties that she
has made? For instance, she guarded the
Washington treaty with far greater zea]
than the UJnited States did, although 1 do
Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

not wish to comment on the action of the
United States in regard to that, and England has etrictly observed the other treaties
ehe has made. The honour of England was
attached te these treaties, and the honour
of England made them sacred. Here we
have a contract ratified by ourselves, ratified by our original representatives, ratified
by Great Britain eigned by Her Majesty,
and shail we tear it te tatters? Shall we,
in our eupposed wiedom, or in the arrogance of power which. we may possees, set
an original bargain aside and substitute for
it something else in which the interests of
the original parties are not conserved? That
ie not the view 1 want the Senate te take s0
long as I amn a member o! it, or whether I
am a member of it or not, and 1 hope we
shahl make an effort te have the people o!
Canada understand, if my logic is right.
that whether the Senate je for good or for
ill it je here under conditions we cannot
violate, and if the Senate is not up to the
standard the people of Canada require, then
it je not the Senate's fault, but the f ault o!
the government which make the nominations te the Senate. Should the government
forget what it owes to this important
branch of the legielature and wbat it owee
to the people of Canada, whose servants we
are, then the Senate of Canada may deteriorate. I do not thmnk it has deteriorated. I see no signs of deterioration. 1
have no reason te believe that the Senate of
Canada is not as good now as the old legislative council was. I have no reason to
think that, man for man, the Senate is not
as good as the House of Commone who
have corne directly from the people. I have
no reason to believe that the Senate of Canada is not as capable to legislate for the
people o! Canada as the Hous of Commons
or any other legislative body. Under these
circumstances, without even resting my case
mainly upon that conetitutional compact, I
think we had better diemies the prolonged
discussion of this question until it cornes
before us in a proper form, until the government takes the responsibility of it, and
that is the duty of a government-that is
what a governmlent je for, that ahl amendmente to the constitution shall be made
only on the responsibility o! the government. If the government take the responsibility, let them submit some proposition.

MARCH 10, 1909

131

Such a Proposition when before us, I amn
THE SENATE.
.prepared to consider; but in the ineantime
I think the subject snight stand over for
OTTAWA, Wednesday, March 10, 1909.
further consideration, and that constitdThe SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
tional methods shou]d be adopted in order
o'clock.
to bring the question before the people of
Canada.
Prayers and routine proceedinga.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN moved that the
debate be adjourned until Tuesday next.

RIDOUT DIVORCE CASE.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER presented the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I feel strongly at- report of the Divorce Cominittee re the petitempted to move an amendment, that the tion of John Grant Ridout for a Bill of
debate be adjournedfor six months, but 1 Divorce.
shall fot.
The report was received.
The motion was agreed to, and the debate
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-May I asld when
was adjourned until Tuesday.
members of the Senate can have copies of
HURON AND ONTARIO RAILWAY COM- the evidence in these divorce applications?
PANY BILL.
I observe that there was a case on the
erders ifor ye-sterday.
I do net know
REFERRED TO THE RÂILWAY COM.
whether it was adopted or not. I should
MITTEE.
like to have information on that point.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved concurrence in
the report of the Standing Cornmittee on
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I intended,
Railways. Telegraphs and Harbours on Bill when the orders of the day were called,
(No. 14) An Act respecting the Huron and to direct the attention cf my hon. friend
the leader cf the government in this HouBe
Ontario Railway Company.
to this matter. We have had a report cf
Hon. Mr. RATZ moved:
the Divorce Committee before the Senate
That the said report be flot now ado pted, since the second day of this month.
It
but that it and the said Bill be referred bacs,
to the Railway Committee for further con- has been set down for hearing two or three
sideration as to the bonding powers te be times. It has been postponed froru day to
given to the coinpany.
day, and yet to-day the evidence bas net
been printed and circulated among the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELWould it flot he well to give some reason members. Every time this matter cornes
why the company should have some greater up we find that the evidence has ziot been
power to issue bonds than are given to most circulated, and, therefore, the report must
other companies, particularly for a road stand over. We have a large number cf
that is running through a weIl settled por- petitions for divorce before us this session,
and if the printing cf the evidence in these
tion of the country P
cases cannot be 'pushed a little faslter, perHon. Mr. YOUNG-I understand that force some of these applications will have
they had àdditional reasons to submit to te stand over if the session closes as early
the Committee on Railways with reference as it bas been suggested. I understand
to the capital stock, that they would ask the delay does not take place by reason of
to have an opportunity of submnitting, which any fault on the part cf any one in the
they did not have the other day, and out House. It la altegether a delay in the
of fairness to them, I think the House Printing Bureau, I understand, and I am
would readily consent to let them. have a sure I amn not asking toc imuch from, the
new trial before the Railway Committee, leader of the House when I request that he
be kind enough te have some instructions
and that is all they ask.
given to the Printing Bureau which would
The amendinent was agreed to.
mnake them facilitate the printing and the
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock circulation of the evidence in the divorce
cases as quickly as possible.
to-morrow.

9à

SENATE
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-l
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Why ehould this
will cail the attention of the Secietary of flot be extended fuither than the present
State te the matter at once.
Bill seems to go? There might be embraced in it ail -public companies incorHon. Mi. CLORAN-I am glad to receive
this informa.tion, and I would ask also, as porated'by the parliament of Canada which
a privilege, to have the evidence in each' use water-power over 'which the ps.rlisment
particular case supplied te us at least eight of Canada has jurisdiction. It la desirable
days before we are called upon te pass that there should be uniformity in charges
as f ar as possible, whether the company be
judgment. It ia not right simply te put
the evidence in oui hands ig the morning lessees from the Crown or not, in the case
and have the Senate judge those cases the of companies incorporated by this pariasaine afternoon. I would ask that the ment.
chairman of the comnmittee insiat that the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTevidence be in the handa of the senaters There may be something in what the hon.
at least eight days before the case is con- gentleman says. but this refera ainxply and
sidered.
solely to this particular department. The
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I raised that point proposition the hon. gentleman makes had
last year. The report of the coinmittee te) better be dealt with in a separate Act.
this House comprises ail the documents that There is always a certain risk in incorgo with the Bill, and when those documents porating into Railway Acta provisions
are not before us the Bull is not complete which do flot particuiarly refer to th1e inmediate subject.
and cannot be considered on its merits.
Horn. Mi. LOUGHEED-But cmy hon.
BILL INTRODUCED.
friend will observe thýat this is a new deBill (H) An Act respecting the Anglo- paiture. It is tantamount to the introducCanadian Continental Bank.-<Hon. Mr. tion of a policy by the government of conCloran>.
tiolling the rates for water-power. As I
understand, a great number of applications
THIRD READINGS.
have been made to the government for
Bill (No. 18) An Act to amend the Animal water-powei
from canals and other water
Contagions Diseases Act.-<Rt. Hon. Sir
courses belonging te the Crown. .I pie
Richard Cartwright).
sume that what is in view le the
Bill (No. 11) An Act to incorporate the adoption of rates to meet those circumCanadian Western Railway Company.- stances. If that policy is being introduced
(Hon. Mr. Beique).
-and it will certainly be of an extensive
Bill (No. 24) An Act respecting the Ed. character-there is no good reason why
monton and Slave Lake Railway Company. the government ahould not take te itsell, or
-(Hon. Mr. Beique).
the Railway Commission should not take te
itself, the same power with respect te the
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT 'BILL.
water-power companies we may have inIN COMMITTEE.
coîpoîated, and which rnay be operated
The House îesolved itself into a Commit- under federal charters. It is as necesaary
tee of the Whole on Bill (No. 21) An Act in one case as in the other, because the
prîmary object is to protect the public
to ainend the Railway Act.
againat excessive rates.
(In the Committee).
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis Bill is asked for by the Department
cf Railways in consequence of their having
now a considerable number cf applications
te lease 'watex-powers for the development
of electiicity. The amendment la te regulate the puice which may be charged for
eleetricity.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
know, but in that case the hon. gentleman
is awaîe that there are often very different;
conditions snd very considerable difficu]ty
as between individuals and private corporations.
If he choose to submait an
amendment between this and the third
readingc I wil] confer with the Minister of

MAECH 10, 1909

133

Railways on the subjeet, but I would flot should be applicable in the case I have
undertake to alter the Bill in that direc- mentioned.
tion without previous consultation wlth my
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTcolleagues.
Weil, it may be.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is sinply an
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It has been a
extension of the policy adopted. My right
hon. friend will observe that it will be in- prolific source of discussion in the press
possible, even under this Bill, te adopt a and otherwise the rates which ehould be
uniform schedule, because I apprehiend charged by these companies. and 'where.
that the conditions in one case might be they are divertiug the atre-ami of the Dominion for .power. purposes there is no
vastly different fromn those in auother.
good reason why the Dominion should not
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- exercise a general supervision over the rates
Quite go.
chéirgeable by the compaules.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Consequently, we
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTcannot expect uuiformity even under this. That may be, sud, as I say, 1 shail be wiilHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- iug euough to confer on the subject, but
in the meantime I think we may as wel
They are more apt to be different,
I fancy,
iu the case of leases between private in- accept this Bil as it is pro tante.
divîduals aud corporations 'than between .Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--Oh, yes, I arn
private individuals aud the Crown. Most flot objecting te that.
of these cases will originate from. the canais
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
which are under the control. of the government in a special sense, sud there is much do not think there is any harmi lu the Bill
more likelihood of difficulties occurring. 1 as it stands.
arn not disposed to refuse, nor yet amn I
disposed to accupt the amendment, unicess Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have no objecmy hon. friend eau put it in auch shape tion te that; I thiak it is a step lu the
and give it te me iu such fashion that I right direction.
may submit it and have it considered.
On clause 2,
2.
Hop. Mr. LOUGHEED-It i8 simply a are Sections 370, 871 and 372 cf the said Act
repealed, and the following sections are
question of policy as to whether the govern- substituted therefor:370. Every company shail aunually prepare
ment should not take control of thi rates
with the forma for
for water-powers usually speakiug; that la returns, in accordance and furnished by the
time_ being required
the
where they eau exercise juriadiction.
miiter, of its capital, traffic sud workiung
expenditure sud of ail other information
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If required.
Such return shial] be dated
I follow iuy right hion. friend sright, hie by2.and attested upon the oath ofand signed
the secrewould desire that the rates as -between tary, or sme other chief officer of the coinpany, and shail also be attested upon the
private parties should be controlled by the
oath of the preaident, or, in hie absence, of
Railway Commission, not aimply those the vice-president or manager of the company.
origiuating frein the Crown?
HEon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As between pub. This simply furnishes the material for the
lic companies incorporated by the paria- return.
ment of Canada and the public.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In what respect
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The are the schedules inadequate te meet the
compaules incorporated by the Dominion provisions of the Act? Ia it anticipated
of Canada are really private parties..
that more detailed returna wiil be furnished
by the railways?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If the .policy is
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
sufficiently good to apply te telephone and
other large -corporations engaged in operat- arn informed by the department that the
ing public utilities, it seems te me that it schedule forms are not in accordance with

134

SENATE

some of the statements that were made in
the presence of a good number of us this
morning by the deputy Minister of Railways, that the object is to assimilate our
statistiog te those of the United States, ini
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before that clause order that comparisons can be easily made
is carried I wish to offer some observations between the United States statisties as
upon it. I think it is a change we should given by the Interstate Commerce Comflot ïnake 'without very serious considera- mission, and those compiled under Mr.
tion, and e8pecially as I have learned that Payne of the Canadian Railways Departlittie attention was called to this change ment. That certaînly appears on the face
in the House of Gommons. I have conof it te be a very good object, a considersulted several members of the House
ation that Bhould not be overhooked, and,
of Commons who are very prominent in
possibly, ought te be carried out; but we
the discussion of railway matters, and they
were not aware that a Bill was passed re- must remember that the Interstate Compealing schedules 1 and 2. If hion. gentle- merce Commission has flot the power or
men wifl take the trouble to turn up the authority te deal with many matters that
]Railway Act they will find ail the schedules our Railway Department can deal with.
to that Act; Nos. 1 and 2 are repealed by The Interstate Commerce Commission is
the measure that we have before us. 1 only, as its naflie implies, a commission
have been looking a good deal into this that controls commerce passing through
matter of statistics, and I amn free to admit two or more states of the union, and has
th-at I quite agree with the right hon, min- no power and control over commerce which
ister that there .is room for very' much originates and ends within any one state.
improvement in the statistics that are being It has not the control. over raihways which.
furnished up to the present time. I have we have in our Department of Railgot to this position, that I would now hesi. ways and partly in the board of Railway
tate to quote any of tluse returns without Commissioners. The matters that have
stating very clearly that they came to, me been vexing us a great deal recently with
in this way and that I would not vouch for regard to highway crossings and the 8eparatheir accuracy. Whether this propositiori tion of tracks and so forth, the Interstate
is likely to resuit in better statistics is Commerce Commission has nothing whatsornething that I would not be prepaxed ever to do with. These are questions that
te say, but I arn afraid it will not. It is are handled by the different states of tihe
practicaily giving away the power 'whereby union. Therefore, we must be very careful
parliament had control of etatistics. Thst about repealing these schedules and falling
is exactly what we are doing. The returns back on the schedules of the United States,
that we are having now, that are fu.rnished because. if we follow them implicitly we
to us in the railway statistics, and 'whichi will find a great deal of the work that
are based upon the schedule, if they are pertains te our Railway Board and especinot satisfactory and not up to date, I would ally te the Departiment of Railways wil
think the right thing to do would be to be dropped out and lost sight of altegether.
frame new schedules that would conform As an illustration of what I arn now saying,
te up te date demands for statistics.
By in the year ending the 3Oth of June, 1907.
doing that and putting these ini the Act ahl statistics having reference to highway
in the place of the schedules -which we are crossings failed to make their appearance
repealing, we would then retain some con. in our report. I wanted to make comparitrol of the statistics, which we are not hiable sons te show what progress had been made
to -have if we just simply say, as we are do- from year te year, and I found that these
ing by this amendment, that the Minister statistics had been dropped out. I asked
may caîl for certain returns, and lay the sub- Mr. P'ayne, the statisticien, who appears
stance of themi before parliament. I notice to be giving a great deal of attention to his
from a careful examination that I have made worli, and hie told me that they foilowed
cf the report of the statistician, and fromn the United States plan of statistics, and
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.
the full and detailed forms of returns at
present adopted by the departmnent, and,
therefore, they want to make thein fulleri
and more compete.

MAIRCH 10, 1909
that they did not notice until too late that
these statistics were not included in the
American classes and forme and, cansequently, the etatietics appeared for that
year without this information, which it ie
very important we should have, becausa it
is the only channel for publicity with regard to them that we have in Canada. They
did not notice their being lef t out of the
United States interatate commerce atatistics, but if we dropped them, we drop thens
osit of sight altogether, and we lose the advantage of publicity and the advantage ci
making comparisons one year 'with another.
[t seems to me, we should be able ta make
comparisons with the United States, and I
highly applaud the Minister of Railways
and lis assistant, Mr. Payne, in endeavouring as f ar as possible to assimilate these
returns in order that we can compare
notes with oui United States neighbours.
where conditions are more like our own
than they are ini any other part of the
world. But while we are doing that, we
muet be very careful that we do not failow
them, too closely and thereby possibly lose
much of what is indispensable ini regard to
oui own railway system, and which we
cannot afford to have dropped aut and lost
to the public. I think it will be abundantly verifled that attention was not called
te the serious character of this change
when the Bill went tbrough the House of
Commons.
The ex-Minister of Railways, Mr. Haggart, with whom I had a conversation on
the subjeet, did not know that this change
was made, and he failed to notice that the
Bill contained such a very f ar reaching
proposition as this. I would suggeet to thé
leader of the House that it might be a
good proposition to hold this clause aver
and consuit with hie colleague the Minister
ai Railways, to see whether or not a better
method would be to amend these echedules.
Much of them may be obeolete, as has been
stated; much of themn may not be valuable
at any time. Well, let those drop out, but
with reference to statistics .preserved bv
other countries, and with a clear eye ta
oui awn situation, having no other means
ai getting the *information before the public, il would be well to consider whether
it would not be better that thie parliarnent

bbould still hold control over these st.atistics. One clause of the Bill says: 'Every
campany, if required by the minister so t>
do, shall prepare retuins ai its traffic, &c.'
That implies a possibility that the minister
might nôt cansider returns of this trafice
as being essential. I am saie in saying in
the ipresence of hon. gentlemen, many
ai whom knaw a great deal about these
matters, that it is very important that the
details of the traffic of our railways should
be given in a tabular form for publicity i
same public record. We are here giving an
option ta the minister ta get these returna
or not. Perhaps a new minister who had
not very closely studied the subject himself, on the advice ai a statistician who
wanted te get rid of the' work, might, if wîEbould pass this Bill do something that we
would lament afterwards. Nothing is more
important ta the country than that wc
should have accurate statistics on the subject ai transportation. It is a subject that
transcenda almost ail others, and becomes
mare important every year. We should be
able to turn ta such statistics with the
greatest degree ai confidence. I feit almoBt
appalled when I was told te-day by a gentleman high in one ai our big railway corporations that some ai the statistice I lad
quoted in this Hanse the other day about
the number ai level crossings guarded by
ane ai oui railway companies was nat correct and that the campany knew it was
flot correct, although it put them in a very
serions position. These returne are said
te be sworn ta. AUl this serves ta show
that we should take the greateet possible
care that these returns shaîl be ample,
and, above all things, that they shafl be
correct, so that we can turn ta them wit1à
confidence and get the lessons they ar.,
calcnlated ta give us.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
am not dispased te lurry a matter of tbis
kind, which, as tle Ion, gentleman says,
je ane ai considerable importance, and,
therefore, if he wiehes il, I have no objection that tle committee should rise and report progrese on the understanding, not
that I would accept hie amendment, but
that I would lay bis views before the Minieter ai Railwaye.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn not pro- company vas incorporated by the
Dom.
posing an amendment; I amn making a sug- inion Parliament and declared
te be a work
gestion.
for the general advantage of Canada, In
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- 1900 the railway waa given power te conDemanda are constantly being made, i struct branch lines. -In 1907, under a foreconnection with the railways, for different closure order, the road vas sold, and this
kinds of information, and I do not thin< Bill fa te enable the purchaaers te operate
it ia the intention of the Department of the railway. Practically, no new powers
Railways in any way or degree te circuni- are asked for. The rallway being under
scribe the information we nov get, but Dominion juriadiction, it is necessary te
simply to add te it and obtain from tirne corne to, parliament for the present Act.
te time further information. It might be They ask to be incorporated as t.he coma matter requiring some considerabie time pany had been previoualy.
and delay te draw up schedules that would
The motion vaa agreed te and the Bill
give ail the information vhich the depart- vas read the second time.
ment might think it necessary te acquire.
and, as he will observe, parliament would
RAILWAY CROSSINGS BILL.
necessarily have full information furnished
SECOND REÂDING.
them everv session as ta hat hait been
done, and couId demand and undoubtedly
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN maved the second
voudtht frthr
dman
ahedlessho]dreadig of Bill (C) An Act to amend tht
be ad ded or ifurny c hdules hbee Raiiway Act with respect
a
ta persons iii
bemitted, oic tey thu
mateii that vehicles crossing railways. He said: Any
oitdwihthey
sholdberegaed
ti f
th on one vho reads the ordinary returna made
gtemanou
isea ecd defer
the
onidra to parliament must know that the number
gtle
a wftise tor aee he
BU
daysIsha- of accidenta at railway -crossinÉs is increasaak o this
Bile toeort
progrsIsad ing. For a large number of these accidents
ask teae ta sitte
aga
eor
rorn.
n the people crossing the railways are respanask eaveto
at agin.sible.
We had before us to-day in the RailHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Under the old law way 4jommittee, the Deputy Miniater of
there waa no rigidity in this matter. There Railwaya who, in answer te a question as ta
vas » section wvhich gave the miniater the number of accidents that happen owing
power te ask for additional information. I to the recklessness o! people croasing the
think that would stMl be necesaary, because railways, said he believed 50 per cent were
any schedules you would draw up, even due ta that cause.
If the public would
vith the greateat care, miglit omit some- follow out the provisions o! this Bill and
thing which might be deairable. In mhat stop and listen for the approach of a train,
case I would give mhe minister power ta, there would be fever accidents. My object
ask for further returns. I agree with my is te guard the public againat themselves.
right hon. friend, mhat these schedules I have no desire te relieve the railways o!
shoiild be thorougbly reviaed, and parlia- any responsibility that may rest upon them
ment ahould not give up abaolutely the ini this matter. I wish te notify the pub-.
contrai of mhese statistica.
lic by this Bill that a grave reaponaibility
In many cases
resta upan themselvea.
Hon Mr ELIS
romthecomitte r
Hon Mi romthecamitte e- they cross the Tailway track as if it were
ELIS
parted mhat they had made some progresa an ordinary wagon road.
I arn quite willing
vith mhe Bill and asked leave te ait again. if mhe Hause is dispased
te give the Bill a
SALISBURY AND ALBERT RAIL WAY second reading ta aend it to the Railway
COMPANY BILL.
Committee where it can be thorougbiy sifted
and put into the beat shape ta render it
SECOND) READING.
usef ni legialation. You can only educate
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE moved the second the public in this anatter by legisiation. We
reading 'of Bill (Na. 35), An Act ta inor- have had a gaad deal of legislatian within
pornte the Salisbury and Albert Railway the hast three years regarding railway crossCamp any. He said: In 1891 this railway ings. There have been rnany accidentq
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MARCH 10, 1909
attended with loss of ie, and the publie
should know that they share the responsibiiity with the railways ini preventing much
accidents. We granted level crossings to
the railway companies in order that we
miglit have railway accommodation. If we
had atipulated that every crossing shouIri
be protected, we might possibiy have much
lesa railway accommodation ta-day than we
actually *possess. It is quite evident that
the government feel that the country has a
remponsiiity with regard ta these crossings. They are setting aside a mn of $200.000 a year for some yeara ta corne for the
purpose of protecting railway crossings
where there is a great deal of traffc. That
maney will go ta assist the railway eampanies ta provide either overhead crossingg
or ta raise their tracks above the road.
No doubt, some of the municipalities will
aima have ta share ini the responsibility
and contribute toasrds having protected
crossingm. When accidentm occur at level
eromeings the public are very apt ta find
f auit with the railways, but the railway
companies are nat the only jrespanhjble
parties i the matter. Parlisment granted
theni the right ta build their roads with
level crossinga, and it is unfair ta hold
them rempansible for the accidents whicb
occur ini consequence af crassings being
unprotected. As aur population increames
it will be necessmry ta make provision ta
obviate the destruction of 111e at level crossinga. But while we do «Il that, we must
endeavour ta educate the publie ta the
fat that they themselves have a respoasbility i cannectian with this matter. We
want ta tesch them that when 'they corne
ta a rai]way _crossing they muet nat endeavour ta rush across, as fifty per cent of
the travelling public do to-day, without
Iooking ta sese if a train is approaching.
They muet abserve certain miles and regulations ta sec that accidents do flot occur.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-Perhaps the han.
gentleman wiil tell us if this Bill applies
ta peaple who are deaf or blindP I notice misa that there are blanks i the Bill.
I quite understand that the Senate cannat
insert maney clauses, but there is nothing
to prevent the hon, gentleman from under.
taking ta fix the nulmber of feet on each
aide ai the track. where a man muet stop

137

bel ore proceeding further. I suppose it
will be fixed in the Senate. When it~goes
ta the Railway Camnxittee, I hope we will
have a Senate Camrnittee which wml 'work
s0 hard ta try and proteet the Bil, that it
will nat report this session, because the Bill
requires a gaad deal of amending.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Nat being a member of the Bailway Cominittee, I ahouId
like ta muggest ta my han. fricnd one or
two ideas witb regard ta this Bil.
Our
experience in Mantreal-and I think it la
the experience af cvery large city where
railway tracka pass over ar through the
streeta-that nat anly vebicles, but footpassengers meet with accidente. A woman
caming fram church the other day was
thrown anc whole block, from one atreet
ta anather. Wauld she came under this
law? Who is going ta police ail these crussinge ta sec that a man approaching thp
track stops w ithin ten or fitteen feet of the
crossingm? Yon would require ta have police
there. A nelghbaur seeing a man crossing
witihant stopping is flot going ta inforin
on hini. You would have ta keep a policeman at every crossing ta mec that the 1mw
is abserved. Another point ie tis.
If the
Bfi is given cf ect ta as now constructed,
it would reieve the railway companica of
providing protectianHan. Mr. MeMULLEN-No.
Han. Mr. CLORAN-Yes, because what
necesaity wou]d there be ta proteot the
crossings if every one was required to stop
and laok and listen befare attenipting ta
cross the track? I amn pointing this out
naw, as I shahl have no oppartunity of
vatig upon the Bil in the cammiile. In
aur large towns, protection is absolutely
necessary at these crassinga.
Yau carinat control the action af individuals cramaing the tracks, because you have no way
of enfarcing the law. Borne are hurt by
getting under the gates and crosalng the
tracka an foot when a train is approaching.
The Bil muet caver ail these pointa, and
will have ta make it dlemi that the railway
corporations are flot ta be reieved af their
duty of protecting crossinga where the municipalities demand such protection.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I do flot ask that
the Bill be passed in its present form. I

1M~

SENATE

arn quite willing that it shall he ame'nded
in the Railway Committee to cover the
points that have been raised, or to rneet
any other suggestions that rnay be considered necessary to protect the measure. My
hon. friend says he i.s flot a member of the
Railway Cornrnttee. There is no rule to
prevent hirn frorn attending the meetings
of the comùmittee, and addressing the committee if he thinks proper to do so.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There, is another
diffcuilty which rny hon. friend has not
considered: Everybody who cornes up to
a railway track and does not stop to look
and listen, according to this Bill, ought to
be killed, even if he is deaf or bhind; but
the penalty which the hon, gentleman proposes to infict applies to the party who is
killed, and how will it he oollected when
the person is dead.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT1 believe Borne such law as this has been
put in force in eeveral states of the neighbouring Union, but I have not had an
opportunity of seeing exactly what has
been done. I have sorne constitutional ohjection to rnaking new sins by Act of parliament, or new offences eîther. That is a
question which requires a little consideration. If you are going to import into the Act
a clause which makes it an offence for a
man to cross a railway without stopping or
listening, you create a new offence wiuich
you propose to punish by fine. The House
will have to take into serious consideration,
before they decide on the principle of the
Bill, these two considerations. I amn not at
all certain, off -hand, how far this would
tend te be another obstacle in the way of
parties who are injured at railway crossings
obtaining darnages. Undoubtedly the railway cornpany would feel, in pretty nearly
every case, and I suspect would get officers
of their own te testiiy, that the parties had
flot stopped as required by this measure,
and it would be difficuit for the party, in
many cases, particularly when the accident occurred at night, to establish whether
he had stopped or not. The greatest number of accidents that have resulted in loss
of life have taken place alter dark.
Nobody, as a rule, would he ahie to say
whether a man had -stopped or had flot
stopped, though the plea would he unHon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

doubtedly made on behaif of the railway
company. That requires sorne littie attention, because I know their skill in devising
pleas of contributory negligence and I arn
not clear how far that rnight go. A question akin to this is now before the Railway Cornrittee in the shape of a Bill whicb
I think compeis the railway companies, or
proposes to compel the railway companies,
to move at a rate not exceeding ten miles!
an hour where they cross on the level in
auy thickly-settled. portion o'r through towns
or villages-I forget the exact wording of
it. It has occurred to me, and I throw
out the suggestion for the benefit of rny
hon. frienda in the Railway Comrnittee,
whether it would not be wvise in the interests of the public and a perfectly fait
thing, to declare that if on any crossing a
fatal accident or a serious accident involvin- injury te life and property has occurrei
at any particular crossing, that that crossing should be prima facie declared to ha
a dangerous crossing, and that the trains
shvuld be compefled thereaiter to stop before they passed that particular crossing
until the Board of Railway <Jornrissioners
had investigated the matter and decreed
%hether the railway cornpany should make
provision to prevent 8uch accidents in
future. I give that as a suggestion which
has been made te me by one or two parties
of experience, and which it rnight be worth
while of my hon. frienda of the Railway
Commyittee to consider. As for the question
at large, as I say, I arn perhaps a littie
to blame for not having called the attention
of the Minister of Justice te this matter. I
should liko, as the matter is unquestionably
one of importance, te confer with these gentlemen, and I wiil therefore move that this
dehate be adjourned until Wednesday next.
Hon. Mr. BELÇOURT-Before the motion
is put the right hon. leader of the House
bas appealed te the mernbers of the legal
profession to support him in the position he
has taken. I as a member of the bar think
that this Bill is extrernely objectionahie.
As pointed out by the right hon. leader,
the hurden of proof would be upon the
person who met with the injury to prove
conclusively to the satisfaction of the court
that he stopped and that he had listened
for a corning train before the accident ce

MAIRCH 10, 1909
curred. Now, if we take the case which is
put r'ather facetiously by the hon, gentleman of what will happen if a man is ldklled.
that is a very serious question. If the maxn
who has received the injury dies as a re.
suit of the injury, who je going Vo prove
that he looked and listened before he received the injuryP go that ini ail fatal
cases it would be an absolute bar to recovery against any railway company. Nobody could prove it. The man is dead.
Nobody could establish the fact that hp
stopped and looked and listened.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Provision
made for that in the Isw.

niight be

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-But if you make
It an offence on the part of the perty who
dieobeys the Iaw, punishable by fine, how
are you going to make a provision, when
the case cornes before a jury, that he is not
guilty of negligence?

necessary would be a provision that this
Bill shail not be oonstrued as lessening in
any shape or forrn the responsibility of
the railway oompany, as would other'wis?
obtain if the Bill had not been passed.
However, as the right hon, leader cf the
government has stated, it ie but fair that
lie should have an opportunity Vo consuit
the Minieter of Justice and the Minister of
Railways before thie Bill i read a second
tirne. At present. I have not formed any
opinion on the Bill. What there je in the
Bill which might commend itself to the
Senate would be, that it might be a means
of education; but I amn satîsfled that it
should be nothing more than that, so as
to inake At compulsory on persone crossing
railways te take the ordinary precautions,
and it should be limited Vo a fine, net an
excessive fine, but it should have no other
effect at ahl.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I ahould like te say
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-That wou.ld not apply in connectien with the Bill of my hon.
to a case where there were two or three friend frorn Wellington, that there je nothpeople in the vehicle.
ing different in hie Bull from many other
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I arn not putting Bille. The only feature about it je that
that case. I arn putting the case where a it ie an attempt by a layman Vo bring a
man ie going along eingly,,and ie kiiled at Bill before parliarnent, and if possible te
a crossing. Nobody ie with him. Who la create in the country an idea that ail the
going Vo furnish the proof the burden of responsibility does net rest exactly with the
which this Bull places upon him P Instead railway cornpany, that the people thernof being a measure of protection Vo the pub- selves should assume a certain anieunt cf
lie, I look upon this Bill as being a very reponsibility. The Bill ray be faulty, but
serious bar to the protection of the public. where je there a Bill that has ever corne
down from the Minieter of Justice end other
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I underetood the legal luminaries from thse other House
hon, gentleman from Wellington to say that which has net been eubject te a great deal
hie object was not te interfere with the re- of criticisrn. Thie Bill may be sent Vo the
eponuibility of the railway company.
Bailway Committee, and whatever defect
there may beein it, I arn sure the hon.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Hear, hear.
gentleman from Wellington will not be as
Hon. Mr. BEIQU-If I were called upon obstinate as nome gentlemen who ineist that
to express an opinion on the Bill as drafted, their Bille muet poct be Vouched. He dees
I would have no hesitation in saying, as net look on it as a sacred thing. If an irnthe hon. gentleman fromn Ottawa has juet provement can be made, he will be very
etated, that the Bil je very objectionable, glad te accept any suggestion that would
because it would tend to interfere very bring the Bill inVo a workable formn if I
much with the responsibility of railway understand him aright, and for these reacompanies in case of accidente of that kind; sens I think that it is unf air at thie stage
but, as the hon. gentleman froxu Welling- -of the Bill te subject it Vo a great deal of
Von has expressed hie intention as pro- -will I say-unnecessary criticiem, bemoter of the Bill, te accept any suggestions cause if he were asking to have the Bill go
in that regard, and if the Bill required to before the Committee cf thse Whole House,
be corrected in that respect. what would be then there -might be some just reason fer

SENATE
criticising it now. But If hie permits the
Bill to be sent ta the ]Railway Cominittee,
every opportun ity will be given to those who
are able ta make suggestions, auch a my
hon. friend behind me and other lawyers
i the Hanse, and my hon. friend wii accept with good grace every imnprovement
that will tend ta make the Bill more acceptable.
Hon. Mfr. McHUGH-I am quite satis.
fied that the hon, gentleman wha introduced
thc Bill, did se with the very best intentions, ta try ta prevent the sad accidenta
which have occurred from tirne ta time
by people being run aver at railway crossings. At the saie time, we must consider
whether it is'a step i the right direction,
or whether there are flot elemente, of danger.
ini the paasing of a Bill of ýthis kind.
In
mani? cases, we know that people wha are
driving horses along a public highway are
brought inta a state af danger if thcy came
near the train at ail, and have ta stop
there, and. yon are going ta mnltiply the
accidents that will happen at these places
by campeiling people ta stap at a paint
within sa many feet of the railway crassing.
There is na anc who drives along the bighway wha does not feel that there is a reapansibility upon himi for his own safety.
Peaple driving have ta use their beat judgment as they are approacbing the railway
crassings, and if they see a train coming
&long the track ta a crossin.g, they
have ta exercise their best judgment as
ta what is the best and saf est thing
for thcm ta do, wbcther it is safe for
them ta drive acroas or not. If thcy think
it in the safer course, that is -whàt,they are
gaing ta do, and if tbey thin!t they are sale
ta remain whcre they are, that is what they
are gaing ta do. But we would be taking
away from the individual the opportunity
af doing that whicb but for this, law hie
might have donc and you force him ta stay
*at a certain point, althangh bis tcam may
rn away and dsish inta the reilway train
when it is on the crassing. We have heard
ai accidents af that kind happening. A vebidle ran inta a train and two people
last their lives, and a third one was mained
for life. There are elements ai danger ini
stapping a teami near an approaching train
in that way, and by thîs mneasure yau deHon. Mr. GIBSON.

prive the driver ai the opportunity ai doing
that which bis own judgment, fia matter
how good that judgment was, might dictate
ta him wbat was beat at the time. On tha
whole, I think it is far better ta leave it ta
the judgment cf the teaister as ta wbat is
the beat and safest course for him ta pursue. I have no objection ta see the Bill
sent ta the committee. 1 do net appose
that at ail; but 1 point out the danger.
How aiten have we seen a funeral procession came ta a railway track and bave
seen the drivers wbip up their barses ta
cross, and anc teain may run away
and injure hall a dazen people.
Drivera
aiten wbip up their teaman ta. get out of
danger, and I think we must icave a good
deal ta the judgment ta thase wha are bandJing the barses and ta the railway company.
If the engine driver secs a procession af
that kind, let him, slacken specd and permit the procession te cross.
Hlon. Mr. <JLORAN-Another point in
the Bill is this: Every ansasis able an summary conviction ta a penalty not excceding $25; how are you going ta collect
that? There is nat machincry ln Canada
that can farce a mani ta pay $5 if bie bas
net got It. Yau should. say «or three
manths in jail.' This Bill is defective as
it stands. Thcn another point: what about
children, wbo are mare or lesa irresponsible,
from seven years npwards, who are going
to schoal? 'You cannot expcct tbem ta be
as sensible anld wise as a man ai 21 or 40.
W.>uld they be held respansible rnder this
lawP This is what happena in large cities;
people crossing the tracka from S3t. Henri
to St. Ounegonde, for instance, arc in danger ai being killcd if great care is nat
exercised. It la not the people in vebicles.
What 'would the law do witb children
under ten or twelve years ai age, wbo viaIated the provisions ai this Bill?
Hon. Mr. McMTJLLEN-I might be permitted ta add anc word te what I have
already said. My hon. friend frein Lindsay
says that it is better to leave matters as
they are. Wc bave bad the experience ai
a inumber ai years, aud that experience
says that deaths throngh accidents on railway crossings are increasing.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-There la ne doubt
about that.

MARCH 10, 1909
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-The object of the
Bfi ie, if possible, to put a stop to the
fatal accidents that take place ai these
cbossrngs. My hon. friend will aurely admit that it is a good thing ta try and proteet the publie againat their own recklesmnees that resuits ini injury and dea.th
ai level croesingsP I think that it is a
proper thing to do. I have no deaire whaV.
ever, by the Bill to give the railways any
advantagc whereby thcy can get rid of
rcsponsibility that they are now subject to
for accidents at level crossings. I entirely
agree with 'what my hon. friend from De
Salaberry saya. I amn quite willing to accept any arnendment that shail be made ta
the Bill, that will deal solely with the
public, if we have to go so far as ta insert
a provIsion that it shail not be used by
the railway cornpany in the case of an
action for darnages from an accident that
took place ai a level crossing. If it is
thought better ta put it in that shape, I
arn quite willing. The object of the Bill
in to educate the public ta the fact that
they have certain responsibilities, and teach
thein that they must comply with the exiating law with regard to stopping at level
crosaings. Why do we compel trains to
stop at railway croasinga? Whcre the track
of one railway crosses the track of another
the law requires that the trains muat
corne ta axi absolute standsti before
they cross.
If it is necessary for a
train ta do that, is it not necessary
for a man driving a vehlicle ta do
the sarne? We do net want ta force upon
our people, for instance, Uic conditions
that are forccd upon the people cf Russia.
There, if a man cornes ta a railway crossing, if the urne is up for Uic express train
te pass, or a freight train, he has ta stand
there perhaps for hours before lie is permitted ta cross that track, until that expresa train goes by. That is thc Russian
law. We do not want ta pass such a drastic provision as that; on the other hand tiu
Bill ia intended as an educator for thc
public, ta teach thcm Uiat they have certain responaibilities, and that we pass a law
for thc purpose cf teaching thcm that they
must take notice of Uic railway track when
Uiey corne ta it and observe certain provisions of the law when crossing.
The motion was agrecd to.

141
SECOND READINGS.

Bill <No. 46) An Act respecting Uic Crawford Bay sud St. Mary's Railway Company,
and ta change uts narne ta «The British
Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba Railway Carnpany '-(Hon. Mr. De
Veber).
Bill (No. 23) An Act reapecting Uic Alberta Central Bailway Carnpany.-(Hon.
Mr. Watson).
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY AND
GRAND TRUNX RAILWAY JOINT
SECTION BILL.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
Hon. Mr. POWER (in the absence of Hon.
Mr. Watson) rnoved the second reading
of Bill (No. 25) &~n
Act respecting the joint
section of the Canadian Pacific Railway
Comnpany and thc Grand Trunk Pacific
Railway Cornpany at Fort William, Ont.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the motion
is pigit I should like ta raise an objection.
The Bill contains one clause and fificen
pages cf schedule. The firet clause is translated into Frenchi, but Uic achedule is not
translated, and I abject ta Uic Bill being
taken into consideration before it is given
ta us in Frenchi. Lasi year we had a nuinber of BUis in thc sarne position and Uic
achedules wcre ail translated into French.
Han. Mr. GIBSON-Wcre thc achedulca
printed in French when Uic Bill was
brought before the House, or afterwar-ds?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The echedules when
they passed the House of Commons were
presented ta us in French. In thiseucae,
the scheduies are not in French. It je the
fault cf the transiators in the House of
Commons.
They should translata the
schedules into French.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The
is weil taken, and I move
cf the day be discharged
the orders cf the day for a
on Friday next.

point -ocf arder
ibat this order
and placed on
second reading

The order of the day was discharged sccordingly.

1Aý'

SENATE

DOMINION

LANDS ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.

REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
The House reeolved itself into a Corn
mittee of the Whole on Bill (No. 12) An
Act to amend the Dominion Lands Act.
(In the Committee).
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
may just explain to hon, gentlemen that
the Minister of the Interior in submitting
this Bill stated that the changes proposed
were merely intended to correct the displacement of certain sections which had
been put out of their place by the revisers,
and which he proposes to, replace. There
is a trifling alteration which later on I wil
propose, giving power to parties to sign,
under certain conditions, for the Governor
in Council.

have added to the value of tbe land very
substantially, but ail he is entitled to is
the bare improvements. Some measure of
compensation should be made and some
provision shouid be introduced into the Bill
accordingly by whicb be would be indemnified for the cancellation of the entry.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-1
arn advised by the department that they
bave flot altered the existing law at aIl;
that this is a mere restitution to their proper place, of certain paragraphis which were
transposed by tbe revisers. That is their
statement to me-that tbey bave not altered the law at ail. It may be that a bard.
ship such as my hon. friend speaks of may
exist at this moment, but, as I understand,
the department do flot propose to add aniything to the law.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-While it posHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Could the hon. sibly may have been a serious omission
gentleman give me any information as to originally, even thougb there be an omisthis feature of the B3ill? It provides for sion in the Act, and that this is simply
reinstatement of former provisions
the cancellation of an entry should the land a
omitted, it seems to me a matter net only
be required for the specified purpose mentioned therein, and in a subsequent clause well wortby of consideration, but a matter
it makes provision for a limited compensa- that certainly should be provided for, betion, namely, for improvements by the en- cause my right bon. friend will observe
trant for the land, but makes no provision that the hypothetical case whicb I bave
in regard to the damage which the entrant mentioned-and I sbould say tbose cases
niay suifer by reason of the canceflation would be numerous-would be cases of
of his entry. That may be a very objection- very great bardsbip.
able law. It is flot the fauit of the entrant
Hon. Mr. DANDURAIND-There is no
that he bas gone upon this land. It bas
question about it, that this is but reinstatbeen thrown open for homestead entry. ing the clauses
as they were in the previous
The Crown bas received his entry ,and ha9 Act.
It is si.mply a replacing of sections.
permitted him to go upon the land, to rely, Section
5 in the revised 6tatute was section,
in fact, upon that land eventually becom7 originally; section 6 was section 6. Secing bis upon satisfying tbe conditions of tion
7 was section 5. So, practically, 7 bas
the Homestead Act. -It, therefore, in my been submitted for 5, and vice
verffa, and
judgment, would be a very severe hardsbip
section 8 was section 8. So that practically
upon sucb a man if the government should there was but one change. Section 5 whicb
suddenly determine that this land was reis brought down to section 7 and section 7
quired for the development of a certain
is changed to section 5.
0f course the
water-power, which may neyer have been
policy may work out an injury but it was
in the anticipation of the government or
the old law.
anybody else at the time the entry was
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If there be a
made. He should bave a claim. for compensation more than for his improve- possibility of injury, and we are amendments. The improvements would but re- ing the Act, it is the duty of parliament.
present an infinitesimal part, so to, speak, and more especially the duty of the governof the value which he migýht attach to this ment -who is charged *wvith the legislation,
particular property. H1e may have been' where a manifest wrong is done, to amend
on there for a couple of years
He may the Act accordingly.
Hon. Mr. POWER.

MARCH 10, 1909

143

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Is principle embodied iii ail other statutes of
flot compensation provided for to a certain this nature is that adequate value should
be paid for whatever is taken by the Crown.
extent?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Well, not according to this. -I arn net prepaned to say that
there may not be some clause lu the new
Ack-it is a very lengtby Act, but my impression is that the present Act would net
coven a case of this klud. My right hion.
friend will observe under subclause 7, the
compensation is of a limited characten aud
only extenda te the improvernents made by
tbe homesteader upen the land.
As I
have already peinted eut, those improvemonts might be an infinitesimal part cf the
value cf the right, wbich has been caiicelled.
Hon. Mn. DANDURAND-But it must
bo done beore the hetters patent are issued.
Hon. Mn. LOUGHEED-Precisely,
but
then that may occur any time up to threc
years. The shortest period that can elapse
befone issuing a patent is three yeanis, and
in the meantime he has eacrificed aillopportunities cf socuring anothor homestead. The
lands, owing te the veny rapid settiement
cf the western country, may be taken up
and be may find himself suddenly deprived
cf bis homestead, and all the value he bas
attached te it, and substantial value at
that.

Hon. Sir RICHARD -CARTWRIGHT-As
I arn advised, there is no alteration contemplated in the existing law. The hion.
gentleman cannot say whetber there is
or flot of his own knowledge.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED - My impression
is there is not for this particular class of
cases. My right bon. friend will observo
that the various subsections rnentioned hen'
are complete in theinselves as to dealing
with this particular clasa of cases.
Con-.
sequently it is quite unlikely that there is
any provision in the Act for compensation,
that is to say, it would be sirnply a repetitien of whst is enacted here and would
,practically be a contradiction, because
these provisions are of such a character
as would make any other provision repugnant.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My
bon. friend bas raised a question affeicting
the policy of the department flot properly
coming up perhaps undez this Bill. Neyertheless, as I can see there is a possibility
of hardship in such cases as he supposes,
provided there ia no other mode of compensation open, and as hie thinks it may
occur, I will just insert a small axnendment
to which he can have no possible objection,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Re and the committee can rise and report prowould net be deprived, as I undonstand, cf gress and I shall call the attention of the
the value cf any improvements ho had made. Minister of the Interior te the.bon. gentleman's remarks.
but, se te spoak, if I follew my right
hon.
friend cerrectly, cf the uuearned increment?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would suggest
Would that net be it>
te put the Bill through its committee stage .
and before the third reading, if the case be
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems te me
that la a misnemen, because it would be su as I have stated, and as I arn inclined toa
think is correct, a further amendment may
earned increment. The man bas brougbt the
ho made at the third reading.
land into value. While he would not ho deprived cf the rigbt cf securing anothon pnopHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
erty, yet even tbree yeans after hoe made bis shail cail attention to it. I can see that
entry he might have te go back rnany under certain - possible conditions sonimiles befere getting another bomostead. It ous bardships might be infiicted on a set1
seema te me that saine provision sheuhd tien, wbicb
none
of us desire.
be muade that this entry cf land by t.he thought the notice bad to be given within
Crewn should be made very seen atten the a much shorter time than appears te be the
land is given him, or adequate compensa- case. I will accept the hion. gentleman's
tien should be made on taking ever the suggestion and put the Bill thnough with
land. It is practically expropriation. The one little amendment. that is ta amend

144

SENATE

section 90 by adding the words ' or by some governent roads more completely within
other person thereunto specially authorized the terms of the Act affecting other roada.
by the Governor in Council.'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Are there many
The clause was amended and adopted.
claims for damages?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY, froin the committee,
Hon. Sir RICHAIR
CARTWRIGHTreported the Bill with an amendment.
A good many. They have been of long
Hon.. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is proposed standing, and I amn informed on certain
to repeal subclause 8 in the existing Act, sections of the Intercolonial Railway the
which. is very much more ample ini its price of cows is regulated by the facility of
provisions for compensation than the aub- access to, the railway.
stàtuted clause which. we are now enacting.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I suppose the
The clause in the Bill limits compensation, price ranges high immediately before
an
to the improvements, whereas the existiag election?
law leaves room for ample compensation
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTfor the land which may be taken.
I amn not prepared to say. With respect to
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTthis Bill, I move to amend the l2th and
I shail cail the attention of the minister te l3th
clauses by moving that the words 'ini
the hon. gentleman's point. I spoke from
any court of competent jurisdiction,' be
rny brief, stattag what the department repstruck out.
resented te me'as their intention.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That would drive
Hon. <Mr. LOUGHEED-One difficulty
him to the Exchequer Court, would it not?
lies in this tact: the government has in
view the carrying out of one particular
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-There would be
idea, and the arnendment is directed to- only the Exchequer Court. The clause as
wards that particular interest without ta2k- it stands, would leave a doubt as to wheing into consideration the other tateresta ther there might not be some other tribunal.
involved. This is in the interest of the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If the policy of
public.
the Act be to place the Intercolonial RailHon. Mr. DANDURAND-Does not the way in the same class as the other roads
hon, gentleman think that power is granted in cases of damages for loss of cattie, why
to the arbitrators to give such compensation flot permit the public to sue in the ordinas may be consldered rigbt?
ary courts of competent juriadiction? It is
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Under the exist- a serions matter for a person who has loat
ing Act, the compensation which may be a cow or a horse to be obliged to present
allowed by the minister, if not accepted, a Petition of Right to the Crown, and to
may be dealt with by arbitration. This have that go before the Privy Council for
Bill limits the compensation te the in- the issue of a fiat and then take proceedinga in the Exchequer Court.
,provement.
The amendment was concurred in.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTGOVERNMENT RAILWAY ACT AMEND- This is to some extent an Act of grace from
the Crown to, the subject. Later on it may
MENT BILL.
be found expedient to widen it; but in the
REPORTED PROM COMMITTEE.
present instance the Minister of Justice
The. House resolved itscif into a Com- desires to press it ini this fashion.
mittee of the Whole on Bill (No. 20) An
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-At present, we
Act to, amend the Government Railways
have no other way of recovering from the
Act.
Crown than by a petition and a fiat, because the Crown could not serve itself, so
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- it would need to be by virtue of a genera]
The object of this Bill is to -bring the provision that perhaps the Intercolonial
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MARCH 10, 1909

145

Railway could be made a person or cor- as any other railway? Why should net the
poration to be oued.
Public have the saine right te recover if
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn very glad that damages have -been suffered, and have the
the minister has stricken out these words, saine remedy as against a privaIs corporabecause without the ainendinent it would lion, such as the Grand Trunir Railway
open the door to ail aorte of Ïblaglkauil on or the Canadian Pacifie Railway? The prothe country. The Iaw as it stood previous posed ainendment to the clause very greatly
te last year wa te tbis effect; the owner weakens the Bill, and withdraws from it
of the caIlle was to have no action unlesa that healing virtue 'which we were anthey were kiiled or injured through the ticipating. It seema te me that t.he
negligence or wilful act of Borne officer or Act should be asnplified so as te perernployee of the minister. Looking at the mit actions to be tairen in the ordinary
way in which justice ls generaily done be. courts cf law againat the Intercolonial
tween the Orown and individuais, that Railway. Taire, for instance, the case cf
seemed te be a wise provision. Now this herses or cattie being kiiled in a distant
measure states that the recovery %hall taire country tewn in the maritime provinces.
place, uniess such animal got at large AUl the cumbersome machincry existing tothrough the negligence or wilfu st of the day ini conneclion with an action against
nI
owner or his agent. It puts on the Crown the government, has to be set in motion in
Instead cf the subject who bas
the onus of establishino negligence on the Ottawa.
part of the ewner or his agent. Without suffered damnages being able te- set in mothe limitation plaoed on il by the amend- tion the machinery cf his own local courts.
ment now propoeed, it would open the door lie has te get in communication with solito very serious abuse. If hon, gentlemen citera i Ottawa, and, practically, the
ivili leok at the second subclanse of the whele machinery cf goverinent bas te be
clause before the comxnittee, they will see set in motion befere a fiat can be secured
that il is in direct contradiction to the sta- upon which te base an action te recever a
tute. That ia a vei'y sweeping measure, and dlaim cf perhaps under $100. To set thal
unless qualified by the amen-dment which macbinery in motion would ceat substantibas just been made, would expose the coun- aiiy more thon the loas sufiered by the
try to numbers of claims that perhaps were subject.
flot well founded. Every one knows that in
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The oenendmenl
the ordinary courts, where il is a case say
between a poor widow or u poor farmer proposed wiil net aller the Act in any way.
any
and the government, the country would be The phrase te be slruck eut is 'i
court cf competent jurisdiclion.' As between
salled by the jury every lime.
a party and the Crown, the loniy court
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cannot ap- cf competent juriadiction is the Exchequer
preciate the remarirs of the hon, gentlemen Court, and, therefore, the words are, usefrom Halifax. Il seems to me that this leas. The ides cf the right hon, gentleman
Bill la not poeeseed of the self-denying vir- was te strike lhem eut, se as te prevenl
tue 50 to spesir. Ihat has been pointed confusion in the minda cf the public. The
out. I neyer could appieciate 'why the hon, gentleman speairs cf allowing the
Crown should seek to place ilseif ini a su- Crown te be sued as another party, especial.
perior position to a railway corporation. Il ly when administering a railway. That la a
is about time that we did away with the large question. The saine question was put
traditions as to the Crown being unable le to the minister, and hie said the question
do wrong. Il is hoary with age, and with had already been discussed, and no soluabuse, and to my mmnd is one cf the great- tion had yet been reached. I myseif beest abuses we have in the country to,-day. lieve that the goverrnent ceuld well afford
If the Crown enlers upon the important re- te allow a certain personality-if that exaponsibility of operating a great railway presses my ides-te the Intercolonial Railsuch as the Intercolonial ILailwsy, why way, se that il ceuld be sued as any railway
should they not place themselves in rela- corporation wilhout having te send te Ottionship te the public in the same position tawa for a fiat te taire the case before the
10
RUVI5ECD EDITION

SENATE
Exchequer Court. The question not having been matured in government circles, I
Juppose we will have to wait until the government reaches a decision on that point.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I quite concur i the
view expressed by the hon, gentleman -opposite. There le no doubt there is steadily
growing in the country a feeling that there
is oppression in the difficulty which a man
has in taking proceedinge against thýe government for damages of the kind referred
to, and in getting it settled. The government ie a very powerfu] institution.
Its
officers have behind thein a very strong
force, and it is difficuit for a mian to get
bis dlaim. considered. It would be well,
where the government has gone into a comnmercial enterprise, to that extent to walve
its privileges. I might point out 'that the
Senate in strildng out these worde might
be understood now as oomsnitting one of
those wicked acte of changing a Bill aiready
passed by the House of Commnons. The
only thing that surprises me je that the
House of Oommons did net catch on before sending it here.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn not in favour
of lirniting the right of action te the Exchequer Court.
I thought that the intereets of the public rnight be more guarded
than they are in this Bill, but with respect
to the observation made by the hon, leader
of the opposition that the government
should assimilate the law as te government
ra.ilways with the law as te private railways, this Bill je really in that direction.
For instance, I flnd tbe second clause of
this Bull has been copied largely fro~m the
general Railway Act, and !pute the publie
in the sarne position as in dealing with an
ordinary railway company.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The Intercolon!l Railway je brought under the law which
governe other railways, with this exception.
that a suit muet be taken hefore the Ex.
chequer Court.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY, from the committee,
reported the Bill with an amendment, which
was concurred in.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (No. 27) An Act te incorporate the
London and Lancaster Plate Glass and
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

Indemnity Company of Canada.-(Hon. Mr.
Kircbhoffer).
Bill (No. 58) An Act respecting the Van.
couver, Westminster -and Yukon Railway
Company.-<Hon. Mr. Bosteck).
The Senate adjourned until te-morrow at
three o'clock.

THE SENATE.
O1'I!wA, Thursday, Mardi 11, 1909.
The SPEAKER teok the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedinge.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bul (I) An Act respecting tihe Quebec Oriental Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Tessier).
Bill (J) An Act respecting the Windsor,
Essex and Lake Shore Rapid Railway Cernpany.-(Hon. Mr. McMullen).
Bill (L) An Act respecting certain letters
patent of the AMerican Bar Loch Company.
-(Hon. Mr. Campbell).
Bill (L)An Act reepecting certain letters
patent of Franklin Montgovmery Gray.
(Hon. Mr. Talbot).
Bill (M) An Act te amend the Conciliation
Act, 1900.-(Hon. Mr. McMullen).
Bill (N) An Act respecting the Ontario.
Hudson Bay and Western Railway Company.-<Hon. Mr. Rose, Middlesex).
Bu]ll (O) An Act respecting the Algoma
and Central Hudson Bay Railway Coni.
pany.-(Hon. Mr. Ross, Midd.lesex).
Bill (P) An Act te incorporate the Kootenay .and Alberta Railway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. De Veber).
Bill (Q) An Act respecting the Quinze
and Blanche River Railway Comnpany.(Hon. Mr. Belcourt).
Bill (IR) An Act respecting the Ottawa
Fire Insurance Company and to change its
name te the Ottawa Assurance Company.(Hon. Mr. Belcourt).

MARCH il, 1909

147

THE CHIEF JUSTICE 0F THE SUPREME instant, but
had ta be adjourned for a week
COURT 0F BRITISH COLUMBIA.because of the indisposition cf the chief
justice. A number of Vancouver lawyers who
had gene te Victeria at the expense cf their
MOTION.
clients then had te return without having
Hon. Mr.. BOSTOCK moved:
accomplished snything. -Forty appeals concernin many matters cf -serions public and
That an humble address be presented to pri=ate importance have had to hé poetponed.
His Excellency the Governor General; pray- AU the inconvenience entailed upon the public
that Hi. Excellency
iai Jeoe the Senate copies will cause to b. laid u préparation for the hearing cf their case
of ail charges made wiihave te be undergene a second time, and
against the Chie£ Justice of the Supreme court the expenhe cf double attendances and double
of British Columbia, and aise cf ail cor- îouLrneya will have te bé suffered inte the bargain.
respondence, &c., relating thereto.
It looks as though the administration cf
He said: I think it ie only right that I justice in the province has suffered a compiste break-down for thé time being. Uniess
aheuld gîve te this House a few reasons corne attention is soon given
te the rîghts
why I consider this motion, whîch is an needs of the community the paralysie willand
be
complets.
unpieasant one te any member of this
House te meve, ehould be made, inasmuch
The ' World 'in its editorial gees on te
as I feel that it is a reflection, te sorne ex- say:
tent, on the judiciary et the province which
*We have
frequent
I have the honeur of representing in this cent weeks had months te occasion within r..
and
animadvert an the
Heuse. I de not think that any member ever-growing arrears et the business cf the
iaw courts of the province. We have peinted
cd the Senate can feel .anything but regret out
the nesd of the court of
at having to corne forward and introduce held in abeyance for motivesappeal, wiifully
which are te
say the lest questionable, and we have una motion oi this kind. I arn led te do se
availhngly u.rged the administration te profrein the expressions of opinion that have muigate the Act bringing
it inte existsnce.
appeared in the papers ef British olumbia 'W. abate ne jot or tîttie of cur criticisms of
'with regard te certain incidents that have the provincial government in the mattsr ot
its indiflerence te the intereats et citizens
taken place in the administration cd j us- who are unfortunate enougli te be in need
tice, especiaily in regard te the action et cf legal redresa, but.we may p oint out in adthat much might be done te expédits
the Chief Justice et British Columbia. On dition business
court
were it net fer
the 3Oth May last year, the 'Daiiy Colusn. a court of appéal could in ne circumstances
way modify.
bian,' a paper published in New West- There is firet cf ail the serions misunderstanding between certain members et thé Suminster, etated in its news colunins thé preme Court whîch seeme to have imported
a
fellowing with reference te -a case of a man maximum of friction inte the working cf the
machinéry cf justice, Wé have nething te
named Isidore, ef Greece, in an action that say
as te where
net in
was brought before the courts against Man. possession et ail the fanit lies-we areexpress,
the facts. We may
however, without any%
ager D. Giichrist, et the West End Grocery,
imPraprietY, our sense,
and wé think the public sensé, et reqret that
for taise arrest, claiming several thousan~i the distinguishied gentlemen
whose differences
dollars darnage, in which suit he was have become notoriousiy acuts should have
awarded the suin cf one dollar as an ade- found themselves unable te reach a modus
vivendi before thé incempatibility cf their
quate compensation fer the injury :which views became generaliy known.
had been sustained te bis charazter threugh
Then again later on in the sanie year,
his two hours' imprisonment. The 'Coluin.
on the llth June, 1908, the Victoria 'Times'
bien ' report of the matter says:
had a notice with -regard te the case of
Hli. Lordship, Chief Justice Hunter, was Rex vs. Walkem i which it Bays:
net present and the jury, consisting cf eight
men, who were ta hear the evidence in conThe full court s net sitting this atternoon.
junction with the presiding judge, were con- Shortly before lunch
thé Walkem appeal was
verted into a board cf arbitration and the commenced
with
case. was preceeded with, beth parties con- Justice Merrisen Chief Justice Hunter, Mr.
and Mr. Justice Clement
senting.
constituting thé court.
Thé hearing was ta have resumed at 2.15,
On the saine day the Vancouver 'World,' but when
that heur arrivéd ne judges apof the 3Oth of May, 1908, contained the tol- peared.
A quarter ot an heur latér a messenger arlowing:
rivéd, and aftr déiivering a message te the
The news from

Victoria

régistrar

thé latter

anneunced

is that the fuil
court was to have opened there on the 2nd wouid stand adjeurned until il
morrew morning.
'01

that court
e'clock te-

SENATE
Those cases gave rise to a good deal of
discussion amongst the public generaily
on the coast. The Vancouver 'World' of
J une 20 had a further article, reviewing the
administration of justice in
the province,'
which ie headed ' Clogging the Wheels or
Justice.' That article firat of ail referred
ta the proposed institution of a Court of
Appeal, which bas flot yet been cax'ried out,
and in the second part of the article it
refers ta, the administration of justice in
tuis way .,7
Thse'17;or matter is one on which w.
mnai'ch we neod not uarthor indicato, critlium of the. judges of the. Supreme Court
would corne with botter grace from almost
any of our contemporaries than from us. No
other journal, however, Booms inclinod te
take Up the question, and thorefore, the public
interest demanding that it should be taken
up, we reluctantly bring it to the attentioni
of aur readers. We refer te the repeated
occasions upon which the indisposition of the.
chief justice has occasioned the. adjournamont
of the courts. By common consent the Hlonourablo Mr. Chief Justice Huxiter is one of
tho ablest jurists and on. of the soundest lawyers in the. West. The greater the pity it àe
that a man so splendidly endowed montally
shculd bo the. subject of sudden physical visitations which have repeatedly incapacitated him
and have caused delays and exponse
courts te an extent which has finally in the
caused
a complaint to b. lcdged with the Minister cf
Justice.
baye' long heuitated to sp eak, sinco for rea-

New Westminster. It is headed, as is often
done li this paper, in very large type in
these words:
BRITISHI JUSTICE SLIPS A COQ.
Canadian Premier Âsks Judge- te -Âmend Hlie
Ways, But Stili Assizes Are Delayod at
Cost cf $50 Daily.
(Special te, Tiie Herald.)
New Westminster, B. C., Oct. 21.-The Jonkmns murder trial has net yet been cailed,
the presiding judge,
*wn to the
Chi.fg Justice absence cfwho is said to ho deHunter,
tained in Vancouver on one cf his periodic
engagements at the club. In the meantime
sixty jurymen from ail sections cf the district and half a hundred witnesses romain
huddled in the court room, emitting words
anything but complimentary te the. mani wiio
is responsible for keeping them away from
their business.

I have quoted these cases to, show the
feeling and expression of opinion that bas
been forwarded te Seattle, of tihe Chief Justice in British Columnbia. 1 do net state
that these opinions are correct; but I think
wben such articles as that appear in rpapers
that are published througbout the province, that the Chief Justice cf the province ought certainly to be given an opportunity of proving wbether those statements are correct, and if they are not correct, cf clearing his character and clearing tbe stigma that will b. placed upon
the bench cf tiie province, and upon bis
position cf Chief Justice, if they are allowed
tremain as tbey are at the present time
unrefuted, and no notice taken cf thein.

A few days later, on the 24th June, 1908,
there was an aceunt in the saine paper,
the Vancouver 'World,' of a meeting held
by the Bar Association of Vancouver, -and
amongst ather matters that are stated te
The motion was agreed te.
have occurred at that meeting the report
Baya:
GUARANTEE 0F RAILWAY BONDS IN
ALBERTA.
The editorial which appeared in the
'World' was teuched upon, a prominent meinINQU-IRY.
ber saying that the frequent inability cf the
Chief Justice was so well known to the bar
Hon. Mr. PERLEY inquired cf tbe gevthat h. did not need to refer to it further.
Several other members spoke of the article ernment:
in termis which implied that it had not erred
on the aide of over-statement or hyperWhat rescurces bas tbe government of AIloerta get that wiil justify tiiom li guarancriticism.
The association might have beon said te teeing interest on railway bonds te the extent
divide on party linos with respect ite the mo- cf itwerity-seven million dollars. Alec, what
tion re the. Court cf -Appoal, but the ranks property bas the. gcvernment cf Saskatchewan
vers broken by a prominent Liberal K. C.. on which they can guarantee the interest on
who wont over te the Consorvative aide for bonde for any purpese.
the occasion, his action thus being the. immeHon. Mr. EDWARDS-I desire te nsk
diat. cause cf the defeait of the. resolation.
wbat rigbt this House bas te interfere witli
Later on in the saine year, on the 2lst
domestic matters in any cf our provinces?
October, 1908, a paper called the ' Herald,'
wbich is published in the state of WashHon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-If the provington, had a notice under an item cf newý inces bad net the autbority te guarantee
Eupplied by a cspecial correspondent froni the bondsHlon. Mr. BOSTOCK.

MARCH il, 1909
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-1
may say that the government of the Dominion is not, by the constitution, required
or empowered to ascertain what the Te
sources of the various provinces may be in
dealing with matters within their jirisdiction, and I do not think that this Hanse
which. is, - i a apecial sense,. the guardian
of the rights of the several provinces, would
be disposed to advise that the goverrnent
shouid attempt ta interfere. We have no
meane of ascertaining the point the hon.
gentleman desires to be iniormed upon.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I was simply .9sI<ini
for information. This governmnent created
the two provinces very recently.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-We
have no means of obtaining the information
desired.
The SPEAKER-The motion is nat ini
order.

149

Ras the government received any complaint
about the manner in which the amounts intended by the goverament for public works,
were spent in the counties of Chicoutimi and
Saguenay and in the. region of Lake St. John?
Hon. Sir RICHTA D 'CARTWRIGHT-I
miay say in .reply ta the hon .gentleman
that some complaints have been recelved
by the Department af Public Wonks.
NATURAL RESOURCES 0F CANADA.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE moved:
That.a special committee o! the, Senate on
the minerai resources af Canada be appointed.
He said: Tis honourable body thought
fit ta appoint seversi onsmittees on very
good sud necessary grounds ta look into
the varions questions that might be considered during the session by hion. members who have considerable experienoe and
considerable time- -

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Will the hion, genHon. Mr. PERLEY-I think it is in order.
tleman allaw me ta point aut that I amn
I did not ask the hion. gentleman from
afraid hie will have a good deal *af
Brockville (Hon. Mr. Derbyshire).
trouble for nothing. I desire ta save my
COMPLAINTS AGAINST THE LAKE ST. hon. friend trouble hereafter, because this
motion contemplates an amendinent of out
JOHN COLONIZÂTION SOCIETY.
standing orders, and the Hanse will have
INQUIRY.
ta be summoned. especially for that purHon. Mr. TESSIER inquired of the gov- pose,
or otherwise if the hion, gentleman
erninent:
goes onHRas the, government received any complaint
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE--I have considered
St.
against Ilthe Lakewhamn John Colonisation Sacir 1
sa, by
wer. thes. complainte that snd
am very much obliged. The comJO it true that it has been complained that mittees here deal with agriculture and
this society acted in politice? If so, who forestry, which is ail right, immigration
made that complaint P
and labour, commerce sud trade relations,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-] civil administration sud public heaith; but
may say in reply ta the hion, gentleman they 1.11 short ln ane respect ta my mind,
that no far as the Department of the In- becanse they have lest sight of the great
terior is aware, ta which this question is minerai resaurces af Canada. Nova Scotia
referred, they have received, no complaints, te interested, British Columbia sud the
and, aiea, with regard ta the second ques- hinterlands af the Northwestern provinces
tion, in s0 far as the Department of the are interested-we are ail interested, sud
Interior is aware they have had no coin- tprobably this omission was an accident,
plaints that the society has acted in poli- and I want ta make that good by having a
tics.
committee ta take charge of the minerai
PUBLIC WORKS IN REGION 0F LAKE resources cf Canada. I am moving slowly
in this matter. The Nominating CommitST. JOHN.
tee ceased ta exist when it reported. and,
INQUIRY.
therefore, the only way ta move in this
Hon. Mr. TESSIER (in the absence of matter le tai ask for the appointment o! a
Hon. Mr. Choquette) inquired of the gov- special committee. To some it may seem
ernuient:
unneBcessary that we should have these

SENATE
committees.
I think otherwise.
ThE ciple, the other mentioning Vhe names.
world is ]ooking- Vo the resources of CanRule 83 of this Ho use says:*
ada. We have something besides manufacThe senators to serve on a special committuring, agriculture, fisheries and forests.
We have great mines. Vie may point to the tee rnay be nominated-by the mover; but, if
three senators se demand, they shall b.
Drtummonds, of Montreal, who have opened selected as. foflows: Each senator shall vote
up the great iron deposits of New Bruns- openly for one senator Vo serve as a meinber
of
those senators for whom
wick which have laid dormant until -recent- thethe comrnittee, andcf votes
largest number
are given shafl
ly and have been discovered Vo be the constitate the cemmittee.
greatest mines in the world. We have
To exercise our right, three senators must
valuable shale deposits in New Brunswick rise and ask for that vote. If the
vote is
and Nova Scotia, and antimony mines and not a.sked for, the inembers can be
nomininany other valuable minerai resources ated by the House.
whichi should be brought te the notâce of
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I am noV such a
the world. IV may be argued that the Department 'et Mines oan supply this informa- stiekler for technicalities in these matters
tion. The department is doing its best, as the hon. senater from Halifax, but I
but it cannot cover everything, and this would cali his attention to the foflowing
i»ill strengthen the hands -of the depart- which may be fouind at page 5M3 of Bourtment. Lt will show that the Senate of net:
Canada desires to co-operate with the deIt is net the invariable practice in the
partment in obtaining information as to Senate te include in a motion the names cf
the members which may be given by consent
the resources of Canada. I may mention cf the House
when the motion is
that in the English ' Graphic ' of the 19th posed, but no deubt it is the moreduly proconveniJanuary there is a description of machinery ent and regular course te include the names
notice of
which can be utilized in the manufacture in the of a select mnotion. Lt is usual for the
mever
cenimittee Vo b. one cf its
of peat and peat moss. By means of this members.
machinery the immense peat beds to be
I have no desire Vo interfere with the
found in every part of the Dominion may be ruiles; I
know they are paramount.
utiized te provide fuel when eupplies of
coal become scarce.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I understand the
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I think the procedure objection Vo the motion is that ne names
adopted by the hon. gentlenan is open Vo are mentioned in the notice of motion, se
criticism. I have no quarrel with the selec- the House is taken by surprise. Vie hear
tion which he has made -of members of the for the first time Vo-day the names of thoe
committee, but it is contrary Vo English who are Vo compose the committee.
tpractice that -a member should neeninate
The motion was allowed to stand until Voail the members of the committee.
meorrow.
Hon. Mr. DOM VILL-I stated that I
BILLS INTRODUCED.
was willing Vo let the House nominate the
Bull <No. 44) An Act Vo incorporate the
coxnmittee. I have simply suggested names.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That does net alter Canadian. Livernool and1 Wes~tn Ral
Company.--<H-on. Mir. Mitchell).Y
what I propose Vo say i the slightest
Bill (No. 52) An Act res'pecting the Bank
degree. The hon, gentleman should have of Vanoouver.-(Hlon. Mr. Bosto>ck).
made two motions, one for the appeintment
cf a cemmnittee, the other suggesting names. POST OFFICE ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
If the House wishes Vo waive its right ef
selecting the committee, the House has a
HR RAIG
perfect right Vo do se, and I do net propose
Hlon. Sir RICHARD
CARTWRIGHT
making any objection.
moved the third reading of Bill (No. 19)
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I agree with the hon. A
c oaedtePs
fieAt
gentleman that there should be two disHon. Mr. POWEll-I gave notice of an
tinct motions, one approving of the prin- amendment te this Bill. Lt may be that
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE.

MARCH il, 1909
aome other hon, gentleman would like to
take up the motion, so I calJ attention to
it now. The amendment which I proposed
was to substitute for ' domestia article '
at the end of the Bill the words
'articles
mailed from'one point in Canada te another
aucli point.' I understand that ini the &eparirnent 'domnestie article' means an article
msiled from one point in Canada te another
ench point, and so far as regards the officers
of the department and those familiar with
postal regulations, any smenchnent would
be lunneceeary; but inasmuch as the laws
are intended for the general publie and
the ordinary citizen might not know what
eomprised a domestic article, I suggested
that we should make this amendinent. I
aubmitted the desirability of the amendment te the right hon, gentleman in charge
of the Bill and he has considered the matter. I gather from, the fact that he has
neot said anything about it that he does
not consider the amndment desirable. In
the face of that f act, I do not care to mo ve
the amendment.
The motion vas agreed to, snd the Bill
was read the third time and passed.
-

THIRD READINGS.

Bil (B) An Act te amend the Governanent
Annuities Act, 1908.-(Rt. Hon. Sir Richard
Cartwright).
Bfi (No. 20) An Act te arnend the Governrnent Railways Act.-(Rt. Hon. Sir
]Richard Cartwright).
PROTEST 0F BILLS 0F EXCHANGE
ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND REÂDINÔ POSTPON-ED.
Hon. Mr. BELCOUET (in the absence of
Hon. Mr. Choquette) moved the second
reading of Bill (G) An Act te axnend the law
relating te protests of Bills of Exchange,
Cheques and Promissoty Notes.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Wil my hon. friend explain the object of
the BilIP
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I object to the
second reading; the Bill has net been
printed i French.
The order was postponed.

151
SECOND READINGS.

Bill <No. 36) An Act respecting the Southern Central Pacifie Railway Company<Hon. Mr. Young).
Bill (No. 42) An Act respecting the Toronto, Niagari and Western Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Beith).
Bill (No. 43) An Act respecting the Hudson Bay and Pacifie Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. Watson).
Bill (No. 47) An Act respecting the
Guelph and Goderich Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. McMullen>.
Bill (No. 53) An Act respecting the Walkerton and Lucknow Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. McMullen).
BRAZILIAN ELECTRO-STEEL AND
SMELTING COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER moved the
second reading cf Bull (No. 10) An Act
respecting the Brazilian Electro-Steel and
Sme.lting Company, Limited.
He aaid: As the House may remember.
lust week this order and the following order
upon the paper were allowed te stand over
so as te give the promoters an opportunity
o! enlightening hon, gentlemen as te the
reason and nature of the proposed charter.
and aiso te get some information with regard te the personnel cf the company.
I
understand that the promoters consiat of
the same enterprising group cf Canadian
financiers who have se successfully inaugurated and flcated the Sac Paulo Comnpany, the Mexican Tramway Company and
othera cf a kindred nature in those southern countries. I think that many cf the
members cf this House will know that
those companies have been extremnely sucressful and that they have greatly enriched
a number cf Canadian financiers and others.
and that a very large aincunt cf'money j-3
being distributed in the way cf profits
and dividends te the shareholders cf those
companies.
I amn informed that most cf
the bonds cf these coxupanies are fioated
in England. The British investor has naturally a rather ti2nid appreciation cf the volatile nature cf the gcvernments cf some cf
those southern republics, and the companies
have found that vhile there may be diffi-

IDZ

SENATE

culty in fioating their bonds if they sough Lstrength of whatever legisiation
they nlay
a Mexican charter on]y down there, tha be able to obtain
in those countries andi
fortîfied by a Canadian charter they baci not invoke the intervention
or approval
no difficulty whatevser in fioating theji rof the parliarnent of Canada.
My right
bonds. As far as this House and the coun hon. fri"end the leader of
the House, when
try are concerned, I do flot think we incui this matter was
brought up a few days
any risk or take any responsibility.
Theî ago, indicated that he would make inquiry
ask us to give them a charter here. We from the goverrument as
te what the atdo flot give any instructions in Mexico wi titude of the governinent
would be in sto what powers they shail be given theni tsisting a policy such as
bas been ixnported
there. If the Mexicans will do bueiness inte those Bills.
I anticipated that my
with them there under the charter we give hon. friend would
have made some exthem, that is their own affair.
planation to-day upon the introduction of
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-I 8hould like te those Bills, or at least upon the motion
ask the hon. gentleman, before the motion being made for the second reading, and
is put, if he has read anything about the I should be very glad indeed te know what
Pearson group? That is one name that bis views are upon the subject.
was mentioned. I observe that a financial
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
paper in England mskes an onslaught on
the 'whole group engineered by Pearson & rnay say in reply te my hon. friend, that
Company, warning the British investors he raised two questions, if I remember
right. Hle raised one as to the conetitunot to touch them with a forty-foot pole.
tionality of this Bill. That he has not
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I took the liberty dwelt upon this afternoon, and I pr'esuxne
on the introduction of those Bille te objeet he hus satisfied himseli that whether the
in as strong languiage as I could te the policy or the udvisahility of it be right or
policy incorporated i the Bills, of this par- wrong, that the thing ie constitdbtional
liament stamping with its approval the enough. particularly as charters have been
Bille in question, and thus inferentially al-reudy granted by us pretty freely for
saying not only to the investing public in similar enterprises. As te the question of
Canada, but the investing public in Eng- policy, I eau only say this to my hon.
land, that these enterprises meet with our f riend: Hle muet remember thet there are
approval. Notwithstanding the lucid ex- immense sums of foreign capital invested
planation made by the hon., gentleman in Canada, not merely from England, but
from Brandon (Hon. Mr. Kirchhoffer), I from foreign countries, the United States
amn not only of the sarne opinion, but 1 more particularly, aleo from France, Belamn atrengthened in that opinion inasmucb guirn, Germuny and other places, and takas my hon. friend has stated that there ie
tht
I
conaiderable objection in England te inveet- ing cun leuve itmatter tgether the think
we the whole reusonubly te
discretion
ing funds in foreign enterprises of this kind of the investors whether or not they will
unlees legisiation of this character should put their money into these enter.prises.
I
issue from, the parliament of Canada. Now, think the matter may be considered very
as I said on that occasion, the ipolicy of properly either in the Bunking and
Comthis parliament in assisting Canadian com- merce Committee or in the Private Bills
panies te divert funds from Canada fnto Committee, whichever one these
Bills
foreign countries, and particularly court- will go te, but I might say with respect te
tries of a revolutionary character that are those new enterprises that 1 do not think
not only volatile, as my hon. friend bas it would be found that any material amount
mentioned, but are nationally volcanic of Canadian capital is likely to be diverted.
in addition, is te my mind a very On the other hand, I think it will be found
unwise policy indeed.
If those gen- that the Canadians are rather, so te speak,
tleanen desire te enter upon any stock the conduit for the conveyance of capital
floatations-because that is what they frorn other countries inte. this enterprise,
larg-ely are they certainly should take the and they have flot put an overwhelming
riskz of investing their fuinds upon the aanount of their own capital inte the conHon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFEP

MARCH 11, 190915
cern. My hon. friend is ne doubt aware
that very considerable amounts af rnoney.
neot of Canadian money, but of money aitogether have been 'investcd in these enterprises. In. several cases they have been
remnarkably profltably invested, and Canadians have benefited largely by the success and enterprise thcy have ehown. On
the wholc, I do nlot think that the government eould be called upon to discourage
auch propositions.
0f course they will
always have ta undergo the scrutiny of the
various oommittees ta which such measurea
will be referred ini bath Hanses, and I
shoild be very aorry indecd ta see wildcat enterprises of any kind promoted
with the knowledge or approva1 of this
Hanse, but I think that it is a matter that
may fairly be left ta the discretion of the
cornrittee after hearing the varions parties
who have the matter i charge, and, therefore, I do neot itend ta appose the second
readig of the Bil.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In the event of
confiscation by anc cf those foreign pawers
af the undertakings which may be oarried
oui under the authority cf ihese Bills.
what would be thfl attitude cf the government c 'f Canada by reasan cf it beig a
Canadien «Mepany icorporatet 1)y the
parliament cf Canada? Wouid it net necessarily itrduce complications?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-1
hardly think se. I may rcmind my hon.
friend ihat an enormous amount cf British
capital is ivcsted i precisely sirnilar enterprises ail the wide world over. I do net think
the parties who have ivested have received
any special advantage or protection from
the British gavernrnent. They muet taka
their risk. The hon. gentleman remarked,
I think, just now, that i sorne cf those
countries they were i a vcry unstable
condition. I think rny hon. friend ha,
rather referred ta the past than ta the
present. Take Mexico, for instance.
We
have been desirous of cultivating the friendship cf Mexico and apening trade with ber.
There are considerable grants naw made
by u s, hoth on the Pacifie and Atlantic,
in aid of transportation for -the purpese of
encouraging- the trade witb Mexico, and
I think I may venture ta say to my hon.
friend that 'within the last thirty years

there is ne country in the world that bas
made greater or more rapid -progreas, or
more gratifig progress i cvry way than
México. Whether that can be said equally
ta the ame extent of Brazil I arn net
sure; ai any rate neither Mexico nor Brazil
bas been cf *laie years ai ail subjected ta
these violent reveluiionary and sanguinary
outbreaks ihat have rnarked thé career cf
se many cf ihe South 'Arnerican republies,
and. as I understand it, no power is given
in this Bill ta dal i any other portions
of ihat region excepi Mexico and Brazil.
On the whole, I do net think the government are cailed upon ta iterfere with the
discretion cf the Hanose i this matier.
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
was read a second trne.
HEon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-î
move ihat the Bill be referred te the Casemitice on Banking and Commserce.
Hon.

Mfr. POWER-I arise ta cail atten-

tien ta the purposea 'f the company es set
out i the fixai clause cf the Bill. Clause
(1) states tIsai:
The eompany may, vithin the Republie cf
Brazil, survey, lay eut, construet, complete,
maintain and operate, and from time ta time
extend, remove and change au required,
double or single, iran or steel railwa3.s and
branches, aide tracks, turnouts, and tramways for the passage cf cars, carrnages and
other vehicles adapted thereto, upon and
aloag streets, highways and other public
paeand upai and &long lands purchased,
1
,ased' or otherwise acquired br the company,
aise telegraph and telephone lins and works
in cennectien therewith, aid ailow the use
cf the said railways and other works by lease,
license or othervise for reward and take,
transmit and carry fer rewarz telegrame,
Messages, passengers and freight, icluding
mails, express and other freight upan or by
means thereof, by force of power cf animals,
or by steam, pneumatic, electrie or mechanscal power. or by a combination cf these or
any cf them,-and aise may there acquire by
purchase, les.se or otherwise upen sucl terme
and conditions as are agreed upen, nd maintain and operate for reward any existing or
future lias cf railway, tramway, telegraph
and telephone, aid for ail or any of the Vurposes aforesaid the oompany may enter into
and carry out such contracts, concessions and
agreements as it thinks necessary.
1 submait the Railway Comrnittee is the
proper anc.
Hon. Mr. KIROHHOFFER-I think that
my bon. fricnd is night. There is no objection te changing it.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is a matter of polici 7 countries.
Take our insurance business.
as to what committee it goes to. The rea . We are doing a larger business
in these
son they corne here for these powers L~ rountries than the
3
insurance companies
that, under the Companies Act, the Sèc -o! mauy other countries.
My hon. friand
retary of State is flot aut.horized to inoor -on my -lai t can voucli
for that. The Canporate railway companies, telephone or tale *ada Life and the Sun Life
are scattered ail
graph companies, but ail the powers to b( over thie world and bringing
Canada forgranted to this oompany have beeu grenteèI ward. prominently, and ne harm
can arise
to dozens of other companies doing busines-s froen it.
l
in France and the Argentine Republic and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cannot permit
Mexico and ail thirougli Central America.
As I aaid the other day, I certainly see nc my hion. friend to misinterpret-I will not
objection to such companies getting char- say deliberately-the position I have taken
ters here. The countries may ehoose te on this subject. I have neyer raised the
recognize them. They are subject to the slightest objection te Canada doiug ahl the
]aws of these countries. The Bill st.arts business she possibly can wîth the South
Ameriaan Maublica and s9elling ail the
out with these words:
goode she can, doing ail the banking and
Subject to the laws in force in the Repubio
of Brazil, and with such legisiative, govern- financial business possible, but what 1 do
mental, municipal or other authority, con- object to is that capital in Canada should
cession, license or consent as is necessary.
be diverted by the assistance of parliament
We take no risks, and I cannot see that towards undertakings such as developing the
there would be any sound policy in resist- natural resources through railway undertaking the application of Canadians to, do busi- ing and physical undertakings of that kind
ness in these countries.- As f ar as my opin- in foreigu countries. Should there be any
ion goes, ail ventures in those countries in trouble s-uch as 1 mention, Canadians would
the last tan or fifteen yearis have been emin- certainly find it difficuit if not impossible
ently successful. Not long ago Iwas speak- to realize on their capital. It wouid be
ing bafore I left the office with a gentle- entirely different where investments of a
man who sella improved printing presses liquid chatctr are made in those repubin some of those republics, and 1 said: lics, such, for instance, as the business
'What sort of a business is being carriad done by the banks. The business doue by
onP' 'Well,' hie said, 'it is most satisfac- insurauce coxnpanies will be on the livas
tory; we have no trouble whatever. I would of the subjects o! those countries, and the
rather seil to the Argentine Republie than insurance companies of Canada will not be
to, any other part of the worId I know of. particularly anxious for that kiud of busiThey are honest and fair. and we get our ness.
money without any difficulty.'
He was . Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I gave the best illusdealing particularly in the newest variety tration o! investments of Canadians abroad
of priuting presses patented in Canada and when I spoke of the banlis, because the
the United States. I marely mention that banks are the most conservative of our
as an illustration. My hion. friand opposite institutions, and they do au enormous busimada the remark the other day tbhat lie ness in those ceuntries, such as is doue ini
thouglit it was rather risky, and I would Canada. I understood my hon.' friend teo
like to say to hlm, what companies are Say it was not good policy for Canada to
more conservative than the banke of Can- approve of those investmaents abroad. What
ada, and yet the banke of Canada are lias built up Great Britain if it is not the
scattered ail over these southern coun- hundreds of millions of money scattered
tries? The Royal Bank of Canada lias over the world from which they derive an
twelve branches in Cuba, scattared ail over immense income? If Canada is' aspiring
th'e island. The Bank of Montreal duoes a to that position, sud bas the rnoney, wliat
large business in Mexico and iu other obje>ction can there ha to making such inplaces.
I think it has added to the pres- vastiments abroad?
tige of Canada that our people can go
Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE-The bon, leader of
abroad and capture business in foTeign the opposition seems to be afraid that a
Hon. Mr. KIRCEHOFFER.

MARCH 11, 1909

155

Bill of this character may lead to inter- explanation about this befere the Bill gees
national complications. He stated, for in- further.
stance, that if property of this company
The SPEAKER-The Bill has been read
were confiscated, Canada would not be in
the second time, and the motion now bea position.te interfere for the protection
fore the'House is that it be referred te the
cf the àhareholdere. Such a question wculd
Oeenmittee on Banking and Commerce.
arise no more under this legislation than
With the leave cf the House that can be
in the case of a Canadian going to Brazil
changed te the Comrnittee on Railways,
and doing business in that country.
If
Telegraphs and Harbours.
he were oppressed, if his property were confiseated, or if he were treated in any other
The motion was so changed and adepted.
way than the citizens cf Brazil, the govea-nment would be bound te interfere, snd,
MEXICAN LAND AND IRRIGATION
therefore, that reason does flot weigh mueh
COMPANY'S ACT AMENDMENT
in my mind. But 1 desire to eall attenBILL.
tion te another point. It is known 'that
SECOND READING.
the Secretary cf State incorporates cernMon. Mr. KIROHIIOFFER moved the
panies with very large powers, which are
covered by the letters patent issued, and second reading cf Bill (No. 15) An Act reit may be a new departure te transform specting the Mexican Land and Irrigation
a joint stock company into"a railway cern- Company, Limited.
pany, as this Bill may have the effect
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I do net know
cf doing. I do not oppose the second reading cf the Bill and the sending cf At to the~ who is connected wîth this Bill, but on
Railway <Jommittee, but in thýat cornmittee the principle that the shareholders are
inquiry should be made as te what this got rid cf and share warrants are issued
company has hitherto been doing and as te them instead cf ahares, I disappcrove of
te whether, if it has the right te carr on the measure. Here is a cempany inooreperations in this country, and desires te porated with certain shareholders and the
be converted inte a railway cornpany, so«ne directers have power te strike out their
cf the powers which it enjoys under the names as shareholders and issue shareletters patent should not be withdrawn warrants te them. Are we te commit ourselves te such a policy? Why ahou.ld we
fromn the company.
depart f rom the Joint Stock Companies
Act? I know gentlemen who have had a
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I have had some
great deal cf difficulty getting ordinary
littie te do with. legisiation, and 1 really
letters patent, but here parliament is asked
cannot understand what is meant by theso
te set aside ail the ruies in the case cf
share warrants. As I understand it, the
this cempany.
shareholders go into the company snd are
registered in the ordinary way, but under
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-You -will have
this Bill they disappear snd share warrants te get an inquest te find those ehareholders.
are issued te thema which may net appear
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-What is a share
on the bocks, and which pass from hand
te hand like scrip. I regard it as vicious warrant? What dees it mean?
legisiation. It is ail right that we should
Ron. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Sometlhing
in-002,porate a company te do business
te arrest -a fellow -on.
abroad, but i.s it right te give the directors
power te have the shareholders *disappear Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I object te this
and offer scrip te them, which, alter ail, is legisiation. because it wiil be taken as a
equivalent te money, and may pass fromn precedent. If it becomes law, I shail taire
hand te hand like money? Their n-ames are advantage of it myseif and get a charter
stricken from the list cf shareholders, snui under which I can get rid of shareholderî
they are ne longer hiable in law or equity and issue scrip. Why should we alter our
as shareholders. We should have some mode cf legislating and take such matters

SENATE

156

out of the hands of the Secretary of Btate, flot be sufficient evidence of a corrupt act?
In the investigation undertaken by Judge
te do something neyer done before?
Cassels, the question was put distinctly te
The motion was agreed to, and the Bi]l witnesses in a number of cases: 'Did you
was read the second time.
make these presents to the parties wha
were purchasing the goods from you fore the
SECRET COMMISSIONS BILLe
purpose o! obtaining concessions and adPOSTPONED.
vantages which you miglit not otherwise
In many instances the
have secu-redP'
The order of the day being calied:
reply was positiveiy ' No,' that the presents
Committes of the Whole on Bill (31) An
given as a favour. Now, if
Act to, prevent the payment or acceptance of were merely
illicit or secret commission and other like this word is continued in the Act, in many
practices.
cases it will defeat the purpose in view.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-1 There were some witnesses in the investigahave been asked to ailow this Bill to stand tion te which I have referred who stated
for another day or two. I have no particu- distinctly that they gave the presents for
lar objection to doing so, and I move that the piurpose of obtaining advantages. That
would be accepted, I presume, as a corrupt
the order be discharged.
act. I do flot know whether this matter
Hon. Mr. LOTJGHEED-May I be per- has suggested itself to, my right hon. friend
mitted to, suggest that if t.here be any in connection with this Bill, but it is wefl
amendments involving some consideration worthy of consideration if a stop is to be
they shouid be presented before we are put te the iniquities which have been percalled upon to consider the Bill in coul- petrated in the past in deaiing with mermittee?
chants and others through officiais of the
the Bill should
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- governrnent. It is weii that
Bill to, be very fully be o! ouch a character as te puniali any
Certainly. I wish the
to any officiai
considered, and I arn not in the least con- man who makes a present
bas passeci of the government or te, any one else wh',
cerned to press it hastily. It
the House of Commons, and there is no is dealing with them for the government..
object in hurrying it here.
Hon. 8fr RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Would my hon. mwilI take a note of what my hon. friend
friend be disposed to give notice of any rnentioned. This is an important Bill, and
axnendnient?
provides very severe penalties. Undoubtedly, great cure muet be taken in the wordHon. Sfr RICHARD CARTWREIGHT-1
punwiil be amendments; ing of the Act, otherwise very severe
do net eay there
ishments might be inflicted witêhOut Pos.
but as soon as I flnd amendinents are
As to, the particular
agreed to by the Department of Justice, sibly full justification.
point he raises, what twelve honest and
I will cause notice of them to be given
men in the box would say as teo
in the House or to have them submitted sensible
the motive of a party who made a pre-sent
to my hon. friend.
te a governiment officiai. with whom he
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the was doing business? Speaking for myseif,
Department of Justice is to consider any 1 think that I would say ne matter what
changes in committee, I should like to cal] a man swore, that if he made a present to
attention te, the word ' corrupt ' in t-wo a government officiai from whom he was
clauses. To my mind that will destroy, soliciting orders I would call it corrupt.
te, a very great extent, the main object
Hon. Sfr MACKENZIE BOWELL- So
whioh the government and the country have
in vie-w., My right hon. friend knows well wouid I.
the difficulty, if a charge is made, in e6tabHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-So
iishing the fact of a corrupt act. If prewould the public generally. However, I
sent-, be given te, parties who are purchasing for the goverrnnent, why should that amn taking a note of what my hon. friend
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE.

MARCH 11, 1909

157

has said, and will s'ubmit it to the Depart- purport cf the amendments made hast year
ta the Lancaster Bill, in order that when
ment of Justice.
they came before the coenmittee at the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The following sitting the members shouhd be
jury wil be guided by the judge.
in a position ta examine those arncndments
Hon. 8fr'RICHARD CARTWRIGHT--I and be better prepared ta give opinions on
do flot propose to go bail for the judges. but the measure.
a majority cf them would say that men
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have looked at
who made presents ta government officials the cfrciilar sufficienthy ta find tbat it is
from whom they were expecting orders, did a very ex parte statement. Therefore, it
not do it for love or for any other pur- is of the first importance that we should
pose than ta gain an advantage. and an knaw who is responsible for it.
improper advantage toc.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-As it refers ta
The order was postponed.
a matter which was before the cammittee,
I would have tsken the firagt cppo'rtunity
BILL INTRODUCED.
Ifj-morrow ta ex!plain how that Mn1moý
Bill (S) An Act respecting the Grand wae distributed.
Trunk Pacifie Branch Lines Company.Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Will it be ex(Hon. Mr. Watson).
plained ta-marrow ta the committee?
THE LANCASTER BILL.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Yes.
Hon. 8fr RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It shouhd be exmoved that the House do now adjonrn.
plained ta the House now, because it is
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I want ta cal] being distributed ta senatars wiho are not
the attention of the House ta a circular members cf the committee.
that is being distributed through the post
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-This merno.
office, having reference ta what is called
the Lancaster Bill. It is anonymous. It was prepared at my request by the chairwas handed ta the postmaeter by a member man o! the Railway Committee of this year
of this House and the name of another hon. in order that hon. gentlemen might have
gentleman was given who was particularly an opportunity of! considerixig the arguIt ments submitted hast year.
anxious that it Bhculd be distributed.
is due ta the lieuse that we should know
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-As the document
who is the authcrity for this circuler. Does
is a very cne-sided statement, it is due
it came f rom the government?
to the House and the comxnittee that the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-- name cf the hon. gentleman who prepared
Certainly not.
it should be givèn in order that there may
be no misapprehension on that score. It
FERGU8ON-Does it corne
Hon. Mr.
is not the right way ta send anonymaus
from the rallway corporations?
documents ta members through thc post
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-I waa abliged office.
ta leave the Railway Committee room
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-It would have
yesterday before it rose. I intended statbeen better ta have given the name.
inemo, which
ing that I would have this
had been prepared by the chairmnan cf
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I understand it
the Railway Committee, explaining the was prepared by the chairman cf the comnamendsiients made lest year ta the Lan- mittee.
caster Bill, distributed. for the advantage
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The chairman
cf membere o! the cammittee before the
mext sitting. I was not there, unfortumately. cf the committee prepared the memo, beta announce that I would have this memo. cause lie was the mover of the amendments
prepared, explaining ta the meinbers the last year and I thought he was in a bettei

SENATE
position to expiain the purport of the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The point was
well taken as to who had distributed the
amendments than any onle else.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Has documents. I had intended to state to the
to-morrow why and how it was
the circular been distributed generally' committee
dist-rihuted.
Hon. Mr. DANDTRAND-I gave the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose we will
manuscript to Mr. Young to be printed,
and hie asked me how it should be dis- not be compelled to take that into consider
tributed. I thought it better that members ation before we have the French copy of it.
should have it in their boxes. As a matter I heard it was given to Mr. Young to be
of fact, if i had given a littie more thought printed. Is it printed at oui expense?
to the subi ect I would have decided simply If it is printed at our expense, I want a
to have it distributed to members of the French copy of it.
ammittee, inasmuch, as it la to e~eir
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I will translate it
advantage.
But as any member of the for t.he hon. gentleman.
Senate can go to the committee and forai
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. chairan -opinion upon the value of the work that
1.5 going on there, I suppose no harmn will man o! the committee has just stated that
corne from the fact that this littie mezuor- he would translate it for the hion. gentleman.
andum is distributed to ail the members.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In explanation
of the question of the hion. gentleman fromn
Belleville, 1 may say that about a quarter
of an hour ago I went to the post office and
saw a large pile o! these documents there,
and one of themn was handed to me, and
the explanation was given to'me, and if
it has not already reached the members,
I suppose it will be in their post office
boxes by thîs time.
Honi. Sir
MACKENZIE
BOWELLApart from that, I know of no law or regulation preventîng anybody setting forth his
views in any circular or documents he may
think proper to any member of the Senate
or the House of Gommons. We eould judge
of the meino. itself when we got it. Then
we might ask who circulated it. That is
al] right enough, but thex'e is nothing tza
prevent, s0 far as I know frorn my prolonged experience, any gentleman from
writing a letter or explaining any measure
that cornes before the House. It is for us
to judge whether it is correct or not. My
hon. friend says that this memo, is a very
partial statement. That may be. I pass
no opinion upon it, but thie moment we
see it we can ascertain whether it is a
correct interpretation o! the Bill that'was
passed by the Senate last year or not. At
least that is the view I take of it.
Hon. Mr.
occur to any
of this kind
Hon. Mr.

lion. Mr. LANDRY-I want bo know
if it ia printed at the expense of the Senate? My question is more seriou-s than
hion. gentlemen would think.
may state
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-l
that I did not consider the question, but
will answer the hon. gentleman to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock
tc-morrow.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA, Friday, March 12, 1909.

The SPEAKER tock the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Frayera and routine proceedings.
RESTRICTION 0F EVILS 0F DIVORCE.
BILL INTRODUCED.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN introduced Bill MT
An Act to Restrict the Evils of Divorce.
The iBilI was read a firat time.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-In view of the character and nature of this Bill I -ask that
FERGUSON-I think it will the second reading be deferred until the
hion. member that a document 24th -o! March so as to give the diff erent
religious, sociological and moral reformn
should not be anonymous.
DANDURAND.

159

MARCH 16, 1909
bodies an opportunity to, express en opinion in regard to its merits.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I have
pleasure in seconding the motion.
The motion was agweed to.

Then he isays furtiier:

Mfr. Pymý moved that the. order for going
and that the.
committe.
great into ho referred ho discharged,committee, conto a select
Bill
sisting of the. Marquis of Hartington, and
others.

MINERAL RESOURCES 0F CANADA.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE moved:
That a special committee of the. Sonate on
the minerai resources of Canada ho appointed,
to ho composed of the Honourable 'Messieurs
Lougheed, Bostook, Davis, Watson, Boss
(Kiïddlesex), Landry, Wood, Comeau and the.
mover.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not rise for the
purpose of cipposing the motion at e.ll, but
1 wish to justify t.he objection I took yesterday. I arn not persisting in the objection;
but perhaps the House wilI permit me te
justify the attitude which I afflumed. On
the f ac of it, the motion whic-h the hon.
gentleman made yesterday should have
The
been divided into two motions.
Speaker lias the right, if he chooses, te
divide the motion into two when he thinks
that that la the more convenient course.
And it is evidently the more convenient
course, because there might be a number
of hon. gentlemen here prepared te vote
for the comznittee to consider the subject
of mines or natural resources, or 'whatever
it might be, but who were flot satisfied with
the propoeed composition of the committee,
and my contention vas simply that there
should have been two motions. I oall attention fo the practice in the House of
At
Lords. Our own ruie leave. it open.
page 40 of May, I find the following with
respect te the practice in the Houes of
Lords:
The. House resolves that a Select Committee
ho appointed, after which it is ordered that
certain Lords, -thon nominated, shall b. appointed a committe. to inquire inte the matter referred, and to report te the. H3ouse.

And the Speaker said:
Tii. hon. gentleman might have moved to
refer the. matter te a select committe., but
the. nomination of tiat committee muet be
left te a separate motion.
Thst is substantially the rule given in
May as te the House of Lords, and I aliply
wish to justify what I stated, that the
British practice was that the motions siiould
be separate. I have no objection te the
motion.
The motion vas agreed te.
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (H) An Act respecting the AngloCanadian and Continental Bank.-(Hon.
Mr. Cloran).
Bill <No. 25) An Act respecting the joint
section cf the Canadian Paciflo RLailway
Comrpany and the Grand Trunk Paciflo
Railway Company at Fort William, Ont.<Hon. Mr. Watson).
Bill (No. 27) An Act te incorporate the
London and Lancashire Plate Glass and
Indemnity Company cf Canada.-(Hon. Mr.
Kirchhoffer).
Bill (No. 58) An Act respecting the Vancouver, Westminster and Yuikon Railway
Conmpany.-(Hokn. Mr. Bosteck).
The Sonate adjourned until Tuesday next
at three o'clock.

THE SENÂTIE.
OTTrÂwA, Tuesday, March 16, 1909.

The SPEAKER teok the Chair at Threa
o'clock.
That is what one woul expect as a Prayers and routine proeeedings.
cominon eense procedure. Then in Blackmore'. ' Speakers' Decisions' there are THE FRENCH EDITION OF THE RULES.
cases given as precedents where this matter
was discussed. At page 283 we find:
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Belore the orders of
the day are called, I should like te ask the
The. nomination of the. committee must b.
sub-leader of the House whether anytiiing
the. subject of a separate motion.

160

SENATE

lias been done in the matter of placing
the French edition of the Rules before the
House. I know he takes particular initerest in that translation and will see that
the French members of the Senate are
better served and will use his opportunity,
while the leader of the House le absent,
to do the best hie can to give us the Frenchi
edition.

%e undertake to repeal provincial legislation.
We have no authority to do anything of this kind.
If Dominion legisiation had previously been obtained, bringing it within the juriediction of the parliament of Canada, the Bull should contain
a recital to that effect. Under the language
of the Bill as it stands this House has no
power whatever to grant the legislation
asked for.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I will let the
Hon. Mr. TESSIER-I hope the Bill wilI
hon. gentleman know before the end o!
lie allowed to go to the comqnittee. I amn
the week.
not in a position to discuss it at present.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the governxnent but I shahl be very glad to furniali ail
ecnsidering the question?
necessary information in the committee.
THIRD READINGS.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is equivalent
to our arrogating to ourselves authority ta
repeal a provincial statute. That is a very
important principle, and involves a policy
to which we cannot for a moment assent.

Bill (No. 28)' An A-ct respecting the Unioli
Station and other joint facilities of the
Grand Trunk Pacifie Railway Company and
the Midland Railway of Manitoba at Portage la Prairie.-(Hlon. Mr. Watson).
Hon. Mr. POWER-Let it go to the comBill (No. 35) An Act to incorporate tte~ mittee.
Salisbury and Albert Railway Comnpany.Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Generally when we
<Hon. Mr. Domville).
Bill (No. 14) An Act respecting the Huron ask for information before accepting the
and Ontario Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. principle of a Bill at the second reading
it is furnished. In this case, front what.
Ratz).
Bill (No. 46) An Act respecting the Craw- lias fallen fromt the lips of my hion. frîend,
ford Bay an& St. Mary's Railway Company, it appears that lie does flot know anything
and to change its name to 'The British about the Bill.
Columnbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan and ManiThe order of the day was postponed, and
toba, Railway Company.'-(Hon. Mr. De the second reading was fixed for to-morrow.
Veher).
Bill (No. 23) An Act respecting the Ai. WINDSOR, ESSEX AND LAKE SHORE
berta CJentral Railway Company.-(Hon.
RAPID RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
Mr. Talbot).
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
QUEBEC.ORIENTAL RAIL WAY COMHon. Mr. McMULLEN moved the second
PANY'S BILL.
reading of Bill <J) An Act respecting the
Windsor, Essex and Lake Shore Rapid
SECOND READING.
Railway Company.
Hon. Mr. TESSIER moved the second
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Can
reading of Bill (I) An Act respecting the
the hon. gentleman explain the object of
Quebec-Oriental Railway Company.
the Bill?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I should like to
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-It is for the purpoint out the extraordinary character of
this Bill. It is a Bill in which. we assume pose of oonstructing an electric line front
without any statement as to this road hav- Windsor to Essex and sente other poinQ
ing cornte under the jurisdiction of Canada, along the shore to Lake Erie. Some 40
to repeal certain sections In the charter miles of the road is already buiît and is in
of a Quebec company. It apparently was operation. and this Bill is simply asking
incorporated by the provincial legisiature, for an extenson of the time for the comand in the first four clauses of this Bihl pletion of thp work
Hon. Mxe. LÂNDRY.

MARCH 16, 1909

161

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The )ominion. What right has the parilement
t.erritory throu.gh which the line runs isC 4f Canada ta say ta the Ontario legielature,
exclusively within the province cf Ontario. iotwithstanding anything yen pass ln your
itatute it shall be of no avail once we say
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-It has already.t his and a.ay that? Will this Heuse assume
by an a2mendment in the Act, been dechsred the reeponsibility cf telling the Ontario
a work for the general advantage of Canada. egislature that when they enacted the
Hon. Mr. WILSON-The hon. gentleman original charter cf this company they did
ini charge of the Bill shenld tel us defi- not know what they were doing? I arn
nitely whether this is a Bill which cornes pointing this out ta the hon. senatar who
under the jurisdiction of the Dominion par- is a defender cf provincial rights. and aakliament. It la net for the construction of ing hirn ta see if it ie net an ineid.ious. ata steam railroad, but for the construction tempt ta bring the two authorities inta conIta charter, with flict.
cf a local electrie Uine.
amendments ta it, wss obtained from the
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-This line, at a
province of Ontario. Nobody will pretend previoue session, ws declared ta be a
for a moment that it is a road which cornes work for the general advantage of Canada.
under the jurisdiction cf the parliament cf The original intention cf the company was
Canada. If we pass the Bill, àt aay leal flot only te build an electric line between
ta difficulty between the local legialature the points mentioned, but te operate a ferry
and the Dominion. The provincial legisia. across the Detroit river, and that power
tu-re abelutely prevents the ruinning et they could net ebtain under a provincial
Sunday cars on these roads. If we grant charter. They were forced te corne here
this legislation the road wil be for the ta get the necessary powers. Forty miles
general advantage of Canada, and we may of the road have already been built, and it
grant jurisdiction ta permit the running of is one of the best equipped and constructed
Sunday cars. I would ask my hon. friend Uines on the continent. Ail that is sought
te carefully consider the Bill and postpone is an extension of time. The point raised
the second reading for some future day in by my hon. friend can be discussed in cernorder that he may be able te give us ful mittee.
information. It would be well te submit
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is ail I want
the Bill te the Minister o>fJustice for hie
-decision as ta whether we should grant ta know.
this legislation or net. I agree with the
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bull
leader of the opposition that we should was read a second tirne an a division.
hesitate before passing such a Bull. We
know that legielation is likely ta be brought CONCILIATION ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
ini by the Minister cf Railwaye te impose
certain restrictions upon railways looated in
SECOND READING.
certain positions, but that should net conHon. Mr. McMULLEN moved the second
tinue longer than three years. If we grant
reading cf Bill (M) An Act ta amend the
this charter it will either have ta corne
Conciliation Act, 1900. He said: I intraunder the jurisdiction cf the Dominion or
duced this Bill in 1900 for the purpose cf
the limitation proposed by the Minister cf
preventing foreigners corning inta this
Railways would have no effeot. Under al
country and encouraging and inciting eur
the circumstances, it is better ta -let the
skilled labour te strike. We have had a
Bill stand over.
good deal cf difficulty from this cause. On
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-In reading over this a recent occasion the Canadian Pacific
Bill, I find a condition cf things tihet is not Railway had a difficulty with their men
enly preplexing, but astounding. My hon. and individuals came fromn 'the United
friend, who is a champion cf provincial States and encomraged the men ta strike.
TightS, will agree with me that this Bill I could peint eut incidents which have
tende ta put the provincial authorities in eccurred from the Atlantic ta the Pacific
direct conflict with the authorities cf the where the same thing has been done. We
IEEV!BED XDITION

SENATE
cannot afford to have the business of our
country at the mercy of foreigners who
come here te disturb the relations between
employers and employees. We want to be
let alone and te settle our difficulties among
ourselves. Our skilled mechanics are capsib]e of conducting their own strikes, if they
feel it their duty to strike; but we do not
want thern to be encouraged and coaxed. to
strike by foreigners. It les a very dangerous thing te permit. Under present conditions, any industry m.-ay be hung up by
a strike originating outside of the country.
I can mention an instance which occurred
in British Columbia. The Canadian Pacific
Raihway found it necessary to put one of
its steamers o! the Canada-China line into
dock for repaire. The company called for
tenders, and three bids were receîved, two
from Canada and one fro>m Seattle. The
contract was awarded te a firm of Canadians in Victoria. They got the vessel into
dry dock and were prepared to go on with
the work when Vheir hands struck' for
On investigation it was
higher wages.
proved that the strike originated in Seattle
and was incited and encouraged by the very
men who had tendered in opposition to the
Canadian tenderers for that work. I can
name rnany other instances where a similar
course was pursued. In comnmlttee wa can
take up and deal with the whole question.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I oaîl the -attention
of -the hon. gentleman teo clause 2 of the
Bill in which it Bays:
4a. Every one is guilty of an offence and
hiable, on summary conviction, to a fine not
exceeding $100, who, not being a citizen of
Canada and a British subjeot, in any way intervenes in a difference, whether existing or
aprehended, between an employer or any
c a~se of employers and workmen, or between
dîfferent classes of workmen.
How can you make it a crime for a man
te intervene in any way? It should be,
confined to intervening in an improper
way. If the intervention is for a good purpose, it oannot be regarded as a crime.
The clause should be axnended te punish a
mnan who intervenes to dIo something in
an improper way.
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-] am prepared to
let this Bill get the second reading and go
before the committee, but I want it distinctly understood that we are not commitHon. Mr. McMULLEN.

ting ourselves to the principle of the measure. There is a Minister of Labour now,
and the governiment are seeking legielation to help conciliation, and any suovement in the proposed direction might be
well left in the hands of the governnient.
This Bill had been introduced tw'ice previously, and in just about the forra it is
now, and once by the hon. gentleman who
introduces it this session. 1 want it understood th-at we are not cominitting ourselves
to the principle of the Bill if we let it gn
to the cominittee.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-My hon. friend
understands that we are accepting the principle of the Bill if we permit it to be read
a second time now. This is a publie Bill,
and is not to be referred to one of the ordinary committees, but will go to the Committee of the Whole bouse.
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-The understandingâ,hould. be that we are flot assenting to the
principle of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We cannot alter the
miles. If we pass the second reading now
we adopt the principle of the Bilh.
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-WVehl,
now.

thirow it out

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-This Bill, or a similar proposition to it, has been brought before this House on one of two occasions,
as pointed out by the hon. gentleman froni
Lindsay. It met with objection at the time,
and rightly so, because any Bill establishing principles such as are contained. in this
ineasure will neyer receive endorsation at
the hands of the Gommons. It cannot be
accepted by the popuhar body. By this Bihl
we are asked to override probably what
is one of the greatest Acts of the Liberal
government-that is the Labour Act-in
bringing peace into the ranks of capitalists
and employees, the triumphs of peace as
against the arts of war iii the Militia Department. The Conciliation Act has oommannded
the respect and admiration of other countries,
of the ' United States, of England, France
and Germany, and ail people interested in
disputes between labour and capital. They
have been obliged te study the working
of the Act, and now we find a third attempt
to override the most essential feature of

MARCH 16, 1909l
dcwn a±nd write eut a clause, but it is net
easy te have it accepted by the judges et
oui criminal courts. How can any judge
in his cemmon sense condexnn a man as
a criminal -because he bas interfered, as
the bon. gentleman from Mille Isles hae
said, in a proper wayP The proof je made
by the defence againat the Crown, that his
action was one for the benefit cf society;
that his action in intervening in the confliet between labour and capital 'was iii
the interests cf society ltself. How can
you say the man should be compelled te
go te jail when he acted in the interests
cf society? But under the law he would
Se that the lion, gentleman là
But no pei.-&u who je not a citizen of Canada be guilty.
perfectly right in stating that the language
and a British subjeot shahl be se appointed.
cf the clause is net according te criminal
The hon, gentleman does flot mean te jurisprudence, putting it in black and
prevent capital from. getting Rockefeller to white 'what the man has done te make hlm
corne in here and arbitrate a case, if necea- guilty cf the crime. The right hon. leader
sary in its interest te do so? You woula said he was net ene te create more sins
flot prevent Jas. J. Hill from coming in for man by Act cf parlianient, and the lesa
here and arbitrating his rights in the we had cf that kind the better society
Crow's Nest Pass, or anything of that kind, will be. We bave enough te do te observe
and yet thia is what the Bill proposes ta the tan commandments and other necessary
do, te everride the moat essential feature conmmaudments without being obliged,
of the Conciliation Act which gives te both under all circuinstances cf hife, te be guilty
parties the right to get their arbitrater of an offence punishable by penalty of
where they can, and the hest man they can. fine or imprisennient. Se that this clause
If we accept this principle, why flot go la one that cannot be accepted as it now
further and dechine te have the national is. I do not ask the hon. member to withaffaira of tihe Dominion arbitrated by the draw his Bill, but I woulid ask him te put
Hague tribunal, where foreigners will sit it in -such -a position es wihh oneet 'wlth
on our case? If the principle of having an the needs of sclety as it exists -te-day;
oufoider acting 'as arbitrator js wrong, on that it wilh meet with the approval cf our
that same prmnciple it would be wrong te criminal courts. That is all. I amn prehave the Hague tribunal setitie our affairs.
pared te have the Bill discussed before the
Bo that the principle involved in this Committee of the Whole. It must go there,
clause le one which we cannot accept, but under the circumstances, -as a matter
and I amn quite sure the lower House, cf principle, I cannot accept it and wil I
which represents public opinion in tbiý have te vote against a second readlng.
country, wiil not accept any more than they
did two. or three sessions ago. As far as
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I have ne idea ef
the other clause is concerned, I muBt congratulate the hon. gentleman from Mille obstructing a second reading cf the Bill.
lIese on his criticism ci that -clause. Hie The bon. gentleman who bas just resumed
is not se much in touch with criminel his seat evidently neyer employed labour
mnatters as it is my duty te be, but he ii or he wouhd know better what he was talk.
eufficiently in teuch with -them te know thal ing about.
this clause is absolutely cf ne effect, and
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I did empley labour,
would snot be applied by any judge in the
country. You cannot make a crime by if the hon. gentleman desires te knowwovds, in a Act, that do net involve CrImE probably more than he ever employed beand th-at mean nothing. It is easy te ail fore he got a contract.

that Act, and that is the Board of Arbitratien te -settle disputes between employees
and employers. Under the Conciliation Act
either party to the confiet between labour
and capital has s right to select whom he
pleases as arbitrator in the dispute. He
can brSng the arbitriator from Genmany,
England, United States, South America or
anywhere he pleasee. The capitalists and
the employees have the rame right in that
respect.
This Bill means that neither
capital nor labour shall have the right te
go outside of the limits of Canada or outaide the limita of British jurisdiction for
an arbitrator. The Bill says:

Ili

SENATE
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-If there is anything has been received from the other side to
*wrong about the Bill wc can put it right inaintain Canadian workmen, and I say
in the committee ta which it will be re- that we s-hould not allow men who have no
ferred. But there is ane thing which. bas interest in Canada, except to destroy oui
always struck me, and that is that the industries, ta corne over here and create a
affaira of Canada should be dealt with by rivalry which should not be countenanced
Canadiens and not by aliens; t.hat our by Canadian people. This Bill may flot
industrial interests and aur railways shau.ld be ail that my hon. friend claims for it,
flot be tied up by aliens. I have seen but there should be ability enough in this
cases of men comning over intao Canada and House to amend it su, as to make it 'workpurposely tying up industries that were able. I Vhink I h.ave had occasion to say
running in competitian with the same class hefore that a layman bas flot much chance
of industries in the United States, and I of successfully passing a Bill through this
8ay that whatcver should be done ini the Chamber or through the other House, but
way of a Conciliation Act it should be done we should ever keep before aur eyes the
Ly Canadian people amongst Canadian policy that Canadian affaire should be for
people and not by fareigners. The prin- Canadians ta deal with.
ciple of the Bill can be dîscussed in the
Han. Mr. ELLIS-The Bill goes further
cojnmittee; but I say that it is high tim.It exthan the hon. gentleman states.
- and I say it advisely-tbat evcry difler.
ence and dispute between workmen and cludes the Englishman. I do not at al
employers of labour sbould be settled by like any legisiation that discriminate3
Canadian people rather than be ieft ta, against the mother cauntry. No Englishaliens. I have had some experience. ai- man, unless he be a resident of Canada, can
though my hon. friend docs not tbink so, under this Bill be called in ta settie disSocial and econamie questions
in employing labour. I have had difficul- putes.
ail einpioyers of which may arise are mare thoroughly
tics with my men, as
labour have had, and I contend that it is understoad by Englishmen than by people
much casier to settie a dispute with. your af other nations, and anc can imagine con
awn men than ta caîl in outsiders, and that ditions which would mnake l it desirable
is one of the reasons why my hon. friend that an Englishman, though not a -resident
has introduced the Bill. I think Canada of Canada, should be called in ta settie
bas grown big enough ta settie ail disturh- disputes. Why should the Canadian parances between car workmen and employers liament shut out the Englishman? I abject
o! labour without asking for outside in- ta that clause of the Bill very much.
fluence. I have spoken on this subject beHon. Mr. GIBSON-Wc might make it
fore, and I have no second view on it.
read 'A resident af Canada or a British
I hoid more strongly than I ever did that
subject.'
ail the mnoneys collected by labour associations or unions in Canada should go taHon. Mr. CLORAN-Then a Hindao
wards maintaining Canadian workmen when would have the same rig-ht?
they are out of employment. If a etrike
6hould occur in Canada, thc men ehould get
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Why not? H1e bas
the mnoney out o! sums drawn from Cana- ail the responsibilities that belang ta a
dian workmen. Let me tell my hon. friend British subjeet?
that the opposite bas been the case for
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-He pays bis nioney
years and years. Our Canadian workmen
have been oontributing sums cf money to came in.
year by yeaî ta keep up what might bp
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Thcn he is a British
called a pratective association, 80 that if
Perhaps the phraseolog-y is not
particu- subject.
anything should happen in their
exa.ctly what my han. friend meant it ta
lai trade they shonld have the contribumatters ta
tions not anly c! the Canadian workmen but be, but surcly it wouid simplify
read «citizen af Canada and a
of the United States workmen ta fail back muke it
Wbat is the resuit? Not a dollar British subject?'
uipon.
Han. Mr. CLORAN.

MAROH 16. 1909

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The hon. gentleman
bas stated that the labour unions of Canada have contributed large aume o! money
ta the United States. I believe that is true.
An(' hie contenda that they never got a
cent back. I want this staternent ta go
before the country: That the hon. gentleman's assumption o! that fact is not baaed
an any ground whatever; that, on the contrary, there is not a local union in the
Dominion -of Canada that bas contributed
money te the United States national or
labour funda that did net get back twice
the amount. I arn authorized to make that
staternent by the representative o! tbe
labour arganizations, and hie is on the floor
cf thxe Senate. I amn authorized to tell the
country that there is no
publie o! tis
labour union in Canada which bas con
tributed money ta the United States labour
cause that did not get it back with 10, 20
or 50 or 100 per cent.

organizations in carrying on their work
in future, and I do not think this Hous-p
has any such intention. The promoter of
the Bill with a view of giving the different
interest 'a an opportunity of presenting their
aide of the oaae--and there will be many
aides to it-I understand, is going to follow this motion, if it is aarried, and he
dosa not ask the Hanse to be coinmit.ted ta the principle of the Bill,
with anather motion referring it ta the
Coinniittee an Miacellaneous Private Bilas,
where an opportunity will be given ta ail]
those interested ta present their case, and,
therefore, with that suggestion fram the
proanoter. which I hope the House wil
agree ta, it will rerider any further discussion unnecessary until sueh time as we
have heazd the arguments before the coinmittee, and when the Bill cornes back ta
the House we shail be in a better position
to deal with it.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Can the hon. gentleHon. Mr. WILSON-Be! ore this Bill
man naine one P
is voted upon, I desire te rnake a few reat the outeet that
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I can narne them. ail. marks, and I muet say
my hou.
I arn authorized toa state that there is no~ I thoroughly sympathize with
friend froxn Beamaville a.nd the mover of
labour union in Canada. wlxich bas conwell that with
tributed ta the labour of the United States this Bill. I understand full
the motivez and the feeling they entertain.
that did not get back twice as rnuch aq
with auperabundance of loyalty end devothey contributed.
tion to the interests of the citizens of the
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-This proposltion bas Dominion o! Canada, they dislike that any
been before the Senate on various acca- foreigner or any outsider should have the
sions--very much the sarne proposition- right ta came here-and in any way interand has been rejected on former occasions fere with traffie or trade in Canada. But
by the House. What has been said by I cannot underatand how it is that they
some of the organizations that the inter- allow, for istance, the United States
ference that cames frorn outaide quarters people or the Germans or French or
is unjustifiable and also irritating, may othera ta corne inte Canada and enter
be very truc in some instances. I amn not into a legitimate meanufactnring business,
gaing ta dcny that; but we have organiza- enter into employment here, or invest their
tione end organizations; we have orders money in the country. If they did, they
and orders, anxd it ao happens in Canada know that they must be subject te a law,
that we have a high class o! ordere, well if it passes, under which no matter what
governed, cf an international character, difficulties they might .possibly have with
especially the railway orders, whioh are thvir men, under no condition could they
very extensive and strong. These organiza- in any way interfere in negotiating a settietioni have gone on for yeara and years ment as between the employer and t.he emworfring on international lines, with a sys. *ployed. For instance, a man may came
tom of administration that they have per. *here and invest a million dollars, an outIf
!ected, and which, I understand, even the sider altagether. We want hie money.
o! the hon. gentleman from Lincoln or the
railway authoritiei themselves approve
but Il thia legisiation ehould pass, it wil 1 mover o! thia Bill aaw an opportunity of
seriously interfere with and cripple thos investing money in sorne foreign country

SENATE
in a legal enterprise, if either of them and says that hie shall not interfere, and
should discover that whatever difflculty if hie does interfere, hie is guilty of an
might possibly arise between his men and offence and is liable to a fine flot exceedhimeelf hie eould in on way inteifere oi ing $100. As this is a public Bill, and as
show any disposition te conciliate hie men, the second reading of a public Bill is adhe would consider that a strange and mittedly an endersation of the principle of
arbitraiy condition. We in Canada are apt that Bill I shall feel myseif obliged, I do
to boast of oui liberality te foreigners, hold- not say relucta.nt]y, but I say ini justice,
ing it out as an inducement te men te corne to vote against the second reading.
here and invest their money in Canadian
Hon. Mr. McGREGOR-While seconding
industries. «Yet we are asked te place a the motion, I desire to say that I do flot
law upon the statute-book that if one of approve of the Bill in its entirety. The
theee men, with a million dollars invested word intervene has a strong meaning. While
in the country, should interfere in any way I sha.ll do everything I can to keep foreign
nt ail in a labour dispute hae should, be agitatars from comîing into the country,
responsible for damages to *the extent ef atili there might be respectable foreigners
$100. Do my hon. friends who advo.cate resident ini the eoun.txy who should have
this Bill believe that it would be judici- the iight of free speech, and miglit interoue that legishation of this kind should be fere, and I do not think I could support
adopted, and that people in other conntries the Bill in se fai as At would prevent free
should be discouraged from ooming here speech.
and investing their money? I do not beHon. Mr. CLORAN-The hion. gentleman
lieve in a principle cf this kind. I say
that it is arbitrary and unreasonable, andi, is against the principle of the BilIP
as bas been stated, the Bill will net acHon. Mr. De VEBER-Beingý a Canacomplish the ebject intended. Theis are dian, I arn proud to think it is possible
many contractera haie te-day engaged iii that we can decide our domestic quarrels
contracta in different places, and if thîs amongst ourselves, but until such time as
Bill should bacoma law thesa contractors it slhahl be thought necessary te enact legcould net interfere with their men. ThiR îslation that will prevent outsiders from
Bill provides that:
becoming directors of cempanies in CanEvery one is guilty cf an effence and liable ada, and thus becoming, to a certain exen summary conviction to a fine net exceed- tent, arbiters of financial institutions in
ing $100 who not being a citizen of Canada Canada, I cannot see my way clear to vote
and a -British subjectfor a Bill that prevents a labouring man,
Ha muet ba both a citizen of Canada and simply because hie is a labouîing man, coma British subjact. If lie weîe a citizen et ing into Canada, and as a member of a
Camada, living in Canada, and interfeied, union from taking an interest in what, to
it would be ail îight, I suppose, but hi- the labouring man, is just as much interest
mnuet ha a Britishi subjetas the capital a millienaire lias in some
-in any way intervenes in any difterence companies. This is discrimînating legislation in favour of capitalists as against
whether existing or apprehended.
labour, and I cannot endorse it.
This is legislation far îeaching in its
affect. Il there sbould be interference apHon. Mi. DANDURAND-Like a certain
prehandad-if it waîe thought they weîe number of my honourable colleagues who
going te intarferehave ex'pressed displeasure at seeing stîang-between an employer or any class cf em- ers interfera between Canadian employeis
ployers and workmen or between different and the ernploees, I would not object te
any legislation preventing such interferclasses cf wcrkmen.
even if hae is net a ence, but so long as we accept tâhe principle
If hie is an employer,
citizen and a British subject, sliould lia net cf ouir people joining the international
have the right te interfere in any dispute union, I cannot believe that this* Bill, or
or difference between himsplf and his cm- any Bill on similar lines, will accomphiali
Men who ara connected with
ployees? The Bihl says no. It is emphatic its objeot.
international unions will always accept the
Hon. Mr. WILSON.

MARCH 17, 1909
orders that corne fm-m the other side of the
line, and I do not see that this Bill 'will
ever reach a party at the head of an international union who will be called upon
by the local union here to order a stzike.
The orders will alwiays corne in writing or
by wire. I may say thst the firat clause,
interd-icting tihe nomination of foreigners
on boards of conciliation, does not meet
with my ap-proval, because I feel that any
body of men should have as wide a ecope
as possible in selecting their representatives
on the board.
The Senate divided on the motion, whichi
was rejected. Contents, 13; non-contents,
20. Names not recorded.
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (N) An Act respecting the Ontario.
Hudson Bay and Western Railway Cicmpany.-(Hon. Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
Bill (O) An Act respecting the Algoma
Central and Hudson Bay Railway Company.
-<Hon. Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
Bill (P) An Act te incorporate the Kooten.ay and Alberta Railway Company.-Hon.
Mr. De Veber).
Bill (Q) An Act respecting the Quinze and
Blanche River Railway Company.-<Hon.
Mr. Belcourt).
Bill (R) An Act respecting the Ottawa
Fire Insurance Company, and to change
its name to the Ottawa Assurance Cernpany.-(Hon. Mr. Belcourt).
Bill <No. 52) An Act respecting the Bank
of Vancouver.-(Hon. Mr. Bostock).
The Senate adjourned until to-mormow at
three o'clock.

THE SENATE.
OTT,&WA, Wednesday, March 17, 1909.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedinge.
COMPLAINTS AGAINST LAKE ST. JOHN
COLONIZATION SOCIETY.
MOTION POSTPONED.
Hon. Mr. TESSIER rose to move:
That an humble address be presented to Hlis
Exoellency the Governor General; praying

167

that His Excellency will cause te be laid
before the Senate copies of ail chargea or
complainte made by Mr. Joseph Girard or
othere te the Prime Minister or any member
of the government against the Lake St. John
Colonisation Seiety.
Hon. Mr. DANDUEAND-I would ask the
hon. gentleman to adjouru bis motion
until to-morrow, because I arn net aware
if there is any officiai document or petition
which has been lodged with the gevernment, and inquiry should be made beforehand. No address should be carried il
there is no paper te be produced.
Han. Mr. TESSIER-I move that the
order of the day be discharged and placed
on the orders of the day for te-morrow.
The order of the day was discharged.
FRENCH TRANSLATION 0F SENATE
MANUAL.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would like to
direct the attention of the present leader
Our
of the flouse to the following facts:
mnanual, which is called 'Canada Senate
Manual,' comprises three parts. The firet
part contains îoui rules, the eeond the
forms of proceedings, and the third the
imperial enactments-that is the British
North America Act. The first part bas been
translated into French and distributed to
the members of this flouse. The second
part has net been translated into French.
It was given te Mr. Boucher, who had the
Hý
superintendence of the translation.
died and was replaced by Mr. Evanturel,
who died aise, se that the work of translating the second part bas not been done.
Now, there is the translation of tuie third
part, the imperial enactments. That is to
be found in the Revised Statutes, but I
would cail the attention of the hon. gentleman froan Ottawa te this f act: He rwas explamning te me yesterday that they wanted
te make a new translation o! the British
North America Act, but that this Act cou.ld
be easily found in the Revised Statu-tes
where we have the translation from 30 or
40 years. Nevertheless, 1 would cali the
attention of the hon. member te a very important clause which bas been very strangely translated into French. It is the educational clause, the 93rd section of the British
North America Act. If rny hon. friend
remembers, it is said there that nothing

SENATE
in any sucli law shall prejudiciaily affect
the riglits or privileges wi.th respect ta
denominational schools.
The word denomination schools, ta my mind, means
religious schoolis.
That was translated
into Foeench écoles separées, and the true
translation would have been école confessionnelle, which is different aitogether,
because a denominational school may be a
public school.
It is flot necessarily a
separate school, and a separate school may
sometimes be denominational, and sometirnes neutral. So I call attention ta this
translation of the British North Asnerica
Act. So that if we take the old translation 1 would cal] attention to the fact
of this f aulty translation in the Act that
might be corrected when it is given in our
language.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Does the hon.
gentleman say that the Revised StatuteR
contains this translation, or is it simply
our old form?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I cannot say about
the Revised Statutes, but I know in th-law as we had At ini the statutes «'écoles
separées' was given where it should have
been, sccording to the English text, «'école
confessionnelle.'

-of this Chamber. Certairily it has been the
case since 1890, when I became a enember
of the Senate, and on some occasions we had
more than two ministers. It is an anomaly
that the business of this country should
be transacted in the Senate without auiy
one being present representing the governient ta give information respecting
nieasures and ta reply ta inquiries which
may corne before the House frein time to
The Senate lias been the subject
time.
of late of a good deal of criticism as to
its utility. I arn bound to say tAiat if thae
present governient wish to discredit the
Senate in the public mind it could not
pursue a more successful policy ta that
end that it is following now, ignoring the
Upper Chamber by leaving it without sufficient representatives of the cabinet to
take"care of govern.ment measures. During the present session but one government measure bas originated in the Senate, and that is a small and almost an
inconsequential Bill ta amend the Annuities Act. We have reached a point
where the dignity of this body demande
the attention of the governinent. I hope
my bon. friend who occupies the leader'e
chair to-day, and who is weil qualifled to
represent the governinent in this Chamber,
will be clothed with the necessary authority hereafter to represent the governenent,
whether with or without portfolio.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-If the Revised
Statutes contained the expression écoles
separées, I do flot know thst we would be
warranted in changing the words in our
Hon. Mr. DANDURkND-I arn sorry that
rules.
1 did not impart to the hon. leader of the
opposition the information which I thouglit
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That may be.
the right hon. the Minister of Commerce
lied given mne that lie was obliged to be
MINISTERIAL
]REPRESENTATION
IN
away on some important business which
THE SENATE.
would detain him saine twenty-four hours.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the orders I was advised this morning that lie will
of the day are called, I 'wish to direct at- be here before the sitting is over, s0 th-at
tention to the very anomalous position of the inconvenience caused by lis absence
this Chamber in flot having the govern- will net be of long duration. Lest year 1
ment represented here. The leader of the suggested a plan by which the Senate
Bouse was not here yesterday and is not might be put on a par with the Commons
present to-day. If he is absent through 111- as ta the initiationl of public legislation. I
ness, we aîl sympathize with bien, and hope do not know to what extent the Bouse
that he will be here at a very early dgy. accepted or disapproved of my suggestion.
It has been a matter of comment latterly T.his Bouse w*as constituted on the sami
that the governenent bas reduced the cab- lines as the House of Lords as to its
inet representation in the Senate to one. powers and privîleges. The Bouse cf Lords
I doubt if, sinc confederation, there have would not admit a clommoner within its
not been at leas't two ininisters on the floor precincts to present a Bill or to talre Palt
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY.

ii

MAIRCH 17. 1909
in a discussion, as is done in most parliaments of Europe; but in this demacratic
cauntry none ai us would icel that the
Senats had been desecrated il, under sme
regulatian, mea allowed meinhers of the
cabinet who sit in the ather Chamber ta
present their measures in the Senate. Ministers generally desire ta initiate their o'wn
legisiation. They like ta inther thcir own
measures. It struck me that we could well
alter ocar regulations iand alow aninistera
ta present their Bills in cither Chamber.
If this arrangement were made, w. cauld
have at aeast hall ai the public legislatian
which ernanates irom the gavcrnment initiated in this Chaniber. Then with regard
ta private legisiation, 1 suggested that the
depositing ai the $200 ice with the clerk
ai a Cliamber should not determine that
the legislation ehould b. initiated in that
Chamber. 1 suggestcd that one officiai
ahould receive Bills for both Houss, and
that the add-numbered Buis should originate in anc Cliamber and the evcn-nurnbered
Bills in the other. In that way hali ai
the private legisîstian wauld came ta this
If these twa suggestions were
Chamber.
adgpted, it eeems ta me that it would
salve the problem ai providing this Chamber with -a larger share ai the legislative
work.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Why doca not thc
hon. gentleman suggest the names ai a
Frenchi Canadian minister who should ait
in this Chamber? la it because h. ià tea
modeat?
Hon. Mr. D.ANDURAND-I coniesa that
privatcly I have convcyed the suggestion
already expresscd by the hon. gentleman
in thia Ohamber, and even made bold to
suggest a name that-uselcas ta add-waci
na t Mny awn.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Pcrhaps the lion.
gentleman in conveying it as coming from
me made a mistake. It migit have been
better if lie liad made it as caming iram
himaelf. Let me request him ta try «gain
-ta try until lie succeeda.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have been
watcliing closcly ta sec liow the lion. gentlemazi would acquaint himself in bis first
quasi ministeTi-al explanation ta this Hous.

One remark that dropped from the
bon. leader of this House, in the debate on the address, was that îhe would
not be able to attend the meetings
of the cammittees, but lie pointed ta the
hon. gentleman (Hon. Mr. Dandurend'i
whom lie said would represent hirn at committee meetings. For many days the Railway Comnmittee lias been considering a
measure wihich lia received th eendoraation of the government in the other end of
the building year after year. It paseed
unanimously artce as part of a government
Bill, and again and again with the support
and entire concurrence of the minister
whose department it affects. Borne of us
have been watching rather closely to find
whether the hon. gentleman from De Lorimier, whule representing the government in
that commnittee, would follow the Minister of
Railways or wauld strike out for himself. 1
do nat know whether lie is representing the
leader of the House or flot, but many of
us have discveredHon. Mr. DANDURAND-I would like
the hon. gentleman to adjourn bis remarks
on what took place in the committee until
the Bill cornes before the House.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn speaking
on a matter of general policy. I have been
watching very closely ta know if my hon.
friend is following the Iead of the riglit
hon. leader ai this House, or of the Minister af Railways in the other brandi o~f
parliament. It would be very interesting
to know what raIe lie is playing in committee on what was a government measure
in the ailier House, whatever it may b.
ber.
IRISH AFFAIRS.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I would crave the
inlulgence af tic House for a few moments
ta speak on a matter 'which affecte a large
proportion of the people af this country,
and, to my mind, may affect imperial intereats. The resoîntion whieh 1 amn about
te offer may tend ta cansalidate the amicable feelings whicli auglit to cxist betwcen
Tliis
the different sections af the empire.
is the anniversay ai the national saint ai
one ai thc most important sections ai the
British empire, and iollowing the command

170

SENATE

of the laVe Queen, whose memory is dear
That the Senate of the Dominion of Canada,
of
the national
to the people, Vo wear the shamrock on on the occasion ofVotheir fellow anniversarythe
oitizens of
Ireland, extends
the 17Vh of March, we dre doing se.
She empire, the Irish people, its sincere congratsexpressed hier desire that if any soldier in lations on the more happy and hopeful condiunder
their
her ax'my wanted to wear the shamrock on tion ofMajesty national affairsVII, andthe reign
further,
King Edward
of Hiq
St. Patrick'e Day îhe ahould be pernditted that the hion. Speaker of the Senate be instrnctVo do so. That event tended Vo create a ed to forward immediately by cable the above
te the leader of the Irish parliabetter feeling between the two peoples, and resolution party, Mr. John Redmond, M.P.,
mentary
ber distinguished son, Ris Gracious Majesty London, England.
King Edward, has continued in the saine
I hope hon. gentlemen will a.il feel that
path of conciliation and good will.
No there is nothing in the words of this resolusovereigil in the his tory of Britain has tien but loyalty to His Majesty, loyalty Vo
given more satisfaction Vo a large section of the emnpire of which we are a part, with the
the eubjects of the Crown, during the past further object of consecrating the principle,
350 years, Vhan our present King. For anany I 9ay, of consolidating the feeling of amity
a long century the people of Ireland were and good will between ail sections of the
diaon*tented, with good meason, but stiart- empire. It ivill be an encouragement te
ing in the reign of our laVe Queen, and the members of the British government.
during the present reign, Ireland has found
whethier they be Conservative or Liberal,
a greater welcoxne, a warnier friendship) in Downing, street or in the parliaient at
at the foot of the Throne Vhan before. To- London; it will be an encouragement to
day we are celebrating the anniversary move nlong& the lines of improvement and
of that count.ry which has dene se much
along the lines of extending popular rights
for the British empire and has furnished to the people of Ireland.
s0 much of its genius te uphold and spmead
The SPEAKER-Is the lion, gentleman
the influence of the British empire. Need
I go ever the naines of the men, whether making. the motion?
in parliament or out of parliament? Needl Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No, I amn going Vo
I cite Vo you the Burkes and the Shiemidans
make the motion when I arn througli.
on the floor of the British House of paxia,ment? And need I cite to you the naines of
TJhe SPEAKER-I think the lion, gentlemen who extended the limits of the British man is out of order.
empire and saved it from destruction? In
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I asic the House to
namîng the Wellingtons, the Robemts, the hiear it. I would be sorry if this motion
Kitcheners of Inter days, and how many in should be threovn out on a technicaIity.
past centuries, I but recail the naines of I understand that 1 have a rig-ht Vo inove
those with whom we are all familiar. The the resolution.
anniversary of that people we are celebratT.he SPEAKER-The rule is specific.
ing Vo-day, and without consulting one
single eenator on the floor of this House.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Then, before I make
I ask the Senate te endorse an expression the motion, I will have te ask Vo have the
of opinion, a sentiment which will go a long mile regarding the matter suspended.
way Vo consolidate and make firin that
The SPEAKER-If the hion. gentleman
reciprocal intercolonial or international
moves that the mule be suspended, xvith the
good 'will and affnity whîeh should. exist
among ail members of the British empire. unanimous consent of the Huse, it may
It cannot be said that Vhe resolution I amn be suspended, but that is the only wniv.
proposing now has been hatched and cooked 0f course, we must be governed by the
among the members and foeced upon the mules.
bouse. Thâs honourable bouse will be free
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That k; my inte-nVo meject it or accept iV. What I would like tion if the question of order is raised, but
Vo have, on behalf of the British empire, as it hbas net been haised, and I think that
is a spontaneous expression of mepresenta- it is a right that appertains to members
tive opinion frein this honourable bouse. on thle foor of the bouse to raise a point
The resolution reads as follows:
of orderHon. Mr. CLORAN.

MAROR 17, 1909
The SPEAKER-I do not understand it
in that way. I understand the rules are
to govern every member, and if a member
is proceeding -out of order it is rny duty
to cail attention to it. If he wishes ta suspend the rmie which. prevents him from
making the motion he desires ta make, it
is open ta him to do so, and if the unanimous oonsent of the House is given he
can go on, but not without it. My object
in calling attention to the mnatter la that
the hon. gentleman may proceed in the
ordinary way.

would be ta mave an adjournment ai the
House. Re would then be quite in order
ta dircct attention ta a question ai publie importance such as this is on St. Patrick's Day; but the only motion he will
be in order in making now is ane ta adjourn. the House. I did not hear what t.he
bon. gentleman from Brandon said, but
if it was that discussion might proceed and
the fonn. ai the eslution could be considered uindem the mules ai the House a
littie leter it might be iound whaît the
consensus ai the House with respect ta the
re.solution is.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That was my intenHon. Mr. DANDURANI)-The hon. gention. If no objection was taken I would
simply have made the motion, and if there tleman has been allowed by the Senate ta
w-as an objection I would have moved the make his speech. He has asked leave ta
present a motion which did nat meet with
suspension ai the mules.
the consensus ai the whole Senate, sa there
The SPEAKER-The motion cannot ho
hs nothing before the Hanse naw.
received until leave is given. If the hon.
gentleman makes the motion for leaveHon. Mr. POIRIER-Through courtesy
I seconded the motion ai my hon. friend.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-tinder the circuinbut I did nat believe there was any necesetances, I move that the rules of the sity for a motion ta adjourn. If there was,
House in regard ta this resalution be sus- then rule 44 ai aur standing arders has no
pended, seconded by the hon. gentleman
signification. That mule says:
from Shediac <Han. Mr. Poirier).
A senator ean speak ta any question before
The SPEAKER-The *hon. gentleman the Senate or upon a motion or an amendmoves that mrule 24 be suspended for the ment ta be proposed by himeelf.
pumpose af enabling the motion which has
Here is a motion that the hon. senataor
just been indicated by the hon. senator tb declares is going ta be prapased by hlmbe miade.
self. He has a right to speak on a motion
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I would not he intends pmaposing. If he has not, then
wieh ta say anything which would be the no one in this Chamber can propose a
means of stapping such a lovely speech as motion except on Bille or such. thinge withthe hon. gentleman is rnaking, and, there- aut giving notice ai motion. But no one
fore, on that ground I would not object can move a motion, no matter how imnta the motion going, but 1 wiould, ask -the partant it may be if we have toa sk the
bon. gentleman if he could not defer his leave ai the House as agai.nst the positive
speech until aiter we get thmough 'with the mule oi this House ta the contrary.
orders ai the day, and then we could sit
Han. Mr. WILSON-I think the contenand listen ta himP
tion ai my hon. fiend is quite correct. Il
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I have finished.
an hon. member who le speaking declares
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I was not in his place that he intends to mave a motion he has a right ta make a speech, and
going ta abject ta it.
then at the expiration ai thst speech ta
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do submit his motion. That is the mule tkjat
abject ta it. It is not in order, and the bas always been observed, and I think it
womding- of the resolution is ai such a is the ans we should consider on the prechar'acter that I think it ought not be pro- sent occasion. If he states that he intends
posed t~o this House.
ta make a motion at the expiration af his
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The only motion speech, that is genemally the course that
that my hon . riend could make at this stage is pursued in making-motions ai that kind,

SENATE
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. genand, therefore, I think he was quite within
tleman concluded his speech.
his right when he did 30.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No, I do not want
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon, gentleman
has propounded an eutirely uew doctrine. any squelching of this kind at ail. I move
The Speaker made his ruling, and the the adjournment of the House, and have a
decision has not been appealed from; any right to move it..
fnrther discussion of the ruling is therefore
The SPEAKER-It la moved by the Hon.
ont of order.
Mr. Cloran, seconded by the Hon. Mr.
Hou. Mr. DANDURAND-There is noth- Poirier, that the House be 110w adjourned.
ing before the Chair. I should like to
The motion was declared lost.
coutrovert the declaration of princîple made
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That is open for
by two hon. gentlemen on the other aide.
discussion.
A.meinher can, by courtesy or by leave of
the House, make a speech to be followed
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The Speaker cannot
by an irregular motion, but the Speaker put the motion that way. I made a motion
can always ask hlm what is before the to adi ourn the Honse to bring bel ore the
House, aud if it is a motion which. rehon. senators a matter of importance.
quires notice, then the speech is out of
order.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand the
Speaker has declared that motion lost.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-Oh, no.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-He cannot declare
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-If the hou. gentle- le lstý by a flying gesture.
man had begun by reciting bis motion,
Th e SPEAKER-I do not want in any
wou]d he not be in aider to speak on the
way to cnt off any discussion, but it must
motion? It la identical]y the same thing
motion made by the hon.
when be declares that he la going to end be in order. The
gentleman was that the House do adjourn,
his remarks by propounding a motion inthe hon. genstead of subrnitting the motion befo*re speak- and without any observations
tleman took his seat. I then put the moing to it.
tion and declared it loat.
The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman is
Hon. Mr. WILSON-lt strikes me that
entirely out of order. Rightly or wrongly
when the hon. gentleman made his motion,
I bave ruled, and as there has been no apbe had no0 right to speak until such time
peal iîom my ruling, 'we must, I think,
the motion.
adhere to the ruling. I, therefore, cail the as the Speaker put
order of the day.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oh,'
yes.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have the bonour
Hon. Mr. WILSON-And ai ter the motion
to move the adjourument of the Hanse,
seconded by the Hou. Mr. Poirier. It la so was put, the hon. gentleman would have a
easy to get through by being civil.
right to speak, but before that he had no
right.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbe hon. genThe SPEAKER-Orders of the day.
tleman is through with his speech.
Hon. Mr. ÇLORAN-I rise to a point of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
has already apoken. He cannot move the order.
adjourninent of the House.
Hon. Mr. KIRÇHHOFFER-Ireland forever 1
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have spoken on
another motion, but I have not spoken on
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I shall appeal
the motion for the adjounment of the to the House if it becomes necessary. We
House. We cannot be tongue-tied in this are not going to be put down lu this fashway.
ion, and I am going to appeal, if uecessary,
Hon. Mr. WILSON.

MARCH 17, 1909
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
he Bill is read a second tirne, it must be
listluctly understood, as f ar as I amn conýerned, that we do net thereby approve of
the principle of this measure. There is
io reason given in the preamble why tlbis
extension of turne ehould be given, noe can
I understan-d that there le any reason why
The SPEAKER-I hope the hon. gen- the law should interfere with a patent of
tlemian will uuderstand that I amn sin- this- character in order te extend the time
cere when I say that I have no wish what- for the commencement of the manufacture
ever to cut off or curtiail discussion of of an article for which plenty of tirne bas
any question so long as it is conducted iu been given lu the pat to establish a facaccordance with the rules of the House; tory in this country. We have been nes.rly
but, in the meantime, having done so, sud every session pursuing a polîcy of this
having called the orders of the day, whe- kind. We have a number of factories in
ther I ama right or wrong, I hope the hon. Ontario, and probably in other portions
gentleman will accede to it and proceed to of the Dominion as f ar es I know, that are
the ordinary business on the Order Paper. quite capable of ûnanufacturing this article,
Âfter the orders of the day are disposed of, and the patent bas b pen granted for a
the question, can be brought up and dis- sufficient length of turne to enable the incussed.
venter lu the United States, or if not the
United States,
The CLERK-First order of the day- inventer the owner lu the
This
to commence 'work in this country.
Please sit principle of extending patents has been se
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Order.
down.
abused lu England that the Imperial Pariarnent hss ste.pped. in to prevent the
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the hon. gentleman extension of time and compel the patentees
frein Victoria persists, I think it will ýbe in who have obtained, rights in Great Britain
order for his honour the Speaker te oll te either establish their factories lu the
upon the proper officer to remove the hon. country or allow others te do so and take
gentleman.
advantage of the inventions. Te my mind
The SPEAKER-I hope we will be able we lu Canada are carrying this principle
to get on without that. The bon. gentleman of extensions altogether teo fax, and are
will understand that I -have no desire to granting privileges that should net be given,
curtail any observations he desires to make; more particularly in a case of this kind,
at the same time I must, as long as I amn where I know, so far, of no reason being
here, do what 1 conceive to be my duty, given why it should be extended further
and I arn trying to do it. I ask the hon. and declare that the importation lui the
gentleman to desist for the present 'and pat of these goods should not be taken
plenty of opportunity will be given to dis- advantage of under the law, but th-at te
patent shaîl be continued as if the owners
cusa the matter.
had complied wite the ternis of the Patent
Act and gnanufactured in Canada. I arn
THIRD READING.
not going to oppose the second reading of
Bill (No. 8) An Act to amend the Domin- the Bfi, although I think it la quite time
leu Lands Act.-(Rt. Hon. Sir Richard tee Senate asserted the principle or affirmed
Cartwright).
tee principle of preventing the extension of
the time for the establishing of industries
BAR LOOK COMPANY PATENT BILL. of this klnd under a patent, until good and
SECOND READING.
sufficient resoens have been given snd te
itse1 f should be the judge of that.
Hlon. Mr. McHUGH (in absence of Hon. Senate
If it goes te the committee we will have
Mr. Camnpbell) moved the second reading
the sarne difficulty and discussion on the
of Bil (K) An Act respecting certain letters
principle of the Bill, and the reasons whichi
patent of the American Bar Lock Company.

from the decision of the Chair. I state
here on my honour that that motion wast
not put before I had a right to speak to
my own motion. It does not stand to common sense, and, if I eau find a seconder, II
will appeal frein the decision; but I do not
want to do it unlesa I ama obliged to.

SENATE
may then be given which -are not now given or reasonable ground taken as te why te
indulgence ol parliament should be exwhy it should be extended.
tended te the patentees it may be a matter
Hon. Mr. McHUGH--I may say -th.at 1 to go before the coanmittee. I any event
have received ne instructions ini oonnec- that evidence should be before -the Oheantion with this Bill. It is only out of ber.
courtesy to the Hon. Mr. Camnpbell that 1
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-The solicitors have
took oharge of it. Since the firet reading
been communicated with and told that
I have received a communication from the
the Bill would get a second reading tesolicitors in Toronto asking when it would
day, and go before the committee a week
corne before the oommittee. No doubt they
has
will appear before the committee. I have from to-morrow. That communication
no desire that any senator will be coin- gone eut.
mitted te the pTinciple of the Bill until he
hears the discussion of -the clauses of it
in the oommittee. I think the Bill is very
much along the lines of similar Bills that
have been passed quite frequently i this
House. It is the same provision -that baa
been placed in other Bis which have been
passed frein year te year and have reoeived
the approbation of the Agricultural Department through their deputy minister,
Mr. O'Halloran. I think the clauses follow out exactly what has been asked for
by that department. If the Bill is read a
second turne now and gees te committee,
the solicitors will be there te explain. it.
I do not see that I arn cominitted te the
prmnciple of the Bill until I hear it more
fully discussed.
Bon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Oran my hon.
friend say when this patent exrpired? It
would almost appear from the recital in
the preamble that it must have expired
two years ago. If that is the case, certainly gross neglîgence would 'be so apparent as te. preclude ail expectation .)f
this Senate intervening te renew it.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That practically
would preclude ail discussion upon the
question. It has been custemary to set eut
a recital in tee preamble, representing al
the facts se that the Chamber may have
full knowledge whether the Bill is a reasonable one, but there is a notable absence o!
ail information with regard teo thîs Bill,
and it should not receive a second reading
until we have that information.
Hon. Sur MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
is what I desired to point out to my hon.
friend. I can assure him that I have no
feeling o! discourtesy to him, but I question 'whether there bas ever been a Bill
for an extension of a patent brought before
the Senate, that has not contained in te
preamble the reasons why it is asked.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Hear, hear.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No
such reason is given in this instance. We
are sinply asked to extend the patent. If
rny hon. friend will only examine te
Bills which have been passed, he will find
that what the leader of the Opposition has
just said is correct, that the reasons for
Hon. Mr. McHJGII-I have no informa- askîng for the Bill are mentioned in the
tien te give the Hûuse other than that preamble in every instance.
contained in the Bill, but I kne'w that many
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-Seeing that there
othe.r such Bills have been passed under
is opposition to the Bill, I move that the
similar circumstances.
eider be discharged and that the 'Bill be
Mr. LOUGHEED-I would suggest placed on tee Order I'aper for Fridýay next.
H-on.
The motion was agreed te.
te mny hon. friend that he allow this matter te stand until information can be given
QUEBEC ORIENTAL RAIL-WAY COMte the Heuse as te whether we should conPAINY BILL.
eider ourselves justified in aocepting the
SECOND READING.
principle involved in the Bill. If the delay
Hon. Mr. TESSIER moved the second
in extending the patent has been unreasünable, the second reading should net be reading of Bill (I) An Act respecting te
paseed. If good reasons can be advanced,, Quebec Oriental Raihway Company.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELT,

MUARCH 17, 1909
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I took exception
to the framing of this Bill, inasmuch as it
shows no jurisdiction or authority in this
Parliament to grant sucli legislation. It
has been pointed out to me since, that, in
1907, Dominion legislation was obtained
declaring this tb be a work for the general
advantage of Canada, thereby making it a
federal Act. But there is nothing on the
face of the Bill to show that we have any
authority whatever to repeal any sections
i the provincial legisiation passed concerning the coenpany. In -four clauses of
this Bill we are asked expressly to repeal
certain provincial legisiation. There should
be some recital in the Bil by which this
Parliament could become seized with authority to deal with that partie'ular legisiation. This Chamber should certainly require the necessary information to be incorporated in the measure before giving it
a second reading. As it stands now, it
wouild appear on the Journals of the House
that, without any authority whatever, we
have assumed the right to repeal certain
provincial legisiation.

175

eral advantage of Canada, and it is the
Act of 1907 that these people wish to have
amended.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Wffat powers are conferred by this Bill which could not be
granted by the provincial legisîsture?
Hon. Mr. TESSIER-This company was
incorporated originally by the Quebec legislature. In 1907 it obtained a federal charter. The mistakes in the first two clauses
of the Bill are simply clerical errors which
can be corrected in committee.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Under section 6 of
the Railway Act, the legislation of this parliament supersedes provincial legislation
from. the moment a work is declsred to be
for the general advantage of Canada.
This company, having been brought, by
that declaration. within the juriadiction of
this parliament. it is proper to amend a
charter of the company, though it would
not be correct to repeal any Quebec legislation. The company is proceeding under
section 6 of the Railway Act.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-This Bill was
drafted i England. In committee the de- was read the second time.
fect cari be remedied easily by striking out
BILLS INTRODUCED.
the words which. should not have been put
Bill (No. 29) An Act respecting the Winthere. It is evident that we cannot repeal
of a statute passed in the prov- nipeg and Northwestern, Railway Company
any clause
ince of Quebec. The Bill has been badly -(Hon. Mr. Power).
Bill <No. 33) An Ace. respecting the Niadrafted, and was printed i its present form
because the people on the other aide wanted gara-Welland Power Company <Hon. Mr.
this Bfi just Bo. They have made certain McMullen).
financial arrangements. That is what 1 *Bill <No. 37) An Act to incorporate the
learn upon inquiry. If the Bill is allowed Western Canada Lif e Assurance Company
to go to cornmittee, the amendments can -(Hon. Mr. Bostock).
Bill (No:' 40) An Act to incorporate the
be madle by striking out a few -words.
Great West Permanent Loan CompanyHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The only answer (Hon. Mr. Chevrier).
to that is, it will bring ridicule on tihis
Bill (No. 49) An Act respecting the OtChamber tic solemnly give two readings to tawa, Northern and Western Railway Conia Bill so manifestly wrong in its franie- pany-(Hon. Mr. Derbyshire).
work as thia Billi h. My object is to proBull (No. 50) An Act to incorporate La
tect, as far as I can, the dignity of this Compagnie du chemin de fer International
Chamber, or at lest its intelligence.
de Rimouski.-<Hon. Mr. Fiset).
Bihl (No. 51) An Act te incorporate the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Perhaps the Bill
and Surety Company of
was intended to be presented in the legis- Royal Casualty
Canada.
lature of Quebec?
Bill (No. 55) An Act to incorporate the
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-In 1907 this rail- British Columbia Lii e Assurance Company.
way was declared to be a work for the gen- -(Hon. Mr. Riley).

SENATE

Bill (No. 57) An Act respecting the Vancouver, Fraser Valley and Southern Railway Company-(Hofl. Mr. Riley).
Bill (No. 59) An Act to incorporate the
Victoria'and Barkley Sound Railway Cernpany.-(Hon. Mr. Riley).
Bill (No. 61) An Act respecting the Burrard, Westminster Boundary Railway and
BosMr.
Navigation Company.-(Hon.
teck).
Bill (No. 62) An Act te incorporate the
Prince Albert and Hudson Bay Bailway
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Talbot).
Bill (No. 71) An Act respecting a patent
of Thomas L. Smith.-(Hon. Mr. Watson).
Bill (No. 76) An Act te incorporate the
CernInsurance
Canada National Fire
pany.-(Hon. Mr. Chevrier).
SENATE REFOIRM.
DEBATE CONTINUED.
The order of the day being called:
Resurning the adjourned debate on the
motion of the Honourable Mr. Scott, that it
be resolved1. That in the opinion of the Senate the
time has arrived for so amending the constitution of this branch of parliament as to
bring the modes of selection of senators more
into harmony with public opinion.
2. That the introduction of an elected element, applying it approximately to two-thirds
of the number of senators would bring the
Senate more into harmony with the principles
of popular government than the present system of appointing the entire body of senators
by the Crown for hfie.
3. That the termi for which a senator nIay
be elected or appointed, be limited to seven
years.
4. That the provinces of Ontario and Quebec be each divided inte sixteen electoral
districts for representation in this chamber.
That the provinces of Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick be each divided into seven electoral districts, and the province of Prince
Edward Island into two electoral districts
for election to this chamber; and that for
the present, and until the four western provinces have been given increased representation in this chamber, that Manitoba, Sask-atchewan and Alberta be eacli one divided inte
three electoral districts, and that the province of British Columbia be divided into two
electoral districts, ail for the election of candidates for representation in the Senate.
[n defining the said electoral districts, due
regard being haà, niot only te approximately
equalizing the population in each district, but
to convenience, local interests and county
boundaries.
5. That immediately alter the said electoral
districts shall have been defined aud agreed
Hon. Mr. BEIQTJE.

upon, a member cf the existing Senate shahl
be aliotted ta each of the said districts, having
due regard, as far as practicable, to residence,
local interests or other reasons.
6. That as vacancies hereafter arise in the
repres entation of the said electoral districts,
the vacancy shaîl be filled by the electors of
that district entitled to vote for members cf
the House of Commons.
7. That in order te diminish the expenses
attending elections over wide areas, and to
seure a larger and freer expression of independent opinion, the systemn of cornpulsory
votîng shaîl apply te ail elections of senators;
every voter being requîred to exercise his
right to the franchise, and by ballot, under
a penalty of ten dollar%. to be collected by
the returning officer and applied in reduction
of election ex penses. Provided that any elector may be excu-ed frorn voting on producing
a medical certificate that his state of health
did not admit of his attendance at the polis,
or a certificats from the local judge that important business or other reasonable excuse
prevented bis exercising the franchise.
S. That the remaining eight senators in
each of the provinces cf Ontario and Quebec;
the remaining three senators in Nova Scotia
aud in New Brunswick, and the two romaining senaters in Prince Edward Island, and
the remaining senator in each of the provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta
and British Columbia, who had not been allotted to any coustituency, shaîl be classed as
senators for the particular province at large,
aud as a vacancy arises in that class, it shp.JI
be filled by appointment, as at present by the
Crown.
9. That in order ta more nearly equalize
the standing of political parties in the
Senate, on the occasion of a change in the
goverument, the principle laid down in sections 26 and 27 of the British North America
Act shaîl apply; that is to say, the incoming
administration may appoint an additional
number of senators, net exceeding nine if in
the opinion of the Governor General, acting
independentiy cf the Privy Council, the request is a reasonable one, but not more than
oue of the senators to be appointed shall be
taken frem any eue province; sud that no
more appointments of senators shall be made
for that province until a second vacancy has
arisen; thus reverting te the original number
of senators sletted to the said province.
10. That the senators representing the
several provinces be requested to meet aud
suggest the best mode of dividiug the province into senste electoral districts and aiso
the name of the senator who will represent
each particular district.
Il. That the House cf Commons be asked ta
concur in the proposed changes in the constitution cf the Senate.
12. That the Senate and House cf Commons
adopt a joint address te His Gracions Majesty
the King prsying that the British North
America Act, and the Acts under which
British Columbia and Prince Edward Island
entered the union, be 50 amended as te conform te the foregoing resolutions.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I do net know
th-at I can add very much te the argta

MARCH 17, 1909
ments that have been already presentel
an bath sides ai this question; the firet,
very ably and eloquently by the hon. senater -froin Ottawa (Han. Mr. Scott), and the
Teply by the hon. eenator irom Middlesex
(Hon. Mr. Rase). The question of Senate
reforin has been discussed an the platiormn
in this country from year ta year, and a
good deal ai fault lias been found with the
~wark that the Benate does. It is generaily
supposed that we are a lot ai worn out
parliamentarians who are turncd inta a rich
pasture ta spend the balance ai our deys,
and that we virtually do nothing here.
That is the general impression throughout the country. Thase who have spoken
in thc House of Commons in that way
know little or nothing of the work that is
done in this Chamber. The hon. senatar
fromn Middlesex campiled a very extended
atatenient with regard ta the work done by
the Senate since coniederation; but aiter
ail the feeling existe that same ehange
ahould take place in the constitution oi tihe
Senate, especially with regard ta the nainber ai senators and life appointments. No
doubt many people in this country are
anxiaus that senatars shoul be elected by
papular vote. I do not know whethcr it
would be in the public interest ta make the
Senate elective. I do not expcct that it
would bring better men inta this Ohamber
than we have now. However, it is desirable that the amaunt ai patronage exercised by sny government shouid be reduced -as far as possible. No matter what
government ls in power, it lis altagether
tao much patronage. In some cases it is a
source ai weakneee rather than ai strength,
because when a senatorship becames vacant
there are many applications for appointment, and when the vacancy is filled there
are fiftecn or twenty diasatisfied men whi
become enemies of the gavernment froni
that time forwards. Therciore, il. je desirable, ini the intercat af the gaverninent
itself, that they shauld have lees patronage. From that point ai view I would willingly caneent ta saine change being mode
in the direction suggested by the resclution
before us. I would aiea consent, owing ta
the fact that there is a feeling in the country that saine change should take place,
whetlier that feeling le well founded or not,
ta other changes being made in the con-

177

stitution of the Upper Hanse. Since I
have had the honour of occupydng a seat in
this House, I can honestly eBay -that the
Senate has discharged its duties weil and
ably both ini ite committees and in the
Chernber. Bills sent to us from the Gommons receive very caref ni consideration,
and in many cases important ainendments
have been made. In 1906 we made 133
amendmente te thle Bille sent to us from
the lower House. As a rule, those amendmente were accepted and -the Bills became
law. You wotild fanicy from the utterancea of some members of the Houe of
Commzons that the Senate does little or
nothing. It ia quite evident that they know
nothing about what is done in the upper
Chaiber. If somne of those who undertake ta criticise the Senate would read the
Senate debates and post themselvee with
-regard ta the work done in thia Chamber,
they would flot make such a ridiculous
exhibition of themeelves as they do when
they advocate the abolition of the Senate.
There je but anc intelligent nation of the
many blessed with a systemi of responsible
gaveoenment that le without a second Ohaanber. That nation ie Greece. Se f ar as I
can learn, it is -the anly country 'whose paruinent consiste af only one Chamber.
In the face of ail this, surely Canadians
are capable af deciding whaý form of gavernment we should have, and it is not
complimentary to the fathers of confederation that 40 years atter confederatian hau
been consulmmated- it, should be said there
was no need for the Sens.te and it should
be abolished. I wiil admit that if the
parliamnent ai Canada were blessed with
men ai the exalted ability, the great statesmanship, the power ai dealing with public questions, like the han. member for
Lincoln who site in the lower Houee, it
might be passible ta get along with one
Chsxnber; but we must not forget that
Canada, as a canfederacy, has been in existence 40 years naw, and in ail that 40
years the people have been fram year ta
year snd from parlisament to parliament
eleating representatives ta the Homse of
Gainons, snd in ail that time they have
neyer been fortunate enough toý elect mare
than one Lancaster, the only representative
they ever struck upon who was blessed

PLEVBI5D IDDITION

SENATE
with the magnificent ability and the exalted statesmanship that enabled him to
see that the Senate of Canada was unnecesPossibly
sary and should be abolished.
he can eee farther than any of us, but it
ià aznusing, in view of the work done by
the Senate, in view of the arnendments
made here to Bils that had been sent to
us from year to year, and in view of the
fact that the Gommons accepted those
amndments and passed the Bills as so amnended, that any man would make such an
exhibition of himself as to declare the Senste should be abolished. Let us take the
year 1907. In that year the Senate made
no lesa than 75 amendments te Bills that
were sent here from the Hanse of Commons. That certainly was sorne work.
Those Bis were not in a perfect condition
when they leit the Gommons or they would
not have required the amendments. What
There
was the work done last session?
were no less than 125 Bis received frorn
the Gommons. We made amendments to
25 of those Bils alter we received them
here. We rejected four Bills sent from the
Commons. Sixty-two Bills were introduced
in the Senate, 52 of which were passed and
10 were rejected. Twenty-six o! those
Bis were amended in the Gommons and
25 recejved the sanction o! the Commons
without amendment. That shows that there
is considerable necessary work done here.
Every one of those Bills received careful
From sesconsideration in this Hanse.
sion te session valuable legisiative work ia
done in this Chamber, and, as I Baid before,
those who undertake te criticise the Snste, do so. without knowing what they are
talking about. When I sat in the Hous
of Gommons, in my simplicity I criticised
the Senate also. I thought it might be
done without. I feit very bitter against
it, owing to the fact that it passed the Gerrymander Act ini 1882. I thought it should
not have done that. I thought it was
an opportunity for the Senate to shoW. ita
independence, but after ail it passed the Bill
and I feit it sny duty as a consequence to
criticise the Senate; but since I have corne
here I have learned a good deaI about the
work that the Senate does, and I have
corne to the conclusion that ws are not
drones. We do not spend the days and
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

hours that ws are cailed upon te sit in
thîs Chamber virtually doing nothing. The
great trouble is, that the press of the country teke little or no notice o! what is being
done in. the Senate. We have one reporter
furnishing a report o! the proceedinga to
the papers, and the newspaper reporters
have an opportunity of lookiug over the
items that corne upi and are diacuaaed in
f.his Chamber and the result has been that
from year te year less and lesa attention
has been paid te the Senate and we do not
get the notice in the publié press that I
think we deserve. We are not findihg
fault. It ia the policy of the press te devote their time almost entirely to the House
of Commous. Now, in order te show the
constitutions, of other countries aud other
portions of the British Empire, I have in
my hand a statement of the different coloshowiug
nies as well as other countris
how their systerna of government are carried on. As we ail know, the states of the
nsighbouring republic are govsrned under
systema o! upper and lowsr houses, as the
following table will show:
UTNITED STATES 0F AMERICA.

Alabamna--Senate

and Hanuse of Representa-

tives.
Arksnsa"-Snate and Hlouse of Fepresenta'tives.

<'alifornia--Senate and Flouse of .Assembly.
Colorado-Sgenate and House
tives.

of

Representa-

Connecticut-Senate and House of Representatives.
Delaware iSenate and Hanse of Representatives.
Florida-Senate and House of Representa-.
ttives.
Georgia--Senate and Honse of Representatives.
Tdaho--Senate and Hanuse of Representatives.
Illinais-enate and Hanuse of Representatives.
indiana--Senate and Hanuse of Represents.tives.
Iowa--Senate and Hanse of Representatives.
Kansas-ienate and Hanse of Representatives.
Kentuoky--Senate and Hanse of Representatives.
Louisiana-&nate and Honse of Representatires.
Mfaine-&ýSnate and Hanuse of Representatives.
-Maryland--Senate and House of Delegates.
Massachusett"-enate and Hanse of Representatives.
Michigan--Senate and Hanse cf Representatives.
'Minnesota-_Senate and Hanse o! Representatives.
Mississippi--Senate and Hanse of Representatives.

MAROR 17, 1909
Missouri--Senate and House of Representatives.
Montana-Senate and 'Hanse of Representatires.
Nebraska--Benate and House of Representatires.
Nevada-Senate and Hous. of Representatives.
New Hampshire Sonate ad HRoue. 'cf Representatives.
Newr Jersey-Sgenate and General Âssmly.
Newr York State-enate and General Asaembly.
North Carolina--Senate and Houa. of Representatives.
North Dakota--Senate and Hou.. of Representatives.
Ohio--Senate and Hanse of Representatives.
Oregon-Senate and Honse of Representatives.
Penusylvania--Senate and Houa. of Representatives.
Rhode Island--Senate and Houa. of Representatives.
South Carolina--Senate and Houe, cf Representatives.
South Dakota--Senate and Houa. of Repre.
sentatives.
Tennessee-Senate and Hanse cf Representatives.
Texas--Senate and House cf Representatives.
Utah--Senate and Hanse of Representatives.
'Vermont--Senate and HRouse cf Representatires.
Virginis-Senate and Hanse cf Delegates.
Washington--Senate and House ofi'Representatives.
West Virginia--Senate and 'Houa. cf Delegates.
Wisconsin-Senate and Hanse cf Âssembly.
Wyoming--Senate and Hanse cf Representatires.
Great Britain and her dependencies have
aise tire Chamnbers:
United Kingdom-Upper and Lower Hou.
Cape Colony-Liegielative Council and Asaembly.
Natal-Legislative Council and Âssembly.
Orange River Colony-Legislative Ceunoil and
Assembly.
Transvaal-Legislative Concil and Âssembly.
Canada-Commons and 6enaté.
1Newfoundland and Labrador - Legisiative
Counoil and Âssembly.
Australian Commonwealth--Senarte and Hanse
of Representatives.
Newr South Wales-Làegislative Council and
Âssembly.
Victcria-Législative Council and Âssembly.
Queensland-Legislative Council and Âssembly.
South Australia.-Legislative Counoil and Assembly.
Western Austraiia-Legislative Concil and
'Assembly.
Tasmania-Legsiative Couneil and Âssesnbly.
Newr Zealand-Legislative Council and Houa.
of Representatives.
In South America and other oountries
the saine systein is followed as will be seen
from the following table:
Argentine Republia--Senate and.Houa. of Deputies.
121

179

Âustria-Upper and Loirer.
Hnngary-ljpper and Lower.
Belginm--Senate and Chamber cf Representatives.
Bolivia Republice-Senate and Chamber cf Representatives.
Brazil tRepublio-S8enate and Chamber cf Deputiee.
Chule Repubiloc-Senate and Chamber cf ]Ceputies.
Colombia, Republic--Senate and Houa. cf Representatives.
Denmark-Upper and Lower.
Ecuador--Senate and Chamber cf 'Deputies.
France Republia--Senate and Chamber of Deputies.
German Empire-Bundesrat and Reichstag.
Honduras Republia (I)--Congress of Deputies.
Italy-S3enate and Camera de Deputati.
Japan-House cf Peers and Houa. cf Representatives.
Mexico Republiec-Senste and Hanse cf Repr.sentatives.
Netherlands--Upper and Lower.
Roumania--Senate and Chamber cf Depinties.
Russia (autocratic)-Legislative, executive and
judicial avwers ail united in the Emperor.
Spain-Senate and Congress.
Sireden-First and Second Chamibers.
Switzerland-' Standerath' and «Nationalrath.'
Tiirkey-The wiii cf the Sultan is absolute.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-My hon.
friend lias cnitted Nova Setia which lias
twe Chamnbers alsa.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-1My reason for
saying that some change is necessary in
the conetitution is simply this: We ail
hope that the population of Canada will
increase rapidly. If it does, what are yen
going to do with the enermous number
cf members re, wil have in the Heuse of
ComsnonsP Our population is noir something like seven millions. Suppoeing that
in a feir years it inocreases te twenty millions and that the province cf Quebec
shonld increase during that time te tire
-millions, then the unit cf representation
divided into twe millions, 65 seat.. in the
province cf Quebee, would give te Canada
if she had a population cf twenty millions
about 660 members cf the House cf Gommons. Then, again, supposing ire have
thirty millions and Quebec should increasse
te three millions, a tenth cf the whole
population, ire would then have 665 members in the House cf Goymmons. Where
are yon going ta put themP 'Yen 'wuld
have te enîsige the House cf Gommons very
considerably. The unit cf representation,
in my humble opinion, is altegether toc
emaîl. There are some feir countries that
have a representation for every 25,000, and

SENATE
ours, 1 think, is down to some 23,500. In length to the systems of parliamentary
fraining the Confederation Act I think a governinent Lu use Lu other countries, but
mietake was made in giving so many mem- I shall refer to a few of themn that, Lu my
bers as were given to the different prov- opinion, are somewhat similarly situated
inces. It.would have been better If they to ourselves. Take for instance the Comlied been given only one-half the number. monwealth of Australia :the legisiative
Whiat is the fact? It is costing Canada power is vested Lu the federal parliament
to-day more for representation than it does consisting of the King, the Senate and
the United States. For instance, in the House of Hepresentatives. The House conUnited States a senator receives $7,500 a% 6iste of senators, six for each of the original
sessional indemnity, but he Tepresents with- states chosen for six years. In general the
in a few of 200,000 electors. That is the Senate wili be renewed to the extent of oneaverage representation of a senator in the half every three years, but ini case of proUTnited States. In Canada the average re- longed disagreement with the House of
presentation is about 83,000. That ooste Representatives, it may be dissolved, and
Canada $10,000 a year for what it coats in an entirely new Senate elected. That is
the states $7,500. 1 think that some effort the syatem that has been adopted there.
should be made to bring down the expenses The Honse of Representatives consiste, as
both in the Gommons and in the Senate nearly as may be, of twice as many memto at lest in keeping with the coat of legis- bers as there are sen-ators, the members
lation in other countries. Just now it is chosen Lu the several states being Lu proconsiderably more than it ought to be, in portion to the respective numbers of their
my humble opinion; but if there shouid be people, as shown by the latest statistics
a change made it should flot be with the of the Commonwealth; but flot less than
Senate eimp]y, but should include th)e five shail be chosen ln any original state.
House of Commons as well. Reduce their Every House of Bepresentatives continues
number also if the Senate has to be re- for three years from the date of its first
duced at ail. 1 agree with the hon, gentle- meeting, unless sooner dissolved. The
man froni Middlesex (Hon. Mr. Rose) that present House has 75 members, or one to
if any change is to take place it muet be every 54,925 of the population.
by a move on the part of each province,
Then take the country of Holland. The
sanctioning a reduction of the representa- executive power of the state belongs extion, or sanctioning the election of the clusively to the Sovereign, while the whole
Senate in place of their being appointed. legislatlve authority reste conjointly Lu the
If ail the provinces passed resolutions cail- Sovereign, and- parliament, the latter called
ing upon the central authority to make that the States-General, consisting -of two Chamchange, and the central authority here bers. The Upper or First Chamber is comwe're disposed to accede to their request, and posed of 50 members elected <for 9 years
then application were muade to the home and every three years, one-third retire by
goverument for an amendment to the con- rotation) by the Provincial States, from
stitution to enable thein to curry that out, among the most highly assessed inhabitants
I cannot see why the will of the people of the provinces, or from among some higli
should not prevail in that case as expres-sed and important fanctionaries, mentioned by
through their representatives; but it je not law. The members of the Second ChamLu the power of the Gommnons nor in the ber are elected directly for four years. The
mouth of any man that sits in the Com- number of the present Chamber is 100, or
mons to decide that the Senate should be one te every 51,041 of the population.
abolished or made elective. He may recomDenmark has an Upper and a Lower
mend it personaily as his own view, but House. The Upper House consiste of 66
for the Gominons to undertake to re- members; of these 12 are nominated for
unodel the systein by which senators life, by the Crown, from among actual or
are appointed I think would be a very ab- former representatives of the kingdom, and
surd thing. I do flot see that they have the rest are elected Ludirectly by the people
any authority whatever to do it. I shall for a term of eight years.
The Folkething
flot detain the House by referring at great or Lower House, consista of 114 members
Hgon. Mr. McMULLEN.

MAROH 17, 1909

181

returned by direct election, and universal federation Act and r-educe the number, rushsuffrage, for the termi of three years. Ac- ing provision perhaps for the election ci
cording to the constitution, there should be part of the Senate, which systemn la oarried
one* member for every 16,000 inhabîtants. ont in other countries. I 'would pereonally
At present there is one for every 22,53 of favour the proposition that the hion. senator
the population.
from Ottawa has made as a atep in the
Itaiy has a Senate composed of the right direction, but I would be glad to see
Princes of the Royal Hanse wha are of age, it go further, and provide that the Senate
and an unimited number of membersi be appointed by the local legialatures or
above forty years old, who are nominated elected by the legislatures rather than it
by the Ring for life; a condition of the should be appointed by the Crown.
As I
nomination being that the person should said before, I want k> see the patronage
either fil a high office, or have acquired
distributed so that the governinent will not
faine i science, literature or any other
be burdened with the task of filling the
pursuit tending to the benefit of the nation,
different vacancles that take place in thia
or finaily should pay taxes 10 the annual
Chamber and in the different departments
ainount of £120.
The Lower House consiste of 5W8 deputies, of the public service. For my own part I
or one to every 64,893 of the population, would consent ta any reasonable change
that can be made for the benefit of the
(census 1901).
Spai is a constitutional monarchy, the state.
executive resting in the King, and the
Hon. Mr. POIRIER moved that the depower th make laws, i the Cortes with
bate be adjourned till Tuesday next.
the 'King. The Cortes are composed of a
Benate and Congress, equal in authority.
The motion was agreed 10.
There are three classes of senators. First,
senators by their own right; secondly, 100
IRISH AFFAIRS.
life senators nominated by the Crown.
Hon. Mr. CLORA}T-Before the House
These two categories not to exceed 180;
and thirdly, 180 senators elected by the adjourns, I would like ta give notice of moCorporation of State, that is, the Communal tion i regard 10 the resolution I inand Provincial States, the Church, the uni- troduced this afternoon, and which I beversities, academies, etc., and by the largest lieve, after ail, was properly ruied ont of
payera of contributions.
order but, under the circuinstances, unforThe Congress is formed by deputies tnnately, as the effect on public opinion
named i the electoral juntas, in the formn may flot be sncb as we would wish, I feel
the law determines, in the proportion of it my duty, however, k> pressest resoluone bo every 50,000 of the population.
lion on the attention of the House, and,
[n fact, i every state, with the exception therefore, give notice to have it conthut I have mentioned, they have two sidered on Frlday next. I may also iuform
Houses. Now, whether il wonld be wise, the honourable Hous that since the diswith the experience of the nations of the cussion of the question this af.ternoon; I
earth that are blessed with responsible gov- have soenewhat amended my motion ot meet
erninent, for us, even if we had the power, the views of the large number of Mny colk> abolish this chamber, and commit to the leagues in this Hous, 'who regarad tbis
care of the Commons all the legisiation of matter not merely as a -local matter but
a national and irnperial etandpoint,
this country, there is a very grave doubt i fro
my xnind. I frankly admit that smre and I aleo amn quite willing to do so. As
change is necessary; but I believe that a long es the expression of good feeling goes
change is just as necessary in the House forth froin this honourable body bo any
of Commons as it is i the Senate, and per- portion of tihe empire, I amu qui-te willing il
haps more so k> rneet the wishes and desires should do so, no malter under what garb,
and needs of the people, and -if any change whether ailk, velvet or cotton. As long as
is 'made, we had better have -a recast of the the expression is there, I arn quite willing
whole representation as based on the Con- ta aocept it and I amu quite prepered bo

182

SENATE

SENATE
182
meet the requirements of the 6ituation ini Ontario and Quebec, that the rights of the
regard te a motion of this kind.
maritime provinces should be safe-guarded.
The motion is:
I have an idea in iry mind how it could
That the Senate of the Dominion of Canada, be worked out in detaji, but I do not pro>on the occasion of the national anniversary of pose te go inte that. I arn quite wiliing
Ireland, extend to their fellow citizene of the tc, leave it in the hande of the governmcnt.
empire, the*Irish people, its sincere congratulations on the progressive and hopeful conHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I hope my hon.
dition of their national aifairs under the dfriend wili Inot 'inaist upon aaking the
reigu of Rlis Majesty King Edward VII., and
that the hon. Speaker of the Senate be in- Senate to commit itseif te the proposition
utructed to forward immediately by cabie the embodied in this motion. It is cf a very
aboya resolution te the right hon. Prime
controversial. character, and except my hon.
Minister of Great Britain and Ireiand.
friend who lias moved it shows go-od reasons
The Senate adjourned tili Three o'clock why this prmnciple should be adopted, we
to-morrow.
should not be asked te depart fromn wellestablished. principles in respect te the extension of the boundaries cf provinces. I
should like te know what *my right hion.
friend the leader cf the House thinks cf
THE SENATE.
this extraordinary proposition.
OTTAWA,

Thursday, March 18, 1909.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three arn bound te say that on this ocacsion iny
views coincide very closely with those of
o'clock.
my hon. friend opposite. I do not think
Prayers and routine proceedings.
there is precedent for, or prudence in bringing- forward a motion cf this kînd. I do
MINERAL RIGHTS IN THE TERRInet intend te discusa it, and for this reaTORIES.
son: That while I have the greatest regard
MOTION.
for the motives-excellent motives ne doubt
-which may have prompted the lion. gentleHon. Mr. COMEAU moved:
man te bring it forward, I think that, t4)
That in the opinion of the Senate, it is
desirable that if any change is made in the put it very ïnildly, the motion rwould be
bounda ries of the provinces of Ontario, Que. of a highly controversial -character. Il
bec and Manitoba, or any of them, the inter- the case were gone inte, we would have
ests of the maritime provinces should be safeguarded by the reservation to the Dominion, te investigaate the relative contributions
for the benefit of the maritime provinces, cf made by the several provinces te the Doat least part of the minerai rights in the minion, and the expenditures, and a
territories added to the first-named provinces. variety of other
things which would occupy
He said: This resolution is, I think, a very large portion -of the time of this
sufficiently clear to convey the ides. in- House, and I am afraid net'te any great
tended, se that it is flot necessary that 1 profit. If any hion. gentleman is of the
should enter into any extended discussion opinion that the maritime provinces are
of the matter. It is proposed that very uni ustly dealt with at this present moment,
largae territories are to be added to prov- and is prepared te submit a case -on their
inces whioh are already very large; but it behaîf te the House, I shall be ready f r
cannot be argued that these territories arù my part te go inte the matter and argue
needed for purely provincial reas-ons. To- the case out; but as the case stands new.
day these territories are a part of the pub- it is net in the least degree desirable that
lic domain, and it is net at ail improbable the Senate should commît itself official]y
that they contain very valuable mineraIs, te any such proposition as that now before
and the maritime provinces, as joint owners, us. I would, therefore, sug-gest te the lion.
would benefit at ieast in an indirect way. gentleman who moved it, that the niatter
Therefore, it is not, in my opinion, un- had better stand over, unless he is prereasonable that if these territories are to pared te present a much strenger case than
be added, especially to the provinces o! has yet been made out.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

MARCH 18, 1909

183

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I know nothing upon the table of the Senate any petition presented to the Governor in Council; praying
about this motion further than ffeeing it that the Intercolonial Railway be piaced under
on the notice paper. I agree with the riglit the Railway Board, together with ail correhon. gentleman who leads the House, that. spondence in connection therewith.
He esaid: My reason for asking for this
at this -stage at ail events, it rnight be
very undesirable for the Senate to give ex- information is because I have read in some
pression to any opinion along the line of newspaper that the board of trade of Monthis motion. At the same time, I amn treal had presented a petition te the Govpleased. that my hon. friend from Digby ernor in Council praying that the Interhas brought it up, because the motion colonial Railway might be piaccd under
contains a sug-gestion which I think can- the manaement or jurisdiction of the Railnot be dismissed before the final disposi- way Board. The reasons given by the peti.
tion of ail these territories is considered. tion, as it appears in the newspaper, -were
I arn not speaking now of any addition that private and special rates were accorded
made to the western provinces. That is te certain parties in regard to freight. If
a different thing ,.ltogether; but when you that be the case, it is a very serious charge
came te divide the residue, alter you have te bring againat the management of the
made up your western provinces, between gevernment railway. We know that the
the twe great central provinces who were law provides very heavy penalties te be
original members of the confederation, or, imposed on railway corporations that acil you like toe ali it, the. partnership that cord discriminatory rates upon their roads.
bought Rupert's Land-when you propose It la also stated in the article to which
to give valuable territories, timbers, min- I refer, that whiie this has been .done, it
eraIs and ail these things away to two of places the Intercolonial Railway in imthe partners out of those that acquired mediate competi-tion with the Canadian
the rwest, you require to consider the trans- Paciflo Railway so f ar as the freights that
action as it effects the other provinces are coming west or sent east as far as
who wcre called upon te contribute their Moncton or St. John are concerned. It
sase towards the acquisition of these ter. is aie pointed out teat while there are
riteries. I arn glad that the hon. gentleman facilities and means of obtaining informahas brought the matter up. It cannot lx tion as te the discriminatery or preferential
said, at aIl events at this stage, that thE rýates given by other railways te different
suggestion has been made that; but for m3 manufacturers or those who use the railown part I would not ask that it should way, that it is impossible te scertadn the
be rressed te a decision now. It bas becs facts connected with the government railpresented te the House, and the gevernmenl bway, for the reason that the government
will have it fully before them when the3 are net obliged 4ta diaclose te any person
who might make an application, or even
prepare a Bill on this question.
know, the
The SPEAKER-Does the hon. gentiemat to the court, as far as Ithe businessmanner
of the
in which they conduct
press the motion?
railway, while a private corporation would
Hon. Mr. COMEAU-My sole object ii ibe compelled te disclose their rates and to
moving it was te call the attention of thi say whether they gave any preferential
government te the subi ect, and having doni Srates or siat. I remeraber the argument used
by the late Minister of RailwayB and
so I arn quite willing te let it drop.
Canais, the late Mr. Blair, when this queslThe motion was dropped.
tion 'was -brought before him, and I think
the same idea was thrcwn out in the SenRAILWAY.
THE INTERCOLONIAL
ate a few days ago when this question was
MOTION.
under conaideration by the present leader
r, of the government, teat under respousible
BOWEL1
Sir MACKENZIE
Hon.
government tee government of the day was
moved:
responsible te parliament. and, consequentThat an humble address be presented t 0- ly, that if anything of that kind were
His Excellency the Governor General; pra3
ing that His Excellency wili cause to be lai d done, they would be held responsible.

SENATE
pondence that they may have in connection -with this matter. I have net myseif
seen the petition to which the hion. gentleman refers, and I rather apprehiend, 'that,
if sent. at ail, it heas been sent to the Department of Railways iand not placed before the Governor in Council, as yet at
any -rate. As to the major question which
the hon. gentleman has raised, that je to
say the desirability of placing the Int «ercolonial Railway under the control of the
Board of Raiiway Commissioners, he is
aware that it is a very much debated question, and that, se te speak, -auy legal gentleman could argue either side of the case
with perfect ease for a sufficient fee. I have
net -myself, nor I think have the goverument at present, considered this question
sufficiently te knDw whether under auy
circuinstances it may or may not be found
desirable to place this railway under the
control of the Board cf Raiiway Commissioners. So long as it remains a department of the goverument, my hon. friend'ýs
long experience 'will teach him that there
is very considerable practical difflculty in
making the Interoolonial Railway, which
is specialiy administered by the Minister of
Railways, subject te the decisions of the
Board cf Railway Commissieners, who are,
to a certain extent, a part of the Department of Raiiways and CanaIs, and who are
more or lese inevitabiy under the control
et the Minister ef Railways. Should the
constitution of the Intercolonial Railway
be changed, should any material alteiation take place in the method eof tadministring it, such as has been suggested in -several quarters, then I could see that the
question would properly corne -up for deci
sion, and it is quite possible that under
those circuinstances it might be found expedient and practicable to place it under
the Board ef Railway Commissioners,
though I desire to be understood as expressing ne positive opinion on the subject. I think that on the whole, so long as
the Intercolonial Railway is ad'ministered
by the Minister of Rail-ways and Canais,
that the balance of conditions are in favour
of l1eaviug it -as it is outside of the control
et the Board of Railway Commissioners.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The If auy maipractîces, such as my hion. friend
goverunent cani have no possible objectioni has hiuted at, should arise, or be found,
te bringing down any papers or corres- it wili be the duty of the governient..
Hlon. Sir M'ACKENZIE BOWELL.

While that is true in theory, difficulty
would arise in cases of this kind by the
tact of the impossibility of obtaining information required to make a direct charge
against -the government. I -arn not prepared to say that the statements alleged
to have been. made in this petition -are
correct. I can scarcely conceive it possible,
unless it was doue for political reasons,
to obtain improper support and influence
from influential persons living upon the
line of the road or doing business on the
road; hence, I thought it -would be well te
bring this matter under the notice of parliament in order that the government might
have an opportunity to deny or explain the
allegations in the petition. and also te
inform us whether such a petition was
presented to the Governor in Council or
te the Railway Department, and let the
public know what action was taken in the
Every one mnust admit the
premises.
gravity of a charge of that kind against
a public institution, if such I might termi
it, as the Intercolonial Railway. 1 saw
to-day in the Montreal ' Gazette ' a telegram trom Nevada in which the Central
or Southern Pacific Railway, I forget which,
had been brought before the court for giving a rate preference to a sugar industry
ini California, and that the penalties will
amount te about $300,000. It is unneces:eary for mie to enlarge upon this question.
I arn quite sure my lion. friend the leader
of the government in this House Twill recegnize tihe impropriety aud absolute wroug,
if it exista, of discriminatory rates being
given to any person doing business with
the 'Intercolonial Railway or any other
governinent railway. 1 have brought this
matter under the notice of the Senate in
order that my right hou. frieud the leader
of the goveriment cen make, if hie desires.
te do so, a positive denial, and ask him if
hie will lay the petition, if such were presented, on the table of the House in order
that we rnay judge of the charges coutained in such petition, and to ascertain
what course the govern.rnent has adopted
or iutends te adopt under the circumstanstances.

MARCH 18, 1909
beyond ail question, to correct them, and ment, but we ahl know that this is a very
it wil] be the duty of parliament if any slow, tedious and not very eatisfactory
charges are preferred to investigate them; mode of preceeding, and in a great snany
but, on reflection, he will agree with me -ases, while they May have a clear Sse
that as matters now stand, it would be a and one. which requirei a remedy, yet Lhey
peculiar and possibly dangerous experi- would not succeed in obtaining fuill justice
ment to have the Minister of Railways in through a course o! that kind. I do net se
one capacity supervising, as he must more why questions of this kind whioh may arise
or less the Board of Raiiway Commission- between the governing body of the Interers, and in the other capacity, as you may colonial Bailway and the public at large
their autjhority and direc- should neot be referred Wo the Board of
"say, be subject Wo
tion. There is no objection whatever to Railway Commissioners, somewhat ini the
bring down the papers, and when we get sme way as questions of law are somethem we will be in a better condition Wo Limes referred to the judges of the courts
discuss them. I agree with the hon. gen- for their decision, and that the commistleman that it is a question of 'very con- sioners might express an opinion upon the
siderable interest and importance, and well mnerits ci much cames, thus fiacilitating very
much the settiernent of disputes between
worthy of discussion.
the government and those who feel that
It
Hon. Mr. WOOD-There is no doubt that they have flot been fairiy treated.
is a maLter which is feit by a great wouid not give rise Wo any o! the comthis
many persons in the maritime provinces plicatiops which the hon. gentleman fears
as ia real grievance, nor is there any doubt might arise if the Intercolonial Raiiway
that they have flot proper faciiities for were subject to the Board of Raiiway Complacing such grievanees before either the. missioners to the same extent as other
Fermons having business
government or any other body in such a railways are.
dealings with the Intercolonial Railway
way that any effectuai remedy may bc
secured. When the Board of Railway Com- have always been under the disadvantage
missioners were appointed, or when the that in matters of this kind they have not
Bill was passed authorizing the appoint- had the priviiege of appealing te the courts.
ment of the Board of Raiiway Commis- There is no tribunal whatever to whichi
sioners, I referred to this subjeet, and they can appeal, and injustice may occur
moved a resolution in the Senate t.hat the either through the minister in charge yieldIntercoloniai Railway should be includeci ing, in a moment of weakness perhs.ps, to
with other railways and brought under political pressure, or through the indisthe control. of the Board of Railway Com- cretion or want o! judgment or favouritism
missioners. As the right hon. gentleman o! sme of the omfcials of the road. When
has just pointed out, there are some diffi- a person does suifer Lhrough an influence
culties, perhaps, in placing the Inter- of that kind, there is really ne appeal whatcolonial Raiiway under the control of the ever. The only recourse is Wo bring the,
Board -of Railway Commissioners to the matter before parliament and have it dissme extent that the ordinary raiiway com- cussed, a mode of procedure which. very
panies are by the Act. I would like to few are inciined to adopt, and which is not
point out Wo the hon. gentleman, and I likely Wobe satisfactory. I regret Wohear
trust the goveiment wiii take the maLter from the right hon. gentleman that this
into consideration now that they are bring- matter has neyer received the serious coning in a measure Teferring to the Inter- ideration of the government.
colonial Railway, that in cases such as
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTare referred Wo by my hon. friend who Perhaps my hon. friend did not undermade this motion, the parties aggrieved stand me. I did not say the question had
have really no practicable remedy. The- not received the consideration of the govbring their exnment; I said that the petition referreci
oretically, they have the right Wo
case before the minister and through their to h-ad not been brought before Lhem, so
representatives in the flouse before parlia- far -as I knew.

186

SENATE

Hon. Mr. WOOD-I undcrstood the hion.
gentleman to say that the question referring matters in connection with the Intercolonial Railway to the Board of Railway
Commissioners had neyer been considered
hy the government.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
was not referring to that. I was referring
to the petition that the hon. gentIem-au
specially mentioned.

pare the way-he announced that the Intercolonial Railway at present was a burden on the finances of Canada, and that
the people of the maritime provinces looked
forward to the day when it would be
placed in the same position as the other
railways of the Dominion. That seemed
an inspired utterance, and, while I do flot
presume to speak in a prophetic way, I
have no doubt we shall have the government soon bringing down a measure to
hand over the Intercolonlal Railway to
some railway company, carrying out a contract which was probably entered. into before the elections.

Hon. Mr. WOOD-I only wish to express the hope that the step I have suggested will be taken. This is a matter o!
very great importance -and one which requires a remedy. The governaent should
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I did
take the matter up now. If they take it
up in the spirit I have indicated, they nlay not discuas the question as to the prupriety
work out some system by which at least or impropriety of placing the Intercolonial
a number of the questions arising between Rallway under the jurisdiction of the RailThat I studiously
the management and the patrons of the way Comnmission.
Intercolonial Railway may be referred Vo avoided. What I desired to point out was
th Boa.rd of Railway Commissioners for that the charge had been made that imtheir decision. If that can be done, it proper preferences had been given to cerwill assist very much in facilitating the tain shippers on the line, and I thought
settiement of such questions, and settling" it proper that the question should be
them in a way that will be satisfactory to brought to the notice of parliainent in
the government and to the people con- order that the governinent might be able
either to confirm. and give a reason for it,
eerned.
or deny it. My own opinion is that the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-ky riglit hon. sooner the Intercolonial Railway is rexnoved
friend might have presented a somewhat entirely from the control of the government
hopeful vie-w to the public in connection of the day, no matter what government
with this question by pointing out the may be in power, the better for the counprocess o! evolution through which the In- try. I had occasion for a few months aftcr
teroolonial Railway bas been passing dur- the death of Sir John Macdonald to asing the present session. For instance, sume the management o! the Intercolonial
we observe some legislation here plac- Railway, and from my short experience
ing the Intercolonial, Railway in the then I came to the conclusion that if ever
same category as other railways with refer- that road is to be of real benefit to this
ence to small actions for damages. There country it should be removed, in the pub.
is a further evolution, so to speak, o! a lic interest and in the interest o! the railremedy being given in those cases by plac- way itself, frosn ail political influences.
ing the Intercolonial Railway under a comn- Lt should be taken from the management
mission, subject, however, to the minister. of those who are governing the country,
I fancy that this will be followed by plac- and who are subi ect to influences that are
ing it finally in commission, and then, constantly brought to bear upon the minfinally, if one is to judge of the signs of ister, and which, unless he bas more
the times, getting rid o! the road altogether, stamina than most ministers have, must
because I notice that the memnber for yield and do that which. he knows ought
Lunenburg the other day lecturing in flot to be done. I am not prepared to say
Brockvlle, and speaking, I presume, to that that bas not been the case ever since
some extent on behaîf of the government- the railway bas been under the manage.
he seeined. to be a John the Baptist, the ment of the governanent, but from what I
voice o! one crying in the wilderness, pre- have seen of late, it is carried on to a
-Hon! Sir RLICHARD CA1ITWRIGHIT.

MARCH 18, 1909
cept our views with reference te plaelng
the Intercolonial Railway under the Railway Commission, that I then made a
motion that as far as through traffic was
concerned it should be placed under the
board. 1 urged this because it was quite
impossible for t.he board tic exercise its
propèr jurisdiction on the oompany railrcads of the maritime provinces unless the
link thet eonnected. the upper province
roads with the lower province reads was
also under the board, as far as through
Hon. Mr. FEICGUSON-WVhen the Bill traffic was cenoerned. No attention was
conaolidating the Railway Act and creat- paid tc our views then; but next session
ing a Board of Railway Commissioners was a Bill was intrcduced carrying eut our
before parliament, in conjunction with my suggestion as far as that is cencerned. As
hon. friend from Sackville (Hon. Mr. one of those representing the maritime
Wood) and the hon. gentleman frorn Belle- provinces, I have ne hesitation in saying
ville (Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell), I that we cught te pay for our railway serpressed, as well as 1 was able, the view on vice juat as others pay for the services of
this House and on the Secretary of State ether reads, or apprexirnately se. In the
who had charge of the Bui, that it was interest cf the whole people of Canada,
desirable that the Intercoloniai Railway there should be fair charges on the governshould be put under the Railway Board ment moade, and that would help te wipe out
in the saine respect as the other railways the deficits; but the bass is net, in my
of Canada. I have net changed my mind opinion, in the lowness et the rates, but
except just this f ar, that I amrn ft
al- in the continuai loas that eccurs te the
together satisfied with'the work that the public train the use ef political patronage
Railwey Board is doing up to the present in the purchasing cf supplies and in the
time. I suppose fair ailowance must be employment of people on the line. I arn
muade; they must get matters in hand. Il *net going te say that ail the blame lies
-wi take some time to get a grip of on the present management of the road.
the whole work that it is necessary The saine thing existed in previous years.
the board ahould have. Up te the present although I arn quite sure it has been
turne 1 fear this has nlot been the tact, but accentuated in later years. Recently a
it may corne ail right a littie later. commission waa appointed te arbitrate
1 notice the ex-Minister of Railways under the Conciliation Act, or te inbas stated in another place, and has frori vestigate some coenplaints on the part of
turne to time stated in the public presq the freight men in the offices at Halifax.
ail ever the country, that the Intercolonia 1 A judge freux Ontario, a Mr. O'Donoghue.
Railway furnishes a very rnuch cheape r of Toronto, and some third person were
for that purpo-se. The report,
service-and that applied te the Prince Ed -appointed
ward Island Railway as well-than is f urn *which appears ini the 'Labeur Gazette.'
ished to the patrons cf any other road ir was unanimeus, and vas te the effect ithat
Canada, and if it were net for the cheap -the men were not paid. as high as others
neas of that service the road would b edeing similar services on ether roads; but
self-sustaining.
Of course 1 arn net a s they also reported that there were about
'mvii acquainted with the affairs of tha t double the number cf men employed. that
road as my friend Mr. Emmerson is. HE e ere necessary, and that if the number were
is in a far better position to speak of i t reduced in preper proportions the remai ing
than I arn, or any member of this Heuse 1men eould. be fairly paid for the work they
but I 'would respectfully express a doub t had te do. I arn satisfied that is the case
as te whether there is suceh a difference iin ail over the Intercolonial ]Railway te-day.
cheapness.
I remember wihen îthe lat e Te say nothing about political jobbery in
Secretary et State declined in 1903 to ac .land, a great deal cf money is wasted in

greater extent now than ever beifore. That is
evident friom the incidents brought to the
notice of the public by Judge Cassels, in
the slight and imperfect exarnination ithat
teck: place,. and 1 would urge in the interest of the government and of the people
the propoeiety of placing the railway under
the management of sorne authority independent in aIl respects of the political influences of any governinent. The seoner
that is done the better.

188

SENATE

tercolonial Railway than merely appointing
a commission to help the minister. 1 have
always been of opinion, and amn stiil more
of the opinion now, that the government
ought .either to sell or lease the Intercolonial Railway to one of the great railway oxnpanies or in some other way make
it independent of the government. We know
the difficulties that members representing
counties crossed by the Intercolonial Railway have had. Fer a-bout filteen yeara I
represented a county crossed by that railway, and the greateet difflouity I have had
was with the railway. even in election turnes.
If the govermunent would divest itself of the
control of the railway it would be a burden taken from the ehoulders of the country, of the goveinment and even of mernbers represen.ting the people. As Ito the
point raised by the hon. senator from Westmoreland, that the people having grievances against -the Intercolonial Railway
cannot get theïm redressed, it is absolutely
true. Lately a party camne ta me-and
when I was a member of the other House
it was about the same thing-with a good
dlaim agsinst the government, we wrote to
Ottawa, and 'in reply were referred ta
Moncton. When we w-rote te Moncton we
received a reply that we must go ta Ottawa.
Only some weeks ego I had that experience. I wrote te Mr. Butler about
a dlaim which had been placed in rny
handa by a party at Rivière du Loup. He
wrote back that I should send it ta Moncton. I wrote the very sanie letter to Mr.
Pottinger, and he replied that I mnust write
to Ottawa. I wrote a sharp letter to Mr.
Butler, and he said there was some misunderstanding, and that is ail 1 have heard
af it. What happened the ether day? A
client of mine came te my office and placed
with me a good dlaim. of over $1,000. It
was in connection with a contract Jor ties.
H1e also saw my partner, the local member
for Bellechasse. Af ter having written ta
Ottawa and Moncton some tan times on the
subi eat, they repliedithat they were looking
into the matter, but giving no good reasons
for the delay. My partner decided ta proceed by petition of right. H1e prepared an
application, a.nd brought bis client from
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I arn a littie Rivière du Loup ta Quebec and had it
disappainted ta learn that thie governament sworn ta and then forwarded it to the Mindoes not intend ta go fUrther with the In- ister of Justice. The Minister of Justice
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

the purchase of supplies. If these leaks
and drains were stopped, the Intercolanial
Railway would. make a very imuoh better
showing than it does at present. I would
bail with. the greatest satisfaction the handing over af the road, not as proposed by the
present Minister of Railways ta a board ot
four servants of the governmnent ta be nsmed
by the ininister, which would io't help the
situation in the slightest degree, but ta an
absalutely independent commission that
would conduct the affai.rs af the railway
econcunically, and would purchase supplies
at proper prices and employ only such
servants as are necessary ta run the road
well. I notice compla-int is often made
that thc people af the fst are getting an
undue advantage in the low rates -we have
been talking about. I do nat agree that
that is the case, because the manufacturers
are benefiting by it, if there ia such a
thing. It would ha a nice question ta
say 'whether the manufacturer in the la.rger
provinces or the consumner in the maritime
provinces receive the larger share of the
advantage fromn thos-e rates. Returning ta
the question of putting the raad under the
Board of Railway Commissionere, alarm
was expressed that that would lead ta the
rates .being put up. 1 do not understiand that
that would necessarily be the result. The
management ai the road, which -would be
the government, would have then, just like
a railway campany, ta file their freight
tariffs. There are two or three provisions
in the Railway Act with regard to the
filing ai these ta.riffs. The traliff would be
one which the owners of -the road themselves would revise, and it would receive
the sanction ai the board, and the board
would see that al -the custoaners of the
Intercolonial Raii-way were tre-ated fairly
and alike. Their power would prevent disyrimlinýation, and that is one particular
work 'for which the Railway Commission
would be efficient and where its services
wouid be called intaý requisition. I arn
glad the matter is being brought up. There
is rDOMn for improvement and reform in
connection .with the management of the
Intercolonial Railway.

MARCH 18, 1909
wr te that he had referred it to Mr. Butler. Intercoloniai Bailway bas been a burden
1 under the Tory regime and about the same
Mr. Butler teek his tîme to answer it.
do flot blame hin for that; perhaps he has thing under the present government, and we
not had time te look into it. At ail evente cannot help it se long. as the government
he did flot - answer it. I went onyseif to hold the- road. Seme fifteen months age
the Departmnent of Justice and asked what I was on a train going to Montmagny in
was the matter. I asked their opinion, a hurry. Between two stations the train
whethee the petition of riglit was geod, was stopped. After waiting about half an
and they replied: 'We cannot say any- hour I asked the conductor what was the
thing; we have to refer that to the De- matter. He said there was ne steam. I went
They showed me on te the engine and asked the engineer
partment of Railways.
a oopy of the letter they had written te and he said: 'We have no steam. It is
the Railway Department to ascertain rwhat net coal we have, it ia stone.' At the next
they were to do with it, and they had re- station I telegraphed that fact te Ottawa
ceived no answer. I went myseif and saw in order that they might know how things
MTr. Butler. He knew nothing about it. were going. I mention these f acts in the
He sent for the papers, and found 'the letter hope that the govern-nent wiil go a littie
from the Department of Justice, and further than te appoint a commission, and
remarked: U will have te eend that letter if possible get rid of the railway, or at
te Moncton.' It was sent to Moncton about least do things in such a way that people
fliteen days ago, and I have heard nothing with good dlaims against the government
more about it. I say it is a shame and can have them deait with.
a disgrace to be treated in such a way.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not care to exThe .claimant in the case I mention bhas a
goed dlaim. If the government is geing te press any strong opinion on the resolution
keep the railway, it ought te put the read moved by the hon. senator from Belleville;
on the same footing as respect te claims 'but the remarks made by the hon. genas any other railway, so that if anybody tlemian who lias just taken hie seat suggest
ini a- district crossed by the line has a dlaim te me that if tie goveirnnent decide that
he may take it to a court in the district they are te continue in control. of the Inand get a petition of right from the judge tercolonial Railway, it is absolutely essenand -have it investîgated at once, and net tial that they should deal with it as a
be sent frem. Ottawa te Moncton, and company would. It ehould be snanaged
from the DeparTtment of Justice and te the by a general manager who would have
BRaiI'way ]Jepartment, and in the end find executive power, and feel that he was
thst he can get ne answer. I know of a net bound to refer every trivial matcase where a man had a good dlaim two ter te headquarters. I have net a word
years ago and filed a petition of right. A te say againet Mr. Pottinger. He is a
member of the House of Cominons was gentleman of Uic highest character, and has
the lawyer. *Up to the present time been doing hie duty accordlug te bis liglits
he has neyer recei ved an answer. These te the best of hie ability; but Mr. Potare facts, and if it were only for tinger bas always been under political
the reason that claimants should get heade, and he learned at an early 'date in
justice, the government ehould get rid bis officiai career that, when under an ofof this iailway, thereliy removing a burden ficial head thc wise course was net to do
from. the people of Canada end saving the anything until he bad been instructed by
country from deficit after dcficit. The Ini- hie political head wbat te do. The cousetercolonial Railway has always been a bur- quence ie, that neither at Moncton nor at
den, and. will always be a burden se long any of Uic stations of the Intercolonial
as it ie controiled. by the gevernment. When Railway can business men have questions
the Liberals are in power they treat their settled as they ehould be and as tbey are
fr1 ends as the Tories used te treat their settled on coenpany meade. I do not know
friends. 1 may state a case te show how wbat the intentions of the governnient may
Uic government ia acting. I do. net say 1 be, but I ses in a speech made in another
that it is their f ault, but it is because the 1 place by Uic Minister of ltailways, some-

SENATE
thing was said about appointing a board.
There i.s a fourth member of the board
whose identity is flot indicated. I hope
that the fourth member of the board may
be a capable general manager, who will
be given the same power that general managers on other railways possess. I do not
mean to, say that then the Intercolonial
Railway will be a paying property, but, at
any rate, it will be much more likely te pay
than under present conditions.
The motion was agreed to.
COMPLAINTS AGAINST LAKE ST JOHN
COLONIZATION SOCIETY.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. TESSIER moved:
That an humble address be presented to, HIE
Excellency the Governor General; praying
that Ris Excellency will cause te be laid >efore the Senate copies of all charges, complaints made by Mr. Joseph Girard or others'
to, the Prime Minister or any member of the
government against the Lake St. John Colonization Society.
He said: My reason for asking the production of the pape(rs je that the public
in the district of Quebec and in the district of Lake St. John are very anxious
te know why the annual government grant
te the soeiety bas been withdrawn.
Ini
answer te an inquiry which I made the
other day, the leader of this House told
me that no complaints had been received
against the society by the Department of
the lInterior; and-it lias been said in another place that this subvention or grant
had been withdrawn on account cdf wellestablished facts, and, moreover, it has
been inainuated in another place that this
society had meddle-d with politics, and
that seems te be the reason f or the withdrawal of the grant. Now, alter these utteranoes, many member-s of this society and
their- friends are natuTally very anxioue.
to know what complaints had been made
againat the socîety, and who made these
complaints. I happen to be connected wlth
that society with my hion. friend from
Grandville, and we know that the society
has done very good work. Its secretary
was Mr. Dupont, a very active man, who
is now an esteemed officer o! this government, and this society has pursued ite
work in connection with the Lake St. John
Hlon. Mr. POWER.

Railway, whose manager and moving spirit
was Mr. J. G. Scott, a pa.triot who had
done a great deal more than anybo>dy,
probably, for the progress o! the district
of Quebec and for the progress of the valley of Lake St. John, a man whose services
have been fully appreciated by the public,
although they had not been deservedly
appreciated by the government. I know
th-at this society has brougbt thousands of
immigrants to that district over the Lake
St. John Railway, and since they have been
deprîved of their grant and rendered unable
te pursue fiheir work, that district hasj
greatly suflered and the work o! settiement in that region bas entirely stepped.
As far as meddling in politics la concerned,
I can say that this society bas neyer done
so, but it has re!used te, serve as a tool
in the banda of the sitting rncmber. I arn
anxious to see the papers to learn 'wby the
society bas been deprived of the grant, and
I may have aomething te say when the
papers axe produced.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThere is no objection te the a.ddress.
The motion was agreed to.
PUBLIC WIORKS IN CHICOUTIMI AND
SAGUENAY.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE moved:
That an humble address be presented te Hie
Excellency the Governor General ; asking
production of ail complaints made te the government about the manner in which the
amounts intended by the government for public works were spent in the counties of Chicoutimi and Saguenay and in the region of
the Lake St. John.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThere is no objection to the motion.
The motion was agreed te.
GEORGIAI BAY CANAL REPORT.
Hon. Mr. DE BOUCHERVILLE-May I
inquire of the government if we are te
have the report of the Georgian Bay canal
very soon?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI will make inquiry as te that.

MARCH 18, 1909
CORRECTION 0F JOURNALS 0F THE
HOUSE.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the ordera o!
the day are called, I should like to caJi the
attention of the officers of this Hanse te an
irregularity in the votes snd proceedinge o!
the 5th March. If I remember correctly,
I made a motion that day te the effect that
the Minutes and Praceedings o! the Senate
of Canada, o! the second and distinct aitting an July 17, 1908, be now read at the
table. My motion was carried, and the
Minutes and Proceedings o! the Senate
for that day were read at the table, and
when they were read, the error that I desired te point ont had been corrected, so
test there was no necessity te make the
second motion; but the first motion was
made and carried, and I think it should
therefore appear on the Minutes and Proceedings o! the House. It might be corrected in the Journals.
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.

t1eman sud myself was o! a friendly character. He tried to convince me that At
would be o! a great advantage to Ireland
and te tee world generally il a resolution
o! that kind were passed unanimously by
the Senate. That idea I combatted, and in
sustaining tee position I teok, I called bis
attention te tee debate which teok place in
the Hanse o! Commans where tee Irishi
Secretary had used language which was
more bitter against certain parties i Ireland to-day than it has been for many
yeaxs, and I added this: that the language
was more severe than had ever been used
by any orangeman. My hon. friend laughed
at it. sud we discussed this matter probably !reely and good-naturedly, as hie will
admit, but I did not concur in any view
hie advanced in connection with this suhject. I think it is a very great mistake to
introduce questions o! this kind which are
o! a somewhat religiaus, controversial character, that may lead te discussions which,
te niy mind, will not be beneficial ta the
individual, certsinly not te Ireland or fa
England or to the country generally.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before the orders of the day are called, I desire
THIRD READING.
te direct the attention o! the Senate te a
report o! the proceedings yesterday which
Bill (No. 36) An Act respecting the
appeared in the 'Citizen ' this morning Sontheru Central Psacific Railway Comnpany.
under the heading 'The 17th in the Senate.' -(Hon. Mr. Young).
Âfter nearly a column of humorous comTILSONBTIRG, LAKE ERIE AND PACIFIC
ment, I find the following paragraph:
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
Mali an hour afterwards Senator Cloran
Hon. Mr. WILSON moved the third readmight have been seen in close conversation
with Sir Mackenzie Bowell, whose face was a inging of Bill (No. 41) An Act respecting
study of good nature. The resuit of their the Tilsonburg, Lake Erie and Pacific Raillittie conference was an amendment of the
resointian, and when Senatar Cloran moves it way.
again, which, by the way he cannot do until
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-In connection with
Priday, it will read as Jollows:
this Bill, it is my duty te caîl the alotenThe inference to be drawn from te
te this faci:
paragraph ie that hon. Mr. Cloran and my- tion o! this honourable House
This Bill came before the Standing Cernself agreed upon an âmendment te the
and Harresolution. I arn not aware that because mittee on Railways, Telegraphs
hours on Wednesday of last iveek. Certain
the hion. gentleman and myseif were not
pulling each other's hair or quarrelling, or -parties came before tee committee and
because I happened te look good-natured, objected te one clause of the Bill, and it
that therefore we agreed upon the resolu- was decided by tee comrnittee teat the
tion which he proposed te present te te Bil should stand until a decision was arHouse te-morrow. I do not wish it te be rived at on a petition which is now before
underateood by thie readers ot this paper the Board o! Railway Commissioners in
or any other in the country that the hon. caonnection with teis Bill. The petition has
gentleman and myself agreed npon any r.eference te this: Under the Railway Act
resolution on the subject. I will just add the location plans have to be filed. They
that the conversation between the hon. gen- have te be approved by the Railway Board,

192

SENATE

and notice of the approval of the plans
has te be given. Section 192 of the Railway Act says that the filing of the plan
and book of reference, and the notice of
such deposit, shahl be deemed a general
notice te all parties of the lands which
will be required for the railway and works.
The date of such deposit shail be the date
with reference te which. such compensation
or damages shall be ascertained. It appears that the plans had been deposited
and notice had been given soine three or
four years ugo, and the company has not
proceeded with the expropriation of the
lands, and the railway goes inte an important part of the city of Stratford and
the owners of the land are prevented from
making any imp>rovement on their property,
becanse they are eubject at any time
to be expropriated and te be puid only
for the value of the land as it stood at
The
the time the plans were deposited.
petition has been presented to the Railway
Board asking that these plans be cance]led. As I have stated, the ommittee
came te the conclusion that it would be
hetter to leave the Bill ini abeyance until
a decision was arrived at on this petition,
with the understanding, however, that the
parties interested in opposing the Bill
would urge on -the Railway Board the
necessity of a decision being arrived ut as
early as possible. Now, the same Bull came
bef ore the Railway Committee on Wednesday of this week, and without it being
noticed by myself as chuirman or by any
body else that it wus merely an extension
of time that was demanded, the Bill was
passed, but it was passed under a misapprehiension, and I think the House
should keep faith with the parties interested and therefore send the Bill bacc
for further consideration. I move that the
Bill be referred back te the committee for
further consideration.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I want te say a word
with reference te thîs matter. I cannot for
the life of me see why this particular Bill
should be selected te be held back in a
case of this kind. Il there is * anything
wrong about the filing of plans, that has
nothing te do with the Bill. If these people ask for an extension of time, they probably have as good a right ta that extension
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

as a hundred other people, and I do not
see why they should be held up on account of something about the filing of plans.
The Canadian Pacifie Railway and other
corporations have had Bis passed. through
the House wheje the same questions might
have heen brought up. We had the sa.me
thing in regard to the city of Edmonton
some time ago with referenoe to -the fling
Under the law, when a plan
of plans.
is filed, if it was filed flve years ugo, the
corporation who is taking over the land
take it at the value oi the land as it was
at the time the plans were filed. People
complain that plans are allowed to be
flled and they remain filed there five years
while property that is not expropriated and
paid for increases in value and the owners
do flot get the increase. The railway corporations get the value cdf the increase simply by filing the plans and the owners loose
it.
The SPEAKER-As I understand it, the
ground on whîch the motion was made by
the chairman of the committee is that there
was an understanding that this Bill should
stand, -and taiat it was passed through the
cornmittee by mistake.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-We have the stutement irom the Chairman of the Railway
Oommittee that there was a consensus of
opinion that the Bill should stand. I agreed
that far-that the Bill should stand, but
no time was fixed when further consideration of the Bill should be taken up. I abject most strongly ta the statement made
by the chairmun of that committee. I
was there, and I think I will be able
to show that we were prepared on the following day with our solicitor there ta meet
all the objections raised to the Bill, and
we had no opportunity to do Bo.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-If the hion. gentlemnan will allow me to add a word: There
is no question that the committee decided
to adjourn the Bill in order ta allaw the
opponents of it to obtain a hearing and
decision from the Ruilway Board upan
their demand to annul the registration of
the plan on their lands. No date was fixed
ut that moment when the Bill would again
be taken up, but the parties were dismissed
with the stutement that the committee

MARCH 18, 1909
would wait for thern, prýovided they exercised due diligence. Now they were not
notifled how long the oomnittee would wait;
but I amn quite sure that they were entitled
to believe that they would be given more
than just one week. I do not know if they
were given the full week. I think it was
Friday to Wednesday, but nobody seemed
to rernember why we had adjourned this
Bill, and it passed without anybody sug4
gesting that a delay had been granted to
those parties.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-No one would
member it from the fact that there was reno
definite statement
made that this Bill
ahould
be adjourned in the manner i
which the hon. gentleman said.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-There was no
date fixed. The parties were not told they
would be given two weeks or four weeks,
and were only told to hurry up and obtain
from the Railway Commission -a deci6ion
on their demanda. As no one has raised
the question and reminded the comrnittee
that we had given the opponents some time
te obtain a decision, I think it is but fair,
without going at ail into the merits, that
we ehould notify them that the Bill wil
be taken up again in comimittee at a certain
date?
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I arn very sorry
indeed that I have to callinl question the
memory of the hon. gentleman who has
juat spoken, because I was at the committee and heard every statement. I appealed te the cominittee te pasa the Bill.
They objected te it, on account of what?
On accouint o! a certain note which had heen
given te the hon. leader of the House by
another hon. member of the committee. I
have yet te learn why we should be asked
te refuse the Bull on the bald staternent
that the parties had got a charter, and had
been -holding up the land for several years,
and that further delay would interfece 'witki
the' ebale o! those lands. I saw no statement o! that, except what was read by the
chairman, and I knew nothing of! the
nature of the statement. It did flot corne
te me fromn the party who objected, nor
from the gentlemen who h'ad the notes
frorn those parties stating that they were
going to raise objection on those grounds.
It was read by the Chairman of the Rail13

193

way Comirnittee, and was sent te hlm by
an hon. gentleman of this House. They
knew I had charge o! the Bill and waa responsible for the legislation, and yet I reoeived no -notice and ho consideration. I
was not inforrned that anything of that kind
was coming before the Railway Comrnittee,
and I therefore had not an opportunity o!
having the soficitor who had charge of the
Bill there. I would hardly expect, and
had no reason te suppose that this Bill
whxch is similar te a hundred other Bills
on the Order Paper which. have gone
through the Railway Comnmittee, would be
opposed. Why should I consider it would
be necessary to corne there fortified in a
different mannerP I wau not upon that
Railway Committee, I had no opportunity
of doing anything in referen>e te this Bill
until five minutes before. When the question arose, should we or should we not
proceed with the Bill, and I moved the
Bill, the chairman said he had a note and
graciously and kindly read that note. Had
hie told me anythlng about his having the
note and that it was going te be contested&
Nothing o! the kind. He read the note and
what did he say? Because the company
had registered their plans, therefore the
people of that locality were held up aud
had not an opportunity o! disposlng of their
lands. Was that a reasonable course te
pursue? Was that a fair consideration
of the Bill that was being discussed before
the Railway ConnnitteeP Rad I an opportunity of knowing that it was going te be
contested, I certainly would have hied the
lawyer there whe had charge of the Bill,
but I had no opportunity te do that. On
the next day, this Bill came up and I had
rny solicitor there but not one single word
was raised by the -chairman and no objection was made te the passage o! the Bi1l.
I had Mr. Lister there ready te give
reasona why this Bill should become law.
I found no opportuuity for so doing, and
now I amn told «we rushed the Bil1 through.'
WVe rushed it through, why? Beca.use it
was a just, upright and honest Bill, similar
te hundreds o! others that had passed that
committee tine and again. If you look
te the record cf the committee, will yeu
find that there has been a single Bill oh.
jected te on account cf the plana being
registered? Nothiug cf.the, kind. There

REVISELÙ EDITI<UN

SEINATE
is some other reason why this course is
being pursued. Thet is very evident. Let
us consider carefully why this Bill should
pass in its present form. The orpany
ask for nothing more than othexe have
asked. and received. 1 have yet to find
any objection to the Bill except thet it is
holding up the lands there. This municipality is the only one that ia objecting,
and I ask what right have they to prevent
the road from being constructed froei
Ingersoli northwsrd one hundred miles?
The only objection they can state ia that
they have flot had an opportunity to sel]
their lands, and that lands have increased
ini vealue.
No doubt the velue has in-.
creased, but it le becauae 'the railroad
has enhanced the velue. The people felt
satisfied when the plans were registered
that the road would be bujît, and they
wanted higher prices for their property
than they oould have otherwise received.
If my hon. friend, the chairman of the coonmittee, is so solicitous to deal fairly and
honestly in this particular case, why dîd hie
net ask whether there were plans registered
in the case of other companies Bis which
have corne before that committee, and why
did hie not ask whether these 'other companies were holding up lands? There must
be some other motive behlnd this opposition. 'I ask h-ad not every one an opportunity to consider the Bill and was it not
considered? The individual who camne thexe
te oppose the Bill knew4-what was before
the coxnmittee, because when the question
was raised as to 'whether the Bill should
pass on 'that occasion I di&tinotly stated
that 1 had n* objection to the Bill being
deferred for further consideration. I have
to learn thst theire was that considieration
to see what the goverinent was going to
do. I can understand that was the only
objection raised by the hon. senator from,
Hastings. He was the only one who gave
a reason why the Bill should flot pass.
That was, the f act that the Minister of Railways was bringing in a Bill which would
prevent railroads from holding lands longer
than two years, and that at the expiration
of two years from the filing of their plans
and specifications, tihe *lands sihould be released from any cloud whlch the registration might cause. He offered that reason,
Hlon. M!r. WILSON.

and we now have the Bill to which hie has
referred. Does my hon. friend the chairman wish to prevent this railroad fro«n
being constructed? It is flot in hie localty
or hie would noît have that objection, perhaps. 'It is an important road, running
from. a port on Lake Erie, where there
is a large traffic between the people of
the United States and Canada, through
Ingersoli, and thirty-three miles of the line
has been constoeucted. It le net a poper
road sisnilar to many passed by the hion.
chairmaxi during the present session. This
road wull be built. I wonder my right hon.
friend the leader of this House la not looking after it. Formerly we had only three
or four dollars of revenue from Port Burwell; now we have three to four tho'usand
dollars revenue on account of duties collected on coal. I wish the chairman of the
Railway Committee would tell me who are
objecting to this? Are there any others
objecting? Have any others along tihe line
of the railroad objected te the consftruction
of the road? If hie will tell me there are,
then I will postpone my further renarks.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I read to the committee a letter from one Mr. Macpherson,
which had been addreased to the rlght hion.
leader of the government in this House,
taking exception to the time being extended for construction, unless the owners
of the properties were protected as against
section 192 of the Railway Act, and
there was a party present who raised the
same objection on behalf of, I believe, the
land owners of the town. As f ar as I amn
concerned I did not go into the merits of
the question at all, but the commnittee and
the House ahould respect an understanding
when it is arrived at. I repeat that when
the Bill was called yesterday, it was called
as the result of a misapprehiension, and
neither I nor anybody else noticed that it
was the Bill with regard to which. this understo.nding haed been arrived least week.
The parties should have been notified. Not
only were they net notified, but I amn informed that the chaiTnan of t4he Board of
Railway Commissioners had ;been absent
and le expected to arrive to-xnorrow in the
city, and the matter is being pressed for
hearing on the question which is now before
the Railway Board.

MARCH 18, 1909
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I asked what the
grouxd cf their objections were.
Was At
anything outside et the increascd value cf
land in the town through whieh the railway
is te mun?.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I would ask
my hion. friend te limit his rernarks te the
keeping of faith with parties wc disrnissed
ander certain circumstances.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-My hion. friend
knows I have grave doubt as te what was
or was net stated. I was there and ought
te have heard everything that was said,
and, therefore, I do not think my hon.
friend should. expeet me te confine myseîf
te that. I arn confining myself to the
question why this Bill was held up, and
why the charter was rernovcd.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-There werw 3-or 40members of the comrnittec present a't
the meeting, and there must b. at least axe
cf them who would have the. saine doubt
the hon. gentleman has. If there is one
of thern who will risc te say that that was
not an understanding I siiould like te hear
him.
Han. Mr. WILSON-That is a vcry unfair way of putting it. I amn surprised that
a lawyer should attempt te force down my
throat reasoning cf that kind, which would
shut off any remarka I have te make.
If
is net fair or just. I knou the statements
tint wcrc made there. I feit that I should
let the Bill stand aver for sorne future
time. It did stand over. I was net notified thnt the Bill was net te. corne up.
I had rny lawyer there and why, I ask,
if these people are se aggrieved were they
net there? Thcy knew perfcctly well thal
thc consideration cf thc Bill was adjourned.
They knew it u'as their duty te b. present
and they were net there. They wrotc oxe
or two reasons. and the chairman cannot
give me one reaison, outside cf the holding
up of the land, whi-ch prevented theïm from
sefling their property. LUt us see how badly
thcy will hold these lands up. I have made
inquiry cf smre members cf the cammittec,
and they did net hear the stateinent that
my hon. friend has mentioned.
In thc
consideratiox cf this Bill in the House cf
Cornions we find that the following remarks wcre made by thc hon. Minister of
Railways:
13à

195

There ie another point 1 want to deal with,
of great importance to the railway companies and the. people, particularly in sections
where railway construction is taking place.
On all these points I arn open to discussion
and conviction. The law, as it now stands,
provides that if plans are filed for the locition of a railway. no matter hou' long a tirne
rnay elapse between the. filing cf these plans
and the. taking over of the property, the. value
of the property shall remain at the prices i
was viien the plans were Biled. Let me illustrate. In a section of country where a railway is to b. constructedl or a charter granted,
the. cornpany may proceed to file plans. The.
companies have their charters renewed. They
rnay have had their plans filed in a certain
locality and tex years rnay elapse before they
proceed to take possession of the land for the.
right of way. The. lai, intexded that the land
should Dot incresse in value owing to the expeoted building of railways. It was intexded
to protect the railways to that extent. But
cirournstances often arise in which the land
increases in value very rapidly, independent
of the railway going there, and it hardly
seems fair that a company ehould have the
privilege of tieing up tie. land or keeping it
at this high value ten or twenty years before
they intend building the road, while the. property all around is increasing in value. I
propose to say that two yeare wiil be allowed
after filing of the plans for the railway to
obtain a title. That two years corresponde
with the tirne given the railway companies
by this House for the. expenditure of 15 per
cent of their charter,
ftr two years they
have to corne back and get their charters r.newed. I thought it would b. fair to make
these periods concurrent. I wouid ask the.
committe. to place a clause in the, Bill saying
that the price cf property shaîl remain as at
the. time the plans were filed. provided the
cornpany obtains titI., to these lands within
two years cf the filing of these plans. That
situation has arisen in sorns parts of Canada,
and I think it ia but fair that w. should ap.
but
ply the. rernedy, not, whether tuis would b.
that rernedy or
Il arn not prepared te
gay. That is a clause I have ineerted in tii.
Bill, and at present I think it need interfe*I
with no persan.
He there points out that when 'a railroad charter is extended for ttwo Years,
the plans rem-gin filed for that length cf
time, and at the expiration of the two
years the plans would lapse. My hon.
friend says that tex years may elapse, but
w. do net grant charters for ten years at
any one time. They are given for two or
three years and renewed. In everY instance, the company is required te com1mence work within a certain time and to
complets the construction within a fixed
period, and if plas are ifled they lapse
at the time the charter would laps. Have
we had any evidence here tiiat the lands
increased in value without the advantage

SENATE

the construction of the road would confer the country and doing a good service for
on the locality? No, it was on account of Canada. The charter ought to be granted
the construction of the road that the lands in the general public interest and particuenhanced in value. 1 have already sug- larly in the interest of the section through
gested and I suggest now, that the people which it is being constructed. That ie my
owning the property are amply protected last appeal. I have made the desires of
by the Board of Railway Commissioners. the people I represent known, and if their
Cases have been broughit before that board wishes are not granted they will ask why
where people undertook to charge a larger this exceptional treatment is being meted
amount than they ought to have demanded out to them.
for their lands, and the board feit it their
Hon. Mr. POWER-I 'always arn nost
duty to fix reasonable prices on the proanxious, when it la at ail possible, having
perty. Feeling strongly in the matter, I
dlaim that this resolution is not just or fair due regard to one's conscience, to support
to the promoters of this railway. The Can- the hion. gentleman frorn St. Thomas; and
adian Pacific Railway is back of this road, I wish now te tell the hon. gentleman why
se. 1
having purchased it. It is constructed 1 cannot in the present instance do
shail not go over what t-ook place befoie
fromn Port Burwell to Ingersoil and is being
run in the interests of that locality. That the* Railway Committee, because that is irsection of the country has been for many regular;- but I happen to knew these facts
years without a railroad. The Tilsonburg froan various sources. I ask the lion.
and Port Burwell Railway was constructed gentleman to put himself in the place of
to provide necessary accommodation. The the people who came here from the city of
people contributed their proportionate Stratford-complaining that their property
share of $250,000 for another line, but it
was too far out of the way. Are the
Hon. Mr. WILSON-May I ask how many
people of one village to be allowed to hold are objecting to the construction of the
up this line and deprive a large section road?
of the country of railway facilities? It
Hon. Mr. POWER-If there was only one
would be most unfair to ahl the rest of that
objection, that objection has a right to be
one hundred an thîrty odd miles to hieard under the circumstances of the case.
gratify the wishes of a few people in one Let the hion. gentleman put himself in the
villag-e. It would be unreasonable and place for t.he owners -of preperty at Stratford.
unfair to pursue such a course. If there This railway company was incorporated
be a disposition to send this Bill back, I several years ago. I think it was five years
am done with the railwLay coýimittee so ago they had this property valued. Naturfar as this mneaure is concerned, be- ally the value of property bas enhanced
cause I have yet to see any justification considerably since that time. These gentlefor the action they have taken. Why men a]lowed their charter to lie dormant
should this one Bill be treated in a differ- for five years w;hile the property they were
ent way from hundreds of others that have going to take kept increasing in value. If
been passed by the Rallway Committee? the hion. gentleman were one of those propAre w-e of the western section not entitled erty ow-ners, he -would feel that hie had at
tu the. construction of roads just as well as any rate a right to be heard before the
the people of other sections? Are we to be comniittee. A representative of the property
denied railway facilities, because one or owners, and 1 think also of the city of
two people in a town stand in the way in Stratford, appeared and asked that further
order to seli their lands at an enhanced action should be postponed until the Railvalue? Everybody knows that the Canadian way Commission to whom the property ownPacific Railway is anxious for the construc- ers had appeaied should have had an option of this road in order that they may portunity te deal with the matter.
convey coal from mines on the United
States side, northward. It is a line which
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Will the hon. gentlewe should favour, and, indeed, whic-h w~e man point out to me when and where that
should bonus, because it is opening up tcok place?
Hon. Mr. WILSON.

MARCH 18, 1909

Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn not going to do
that, because it is improper to mention what
tcok place i the committee. I had that
information outside of the committee, frorn
the representative of the property owners
in'Stratford. The chairman of the Railway
Commission happened to be on duty out in
Manitoba, and. I underetand that hie is expected in the city to-day or to-morrow. I
understand also that the secretary of the
board has intimated that this matter will
be brought before the board almost the
first thing on the return of the chairinan of
the board.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-How was it understood P
Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn stating now
what the representative of the property
owners saye. The members of the Railway
Committee were informed of the facts substantially as I have put them. Having
that information, and, as I understand,
without any objection on the part of the
promoters of the Bill, the committee decided
that the matter should stand over until the
Railway Commission would have had a
chance to deal with this question.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I raise the point of
order that the hon. gentleman is stating
what was not stated, s0 f ar as my recollection je concerned, and I have as good a
memory perhape as hie has. Such a statement as that was not made by any one but
the hon. senator from, Hastings. The hon.
gentleman said there was a Bill before the
House of Gommons, introduced by the Minister of Railways, which would cover this
point.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn not going to
enter into a discussion as to the relative
accuracy of the hon. gentleman's memory
and mine, but there are varions members
o! the committee present who know which
of us is giving an accurate report of what
took place. It seems to me that t.he hon.
gentleman, who has a strong sense of fairplay, je one of the hast members of the
Honse who wouhd try te take advantage of
a mere technicality, as this really is. The
hon. member, I have always understood te
contend that the citizens of this country
should have every opportunity of being
heard before their rights were deait with.

197

Perhaps I have misapprehended the hon.
gentleman. Perhape hie is not that kind
of man. Perhaps he would sooner take a
email advantage of a neighbour, but I do>
not think so, and I hope to be able te continue te entertain the high opinion of the
hon. gentleman which I have held up te
the present time.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-If I want a certificate I wiil ask the hon. gentleman for it
and pay him for it.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon. gentleman
ought te b.e grateful for the certîficate he
has got. The position je just this: the
hon. chairman of the committee explains
that through a mistake this Bill was passed
at the hast meeting of the committee, and
it came up hers for third reading. Surely
this House is flot going te take advantage
of an error of that kind. I stili do not
think that the hon. gentleman from St.
Thomas proposes te insist that this Bill
shail be read the third time now. It is
something I shouhd not expect of him. I
have a great deal of confidence in the members of tihe Railway Cornmnittee. I want te
say this te the hon. gentlemen, that at
the present moment I have no idea how I
shail vote if this matter cornes up in committee, but it onght te be allowed to go
to the comsnittee; and the hon. gentleman
may trust the members o! that committee
and certairily can trust the House when
the Bfi is reported, te do justice te al
parties, and that is ail he ought te expect.
r hope he will not insist upon his motion.
Hon. Mr. OWEN-I wish to confixm the
statement made by the chairman o! the
Railway Committee, and also the statement made by the hon. senater from De
Lorimier. The matter as stated by the hon.
senator from De Lorimier is exacthy in accordance with the facts that teok place at
that tinse.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-WeU, then, I must
by telhiing what le not true.
The hion. genHSn. Mr. OWENS-No.
tleman's memory lias evidently f ailed hixn.
It was bcrought out that this compeny hiad
Biled plane with reference te certain properties in the city of Stratford. They had
taken no action upon it. This chond re-

SENATE
mained over the property, and properties
in that portion of Stratford increased in
value, flot because of the railway, but on
accounit of_ a general increase in values
ini the town.
The property increased to
that extent, and bei.ng a residential portion
of the tewn, there was very great objection
to the railway being loceted there, and
when the railway company ask for an extension of tine the owners of the property came forward very fairly and wish te
have that cloud removed from their property. They have appealed te the Ra&lway
Commission on the suhject, and it was
with a distinct understanding that the
committee was te await the report of the
Railway Commission that this Bill stood
over. It was purely by accident in some
way that the Bil was passed. Therefore,
I wili support the motion of the chairman
te refer it back te the cornrittee. If
the case reported by the hon. gentleman
from St. Thornas is such a straight one,
why does he object te having it sent back
anr2 discussed before the Railway Cominittee?
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I wish to make a
pemsonal explanation. I arn charged with
making a misstatement, and I arn contradicted, and it is stated that what I said
was flot a fact.
The SPEAKER-I
that.

did

not understand

Hon. Mr. WILSON-I
distintly-

understood that

The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman said
he thought the hion. member's mernory
vas at fault.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-And as mover of
this motion I suippose I have a right to
replyP
Hon. Mr. GIDSON-I was going te suggest th-at as this Bill has already passed
the Railway Oommittee, what harm can it
do te, my hon. friend frein St. Thomae to
agree to defer the second reading for ten
days? That wouid get over the difficulty.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Oh,
it back.

ne, send

Hon. Mr. WILSON-lt appears that this
amendaentHon. Mr. OWENS.

Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon, gentleman
hýas spoken once.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I spoke
second reading of the- Bill.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Oh.

for

the

no.

Hon. Mr. WILSON-I have net spoken
te this amendment.
The SPEAKER-I do flot know what the
hion. gentleman has spoken te, but I know
that the amendinent was before the House
when he was speaking, and, therefore, I
must correct hirn in regard te that. The
question is on the amendmnent.
The amendment was carried.
THIRD IREADINGS.
Bill (No. 42) An Act respecting the Toronto, Niagara and Western Raiiway Ceinpany.-(Hon. Mr. Beith).
Bill <No. 53) An Act respecting the Waikerton and Lucknow Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. McMullen).
Bill (No. 58) An Act respecting the Vancouver, Westminster and Yukon Railway
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Boeteck).
Biil (No. 25) An Act respecting the joint
section of the Canadian Pacifie Railway
Company and the Grand Trunk Pacific
Railway Company at Fort William, Ontario.
-(Hon. Mi. Watson).
HUDSON BAY AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the third îeading of Bill (No. 43) An Adt respecting the
Hudson Day and Pacific Railway Company.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I would like the
bon. gentleman te, expiain whether this is
a fresh charter, or whether it has been renewed froin time te turne? Il it has been renewed, have they filed their plans snd specifications and located the lands along which
the road is te he constructed? If they have
done s0 and they are asking for a renewal
et the charter, I wouil like te know from
the hon. gentleman whether anybody qp the
line is objecting te, the construction of the
road. and whetheî the lands along the uine
have increased in value? If so, we had
better let the Diii stand over until such time
as the Railwalf Commission decides that it

MARCH 18, 190
is flot prudent to grant an extension of
We had better wait tili the Railway
Commission is fully seized of ail the facts
in connection with it.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-1 think the inembers
of the House, particularly the members of
the Railway Commnittee, are aware of the
fact that this is a renewal of a charter giving an extension of tinie. I amrnfot aware
that any plans have been filed or right of
way acquired. I can assure the hon. gentleman that no propertyv bas been tied up by
these people, as was the case 'with bis charter. They do flot run through any valuable
property. and I have heard no complaints
about the right of way.

-time.

199

of Bill (No. 44) An Act to incorporate the
Canadian, Liverpool and Western Railway
Company.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-We do not affirm the
principle'of the Bill in adopting the second
reading.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
The House resolved itself again into a
Committee of the Whole on Bill (No. 21) An
Act te amend the Railway Act.

(In the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. WILSON-What was the date
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My
of the original charter?
hon. friend opposite wanted te say someHon. Mr. WATSON-1896, I Vhink.
thing about this Bull.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Then it must have
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It will be iu the
been renewed'
recollection of hon. gentlemen, that when
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I said it was Te- we were in committee before on the two
or three hast sections of the Bill, that I
newed.
raised some objection te the repeal of the
The motion was agreed to.
schedule. Since that time, I have been
GUELPH AND GODERICH RAILWAY favoured by the Deputy Ministcr of Railways, Mr. Butler, with very full and ample
COMPANY BILL.
explanations with regard te this subject.
THIRD READING.
He teok the trouble of coming te my room,
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN moved the third and brought with hlm, the new schedules
reading of Bill (No. 37) An Aot respeating which the office intends te use for the purthe Guelph and Goderioh Railway Com- pose of procuring information that will
appear annually in the railway statistics.
pany.
Mr. Butler fully convinced me that the
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Would I be permit- work hie le doing is a very great improveted to ask some questions with reference te ment on what bas been done in the past,
the renewal, and whether plans and speci- and that under his skllful guidance, and
fications have been filed, whether the lands that of bis very élicient officer, Mr. Payne,
have been increased in value on account of we will in the near future be supplied
the natural increase in value of property, with statistics that will be very much more
or whether the lands have been increased valuable than those we have been using
ln value -on account of the charter granted? in the pat. In that connection-and this
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-The hon. Speaker is the best place and opportunity of
shut me off by pronouncing the motion car- making, the explanation-I made sorte
rled, and I do not wish to break the rules reflections upon the statistical report of
last year, and went so far as te say I would
of the House by saylng anything now.
have to use the returne with a great
The motion waa agreed te.
deal of caution hereafter, as I was
CANADIAN, LIVERPOOL AND WEST- not sure of their oorrectness, in consequence of inaccuracies which. appearERN RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
ed M*n-the report of lest year, and which
SECOND READING.
have been proved to be inaccuracies, and
Hon. Mr. McHUGH (in absence of Hon. which have been quoted ln parhiament.
Mr. Mitchell) moved the second reading Through the politeness of Mr. Payne, who

SENATE
invited me over to the office, 1 have since
seen the returns from the railways and
fully satisfied myself that the statistician
is nlot to blame in the slightest degree for
the dis-crepancies that occurred. He faithfully followed the returns. The serions
discrepancies appear to be ini the report of
the Canadian Pacific; and elsewhere, as
well as in this House, I have had some observations to make upon that. These returns
are swomi to by Mr. Ogden, one of the
vice-presidents of the Canadian Pacifie
Railway. They appear to be incorrect. Nobody wculd assume for a moment that Mr.
Ogden wouid make f allacions returns, much
less swear to thesn, with any personal knowledge cf the inaccuracy. I do net know hlm
personally, but from the position he occupies, and the respectability of the cernpany hie is connected with, we would neyer,
for a moment, suppose these errors were
made intentionally. I deem it proper te
make this statement ini the House, in order
that it will go abroad. It does net follow
by any means, because the returns were
inaccurate, that there was any intention
te make erroneous returns.

CONSTRUCTION

Eccles Blackhall.-(Hon. Mr. Gibson).
Bill (V) An Act for the relief of Annie
Lonisa Colman.-(Hon. Mr. Campbell).
Bill (W > An Act for the relief cf John
Grant Ridout.-(Hon. Mr. Gibson).
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

this point?
17. Do these plans and specifications show

0F DAM
ONT.

AT SCUGOG.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. McHUGH inquired cf the gevernment:1. Is there a dam on the River Scugog, çit

Lindsay, Ontario?
2. In or about what year was the said dam

placed there?
3. By whom was it constructed P
4. What was the original height and length
of the raid damP
5. Was there an agreement made at the
time of the construction of the said dam batween the board of works of Canada and the
mill-owners at Lindsay, as to the mill-owners'
right to the use of a certain pcition of the
water at said dam, and on what condition

was this right given to said mill-owners?

6. Ilas the government at any time since its
construction either reduced the length or increased the height of said damP
7. Or have they permitted any other person
or persons te do so?
S. To whom was ruch permission given and

what representations were made as to why
sucli a request should be granted?
9. What is the length and what is the height
of the dam at the present time?
10. Are there on file in the department,
petitions from the riparian land-owners com-

plaining of the serions injury done to their
land owing to the increased servitude caused
by the additional penning back of the waters?
Hon. Mr. ELLIS fromn the committee reIl. Are there on file in the department,
perted the Bill without amendment.
memorials from the municipal councils of
Cartwright, Manvers, Mariposa, and Ops,
The Senate adjourned tili three o'clock to- complaining cf the additional burden placed
on themn in the maintenance of their highmorrow.
ways, caused by the inereased penning back
of the water in consequence of addition to
this dam?
12. In compliance with the prayer of the
petitioners, was Mr. Gage, government engineer, sent te inspect the grievances complained.
of by the riparian land-owners, and the
memoralyr.ing municipal councils?
THE SENÂTE.
13. Is this engineer's report on file in the
department, what is the purport of this report, was it acted on, and if not, why net?
OTTAWA, Friday, March 19, 1909.
14. Was any compensation ever paid to any
of these riparian land-owners on account of
The SPEAKER teck the Chair at Three the damages caused te their lands by the
shortening and raising of this dam?
o'clock.
15. Has the goverument taken steps to ascertain how màany thousand acres of land are
Prayers and routine proceedinga.
drowned by this dam, and for which no compensation has been paid, and this notwithstanding the patents to their land were prior
BILLS INTIRODTJCED.
to any dam on this river?
16. Are the plans and specifications now
Bill (U) An Act for the relief cf VictoDr .pared for the construction of a new dampreat
an increase in the height of the proposed
new dam from that of the old dam; if s0,
for how many feet along the apex of the new
dam will the height ha increased, and how
much P

MARCH 19,1909

201

MARCH 19, 1909

201

18. Has Mr. Geo. Smith, O.L.S., the engineer, acting for the municipality of the towluship of Opa, sent ta the department a profile
pointing out an increased height, as showu
on the plan now prepared by the goverument
engineer P
19. Has the' municipal council of the township of Opa forwarded ta the departinent a
petitian in which they point out the injurions
effect that the raising of these waters will
have on the municipal drains that have been
constructed, and others that are uinder construction, the cost af which drains have been
in the neighbourhood of ana hundred thonsand dollars?
20. Is the government aware that in or
about the year 1900 a very full hearing was
given as to any right the government or milIawnera had to impose on the lands af the
riparian land-awners any greater servitude
than that cauaed by the dam af 1843, that the
hearing was before Hon. J. Israel Tarte,
Minister of Public Works, Hlon. David Mills,
Miniater of Justice, and Sir William Mulock,
Postmaster General; that the mill-owners
were represented by Thomas Stewart, Esq.,
barriater, Lindsay, Ont.; Hlon. Mr. Belcourt,
Ottawa, and S. H. Blake, Esq.. K.C., and that
Mr. G. McHugh, M.P., and R. J. MeLaughlin,
K.C., appeared for the land-owners P la there
on file in the departmnent from these ministers of the Crown, or fromn any one or more
af them, a statement of the conclusions they
or he arrived at as a resnît of anch lbearing?
If so, from whorn, and *hat is the purport of
sucb statement P
21. ls it the intention of the government to
have their officers take charge and contrai
the waters at this point, in such -a manuer as
ta give the mill-ownera every right they are
entitled ta under their agreemnent with the
government, bearing date the Sth December,
1843? And further, will the gavernment see
that no unauthorized injury is permitted ta
be infiicted an the said land-ownera by any
interference with the free fiow af the water
over this dam at and during all seasona af
the year?

He said: I have been prompted ta ask
this question on account af rumours I have
heard for a number ai years that the Grand
Trunk
Railway owed .Canada
a large
amounit of mnoney and it neyer bas been
paid. Not having any accurate information
an the point I thought 1 wauld ask the
question embadied in this motion.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
have here a reply irom the Department af
Finance ai same considerable length. Ferbnps the han, gentleman will allow me ta
place it an the table for him?
Han. Mr. POWER-It aeecms toi me that
that dacument is -of seh a character that
it should appear an aur 'Debates.'
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYes. I will hand it ta the reparters:
Finance Department,
Ottawa, Canada,
March 19, 1909.

<EncI.)
Dear Sir,-By direction oi the deputy I
inclose yon herewith an answer ta Honourable
ýSenator Perley'a question No. 2, standing for
answer to-day, respectîng aid ta the Grand
Trunk Railway Company by the oId pravince
of Canada. This answer is based upan the
statutes governing the- matter and carrectly
sets ont the position of the liability, whatever it be, as settled by the legisiature of the,
province.
Yaurs sincerely,
HENRY T. ROSS,
Assistant Deputy Minister of Finance.
The Rîght Hanaurable
Sir Richard Cartwright. G.C.M.G.,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-1
Miniater of Trade and Commerce,
would aay ini reply to my hon. friend that
Ottawa.
the Department of Railways informed nie
In the year 1862, five years prior ta Conthat they are preparing answers, and 1 federatlon, a reorganization of the Grand
hope ta be able ta give them in a few Trunk Railway ai Canada was effeeted under
chapter 56 ai the Statutes ai Canada oi that
days.
year.
Provincial debentures ai the province of
LOAN TO THE GRAND TRUNK RAIT- Canada ta the amaunt ai $15,142,633.34 bad
been issned, priar ta the pasaing ai this Act,
WAY COMPANY.
in aid ai the campany. These debentures carried interest at the rats ai six per cent par
INQUIRY.
annum.
By section 19, ai the chapter reierred ta,
Han. Mr. PERLEY inquired:
the province ai Canada consented ta allow ita
claim for intereat due and accruing in
Ras the government of Canada ever laaned spect ai these debentures ta be postpaned reta
the Grand Trunk Railway Compan! a snm of the paymient ai certain charges which. were
money? If sa, what was the amount and .ade priar by the statute. The section prowhen and haw was it ta be paid; what in- vided that after the payment ai the working
tereat was the lan ta bear; has the whole or expenses ai the railway the balance ai earna part been paid, and if nat paid, how much ings was ta be appropriated and applied in
is naw due, including accumulative intereat, payment:and what security haa the gavernment for the
(a) ai interest on equipment mortgager
repayment of the laan?
bonds;

202

SENATE

202

SENATE

<b) of interest on first preferential bonds
and the dividend due on first preference
stock;
(c> of interest due on second preferential
bonds and the dividend due on second preferential stock;
(d) of dividend due on third preference
stock;
<e) oi dividend due on iaurth preference
stock;
(i) of dividend af 3 per cent per annum for
ten years on the ordinary stock ai the coinpany and thereafter at the rate of 5 per cent
per annum;
(g> ai further dividend of one per cent per
annum on the third preference stock;
(h) ai further dividend ai one per cent per
annum on the fourth preference stock;
(Ail the above were given priority over the
government dlaimi for interest> and then;
(i> in payment af the interest for the turne
being due and accruing, subsequent to .January 1, 1862, on the provincial debentures issued
in aid ai the aampany, before the passing ai
the Act, at the rate ai 6 per cent per annum.
The intereet on the provincial debentures
referre-d ta amounted, at the time ai confederation, ta $10,457,458.01.
Amounts represented by these province ai
Canada debentures.-$5,42633.34 and thus interest ai $lO,457.45801-were at confederatin
taken over by the Dominion froin the province ai Canada, and have since been carried
in the balance sheet without charge under
the headin
' RailwaY Accounts,' but these
amounts have fot been included in the statement ai assets.
As the net earnings ai the company neyer
met ail the priar charges, as provided by the
Act, no part ai thîs interest has ever been
payable.
There was also carried in the province ai
Canada accounts and taken aver at confederation a speciai interest dlaim ai $7,302.18, which
has been cantinued in the balance sheet. This
special interest dlaim arase irom an adjusted balance ai varjous accaunts made between
the province ai Canada and the Grand Trunk
Railway Company, which balance was confirmed by an arder in council ai October 18,
1866.
Besides the above, the province ai Canada
waa, at the Urne ai conlederation, the holder
ai iaurth preierence stock ai the campany
(converted by section 11, chapter 18, Act ai
1873, into third preference stock), ai the par
i aine ai $121,739.65.
Dividends have been paid
to the Dominion on this stock an several occasions as iallows:
During the years1881..
.1883..
1884..
1902..
1903..
1905..

$ 608 70
.. .. .. .. ..
.. .. .. .. ..

1,643 48
1,978 26
1,217 40
2,434 80
2,434 80
3,652 20
3,652 20

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I once tried ta make
a speech like that, and I asked an hon.
gentleman ta take it as read, *but I could
not have it done.
CONSTRUCTION 0F HUDSON
RAIL WAY.

BAY

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY inquired af the government:
Io it their intention ta commence building
the Hudson Bay Railway this spring and
summer, and if there will be an amount ai
money voted ta build the said railway this
session ai pariiament P
He said: I arn înspired ta ask this question from the f act that, just priar ta the.
last election. a large number of survey
parties were sent out ta survey the routes
from the northern line of the aiready established provinces ta Hudson bay, and the
understanding was that this railway was
to be bult lu the near future. It is this
fact that prompts me ta ask the question.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTUntil the reports from the engineers who
are now making the surveys for the proposed
railway are received, and an appraximate
estirnate af the cost of the said railway is
arrived at, it wiii be impossible ta answer
thîs question.
STATE OWNED

GABLES.

MOTION.
Hon. Mr. Beicaurt moved:
That an humble address be presented ta
His Excellency the Governor General; praying that His Exceliency will be pleased ta be.
caused ta be laid upan the table ai the Senate
copies ai ail correspondence and documents
froum the Pacifie Cable Board on the working
and revenue ai the Pacific cable, and ahl information on the subject ai a state-owned
Atlantic cable and empire cables generally.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThere is no objection ta the motion.
The motion was agreed ta.
IRISH AFFAIRS.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN moved:
This fourth preference stock was accepted
by the province ai Canada in payment ai a
That the Senate ai the Dominion ai Canada
certain part ai the accounts adjusted by the on the occasion ai the national anniversary
order in council reierred ta.
ai Ireland, extend ta their iellow citizens oi
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MNARCH 19, 1909
the empire, the Irish people, its sincere congratulations on the progressive and hopeful
condition of their national affaira under the
reign of Ris Majesty King Edward VII. A&nd
that His Honour the Speaker af the Senate
be instructed ta forward immediately by
cable the above resolution ta the Rt. Hon. the
Prime Minister of Great Britain and Ireland.

this Senate was etapped on a very important day in the history of ane of the moat
important parts of the empire on acont
ai a mile. I knew the mule was there, but
I neyer axpectad that there would be
antagonism in the hearts or minds af any
hion. senators against an expression-of good
He said: In rising ta deal with thics will towards the King and the country he
raolution, I wish ta offer a few preliminary governs. Had the hon, gentlemen who opremarks before étating the conclusion to posed the introduction of this motion only
which 1 have corne with regard ta this thought for a moment, if they had only
matter. I regret very much that certain read between the lines ai this resalution,
things happened a iew days aga, when I they wonld have found that the Senate
brought up this aubject, which was nDt was asked ta send a message cf sympathy
at ail necessary and which detracted iargeiy and good-will nat only ta the .Irish people
from the merits of the resolution itself, and but ta the King of Engiand. It was asked
from the fair play and dignity that ought ta aend a gracions tribute ai admiration
ta characterize the conduct af certain mcm- and respect for the way he lias exercised
bers of this Hanse. .My intention was not
his royal authority in conduoting the affaira
ta force th.is motion upon the Senate, but ai the
empire.'It is the fimst 'Lime in the
rather ta secure from. this House a unanimhistary ai the Irish people ini 300 yeara
ans expression of kindly feeling towards
that we have been able ta send ta the
another section of the empire in regard ta
British sovereign a message of peace, goodits internai. and national affaira. My inwill and amity. Ail former messages from
tention, if I had been allowed on that
every part ai the English-speaking world
occasion ta finish rny remarks, which I
have been messages of denunciation against
was not, was ta say that uniess this exthe *way the affaira ai Ireland have beeii
pression came unanimously from the Senadministered.
To-day I undertake, as a
ate I wouid not press it or ask for it. I
pioneer, this noble .work of axpmessing
knew I was not in order unless the unanimans consent of this House had been ex- gaod will that onght ta axist between the
tended ta me ta put the resolution. Up different parts ai the empire, and yet I
ta the very last moment I had no indica- amn debarred by a so-called mile, but more
tion whatever that any oue would object. by a littie stubboruness-I hope not any
My rernarks, I must say, were received atrong antagonism against the cause,
with kindly attention, and I think approved thongh I believe there la a littie ai ilof by the vast majority, il not by ail the from jsending a message ai sympathy and
members of the Senate. The remarks with good-wiil. We feel to-day that under the
which I acaompanied the "introduction ai reign of King Edward aur intarests are better
this resointion were not intended, as my safeguarded. and .brighter hopes are hald
hon. friend the ex-Prime Minister of this aut for kindly feeling than ever before, yet
country (Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bawell) in- one or two in this Hanse tried ta prevent
sinuated yesterday, ta create racial Or religi- this message being sent ta His Majesty. 1
ans cantroversy. Nothing couid have beau wish ta be the means whereby this hionfurther frorn my mind. I wanted ta foi- anmabia body shonld express its opinion in
low the exainpie of King Edward and regard ta aur fellow citizens ai the empire
executives of foreign cauntries who enter- and toward the sovareigu, but I amn nat
tain each other with messages of sympathy going te aliow mysali ta be the instrument
and congratulation on certain developmeuts ta permit any member of the Senate ta
in their national aiffairs. The spirit dis- vent his.spleen agaiust or his antaganism
played at the very last moment ai that ta the cause of the Irish people. I amn not
debate was caiculated ta make oue tired. going ta be the instrument whereby any
We have precedents where the colonies ai member of this Hause wiil be enabied ta
Australia: and 8anth Africa interchange say ta His Majesty, wa do not recognize
iriendly messages oi good-will, and yet itha good you are doing in administering

204

SENATE

the affairs of the empire! I wilI flot be an because we are always prepared to be govinstruiment in that direction. I was 'pie- erned by the dictates of fair-play and
vented from being an instrument in en- justice. I would appeal to my right hon.
abling this House to express a kindly. friend drom Hastings. to inculcate these
friendly feeling. Now I will not be an in- principles in that organization "which does
strument in allowing any man in this a lot of good, as far as this House is conhonourable House to vent opinions adverse cernedto the cause of the Irish people or to the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do not
mpgnanimity of Ris Majesty King Edward,
give me any more titles than I arn entitled
and it is, therefore, my intention to wlthto.
draw this resolution. That is one of the
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I hope you are right
reasons, and the other is that the time
is no long-er opportune. The sentiments honourable; they do a lot of good among
in thîs resolution will remain, and 1I hope themselves, but neyer do much good for
that in the years to corme the Irish 'people our part of the situation. I would like him.
of this country and abroad will have sti]] to inculcate the same feelings which are
stronger reason to congratulate their fello,%wanirnating us to-day and put them. into
citizens et home and be able to lay at the the hearts of his friends. This resolution
foot of the throne a message of thanks goes to show that the hostility a.nd animosI ity that animated rightly and justly the
and of recognition to His Majesty.
know that in the old country that sentiment heait of every Iîishman against the iiiof antag-onism, 'what they call anti-Irish treatment that Ireland bas been subjected
feeling, iG dying out. It has died out largely to ifor two or three hundreds years is
in this Canada of ours. There are stili ceasîng, and why? Because -1rishrnen. are
But when
embers glowing, I understand, under white quick to recognize fair-play.
hairs somnetirnes. I forgive the position as- you want to put me down, I won't be put
sumned by the hon. ex-Prime Minister of down either bere or elsewhere. My motives
this country. He bas been the head of an are hefore the House, and I hope -will be
organization which bas been a fierce op- equally before the country as well as the
ponent of granting. to the Irish peop!e mixed up report that was given of the
Before
what has been granted to us and to the prooeedings here the other day.
Boers. I appreciate bis position; I have resuming my seat, I mnust undertake to
no quarrel with him. As he said the other discuss a question of privilege which bas
day, you can sit down and talk this matter been called to my attention -by several of
over in a friendly manner rwithout pulling my colleagues on the floor of this honourof our wigs and throwing them on the able House. I was not aware ci the f act
green, the samne as some men would like that some of tbern said that the record
to do with the aid of the sergeant-at-arms. contained a staternent *which they had not
We do not do that.
heard, and which they considered te be
against the dignity of the Senate and the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE IBOWELL-Not a
liberty of its meinhers. I looked up the
bit of it.
'Debates ' and found thiat their complaint
Hon. Mr. CLOIRAN-And I fully appreci- was justified and based on an -actual pubate the delicacy of bis position; but what lication in the ' Debates.' I was present
I cannot understand is this revulsion of during aIl that discussion the other day
feeling on our part so called and on bis in this House and I failed te hear, and I
part. What is the difference? In the past know that a large number -of -senators
we were always denouncing and condemn- around me failed to hear, the foîlowing
ing the conduct of affairs in Ireland. To- words which I find on page 191, in the first
day 'when we find the British goveîniment coîumn:
in according at least a fair share of justice,
If the hon. gentleman from Victoria perwe are prepared to acknowledge it and stand sists I think it wjll be in order for bis honour
to
by the Crown. The others, oui old focs the Speaker hon,cail upon the proper officer to
gentleman.
remove the
opponents, learn nothing and they fr
and
I neyer heard these words, and a large
get nothîng; and we 'have ]earned to forget,
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN.

MARCH 19, 1909

number of senators in this honourable
House did flot hear them. If I had heard
them, whoever made the rexnark would have
got his answer fast, and probably furious.
Certainly the retort would net have been
feeble; but I can assure the hon. gentleman that the blow would net have been
below the beit nor a cowardly one. So
I looked up the 'Debates' again and discovered who made the remark. I flnd
that the remark is attributed to an hon.
senator, and I amrnfot surprised at leaining bis name. I find it is the lion. Mr.
Power, the senior member from Halifax,
who made these remarks. Weil, if he takes
the responsibility of these remarks-

te cati attention te the fact that t.he hon.
gentleman is quite eut of order in referring
te a past debate.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think the point
taken by the bon. member from Halifax is
scarcely correst. I have net the authoritv
in my hand, but my hon. friend is wel
conversant with the rules of parliament,
that in the diff erent stages o! the same
question reference may be made te what
has taken place. For instance, you can
refer in the di!! erent stages of a Bill to
*wbat has taken place at a former stage.
I think the hon. gentleman is net eut of
order.

The SPEAKER-This is net a Bill.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do fully.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But the same prinHon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the hon. gentleciple applies.
man an Orangeman?
Hon. Mr. POWER-I waive the objection
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Well, he ougbt to
as far as I arn personally concerned.
be. The hon, gentleman takes the responsibility of these words. Ail I have te say
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I arn quite in symin reply to that is, that these words in- pathy with the ruling of the Chair in
dicate in the attitude of the hbon. gentle- regard te using adjectives that are toc
man a lack of moral courage. They indicatp streng. I would like te get a se! t word
qn element of meannessthat would convey the entire substance of
my meaning.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I rise te a question
of order. The hon. gentleman has ne right
The SPEAKER-Allow me te read the
te use that terrn.
mIle, because it is definite and we should
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I will take back the have iL in our mmnd. IL is as follows:
word ' meanness,' but lack of courage is
AIl personal, sharp or taxing speeches are
forbidden.
ail right.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I bow te that rullhe SPEAKER-I think the hon. gentleman is disregarding one of the rules of the ing, and I would ask what is more peuSenate in which. it is provided that vexing sonal, what is more vexing, what is more
or hlaraasing words are net Io~ be used insulting, what is more cowardly than te
by a senaitor in the course of a debate, sand ask the hon. Speaker te do a thing he bas
ne reference should be made te what oc- no right te do, and the words are here.
curred in a past debate. I hope the hon.
The SPEAKER-I rnust say that I do
gentleman will adhere te the rules with net want te neme the hon. gentleman, but
reference to these matters.
certainly if there is one expression more
than another -which. is in defiance of the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I rise te a question rule, iL is the word which was made use
of erder. The hon. Speaker has decided of just now-an intimation of cowardliness
one question, and I propose te raise an- on the part of an lion, gentleman. I cer.
other. The hon. gentleman is quite eut tainly think that is an infringement on
of order in referring te a past debate. mhat tbe rule.
le commnon poeactice. I wish te say, however
inbérs of the Senate
tàhat if the other
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I bow te the ruling
are willing te listen te the hon. gentleman of the Chair on the matter; but there is
1 have no objection. I arn net objecting the hon. gentleman using moat vexing Ianto a reference te a pust deba-te, but I wish guage. lie has stated:
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN.

206

SENATE

If the hon. gentleman from Victoria persists the next morning not only gave the subI think it will be in order for his honour the stance of what I said, but stated that I
Speaker to call upon the proper officer to respoke in a very emphatic and decided
move the hon, gentleman.
way, and that is my own Tecollectiion.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Hear, hear. Now, -it rnay be the bon. gentleman, at
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Does flot the hon. that time, was not possessd to the f ull of
gentleman from Halifax know that the aIl bis faculties.
hon. Speaker has no such right?
Order!
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Order!
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not, nor does Order!
any other senator except the hon. gentleHon. Mr. POWER-There is nothing imman who is speaking.
proper in that Temark.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The procedure is to
name the member, and if any hon. gentleman on the floor of th'is House has the
courage to move for his expulsion, it can
be moved, seoonded and oarried. Why bide
onesedîf under the onantle of His honour
the Speaker? It was the plain duty of the
hon, gentleman from Halifax, if I had
been so out of order to necessitate any explusion, to move for it, and not put the
onous or t>he odiuin of doing so on the
shoulders of the Speaker, and at the very
time the hon. Speaker said: 'No, there is
nio necessity for such an action;' but the
hon, gentleman from Halifax wished the
hon. Speaker to take the responsibility of
doing 'a thing that he was afraid or ashssned
to do himself. There is the position. It
is ail that I have to say in regard to this
m4.tter, and I wish to, say to the hon. gentleman from Halifax, before the country, that
this is a kind of intimidation that does not
go down with men of my stamp, and the
hon. gentleman cannot silence me by a
threat of calling in anybody, and I want
him to understand it. It is the first time he
has made such an allusion, and I hope it
will be the last, and I want hixn to know
before the country and t&iis honourable
House that bis interjection of that remark
was altogether uncalled for, insulting and
objectionable in every form.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Perhaps tihe House
will al.low me to say a word or two with
respect to the deliverance of the hon. gentleman from Victoria Division. The hon.
gentleman has just said that he did not
hear the words that I used on the occasion
to which he refers. I thought I spoke ini a
fairly distinct way. I think most other
hon. gentlemen heard my language quite
distinctly. I noticed that the ne'wspaper

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I Vhink it is very
offensive. I wish-the hon. gentleman to
withdrs.w that word.
Hon. Mr. POWER-What word?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I rise to a point of
order, and ask if any hcsn. gentleman can
say to another tliat he is not in possession
of bis faculties? I want a ruling on the
point.
The SPEAKER-I hope hon. gentlemen
will observe the rules and flot use persoal, sharp of taxing speeches.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Am I ta understand
it is pa.r]iainentary?
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is impossible to
conduct the business of the House with an
hon. gentleman of this disposition. I said,
and I thbink I was perfectly justifiedI in
saying, that if tihe hon. gentleman did
not hear what ahnost every other hon.
gentleman in the House did hear, that
some of bis faculties must have been lackla
ing-I assume the faculty of hearing.
there ànything -out -of order in that?
Hon. Mr. CLORA1N-That is ail right.
have not big ears; tihat is the reason.

I

Hon. Mr. POWER-Then the hon. gentleman, adopting a tone which I think would
become some other place more than the
Senate, talked about hitting below the belt.
The hon. gentleman must imagine that he
is a very terrible person in-deed if he thinke
that any member of this House would be
afraid to raise a question of order with
respect to him. 'He also eeens to think
that if the question of order is -raised it
is hitting below the belt. I fail to see
-where the hitting below 'the belt cornes

-MARCH 19, 1909
in. There is in this matter that isgrt of
confusion of ideas which h-as preaviled with
him in -respect to other matters. Tihen the
hon. gentleman's final statement with Tegard to myaeif, I think, was that it was
my duty to eject him from the Senate
Chamber.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-To move to eject me.
Hon. Mr. POWER- That ie a most extraordinary contention.
Hon. Mr. CLORA}-That
hard job.

would

be a

Hon. Mr. POWER-That ie flot the way
in which we do business in this House.
They may do business in that way in some
other places, but not in legielative bodies.
I do not know of any legislative body
where it je held that when a member je
out of order it je the duty of another member te eject him.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I did not eay that;
I said to move ta eject him.

207

vicus occasion. When an hon. gentleman
of this Honse is disorderly, when lie je
called te order by other mexnbers, when hie
hon. the Speaker decides that the hon. gentleman is out of order,_ and when the hon.
member refuses to obey thc Speaker's order
and continues te interrupt the business of
the House, as wae the case thc other day
when the hon. member called upon one
of the clerke at the table to sit down, what
je the remedyP When an hon. member
pays no regard te Uic rules or ta the orders
of the Speaker, or Uic wishee af Uic House,
the only thiing to do is te remove that
member. Fortunately, this House has in
its hands the power te pratect iteîf.
If
Uic hon. gentleman misconduets himeif
in the samc way again, I ahail ibe prepared
to act again as I have done, and I shail try
ncxt time ta make the bion, gentleman hear
what I say. I thought I did Uic other dey,
but I vwill take good csre that he sha.ll not
have any cause in future ta take Uic ground
that he did not hear what 'was said.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I am not the only
anc who did not hear. Lots af others did
Hon. Mr. POWER-I did move practically. I wish to say juet two or tbree nat hear.
words more as te what took place. It je
PATENT 0F THOMAS L. SMITH.
flot out of order ta refer ta -a thing 'which
took place several years *ago; and 1 reMESSAGE FROM THE COMMONS.
member that w'hen I hadl the honour te
A message was received from Uic Comaill the Chair, which je now occupied by
our hon. the Speaker, a si.milar con- mous asking the Senate ta retumn Bill (No.
dition of thinge arose. The hon. gentle- 71) An Act respecting a patent of Thomas
man from Victoria was out of order, L. Smnith, which had. been sent te Uic
would flot obey the order of the Speaker, Senate in error.
and would not pay any heed to the wishes
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved that the order
of the House, ror ta the mIles of the House;
and on that occasion I intimated that if af the day for the second resding of the
the hon. gentleman did not desiet fromn hie said Bill be discharged, a.nd that the Bill
disorderly conduct, it would be my duty be returncd te the House af Gommons.
te give him in charge of the sergeant-at-.
The motion was agreed te.
arme, and I notioed that thc hon. geniteman subsided at that time.
The SPEAKER-Order that a message be
sent with thc BilHon. Mr. CLORAN-Oh, no.
Hon. Mr. POWER-We should not be toc
Hon. Mr. POWER-Of course 1 have ta hasty in dealing with Uiis anatter. In what
take the hon. gentleman's statement tihat position is this Bill now?
he did not hear what 1 said the other day,
but I noticcd that, when the same intimaThe SPEAKER-It had been read the
tion was given that the proper officer might first time and ie ordered for second readbe asked te remove him the hon. gentle- ing but has not yet been read thc second
man subsided juet as he had on thc pre- time.

SENATE
B3ILL INTRODUCED.
in the committee. I may take a stronger
view on this question than most senators
ct t
Bill(No 63)An inorpoate
Bih(No
63 AnActta ncoportethe do. In the past I have been opposed ta
Royal Cenadian Accident Insurence Com- the indiscriininate way in which patents
pany.
have been extended from time to tiine. In
t.his case is simply a question between the
inventor and the party to whom hie aesigned
Bill (No. 21) An Act to amend the Rail- the patent for the purpose of manulacturway Act.-(Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright). ing the article for Bale in this country.
THIRD READING.

The excuse of those who are now askingfor an extension of time is that the parties
SECOND READING.
with whom they maede the agreemnent in
Hon. Mr. McHtJGH (in the absence of Canada ta manufacture the article, failed
Hon. Mr. Campbell) moved the second to carry out their arrangement and to pay
reading of Bill (K) An Act resgpecting cer- the royalty which they should have paid
Really that is
tain letters patent of the American Bar- under the agreement.
lock Comnpany. He said: My objet in the only reason given in the petiVion. It
moving the second readîng of thi Bui to will be for the committee to say whetkier
day is to get it before the committee et its they consider that a sufficiently good retinext meeting when the solicitors repre- son ta grant the extension. My impression
senting the company will be present. Tihey is that the petition also admits thet other
are caming here on other business and will parties had, on the feiltire of the patentee
takethisup
a th sam tiie. Sme
comply with the provisions of the Patent
tAct
commnce the maufctr
ofe thattme
fta
auatr
h
objection was raised to this Bill when it At omne
the circumetances,
bt
wasu, rouht I avethe etiionarticle in Canada. Under
om mencsled a the manufturof thete
befrre me now and cen' stete why the 1h
h
company ask that the patent be revived. wocmecdtemnfcueo
the cnuIef wil
I understand from the lion, gentleman who facturle ofl the rticle
ecn
tefwl
ril
h
oppased it the other day, that he will fcueo
withdraw his objection and let the Bill fined tathe party who has expended money
go ta the committee where it can be dis- in establishing a factory for the purpose
ayof manufacturing and the patentee. That
atet
cussd. he ws ganted.in
I aecm
ds
owih
thtocuio
of the article was
1905. The manufacture
commenced some four or five months after- from a cursory readimg cf te petition.
wards under an agreement with a firm in
Hon. Mr. JONES-I do not rise ta abjet
Montreal. Some disagreement took plaeto thsBl
on
otecmite
u
between the company and the patentees,
bisel Bih groinstgen
ta
y the
omi
one.bu
and they ceased the manufacture.
The etem a rota
Beeilly
as dn the n
company then imported some goods froni gentleman romhBentsvie asde,
rth
Philadelphia, not knowing that they weremnernwhcpantaretnddo,
controvening the Patent Act of Canada. rather, reinstated in the case of foreigners
That nullified their patent. They now ash who meke such applications. The laws
ta be relieved of that. They made arrange- of Great Britain and the United States have
ments long ega ta have the manufacture became very mu ch more rigid in the matter
carried on in the city of Toronto. If there cf the protection of patents than ever beare any objections ta the Bil1, they can be fore in the history of either country. Quite
met in the committee, or when the Bill i recently the perliement of Great Britain
has enacted that a Canadien taking out
reported.back ta the House.
a patent there must manufacture under
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is thet patent within two years, and failing
not my intention ta oppose the second read- ta do so, -any resident cf Great f ritain
ing of the B ill. The reasons given in the mey meke application that the patent be
petition would nat satisfy mie as ta the pro- declared void. Unless it cen be shown
priety of renewing the patent. However, that the patentee commenced manufacturthat is e question that can be cansidered ing within the two years, and is continuMr. SPEAKER.
AMERICAN BAR-LOOR PATENT BILL.

M1ARCH 19, 1909
ing te manufacture the article in Great
Britain, he will forfeit hie -rights. A nuinber of most important patents taken out in
Great Britain have, under this new law.
been declared void, thereby creating within
their own country a demand for the manufacture of the articles, the objet of the
acnendment -te the Patent Act being
to prevent foreigners from holding patents and importing the article into the
country rather than manufaoturing in
Great Britain. The amendments te the'
Customs Act brought down ini the United
States Senate two days since are in the
came direction, giving materially lees protection to foreigners taking out patente ln
the United States th-an has heretefore obtained. Every session since I have been
in this House we have had some four or
five Bille before us for the purpose of reinetating patents, without any bona. fide
reason given than that the patentee wae
carelees and had lost his righte in Canada
because he did not take the trouble to protect them. Circumstances arise whioh make
hlm, feel that it je hie interest to have his
rights reinstated, and he applies to parliament for reinstatement. In almost every
case since I have been in this House these
applications have been granted. No member of the Senate can point toe cingle
instance where the Parliament of Great
Britain or the Congress of the United States
bas done anything of the kind. I know of
my own'knowledge that efforts have been
made in that direction, but without succees ln either country where, through carelessnese or otherwiae, a patentee hus lost
hie rights. 1 know nothing of the merite
of this particular Bill. I am advised that
the right to the control of the invention in
Canada is lost te the patentees because they
chose te import the articles and sell theni
in Canada rather than manufacture them
in this country at the beginming.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They
admit that in their petition.
Hon. Mr. JONES-I do not know the detale of this case; but it bas become such
a simple matter te get a reinstatement by
an Act of the parliament of Canada, that
when any considerable order for an article
is ofiered, tbey import before they are ready

to manufacture it in Canada, and rely upon
getting their patent rights reinstated if they
happen to break the law ini that regard. I
say it ie a condition that ouglit not to prevail. A negative condition ie responsible,
practicaily in every case, for the reinstatement of these rights. No one in the House
is specially interested, and the Bills go
through because, apperently, they interfere
with nobody's rights. I dlaima that it should
be the duty of parliainent te grant reinstatement only when the strongeet reasone are
given why, in the interests of Canada,
as well as in the interest of the individual,
such reinstatement of righte should be
made. Two or three years ago the period
covered by letters patent was increased
from 16 te 18 years. In Great Britain and
the United States the life of a patent was
18 yeare, and our parliainent decided te
make the period the same in this country.
I had occasion at that time to discuse with
the mini.ster the advisability of exte.nding
patents owned by Canadians, and which
were being operated under righte from 16
to 18 years, giving te a Canadian the saine
protection that was given te patentees in
Great Britain and the Ufnited States. I
know personaily of two or three cases in
which that condition would have been of
very great benefit indeed te Canadians, but
the minister refused to comply with our
request. I was directly intereeted in somc
of the cases, and"I endeavoured te assiat
others who were interested, believing that
it was a reasone.ble proposition. The Minister, however, refueed and the patents
lapsed at the end of 16 years, and the
patented article was open to competition,
and the importation which took place. I
ar nft going to discuss whether that was
right or wrong. except te point out t.his,
that if a Canadian takes outea patent in this
country, parliament je not prepared'to extend to him, the same advantages that we
are every session extending to foreigners.
I say that the principle je absolutely wrong
and the policy of the parliament of Canada
ought to be revised. The onue should be
placed on the applicant for reinetatement te
show that from some cause not within his
control, and that would resuit in a condition whîch wou.ld be in the intereet of Canada also-that both should exist, before this
House agrees to reinstate him in his

REVISED EDITION

SENATE
rights. No foreigner takes out a patent in
Canada without the advice and help of hie
solicitors. They know what the law is. It is
Ivery simple, more simple in Canada than ini
most countries, and less expensive than
in alxnost any other country in the world.
These conditions are being lived up to in
a careless manner that is flot in the interesta of the Dominion, because if foreign
patentees knew that they could flot get an
extension for their patente what would the
resuit heP If the patent is oonsidered
valuable, or he feels that in the near
future it may become valuable, he aaks
for .a reinstatement of his rights and
gets it. If he knew he could not gel
it, and if we had flot reinstated patents
session after session, he would have cernmenced manufacturing in the Dominion
years before, or some one else wou.ld have
done it and Canada would have benefited.
In every case w!here a reinstatement of a
man's rights was asked for, there la a saving clause attacbed te protect innocent
manufacturera or purchasers wiho may have
gone te the patent office and got information te the eff ect that the law had flot
been complied with, and may have made
arrangements to go on and manufacture the
article. In this particular instance, aithough it is applied for and being looked
after by one of the, if not the most ex!pert
patent solicitor in Canada, it has no saving clauses whatever. It is getting to be
such an easy thing to get these measures
througb the House that we can even drop
the saving clause and depend upon the
Senate or the House of Coanmons, posaibly on both, passing it without any protection to the people who may be innocent
holders of rights or conditions that should
be protected under this Act. I do not say
Vhat in this case it bas not been an oversight, but I say that the ease with whicb
we give relief to these applicants would indicate that if they knew that there
were people using the article, it might
be easily expected from the readiness with
which we granted the relief th«t we would
be prepared to do it even without such
saving clauses as are, I hope, always attached. I venture to say that the records of
the Congressa'<of the United States for 25
years will not show a single instance in
which a Canadian bas isucceeded in getting
Ilon. Mr. JONES.

a reinstatement, and that in the histcry of
the Patent Act there is not a case where the
parliament of Great Britain bas granted
reinstatement, no matter what the conditions were. Wby should we be prepared
to grant reinstatements simply because
they are asked for? That is praotically the
only reason given in Buch cases since I
have been in this House.
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-Hon. gentlemen can
easily understand the difficulty in which
1 arn placed in baving charge of this Bill
by the absence of the Hon. Mr. Campbell,
not having bad instructions before hand;
but I have been one of those who have
always insisted when Bis of this kind
came before us that saving clauses should
be put into tbem in the committee, safeguarding the rights of any persons wbo had
commenced te manufacture during the
period in which the patent was invalid. 1
feel that this may be a case where it may
be necessary for the committee te ainend
the Blill in that way, and the solicitor who,
as the hon, gentleman who has just resumed bis seat bas said, bas a very large
business in this wayHon. Mr. GIBSON-What is his name?
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-Featherstonhaugh.
of Toronto.
Hon. Mr. JONES-He bas an office in
Ottawa.
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-I did not know
tbat. He saye that this Bill is along the
lime of the patents that had been revived
from time te tirne by the Senate. AIl he
asks is that it should receive its second
reading so that it could go before the committee on the 25tb, which will be the day
of meeting of that committee and that he
would appear. before thean te expiain the
Bill and to meet any objections that might
be raised.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-After the address
that we bave had from the hon. member
from Toronto, and i view of the very
limited information that bas been given
why the Bull is brought before us, and the
fact that the Hon. Mr. Campbell, who is
supposed to bave charge of the Bill, is not

MARCH 19, 1909
present to go into a detailed statement af
the reafons why we are asked to consider
this Bill, 1 think it would be better ta
leave the matter over. 1 do not ose that
we should pass this Bill and let it go to the
comrnittee.' I mave that the debate be adjourned until Wednesday next, with a
view of obtaining that information, secanded
by the Hon. Mr. McDonaid, (Cape Breton).
Hon. Mr. POWER. I trust the hon. gentleman viii not persist in that motion. It
bas not been the practice in this House
to diseuss the merits of private Bis in
the Chamber. There bas been a considerable discussion in connection with this particular measure. The hon. gentleman from,
Belleville had the Bill stand over until
to-day on account of certain objectionabie
Meatures which appeared in it, and then
the hon. gentleman from Toronto ha aiea
pointed out certain objectionable features;
but neither of these hot. gentlemen proposes to hiold the Bill up here. If is
not the practice of this House to consider private Bills in the House. What
are our standing committees for, but just
for the purpose of providing means for
careful inquiry into the merits and details
of these Biils, and if the hon. gentleman
from Wellington or any other hon. gentleman after the Bill bas been before the Committee on Private Bills and cornes back
here, does not think that that cornmittee
have doue their duty, and that the Bill is
stii tin an objectionable forrn, of course he
can move against the third reading. But I,
for one, protest againat introducing the
practice of discussing at length private
Bille on their way to committee.

as is the case with ail private Bils practically that go to the committee, the members
of this House arte flot in the position they
ought to be to decide fully upon the principie whi ch I urge this House to take ito
their consideration. Probably the Hon.
MT. Campbell vould not be in a position if he were here to deal with if
fully. The Bill iteeli tells practically ail
the story there is ta fell in a matter of
this kind. If it is, as nine-tenths, or practicaily ail the other Bille that corne ta us;
if there ie any condition in it other than the
crdinary cnes in such Bills, I submit it
wouid be to the general advantage of members to have that stated in the Hanse, before the Bill goes ta committee, snd then
the cornmittee wiii look alter the details,
seeing that safeguards, etc., are incorporated in if. What information wiii the members have alter it cornes back from the committee that they have not now, in case the
third readiag is challenged, as to boy they
vould voteP I submit the question je a
vider one for this House ta consider, than
the one that the hon. gentleman from Halifax bas indicated.

Hon. Mr. JONES-I shunid like to say a
word in reply to what the hon. gentleman
from Halifax bas just said. The principle
of the Bill is being discussed, not upon the
merits of this particular Bill, but upon e
principle that should more or iess guide this
House in legisiation oi this class. 1 submit
to the consideration of this House, although
I did flot suggest or anticipate an amendment, that unless the principle of the Bill is
more iargely given to the House than is
usually done, that unless the details are ini
possession cf the members of this Honse
more intelligently than they wiii be in this,

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-:j vas
rising for the purpose ai attacking the position taken by the hon. gentleman from
Halifax. That is not rny understanding ai
the practice either in this Hanse or in tlhe
other Hanse. I would ask the question,
vhat is the Senate for? A Bill is infraduced invoiving a certain principle, vhether if be a private or public Bill, if makes
no difference. The Senate shonld, in my
opinion, discuss the menite of the Bil ifself vhen it is introduced, and before it je
sent to a committee. They may object ta
the general principie ai the Bil, and that
je the time ta move -far its rejection, or ta
take exceptian ta the principle of the Bill
but conceding the point of allaving if ta
go ta the comrnittee. 1 deem. if ta be the
duty ai the Senate ta discuss every Bil
that je laid before us. The question bas
arisen over and over again, part icularly
during the iast tva sessions, snd the paucity
ai information ve have had upon any and
almost every Bull, except if be a gavernment Bill, that ie introduced juta the Senate. And more than that, this Bil, as I
pointed ont vheu if vas befare the Senate

SENATE
a few days ago, is an extraordinary Bill,
that it does nlot contain the clauses whicb
proteet those who xnay have manufactured
the article when the provisions of the law
had not been carried out. There are only two
provisions in this Bill. The first, is to revive the patent. The next is to declare that
the unlawful act cornmitted by the owners
of the patent, who are the only persons set
forth in the petition who have violated the
conditions and provisions of the Patent
Act by importing from Philadelphia into
this country the article which. they hold
under patent in Canada, shall not cause
the forfeiture of their rights. I repeat that
is the allegation in the petition itself, which
they present, that they themselves, owing
to the failure of the party to whom they
had assîgned the rig-ht to manufacture in
Canada having failed to do so, and they
had imported it themselves, they ask under
this Bill to be protected from the consequences of having violated the law.
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-I quite agree with
what the hion, gentleman from Belleville
has said as to the reviving of these patents,
'but I will read the communication I had
from the solicitors of the company which
might throw some light on it, and it might
show how Bills of a similar character have
been deait with, and how the Patent Act
deals with the matter. This company is
nlot asking anything unreasonable, as some
hon. gentlemen seem to think in the matter.
If the Bill goes before the committee, the
members will have an opportunity of examining into it more fully than this House
can under the present circumstances. The
petition sets forth a good deal of information as to why the lapse took place, and
why they are asking for the reviving of the
patent more than the Bill on the face of
At does. The letter I have received this
morning reads as follows:
Hon. Geo. McHlugh,
The Senate, Ottawa.
Dear Sir,Re the American Bar Lock Co. Bill.
We note the objection, which has been
raised. We sent copy of petition to Mr.
Campbell, but undoubtedly he has nlot banded it to you. In the second, third, fourth and
fifth clauses of thie petition you will see that
the manufacture of this invention has been
carried on in Canada in Montreal and je stili
being carried on by the Luxfer Prism Company, but that a small period elapsed in
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

which the trade had to be supplied by importation.
However, the above mentioned
clauses in the petition explain this.
We inclose you the patent deed itsehf and
You will note that the patent is dated 9th
May, 1905, and that manufacture commenced
on the 14th Âugust, or' within four months
from thse date of the patent, so that every
condition of the patent had been fulfilled.
You will also note an endorsation on thse
patent deed inside of it by which. thse patent
is ordered te be subject to paragraph a, b. o,
d, of section 7 of 1903 instead of section 4.
This section 7 is now section 44, and original
section 4 je now section 38 of the Patent Act
of the revised statutes of 1906. These sections
are marked in the inclosed copy o! the Patent
.Act. As these sections provide that a patent
need not be manufactured but licenses may
be granted thereunder, you will see that it
was not necessary to manufacture under the
patent. However, our clients did arrange a
license te manufacture under the patent within four monthe as aforesaid, and that, therefore, the manufacture took place well within
the two years in which it muet take place by
the Act, section 38.
With the petition and this information at
hand you will undoubtedhy be able to convince the Senate that everything hae been
done and je being done as to manufacture as
is required by thse Act.
Our Mr. Fetherstonhaugh will be very
pheased when the Bill cornes up before the
committee after the second reading te make
such further explanations as we think, will
be entirely satiefactory to the committee.
We trust you wilI be able to have a consideration o! this Bill on the 25th inst. as
formally intimated, and our Mr. Fetherstonhaugh wîll go down as stated in our former
letter.
Kindly csrefully preserve the patent deed
so that our Mr. Fetherstonhaugh may have it
when he cornes down.
Yours faithfuhhy.
FETHIERSTONHÀAUGH & CO.
In the face o! that, the hion. member for
Wellington may possibly withdraw bis motion.
The House divided on the ameadment,
which was host on the following division.
Contents 9, non-contents 10. Names not

recorded.
The motion for the second reading of the
Bill was agreed to, and the Bill was then
read a second time.
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (No. 29) An Act respecting thse Winnipeg and Northwestern Railway.-(Hon. Mr.
Young).
Bill (No. 37) An Act to incorporate thse
Western Canadian Life Assurance Companv.-(Hon. Mr. Bostock).

MÀRCH 23, 1909
Bill <No. 49) An Act respecting the Ottawa, Northern and Western Railway Coinpany.-(Hon. Mr. Derbyshire).
Bill (No. 55) An Act to incorporate the
British Columibia Life Assurance .Company.
-Hon. Mr. Riley).
Bill <No. 61) An Act respeeting the Burrard, Westminster Boundary Railway and
Navigation Company.-<Hon. Mr. Bostock).
NIAGARA WELLAND POWER COMPANY
BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN moved the second
reading of Bill (No. 33) An Act respecting
the Niagara-Welland Power Company.

213

may be disposed to think they should not
encourage the building of railways to coinpete wit-h the government road. If the Hon.
Mr. Talbot were here himself, he could
give us the explanation that is necessary;
and I may say finally that the Bill has not
been printed in French.
Hou. Mr. BOSTOCK-I will point out to
the House that we passed a Bill for the
Hudson Bay and Pacific Railway 'which.
would practically go over somewhat the
saine ground as this, and I do flot think the
country wants to grant a charter for that.
1 would point out to the hion, gentleman
from Halifax that I have a copy of the
Bill in French.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I waive that objection.

Hon. Mr. POWER-This is a matter about
which there has been consîderable difference of opinion in this House, and I think,
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
a good deal of discussion out of doors, and was read a second time.
it is probably due to the House that the
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday next
hion. gentleman should explain at any rate
at three o'clock.
briefly why we are called on to pass this
measure.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI would suggest, looking at the state of
the House, that if there is any question of
importance to corne before us, that we had
hetter defer the consideration of this Bill.

THE SENATE.

OwrrÂw&, Tuesday, Mardi 23, 1909.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I move that the o'clock.
order of the day be discharged, and set
Prayers and routine proceedinge.
down for Tuesday next.
*
THIRD READING.
The motion was agreed ta and thie order
of the day was discharged.
Bill (No. 52) An Act respecting the Bank
of Vancouver.-<Hon. Mr. Bostock).
PRINCE ALBERT AND HUDSON BAY
SECOND READINGS.
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
Bill (L) An Act respecting certain letters
SECOND READING.
patent of Franklin Montgomery Grey.Hon. Mr. McHUGH (in absence of Mr.
Talbot) moved the second reading of Bill <Hon. Mr. Talbot).
Bill (No. 76) An Act to incorporate the
(No. 62) An Act to incorporate the Prince
Imperial Fire Insurance Company.-(Hon.
Albert and Hudson Bay Rai]way Company.
Mr. Chevrier).
-(Hon. Mr. Talbot).
Bill (No. 40) An Act to incorporate the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do flot think that Great West Permanent Loan Company.motion should pass without some explan- (Hon. Mr. Chevrier).
ation. This proposed railway would appear
SENATE REFORM.
to be intended to compete with the railway
which the government are expected to
DEBÂTE CONTINIJED.
subsidize, and the House should have an
The order of the day being calhed
opportunity to consider it a lîttie first. The
Resuming the
debate on the mogovernment, on looking into the matter, tion of the Hon. adjourned that it be resolved:
Mr. Scott

SENATE

1. That ini the opi.nionLcf the Senate the
tires lias arrived for so amfending the constitution of thie branch of parliament as to
Lx ing the modes of selection of senators more
into harmony with publie opinion.
2. That the introduction of an elected eiement applying it approximately to two-thirds
of the number cf senators would bring the
Senate more into harmony ith the principies of popular. government than the presýent
system ef appointing the sntire body of senators by the rown or 112e
3. That the terni for which a senator may be
elected or appointed,. Le limîted to seven
yeare.
4. That the provinces of Ontario and Quebec
bc each divided into sixteen electorai districts
for representation in this Chamber. That the
provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick
bc each divided into seven electoral districts,
and the province cf Prince Edward Island
into two electoral districts for election to this
Chamber; and that for the present, and until
the four western provinces have b-cen given increased, representation in this Chamber, that
Manitoba, iSaskatchewan and Alberta be each
one divided into three electoral districts, and
that the province of British Columbia Le divided into two electoral distrcts, ail for the
election of candidates for representation in
the Senate.
In defining the said electoral districts, due
regard being had, net only te approximately
equalizing the population in each district, but
to convenience local interests and county
boundaries.
5. That immediatelç 'ifter the said electoral
districts shail have been defined and agreed
upon, a member cf the existing Senate shall
be allotted te eacli of the said districts, having due regard, as far as practicable, teresidence. local interests or other reasons
6. That as vacancies hereafter arise in the
representation of the said electoral districts,
the vacancy shall be filled by the electora cf
that district entitled te vote îfor members of
the Hlouse cf Commons.
7. That in order te diminish the expenses
v.ttending elections over wide areas, and te
secure a larger and freer expression of independent opinion, the system of compuisory
voting shall apply te ail elections of senators;
voter being required te exorcise hie
every te the franchise, and by ballot, under a
rliglit
penalty of ten dollars, te Le collected by the
returning officer and applied in reduction of
election expenses. Provided that any elector
may be excused from voting on producing a
medical certificate that hie state of hoalth did
net admit of hie attendance at the polls, or a
certificats froma the local judge that important business or other reasonabîs excuse preventsd his exsrcising hie franchise.
8. That the rsmaining eight senators in
oach of the provinces of Ontario and Quebec;
the remaining thres senators in Nova Scotia
and in New Brunswick, and the two romaining senators in Prince Edward Island, and
the remainîng senator in eacli cf the provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchswan, Alberta and
Britishi Columbia, who had net been allotted
te any constituency, shaîl Le classed as senators for the particular province at large, and
as a vacancy arises in that class, it ahail be
filled by appointmsnt, as at present by the
Crown.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

9. That in order te more nsnrly equalize
the standing cf political parties in the
Senate, on the occasion cf a change in the
government, the principle laid down in sectiens 26 and 27 of txe British North America
Act shall apply; ébat is te say, the incoming
administration may appoint an additional
number cf eenaters, net exceedng nine if in
the opinion cf the Governor Generai, acting
independently cf the Privy Coundil, the request is a reasonable one, b t not; more than
one cf the senators te be appointed, shail be
taken £rom any one province; and that ne
more appointmonts cf senators shail ha made
for that province until a second vacancy lias
arisen; thus reverting te the original number
cf senatoe allotted te the aaid province.
10. That the senators repressnting the seyeral dufferent prcvinoee ha requested te meet
and suggest he best mode cf dividingz the
province inte Senate electeral districts and
aiso the naine cf the senator who will represent each particular district.
Il. That the Houe cof Com mens ha asked te
concur in the proposed changes in the constitution cf the Sonate.
Mlj.That the Sonate and Hlouas cf Commons
adopt a joint addresa te His Gracioua Majesty
the Ring praying that the British North
America Act, and the Acte under which British Columbia and Prince Edward Island onterod the union, be se amended as te conform
te the fdregoing resolution.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-said: The hon. senator from Ottawa is te ho commended for
Lringing this question fairly and squnrely
before us, as it has been brought in the
other House and as it stands before the
country. Net that it ia a pleaisant sensation for one te be amputated cf some of his
limbs, te commit suicide, or even te make
a public confession cf his shortcoming; but
there is ne denying that there is something
wrong in the constitution of the upper
Houso, and that a great many throughout
the land shout for our scalps. If we are te
be reformed at ail, let it be done with a
good grade, and, like Socrates, lot us ourselves pour the hemlock. If chloroform is
te ho administered, lot us administor it ourselves. Lot us not be like tho Bourbons
of France, who would neither lenrn ner
torget anything, until thoy wero ewept eut
cf the land in disgrace. With the mode
of reform propounded by the hon. senater
from Ottawa I cannot, on the whole, agres.
Possibly few among us agree, except my
hon. friend from Wolseley (Hon. Mr. Perloy), who seconded tho motion without unsurpnssed enthusiasm; but the scarcity
cf secondera simply shows the necessity
that some other plan cf reform be suggested
which may prove more acceptable. Be it

MARCH 23, 1909
what it may, I have a suggestion to
make, a plan Vo propose, in which, I trust,
soma few practical and good points may
be detected. At the outset, let me say
tbat I absolutely concur in the conclusions
*of the hion. senator from Middlesex <Hon.
Mr. Boss> that parliament is powerlss
te enact any change in the constitution of
Canada unless and except the original
parties te the compact be first censulted,
and have declared themsives agresable
to the change. I will go one better; the
imperial parliament itself may not, surely
will not, alter the constitution of Canada,
or any essential part thereof, whereby the
status of the original self -govsrning
provinces would ho materially affected,
unless the provinces as well as parliament
concur in the alterations. Are we, because
of these obstacles, Vo stand passive and
allow the situation to become grave, nay,
acute? We would be both unwise snd unpatiiotic in doing so. Ours is a case 'where
an ounce of prevention is better than a
pound of cure. But, withoiit any more pie.
face, let me immediately plunge into medias
tes. Many of you no doubt are anxious
to see what sort of a child 1 amn about
Vo bring forth. I will fiast read the whole
of my améndinent and thon take it seriatise
clause by clause:
First. Senators Vo be chosen and appeinted by their respective provinces; must
have resided at least five years in the province immed.iately before their election or
their appointment; thiee senaters from each
province shail ho elected by their own
orders, namely, one by universities and
other oducational institutions cf higher
standing, one by the boards of trade, and
one by the newspaper fraternity; the mode,
manner and time of election or appointment to bo left in all cases entirely with
the provinces.
Article second. Terni of office, nins
years, one-third of the Senate renewable
every three years, beginning at a given
date.
Three. 'No property qualification essential;
intellectual and moral qualifications preferred.
Four. The Senate to elect its own Speaker.
Five. In case of a deadlock, and in some
other specifie cases, conferencos of the two
Houss.

Sixth. Power in the Crown te appoint,
for a terni not exceeding three yeais, two
additional senators from each. province.
Seven. Cabinet ministers te sit in either
House, with power Vo vote in one only.
As for the
st, te stand, mutatis
mutandis, as it is now. Senators chosen
and appointed by their -respective provinces. That, in my estimation, is the main
thing. As .constituted now, what do we
represent? Is it net logical that the agent
shouli be appeinted by his principal, that
the delegate should tae his authoiity from
the delegator? What had oui provinces to
do with our appointmentP Nothing whatseever. The constitution does net even provide that we shoiild hail from the provinces
we are appointed te represent. The gevernmont could take a Chinaman and appoint hlm for New Brunswick or Ontario
or Quebec, provided hie qualifies himsif
then and there. There is somsthing radically illogical in that. The Senate is net
for ornament; it is net intended as an
asyluni for political refugees. There would
be ne necessity for a Senate in a democracy
like ours if it wsîe net to represent the
different provinces that constitute the confederacy. The people are amply repiesented
in the other House. We have universal
suffrage; the people elect whom they please
for the House of Commons. The parliamentary termi of their representatives is five
yeais, practically four ysars. As f ai as the
individual citizens are concerned, they are
governed according te their lown will; bnt
in a confsderation there is net enly the
citizen te be coneideied, there -are the
original' provinces constituting the confederacy that agreed upon entering inte
the compact of confederation. Those provinces nscesaarily must be represented. Apparently they are in Canada, but actually
they are net. There has been considerable
discussion about the gonesia of the Senate,
how it came te be that senaters are appointed as they are now, by the Crown and
for life. If we refer te the early history of
Canada, ws can readily discever why. For
a long period the provinces had ne respensible goverinent; the fanxily compact, an
appemnted f axily, compact ruled. Thon
came the constitution cf 1841. The pendulum, swung the ether way, and evsrything
was elective until a deadleck occurred. and

SENATE
then the pendulum again swung back its
full sweep, and appointments by the Crown
for life were restored. Appointments of
legisiators are made by the Crown-by the
Orown which bas flot the power to make
laws-behold, it appoints delegates possessing more power than itself. That is absolutely illogical. Appointment for life is
an antiquated institution; a medieval system.
Look at the movement of democracy of
modern ages? Lif e tenures have been universally abolished, flot because it was not
a good and proper thing at times when
kings were omnipotent, when the lords
were hereditary and for life, but because
the movement of modern times is towards
establishing governments on principles
that are democratic. Even in England, the
parent of ail parliaments, you know as
well as I do that the peers of Ireland and
Scotls.nd have become elective. We know
that the report of the commission that was
appointed to reformn the Elouse cf Lords
recommends an elective House of Peers.
elected by their own orders for England
itself. This ia logical. England, in its
House of Lords, bas a second Chamber.
Those lords were there by ight co-existant
with the King's, and representing special
interests and castes; in fact, Up to about
one hundred years ago, the House of Comnmons even was indirectly the echo of the
House of Lords, and a great many members
of the lower House weme elected by the influence of the upper House. But look at
what bas becLome of this n)erennial institution. It is becoming totally modemnized
As to our own Senate, let me read to you
just a few opinio•sé expmessed by ex-Senator
Mills, an authority on the constitution of
Canada, when he bmought that question up
in the House of Commons in 1875. I will
merely quote two or three sentences. He
said:

The Senate has no substantial basis whatsoever. There is no part of the community
which it can be said to represent.

Now, for comparison, let us look at
what .is done in the other counitries.
0f course, wheme a country is homogeneous, such as France, Spain, Italy,
the necessity of a eecond Chamber
ia not as great as in a confedemacy;
still each has its Senate, but it represents
special interests, or rather a particular
class of voters. It is not elected by the
samne electorate thýat elect the House of
Coenmons. It is elected by an electorate of
the second degree, as witneffl France, as
witness Switzerland. These countries having studied the principles of self-government in other countries, and especially
in England, have adopted what was
thought by them to be the best and the
most in accordance with democratic principles. In France, by the constitution of
1875, they had 75 senators for life, and the
rest elected. They did amend that constitution, flnding that a part of it did not
work, and now ail their senators are elected
for a temmi of years, but not by the same
electorate as the House of Representatives.
In France, senators are elected by an electoral college, meeting in the chief town of
the department, and composed fimst of
pamliamentary deputies, second, o! the
members of the depamtmental council; third.
of the members of the district council
(d'arrondissement); foumth, of delegates
elected from among the electors o! the comnThe
mume by each municipal coundil.
upper House of France is a body indirect]y
mepresenting the people, but clirectly appointed by a special electorate. That is
proper and logical in a country which is
a unit as France is.
The Commonwealth of Australia has had
the advantage of the experience o! ail other
countries. Australia would have no appointed senators. They have no senators
The present mode of constituting the Senate appointed for lufe there. They make the
is inconsistent with the federal principle un- whole province one electomate. That again
(;er our system of government.
la logical, although in my view ii is not
The Senate shoixld be organized on aý desirable, because it is the samne elecfederal basis; that is, whereby the prov- tomate that elects both Houses; still it
inces, whîch constitute the federal body, is logical in that the whole province conshall have the election, the appointmnent stitutes one electomate. A remarkable feaof their own agents or representatives. I ture of the debates, which were extensive, and in which the best and most capCiuote from Mihîs:
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

MNARCH 23, 1909
able men of the different provinces took and higher officiais cf the United States;
an active part, is the fact that there was wherein the other House, I may say, is
flot one suggestion or motion for an ap- rnerely a spectator. That is certainly suffipointed Senate. One of the reasons why cient te give a status te the Unuited States
an appointed Senate was not even seriously senaters'such as the members cf the House
tsken into coneideration was because in of Representatives have not. The Senate
some of the provinces they have nominated controls the best patronage in the land.
Second, the Senate has sole power to,
upper Chambers, and those people, who
are logical, said: 'How can a nominative try ail impeachiments, the accusing party
upper Chamber appoint a Senate, and give being the House of Representatives. The
it more power than it possesses itself?' 0f Lower Hous, as it were. is simply coming
course you know the situation that exiets before the bar of the Senate, which sits
as te the South African confederacy? There there as a tribunal. You at once ses the
are to be ten senators from each province, defference bstween the two Houses, and
eight of then -appointed by the legisiatures why it ia the Senate cf the United States
and two specially representing particular edlipse the other House.
Third. The Senate and Hous of Repreinterests.
Now, take the experience of the United sentatives are practically equal before the
States.
It is alleged that the United exchequer. Ail Bis for raising revenue
States Senate ia, in some respects, a failure. originate in the House cf Representatives, but are amended by the Senate.
There has .never been in the history of
the world since the rise of the Roman and do you know what that power
empire a Senate so powerful, so enliglit- cf amendment means ? It means practically that the Senats of the United
ened, and, I might say, more patriotic
States contre] the public expenditures. If
than the Senate of the United States. So
much is that the case, that it eclipses the one follows the history of the money Bills
brought before Congreas by the iower
House of Representatives almest to the
House and what became cf themn after
saine extent that our Hous of Commons
edipses the Canadian Senate. And why is they had been been handled by the other
House, it will be seen that the Senate has
this? Because the senators of the United
in reality the control of the finances cf
States corne there as plenipotentiaries from
the republic. You saw it lately in the mattheir respective provinces. It has been said
ter of building ships. The Senate can, and
they have become too powerful. They are
they do, amend, and the other Heuse, in
to-day a plutocracy elected too often by inorder te pass their estimates, have usuaily
trigue and money. That is due to two
te asubmit te the dictuin of the Senate.
causes. The reason why that House has Thatisaone
cf the meats on which that god
grown s0 great is this: That the Senate feeda and is
becoming se great.
cf the United States has mucli greater
My next proposition: A senateor must,
power than the House of Representatives. have resided at least five ysars in
the
The man that sways, is the man that holds province lie represents iminediately bethe power. A tramnp has the deed of the fore election or appointment. That needa
land and the hous I live in; al- no explanation. Gentlemen can be spthough I may be well dressed and educated, pointed te represent in the Senate a proand put on airs, hie is the master. vince in which they have never hived;
The United States senators have powers whose air tliey have neyer breathed, whose
executive, judicial and legisiative, and institutions and people tliey have neyer
many of themn te the exclusion of the learned te love; wliose history they ignore.
other House.
The constitution laya" it *In zny proposition a senator, before hie can
down that the President may conclude lie appointed te 'represent his province,
treaties with other nations by and with must show that lie is really frem that
the advice of the Senate, a majority of two- province and lias lived there for at least
thîrds being necessary, and the same thing five years. In this I sinnply copy wihat
as regards the appointment of ambassa- *obtains in ether confederacies.
dors, counsel, judges cf the Supreme Court
Three senators from each province sall

SENATE
and tee most valube elected by their own orders, nainely, one ly be among the best
able of ail -the representatives. But this
by the universities and the other educaThe Latin races which
tional institutions of higher standing, one is no noval idea.
spirit what they
by the board of trade and one by the news- have copied in an eclectic
have seen in other countries have special
pa.per fraternity.
classes.
In England the mother of our parlia- representatives o! the intellectual
always been
mente, epecial intereste have
Hon. Mr. DANDUBAND-We have them
effectually guarded by the House of Lords.
to have special already.
The trend of modern ideas is
interests guarded. For mutual developHon. Mr. CLORAN-Would the hon. genment, to ascend to higher spheres, it is to tleman make a distinction between worthy
education, ko arts, ko sciences, we have to journaliste and unworthy journaiats?
look. Commerce will take care of itself.
Agriculture will take care of itself. They
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-The saine distinccan elect whom they like; but while these tion I would make between a trustare the basis of material prosperity, special worthy elector or senator and an unworthy
attention should be given to the institu- element which will ultimately get on top
tions to which we owe principally oui ad- and in control.vancement ini the higher arts, and these
The eighteenth. ciass of senators in Italy
are o ur universities, colleges, normal
la takien from among the members o! the
schools and technical schools. Who wil
Royal Academny o! Sciences and of other
deny the higher inteilectuai institutions of literary and scientific institutions; the ninethe land, special representation in Canada
teenth class froin members of the Superior
which at present they have notP Why
Council of Education.
have they none? Because they cannot. I
In Spain, the presidents of the six nawould go further and have the boards of
facto senators.
have the highest commnercial in- tional academies are ipso
trade to
Who will deny that those people are flot
terests in the land represented directly by
Who will question
one of their own nominees and elected by desirable in parliamentP
the propriety o! having colleges and unitheir own orders.
here by men
I would also have the newspapers re- versitiee directly represented
the
What the newspapers have who wiil not be elected to look after
presented.
of civiliza- patronage, the building of bridges or other
done for spreading the best form
be specially here
tion over the world ia possibly beyond similar pursuite, but 'will
that are free to enlighten the Senate upon questions of
comprehension. The one class
would have in my
to-day in this Canada o! ours and in al higher importance. I
Senate, while each province has tee eleccountries, free beyond any oteer clss, withthree classes
out exception, ko speak out their mind, tion of ail its senators, tee
of senators mentioned at the end of
and have the courage to speak it, are
test tee mode, manner
the newspaper men. They are at the head my firat article; but
and time of election or appointinent be left
of ail upward movemente. They are the
the provinces.
men who dare denounce crime and en- in ail cases entirely with
Now, that is one of tee defects of tee UJnited
lighten the people unselfishly. They are
In the United States
the fourth estate, and that fourth estate States constitution.
is Made
to-day for tee betteranent oi humanity, bar- the appointinent of tee senators
course by, I may say, irresponsible persons. That
ring religion, is the most potent-of
the president la
I bow my head before religion, which le la an anomaly. While
elected by delegates who bave been apdivine. As the newspaper men are comwho are not subject
paratively few in the land, they cannot pointed ad hoc, and
to be infiuenoed by money, senators are
elect one of their own except perhaps by
legislatures
chance. They should be represented as a chosen by the members of the
that effect
body, as an institution. The newspaper who have no special mandate to
should have a direct direct froin tee people, or froin a responaimen in each province
be made a governrepresentative in this House, and that re- ble ministry. If it could
would most like- ment measure, it would not be influenced,
presentative o! journalism,
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

MARCH 23, 1909
or very littie, by money. It is the individual members of the legisiatures who
elect senators in the 'United States, with
thre resuit that you know. They are
trying al their hast, but you know how
difficuit it ie, ta amend thre American institution. They have resorted ta a sort of referendum ini many states for having thre
Senate elected by the people at large, but
with no satisfactary re.sults ini moet instances, there being nothing behind ta sanction it. Let us have the provinces appoint
their senatora in the manner in which.
they think hast; if one method does not
suit they will alter it until they wauld
On that
reseir the utmost perfection.
score 1 would cite thre freest, in rny estimation, of ail modem nations, Switzerlsnd,
where the membere of the Upper Housa
are elected by the canton. Each canton
electa two eenatars. They ara s0 jealous
af their privileges and powers there that
they maire, as I suggest for ourselves, their
own mode of election, choose their own
time, and even psy their awn elect een-ators sa that they can be influenced by
no other power. That, hon. gentlemen, is
perfactly logical. I do flot care by what
mode of election a Canadian senatar
ire appointad if hie comes here ta represent
hie province, duly delagated by hie province. Thre province wül see that he je
properly appointed and weil qualified.
The responsibility in each province ta
appoint ite own senatore, would ward off
tira monetary influences which. have dons
s0 much ta injure the reputation of the
Sanata in thre United States. If on the
othar hand you have thre senatore elected
by the whole province as a unit, minarities
would likely ire snowed undar. By having
two or tree conetitup.ncies ta elect one saenatar, it would be very. difficuit in the province af Quebec ta alect an Englieh apeaking
candidate. It would be very difficuit in Ontario ta elect a Frenchr speakmng candidate,
and it would be very difficuit in the Domminian ta elect a compatriot af my hon.
friand who interrupted me a few minutes
ago. I would trust eacir province as ona
entity ta do justice ta minorities ns they
do it naw. To-day, Ontario an Englisir
speaking Protestant province, has given a
portfolio of tire first magnitude in its local
government ta a Frenchr Catholic (Mr.

Rhe-aurne).
We the minority ara wi]ling
ta trust the English epeaking majority for fair play. In tira province ai Quebac, the English population would be raprasented hare as tirey are tire in the cabinets, local and faderai. The influences
which, wauld be brought ta bear ini eacb
province would ba adequately represanted,
and I, hailing from New Brunswick,
would ire 'wiiling ta trust ta tire liberal or Conservative majarity ai my province ta do justice ta tha Frenchr minarity
ta give them «twa senatars ta *which they
are entitlad by their numbers and, passibly, by other qualifications. That finisiras
article ana, which, is tira mamn item in my
programme. My second proposition is that
tire termi ai office eirould ha nina yaars.
In the Âustralian Senate, tire tarmin j six
yaars, and in tire United States six years;
in tire French Upper Hanse nine years, and
it is propaaed ta maire it tan years in tire

Sauth African Confederation. I

thinir nine

years would ha more workable if one third
ai the Hanse were ranewable every 3 years,
ail 'which could ha easily arranged. Property
qualification la nat raquired. Can ana of us

finr

for a moment tirat when a province

has tire appointment or nomination ai a
sens.tor they would nat pick a man who je
qualifledP Praperty qualification amacirs ai
a time 'when a representative meant a big
man if ha liad a big revenue, or a little man
or no man at ail if hie owned ne property.
Property is a good tiring, but tire man
must ha en top, ha master ai the property,
and nat the property master ai the man.
If tire praperty were the only or the main
qualification for reprasentation in the eyes
ai the civilized worid, nana ai the apostles
would have been eligible ta go out and
epraad. the gospel. I need nat expatiate an
iis; it is seif-evident. In Australia, I beliave, tire same qualifications are demanded for either Hause.
The riait item in my programma ia that
thre Senate would have the power ai alecting its own speaker. Canada is possibly
tire only country in the warld where a
House having powers such as wa posseas
canat elect ifs own presiding officer.
Tiray hava it in England, but thre situation
there ie very different. Thare the speaker
ai the upper House ie nat necessarily a
senator; ha ia aiten a member ai tire other

SENATE
Houae. -He is appointed to preside in the
upper House, but he is not a ruember of it
of necessity. Every House, in order to be
free, needs must have the power of 'choosing its own president. Unlese it has, it je
an ernasculated institution, under tutelage.
In oui reforrned Senate, the speaker muet
be elected by the senators; o'therwise it
will be ia Senate suoh as we have, a nomiinative Senate with borro-wed powers, but
with no proper powers.
The fifth clause is, in case of a deadlock,
and in sorne other specified cases, conferences cf the two Houses. Now notwlthstanding ail those shortcoenings to which 1
have referred, we are in one way the inost
poweriul body of ail self-governing countries
in the whole worid. Go over the goveruments of the world and you will find that
in time of criais and deadlcck a way is provided to get over it. Not so in Canada; the
Senate, which is respousible to uobody, can
check everything. Iu England, where the
Lords are so powerful, and have been from
time inmemorial, a deadlock oan 'be broken.
The Crown is ernpowered to appoint a sufficient number of additioual Lords to move
on the car of state. It is so in ail other
countries. In France they provide for conferences of the two Houses. A sirnilar
provision exists in Australia, and they are
going to have it in South Africa. Here
we have nothing of the sort. In case of
a deadlock, where is the rernedy? None.
The government may appoint six senThat would not be sufficient
ators.
if the rebellions party here had a majorThere is a posaiity of seven or more.
bility, therefore, o! an absolute deadlock. Now that should not be. Every
country and every institution should have
the means, under its owu constitution,
to break a deadlock that would not only
paralyze, but put an sud, 1 rnay say,
That point can be very
to its existence.
easily arranged; we could adopt sorne
provision that has proved to be valuable lu
other countries.
My sixth clause is power iu the Crown
te appoint for a terrn not exceedîng three
yesrs twç additioual senators from each
province. That is different frorn the provision existing now. In thîs I arn keeping
in view the principle oP a confederacy. lu
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

case of a difficulty arisinýg betweeu the
Senate and the House o! Commons, the
goverumnent now can appoint six men taking them from anywhere-taking them frorn
the flnited States if they choose te, -provided the members appoînted would becorne British subjects. In the appointment
o! additional senators, 1 would rather
make them unlimited, retaining the safeguard that each province should continue
to be proportionally represented, and not
ail the senators taken frorn one o! the
Supposing it is one province,
provinces.
say one of the senatorial divisions lu the
west that would eucroach upon sorne o!
the eastern provinces, the goverumeut
could, if it choose, make their eucroaching
powers greater by appointiug six addiThe
tional senaters frorn that province.
appointments should be distributed among
ail the provinces, and thereby the principle o! a confederacy would be maintained.
The seventh item is, cabinet rnisters
to sit in either House, but with power to
vote lu one only. For that I do hornage
to the ex-Speaker o! the Senate, who proSuch a provision
posed it before me.
exists in other countries, and is working
well. It la logical to. 0f course this
provision dos not exist in England,
No doubt if Englaud were te write
a new constitution to-day, ministers of
the Crown would have the right to sit
Why is it they do noît
in both Houss.
Bit lu both Houses uow lu EuglaudP Every
one f amiliar with the histery of Englaud
kuows why-the Lords would uot have men
frorn the other orders to sit with thern.
ThereThey are too exclusive for that.
fore it is that ministers ouly ait in the
Hous they belong to. But a minister
should be empowered to sit in sither House
to press ministerial Bis and especially
in a country like ours where ministerial
respousibility prevails to its uttermost, aimoat to an abuormal extent. A minister
should have power to sit lu eîther House,
but o! course the privilege to vote only in
the House te which he belongs. Now, I
have given 'what I thought, and stili think,
would be an improvement upon our constitution. Some hon. gentlemen rnay rernember that I brought up the question of

MARCH 23, 1909

Senate reforrn in 1890, and 1 was sorry for
it, because of the treatrnent I received
then and there. -I was then positiveiy sat
upon, but things have changed since. The
Conservatives were in power then, and
thouglit poésibiy, they might always be in
power. To-day the Liberals hoid office. The
hion, gentleman from Ottawa (Hon. Mr.
Scott) knows the difficulty of ieading a,
Senate with an adverse majority. In four
years more, when the Conservatives will be
i power, they will find themselves confronted with a Senate ai-most exciusively
cornposed of memibers of the Liberai party,
many of whorn may be less amenabie to
discipline than the Conservatives were i
1896. 1 dread sorne of my hion. colleagues
from'the wild and woolly west; it would
be pretty difficuit for any leader to get
them -into lime and have them vote with
the majority. Those possibilities are to be
avoided.
As9 1 eaid at the beginning of these remarks, it is good poiicy for us to take
up this question of Senste reform; to
grapple with it seriously; tVo show the
country,
our country, that we are
here flot merely as civil servants of
a higher standing, not merely as a
first-ciass political club, but that aithough flot appointed by them, we
are -the guardians of the rights of our
severai provinces; thiat althougli fot elected
by thern, we are the representatives of the
Canadiait people, that although we have
corne to life irregulariy, with no parent
to whom we can appeal for a mandate, we
are not, as has been said, an exerescence
on the constitution of Canada.
The question is a lîve issue, hion. gentlemen. Sir Wilfrid has it on his reformi
programme; Mr. Borden has made of it
one plank of his election platforrn, and
the country awaits f or what is te be done
next.
Just now there may be no pressing neceesity for a reform. We may think it sufficient, as the hon. senator from Wellington
thought it sufficient, for us Voolook over
the Bills that corne to us froi the other
House and make sorne few aiterations of
more or less importance, a work that
speoialiy trained clcrks miglit make with
equai efficiency in many instances. We
may continue to think that we are a check

o11 the other buse, whîch we weil-know,
and the country feels that we are not i
reality. There is not a measure however detestable, the government could noV force on
the Senate. I arn sorry the doors are noV
closed; I wouid rather this would mot go
to the country. I arn an old.4irner here,
lion. senators, and 1 remember when there
was more pride in the Senate than there
is now. We had at least then the nomination
of our own officers. I have seen a Prime
Minister rying te get a messenger appointed, and the motion was carried by one vote
only, and the man waz a splendid messenger. To-day we have not even tee appointment of our own cierks. If Jupiter or some
of the minor gods, some of the inferior busy
gods, but nod, we bow te their dictiation.
We have lost the pride there once exiated
in our Senate, and are actualiy in te
hands of tee other House. That je logicial
again; we are the appointees, I of Sir John
Macdonald, most of you lion. gentlemen
of Sir Wilfrid Laurier. If Sir John Macdonald were to orne and say: «'Poirier, 1
want you te vote for that Bill' I wotild
feel somewhat in the position of a delegate towards tee delegater. It *would be
hard for me te say no. We ernanate from
the Prime Minister, tee Senate te-day is a
cisass of civil servants-by the word civil
servants I mean appointees of a higher
order sirnpiy, but in no wise a representaVive body.
But it is to the future we must look.
This is a new country, immense in territory, unlimited in possibilities, now in its
formative period. We are composed of nine
provinces to-day, ail living in peace, harmony and good-will one towards the other.
Who can say what antagonismn may develop
in future years' What strain there rnay
be in the unity of our country inter on? It
has been said that but for the Senate of
tee United States, a Senate represemting in
fact the severai states of tee union, the
commonwealth of our neighbours Vo te
soute would stand te-day dismernbered, rent
asurder.
There is no doubt that we ahail not
endure eternally in universai harmony;
future difficulties are sure Vo corne, because thq beginnings have been too
harmonious. We shahl have our triais as
a confederation. WThat will keep the prov-

SENATE
inces together if there is no proper, strong.
trusted link to hold themP
That link
should be here as it is in the United States,
s it ie in Switzerland, as it is in Australia, as it is in Germany, a Senate appointed
by and trul y representing the several provincee of the Domninion. As i~t is 'now eonetituted, it would not be equal to the task,
nor trusted to perform it.
The mnodus
operandi for amending our constitution is
easy, especiaily compared with what
prevails in the United States. Let
there be a convention, just as there wa.4
in Quebec before laying the basis of confederation, a convention of delegates of
the several provinces of the Dominion and
of the House of Commons and of the Sen.
ate, say two delegates from each pohitical
entity, and let thema meet to di-scuss 'what
should be done in the way of reformning or
rather reconstructing the Senate.
On such
a basis it will be possible to reach practical
resuits; we could afterwards have the Imperial parliament alter the original charter if granted the Dominion of Canada in
1867-and make the Senate what it was intended to be, what it ehould be, a House
composed of the delegates, the ambassadors, the plenipotentiaries of our several
provinces, the Counacil of State of Canada.
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS-So many speeches
have already been delivered on this subject,
and we are likely to hear more from other
members, 1 shall not extend my remarks to
any great length. I must congratulate my
hon. friend from Acadia upon the eloquent
speech he bas made. I do. not intend to follow him. It would be for me a very hard
task, but I wish to explain my own views
very briefly. Before dealing with the proposition of the ex-Secretary of State, I wish
k, state, as was said s0 eloquently two
weeks ago by my hon. friend from Middlesex, that I cannot see any good reason to
justify such a move on the part o!
the hon. member from Ottawa, nor ou
the part of this Senate. I think there
is no feeling in this country, no agitation outside of this House, for Senate reform except on the part of some
politicians who, without having properly
studied the question, raised it for the sake
of popularity. For my part, I neyer heard,
under any circumstances, a single opinion
seriously expressed with regard to the
. Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

question. I consider this Senate bas been
in the past, and it stili is, in a position to
discharge the duties devolving upon it in
the best possible way, perhaps better than
if its members were elected by the people or
sent here by any other mode that could be
devised. It has fulflled the object for
which it was created at confederation, that
is to stand as a safeguard for the several
provinces and nationalities, and also to
rovise the legisiation passed by the House
of Gommons. I shall deal for a few minutes wtih the bearing of the main resolution now before this House for the reform
o! the Senate, which cau be confined to two
points, first te make it partly elected by
the people, and partly appointed by. the
Crown, and second to fi the tenure at seven
or eight years. To- my mind both propositions are very objectionable. In the first
place, the people o! Canada have already
as many elections to take care of as they
can well manage, and we know also that
frequent elections are always a cause of
disturbance and demoralization in any comnmunity. But this is not ail; in order to
succeed in securing the votes o! the electors, a candidate for the Senate would be
compelled to do the same york and employ
the same means as in other political elections. That would involve a loss o! the
independence which should characterize the
position of a senator, and the Senate wil
become a cominittee or an annex o! the
House of Commons. Its members will be
in about the same position as the members
of the other House, compelled to do the
same work and use the same ways aud
means to secure election and later on cornpelled also to try.and secure their share of
patronage for their friends. Then the Senate would no longer be an upper House;
it would be a second House of Gommons.
At the same time, we should bear in mmnd
the peculiar position of this country when
confederation was established, which position is stiil more striking under present
conditions, owing to our greater number of
provinces and nationalities. To fulfil the
mission for which the Canadian Senate was
created, its members ought flot to be elected by the people, for the reasons I have
already stated, and, furthermore, because
the electors are not always the best judges
to select men possessing the necessary quali-

MýfARCH 23, 1909

fications of ability, large experience, long
training in political affairs and sagacity. If
yen make the Senate elective, or partly
elective by the people, nine times out of
ten yau will fail to secure men possessing
those qualifications. It is not correc*t ta
suppose that where an upper Chamber is
elected by the people or otherwise, it gives
entre satisfaction. My hon. friend bas slluded very eloquently to the Senate of
France. If I arn permitted, I should like
to quota a few lines from an article published a fe'w weeks ago in *L'Echo de
Paris '
The upper Chamber ought not ta be elected.
It has then te vary the methods of voting.
Prom the moment there is a vote, the country
votes the same whether ite members concern
the lower HEouse or the upper. House, and
sooner or later yon have what now existe, a
single assembly, with two equîpments and in
two localities.
In the United States, the elected Senate,
as it existe, has met -with consideraibe inconvenience, and is f ar from being satisfactory.
On the ather hand, if I look around me, I
question who among the hon. members
holding seats in this Hanse would venture
ta mun an election over three or four ridings
as they exist to-day for members cf the
House ai Commons. I think they would be
very iew. The cansequence would be that
the best qualified and most experienced
man for the positian wauld be prevented
from caming here. He would not spend
sufficient time ta give the country the benefit ai bis best services. It is alleged that the
members ai the Senate should be mare Tepresentative and mare in harmany with
public opinion. For my part, I have neyer
met any evidence that the Senate does net
represent public opinion, nor do I believe
the feeling against the Senate is as seriaus
as some politicians seem ta believe it is.
The hon. member froa Middlesex tald us
the other day in bis own eloquent manner,
how every class ai the community is fairly
well represented in the Senate, f ar better
represented than in the Senate af the United States. Last week, my hon. friend irom
Wellington remembering, no doubt, the
speeches he used ta make against the Senate in years gane by, repeatedly affirmed
that the country is demanding Senate reform, but his assertion was flot accompan.
ied by any proof whatever. I submit that

the members ai this House as it stands taday know as well as any, perhaps better
than many others, the feeling existing
thraughout the cauntry generally, on any
Consequently, they can
public question.
deliberate and judge properly accarding ta
the circumstances ai what is for the best
intereats of Canada and the Canadien
people. May I be allowed ta show what is
in my mind the weakest point in the Canadian Senate. It is that the members ai
this Hanse are hiable ta beoame ahxiost al
Conservative or Liberals, the awful position which. occurred i 1896.
Histary will be repeated in a few years.
It can scarcely be said that there is ne
politics in the Senate. It is impossible
ta get rid ai the party feeling in the Senate,
just as the country at large, and un the
ather hand two parties are necessary in
every discussing assembly. If the Senate
is compased almost wholly ai one party, it
weakens it and pravakes the criticism of
political opponents, as Liberals did about
the year 1896, and as Conservatives are
doing now. Ta overcome it when it
is considered so serious as ta lead
the government ta endeavour ta ainend
the British North Ainerica Act, I quite
agree with the hon. gentleman irom.
Mille îles, who at the st sitting of this
Hanse gave notice ai a motion ta amend
the motion ai the han. ex-Secretary ai State.
It sets forth in the motion he has given
notice ai, an amenduient giving power te
eacb local government ta appoint hall ai the
senators ta represent the respective provinces. I must say I should prefer the mode
of electing them by the legislature rather
than have them appointed by the local
gavernment. This would secure ta the provinces the protection they are entitled ta
have, and, at the same time, would relieve
ta a certain extent what I believe ta be the
cause ai any present complaint against
this 8enate. Of course choose and try any
mode you like, nathing is perfect in this
warld. Aiter a iew years of practice and
experience, it will be met with same criticisms as we have ta-day, but I amn convinced that this mode, which is very simple
indeed. is practical snd would wor-k satisfactorily.
Now I corne ta the second part ai the
resolution oi the ex-Secretary ai State, with

SENATE
regard to the tenure of office, as well as to
fix an age limit. There are some reasons
for it, but there are also many against it. I
think it is very hard to establish a rule
upon that point. We have in this House
a proof of the unsoundness of the proposition that we should have an age limit,
because we have many senators over 80
years of age who are capable to discharge
the duties involved upon them as well as
they were twenty years ago. To be more
particular, may I be allowed to mention the
ex-leader of this House on one side, and
the ex-leader of the opposition on the other
side, who both are among the brightest and
most active memberè -of the Senate and
who would grace any Senate in the world.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And they are not fit
to be chloroformed yet.
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS-To conclude, I will
only repeat what I have already said: If
Canada is to maintain a Senate at all, I
should be afraid of a change requiring its
members to be elected by the people, but
I should fancy that any system, and the
more simple the better, that would secure
to both parties a fair representation, would
be beneficial. The most important change
would be the adoption of a measure to
maintain a certain equilibrium between
both political parties in this Senate. I
think also the proposition, of which my
hon. friend from Mille Iles has given notice, is the most acceptable. It would work
easily and satisfactorily, and to my mind
is in 'the direction of all that can be desired and contemplated.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Ordinarily, I think
a man would be justified in offering an
apology for attempting to speak on this
question, but I do not propose to do that
to-day for the short tine I prcpose to
crave the indulgence of the House. I probably would not have said anything on this
question, had the motion been seconded
by one of those hon. members who, I think,
should have seconded it. When the hon.
the senior member for Ottawa, moved his
motion the other day and could get nobody
to second it, I felt that it was but right that
somebody should do so, and if he had no
friend on his own side of the House to
assist him in bringing the matter before
parliament, I was willing to do it, and I
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

offer no apology for having done it, because
there is no one act to which I have been
party since I have had the honour of a seat
in this Chamber that I am more pleased
with than the seconding of this motion,
or other motions of the hon. member for
Ottawa. I have had the pleasure of his acquaintance 22 sessions in the Senate, and
I am sure I have never seen or heard anything derogatory to that hon. gentleman,
He has discharged the onerous and heavy
dutieu devolving on him as leader with
credit to himself, and in a way that was
satisfactory to this House. I think it was
but right and fair for any man, particularly hon. members on his own side of the
Chamber, to second the motion, and if I
have any apology to make it is because I
did not rise to second the motion sooner
than I did; I did not rise sooner, however,
because I expected some of his own friends
would do so, and I did not want to rob
them of the glory or honour that they
might claim in regard to it.
Senate
reform has become a kind of football with
the Reform
party.
It
has been on their brain for a great number
of years. I find that three of the hon.
gentlemen who have taken an active part
in discussing the question of Senate reform,
had this subject on the brain in the House
of Commons.
In that chamber they
thought the abolition of the Senate was
the best possible solution of the problem;
but now that thev have reached the Senate,
they think it should simply be reformed.
They have that conviction well impressed
on their mind, -and others have got so far
on that thev say it should neither be reformed nor abolished, but should contine for ever. The word reform has a
meaning in my judgment.
Why do you
want to reform the Senate? The question is
answered in this way: that it must be
faulty. If the Senate requires reforming
it must be because there is some fault, and
all hon. gentlemen who have spoken, not
only those who have moved in the matter,
but all members who have spoken on the
question, have dealt with some system of
reform showing that, in their judgment,
the Senate as it is constituted to-day is not
up to the standing it was expected to be.
Now it Is a well known fact that the
fathers of confederation were very wise,

MARCH 23, 1909
able, and competent men. When they
framed the Confederation Act, which. was
no doubt a difficult Act te frame, because
of the conflicting intereete of the different
provinces that were te be con! ederated,
they .provided for an upper House as it
existe to-day.
They eonsidered it ws
neceesary for the safeguarding of ail the
provinces that there should be a Senate,
and it wae also agreed that the Senate
was not te be loaded up one way or the
other with party politicians. It wae not te
be ail Conservative ais the country happened to be Conservative and ail Liberal as the
country happened te be Liberal ; but it
should be as nearly equal as possible, and
in looking over the record o! the Senate of
Canada, in sizing up their politice the beet
way I could, I found that the Tories and
If
Liberals -were very nearly equalled.
there was any differenoe, I think the Conservative party had two or three majority,
and it was an understood. fact, at the time
o! confederation, if I arn rightly informed,
that the Senate was te be a fair and impartial body of -en as regarde the two great
parties in Canada. It wae not te be a partisan body, nor a place of refuge for politicians. It was a place te .which honourable
and high minded men were to be ap pointed,
who would have no politice and that they
should ajudicate uporn ail matters which
came before them in a fair and impartial
a
manner and not from% partisan etandpoint.
If the Senate carrnes out that pinciple, it
is a use! ul body of representatives. If it la
te be a party machine, it je not worth the
paper you would wite the word Senate on.
It is not hard for gentlemen te see whether
the Senate je partisan or not, and that je the
reason why the country je finding faultthat it is a party machine and doee not
serve the purpose it was origially intended
te serve. The hon. member from Middlesex
waseat one time very strongly opposed te
the Senate. He wanted te see it abolished. 1
amn glad te see that the hon. gentleman has
changed hie ideas, and je not now in favour
cf the abolition, but desires the perpetuation o! the Senate. Il the Senate je properly constituted and f airly divided as regards politice-because it would be impossible to get a Senate without some political feeling in- it-you would destroy the
strong party feeling, because every man
15

225

would realize that he would have a responuibility on hie shoulders which he would
flot feel if the Senate were not evenly divided. I observe that there je a disposition
on the part of a gooX many senators flot
to discue this question, that we are fouiing our own nest, and their advice je to keep
quiet and flot say anything. I tell these
hon. gentlemen that the country ie thinking about the Senate. It is an object of
derision all tbrough the country, because
through the medium of the newspapers the
people are becoming educated snd begining té inquire what the Senate je really
doing, and how far we are discharging the
duties that we are expected to perform.
The hon. gentleman from Middlesex, ini hie
recent speech, set forth the argument
which, to my mind, would have a tendency the very opposite to that which he
intended, because he etates that the Senate
had only rejected during the tirne of Sir
John A. Macdonald's goverment two per
cent of the Bille from. the Hlouse of Commons, wbile the House of Gommons had
rejected ten per cent of the Senate Bille.
If that is the case, it shows that the House
of Commons is the more able body, and
more competent to enaet legieiation, and
that the Senate je not as competent as it ie
supposed or expected te be. The hon. gentleman pointed out in hie speech a year
ago that he had made a discovery i looking over the records of the Senate for a
number of years. He found that the Conservative senators were a high clase snd
an impartial body of legialatore; that they
had rejected more Bille sent by the Conservative government than they lied of the
Bille submitted by the Beformn government
when they were i power, showing that they
were a fair and impartial body of men.
The hon. gentleman from Wellington said
distinctly when he came here that they
were an entirely different body of men from
what he had expected te meet. The Senate
wae then Conservative, and the resuit wîas
that there neyer was a Coneervative moving
for the reform o! the Senate; the demand
has come from government supporters.
They have found f ault with the Senate since
the government has had a mai ority i this
Houee. Bo long as the Conservatives were
in power, they found no f ault. The hon.
gentleman saye he found the Senate te be

IREI5BD EDTTIO2i

29,6

SENATE

a fair, able and impartial body of men,
but when the Senate became largely comnposed of government supporters they said
'Now the Senate ie flot up te the standard,
it ought te be abolished, or we must have
Senate reform.' The hion, gentleman made
an argument the other day ini which. he
stated we could flot abolish the Senate because it would interfere with the confederation compact. The government has aiready broken the terms of confederation,
because there are two vacancies in
Nova Scotia which have not been flhled Up.
The maritime provinces have not had the
quota of representation in the Senate that
they are entitled te. If it were necessary te
have the full 24 senaters from the maritime
provinces, why have they not been appointed? There are two vacant eeats in
Nova Scotia, there being only eight members in the Senate from that province. This
shows conclusiveiy that the Senate can be
reformed, and I want te say te lion. gentlemen that they should not run away with
the idea that the Senate cannot be abolished.
Whenever the people of the country say
abolish the Senate,' it wili go, and the
oniy way te keep it right is te show ourselves a body of men capable of doing what
is right, and not a politicai machine, as I
regret te say it ia. iargely, at the present
time.
Hon. MEMBERS-Oh, Oh.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Hon. gentlemen
need flot say ' oh, oh.' It is truc to the
letter. I am speaking of facta. I remember when 1 was a candidate in 1887
for the House of Commons. I was speaking
at Carlyle, in the month of February, at an
open-air meeting. I steod in a f armer's
sleigh, and the farmers were perched on
the wood-pile listening to me, and there
were two gentlemen standing in a porch.
The bouse was not large enough for the
meeting and we held it outside. A gentlei
man peeped round the corner of the house
and said: 'Mr. Perley what is your opinion
about the SenateP' 1 was alter votes. He
was a Grit and I knew that hie wanted te
abolish the Senate, and I answered hlm in
a way that I thought would catch a vote.
'The Senate la the home for the aged, infirm and played-out politicians, and is
aibout as usef ni as a fifth wheel on a,
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

coach.'
About two years later I was appointed te the Senate, and I may say I
neyer felt more ashamed in my life when I
found myself associated with such s. clas
That answer
of distinguished gentlemen.
ncd doubt caught a vote, because ths\t was
the policy of the party-te catch votes. If
I made that remark now, I would not be no
f ar out; this House has since then been'
filled up with defeated candidates at elections, and when the hon. gentleman suggested the filling of vacancies by election, I say that policy could not be carried ont in the Senate at ail. Take those
large constituencles, such as you would
require te have in electing members, where
there are ten members in the House of
Gommons and four senaters in the constituency. If you divide the ten ridings itt
four, the aenators would not know a quarter
The people would not be
of the people.
able te judge of them and cast their vote
inteiligently. The elective system would,
therefore, as applied te the Senate, be an
utter impossibility. It would be the very
opposite of what my hion. friend said a
while ago; it would debar a poor man from
It would be only, the
being a candidate.
rich who could contend for seats in
this House, and I say with ail due respect
ta the wealthy men ta' the Chamber, that
the wealthy men are not the best class of
senaters. They do not attend te the busiThey attend te fewest
ness of the Senate.
committees and draw the greatest pay. It
is not an advantage te the country to have
the richest men. The best men are those
who take an interest in the affaira of the
We want men who will sacricountry.
fice enough of their time to attend to the
There is, te my
business of the country.
mimd, a way of reforming the Senate. It is
in the power of the government te adopt it.
We
We do not want an election at ail.
If the govhave enough elections as it la.
ernment wouid do what is right in the matter of appointing senaters, there would be
no trouble. It was not intended that thi«
should be a place where the government
could shelter their party triends, te hiouse
them, to give them a littie patronage, or"
It was,
to use it for patronage purposes.
the intention to have a fair body of men
here te adjust the legislation from the

MALRCH 23, 1909)22
other Hanse. We have littie or no power.
We can dot the l'a and cross the T'a cf the
Bille sent np ta ns and that is the extent
To show there is some justification
of it.
in the motion cf the hon. gentleman, I
may say that every year the Conservative governiment was in power, there
were more or lesa Bilas from the other
Hanise defeated i the Senate, while in the
last five years there has been only one government Bull that came from the other
House defeated here. It shows the party
spirit that prevails.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-It
they are all good Bilas.

shows that

Han. Mr. PERLEY-I think an ordinary
man would blush if he made that atatement,
becaume the people do not think that all the
Bilas are gaod ones, nor do they think that
ail the acta cf the government are proper.
When the Senate was created, the wise men,
the fathera ai confederation, adjuated the
representation f airly; but to-day we have
19 Liberals in Ontario and five Conservativea; Quebec, 16 Liberala and 8 Conservatives, Nova Scotia, 4 Liberala and 4 Conservatives, with two vacanciea which makes
10; New Brunswick, 7 Liberalsa nd 3 Conservatives. Prince Edward Island is the
only province in the whole Dominion that
has an equal nuinher, namely, 2 ta 2. British Columnbia, 2 Liberala and 1 Conservative; Manitoba, 3 Liberals and 1 Conservative; Saskatchewan, 3 Liberala and 1 Conaervative; Âlbesta, 3 Liberals and 1 Conservative. That makea 87 ail told, 59 Liberals
and 26 Conservatives. This shows that the
Senate is already loaded np. I arn going
to find fanit, but I am not gaing to exonerate the Conservative party or Mr. Mackenzie. Sir Jolin Macdonald and Mr. Mackenzie did the same thing; but we are living in an age ai progreas, when the government should be equal ta the occasion and
flot f ollow in the atepa af their predeceasors,
when their steps were wrong, and nothing
wonld redound more ta the credit of Sir
Wilfrid Laurier than a change oi policy in
appointing senators s0 that the representatien would be divided and make it equal
from ail the provinces, and the result would
be that we would have a fair Senate, auch
as we had at confederation. There are two
vacancies in Nova Scotia at the present

time. I would suggest that Sir Wilfrid
ahould fill one of thase vacancies and then
ask Mr. Borden to recommend a competent
and proper man for the other. Then, as
vacancies occurred, he shouid let the leader
of the opposition nominate to fill vacancies,
until the representation became equal on
both sides and in that way we would have
a f air Senate flot loaded to .one side or the
other. The hon, gentleman who has tust
spoken, referred to the Senate being swung
this way and the other way. That does not
destroy its nsefulness. If this government
went ont and My. l3orden came in, he
miglit be in power long enougli to load the
Senate up the other way, and that w ould
flot be right. In order to serve the purposes for 'which the Senate was created,
you should have it as nearly even as possible, and senators should feel that they
occupied responsible positions. The government would be more particular to
appoint the very best men that they
could get, and the opposition leader
would ha very particular to recommend
the very best men he could of his party.
s0 that one party wonld f airly balance the
other in point of intelligence and ability.
The hon, gentleman apoke about the Senate
as it is constituted to-day. Different nationalitie8, difierent professions, and different
industries are represented. I do not see how
we could change the complexion of the
Senate by having men appointed from colleges and other such institutions. I think
it is in the power of the leader of the
opposition to reconiiend men who would be
competent to fill the position, and if that
course were adopted it would require no
sinendment ta the constitution, and ini a
few years we would have a Senate of highclama men. People want the Senate reforrned. That implies some defect in the character of the men. ]Reform of the Senate has
been advocated and aupported by the members of the Reform party. No Conservatives
have atarted the cry; we have only heard
af it mince the Reform party obtained a
majarity in thia Honse, and it is because of
the mortification among thbpmselves, that
inen they appoint cannot be up ta the standard. Otherwise we 'would nat have heard of
this motion. I vote for the principle ai
the hon. gentleman's motion; I do nat vote

SENATE

for it in detail. I presume if the motion
should carry, the government would have
the power and authority to suggest what
kind of reform we should have. I may
differ as to the method of reform, though
we agree upon the principle that the Senate
Bhould he reformad.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I move that the debate
be adjourned until to-morrow. I have given
notice of an amendment. It was not in the
proper form, and I was obliged to change
it.

read the third time there, and asked us to
send it back. We returned it, and the Bill
is here again. I think the proper procedure would have been to send the Bill
up with a message, and that it should be
read the-first time here now.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL. Would the
hon. gentleman inform us where the irregularity occurred, and in what way?

I understand
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.
the third reading had not been taken ini
the House of Gommons. It was sent here
The motion was agreed to.
by error, and was read the first time in the
Senate, and then, at the request of the
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Gommons, was returned to the other House,
Bill <No. 18)-An Act respecting the but this first reading of the Bill was not
Mont.real Terminal RaiIway Company.- rescinded. I am not sure that the first
reading is not nullified, by inference, under
<Hon. 1.1r. Casgrain).
the circuinstances.
An Act respecting the
Bill (No. 66).
Abitibi and Hudson Bay Railway ComHon. Mr. POWER-With the consent of
pany.-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
the House I withdraw my motion.
The Bill was read the first time.
Bill (No. 67). An Act respecting the Alska and Yukon Railway Company.-(Hon.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Do we take it for
Mr. De Veber).
granted that this Bill which is read thiý
Bill <No. 69)-An Act respecting the Atha- firsi time to-day has been sent to us by
baska Railway Company.-<Hon. Mr. Tai- message from the House of Commons P I
bot).
understand it bas flot been, and it should
Bill <No. 70)-An Act respecting the be sent back for a message.
Mary's and Western Ontario Railway ComHon. Mr. POWER-Everything which
pany.-(Hon. Mr. Ratz).
took place here belore was a nullity, and
THE PATENT 0F THOMAS L. SMITH the House of Gommons should have sent
us a message to tel] us that they had passBILL.
ed the Bill. Suppose the Bi- had corne
FIRST READING.
here without having been read the 3rd time,
Hon. Mr. POWEIR moved that Bill (No. it could not be contended that there should
71) An Act respecting a patent of Thomas not be a message. The Gommons sholild
L. Smith be placed on the Orders of the send us a message.
Day for second reading to-morrow.
The SPEAKER-Perhaps hop. gentlemen
Hon. Mr. LANDRY. I understand that will let the whole matter stand over as if
Bill has been read the first time here and nothing had occurred. I would assume
returned to the House of Gommons. If that the Senate could have given that first
it has come back in another form we should
reading of its own motion.
read it the first time, because it is a new
Bill latogethe-.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The first time the
Bill came here it came on a message.
Hon. Mr. POWER. I concur with the
hon. gentleman, but as a matter of conThe SPEAKER-Yes, by mistake.
venience I moved it in the way I have statHon. Mr. LANDRY-Then another mesed. The Bull got really no stage here, because the first reading goes as a matter of sage came from the House of Gommons
course. The House of Commons found that asking us to return the Bill and we rethey had sent us the Bil before it had been turned it. Now we want another message
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

MARCH 24, 1909

229

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
to makethings régular, so we cen be convinced*it has came back in regular f orm. amn not able at the moment to answer my
hon. friend. He ise ware that the Minister
The Bill wae allowed to stand over until of Justice has been teniporarily indisposéd,
to-morrow.
but I hope in a day or two that I shall
until Three p.m. ta- be able to lay the papers movéd for on the
The Senate adjournéd
table.
morrow.
EVILS 0F DIVORCE RESTRICTION
BILL.
THE SENÂTE.
OITÂ,wA, Wedneeday, March 24, 1909.
Thé SPEAKER took the Chair at Thre
o'ci-ock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
CLASSIFICATION 0F SENATE EMPLOYEES.

SECOND READING POSTPONBD.
The order of the day being called:Second reading of Bill (T) An Aot ta restriat
the evils of Divorce.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN said: Whén I introduced thie Bill some ten days ago I
asked permission to postponé thé second
reading until to-day au as to give thé different institutions that are mom or less
concérned with the morale of the country
an opportunity to investigate the matter
and Cive expression to their views. I have
submitted the Bill to nearly every religious
institution in the country represénted in
the capital, and have received in reply a
number of letters from the dignataries of
thé différent sections of thé Christian
I sorne instances they ask for
churcli.
a delay to enable them to coenmunicaté
with their héad authorities. I therefore ask
permission to postpone this order.

Hon. Mr. LkNDRY-Before the ordere of
thé day are called, I ahould like ta inquire
if the classification of aur employees je
ta bé laid on -the table soon. I observe that
it bas béen done in the House of Comimone.
On tihe llth March a double report was
made, one on the classification of the employées of thé Housé of Commons, and
a.nother on the organization of the staff,
and I suppose that thé production of that
double report in the House of Coenmons
méans that the Senate will be woon favouréd
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Until after the adwith « einnilar report from the head cf journmént?
this departinént. The Speaker je the head
af the department in this case, a.nd I beg, Hon. Mr. CLORAK-I find on the orders
to inquire when we may expect that repart> of the day some divorce Bill, two of which
are thé foundation for this Bill. I find
Thé 8PEAKER-I may say for the in- so f ar only one réhigious eommunity which
formation of thé hon. gentleman that it le favours divorece on thé ground thet théré
practically ready, and lias béen for smn should be divorce where the woman. is
âme. I feIt that, until the two reports proved to be unworthy of béing a married
which are made with reférence ta two new woman. Two Bille to which I have objecapointments, whlc.h wrnl hé clasified, weré tion are coming up for eecond reading. I
dispoeed of, this report should not hé pré- woiild ask the chairenan od thé Divorce Comsénted. It la expédient that that should mittée not ta préss these Bills to a final
hé doné béfore the classification, bécause décision until this Bill of mine is settled
after thé adoption af thé classification I one way or thé other. If necéssary, I wilI
wauld have no control over At.
feel myself compelled very xeluctantly to
mové améndménts to each of thèse Bille
DELAYED RETUENS.
as they corne up. If my suggestion is acHon. Mr. BOSTOCK-'When will the hon. cepted, I ehail not find it nécessary to do
ministér hé able ta lay an thé tablé the eo. Under the circumetances, I znove t>hat
papers called for in rny motion of thé llth the order af thé day be discharged and
placed on the arder paper for the 16th of
inat. p

SENATE

230

It cornes more
Apil. I should like very much to have a the evidence printed.
full expression -of opinion. I do flot wish pioxnptly than when I first called attention to the matter. Afteî this, as f ai as I
1to rush this thing through.
can gather, we shall have the evidence disHon. Mr. KIBCHHOFFER-There is no tributed with greatei regulaiity and disdanger of that.
patch than heretofore.
.Hon. Mr. CLORAN-There was a m-ajority
The motion was agreed to.
of only one against it last year. I hope
there xviii be a majority in favour of it
SECRET COMMISSIONS BILL.
this year.
IN COMMITTEE.
The motion was agreed to.
THE KELLER DIVORCE BILL.
CONSIDERÂTION 0F REPORT POSTPONBD.
The order of the day being called:
Consideration of the 6th report of the
Standing Committee on rivorce to whom wa.s
referred the petition of Eveline Marthe, Keller, together with the evidence.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHIIOFFER said:
evidence in this case has only been
tributed to-day, and I theiefore move
the order of the day be dischaiged
set down for to-moîrow.

The
disthat
and

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
called the attention of the hon. Secietary
of State to my hon. friend'G complaint, as
to delays in having the evidence in these
cases printed. The deputy minister writes
that on inquiry he finds that froin thîee to
four days would be saved were the proof s
read at the Bureau instead o! being sent
out. When the prools aie sent out, of
course it is in consequence o! an eider
te do it, and if that weîe changed he could
effect a material saving in the time now
occupied. I amn not certain whethei that
is under the control o! the oxmittee over
,Which my hon. friend presides or net.

The House îesolved itself into a Cornmittee o! the Whole on Bill (No. 31 ' An
Act to prevent the payment or acceptance
of illicit or secret commissions or other like
practices.
(In the Committee).
On clause 2,
2. In this Act, unless 'the context otherwise
requires,(a) 'consideration' includes valuable consideration of any kind;
(b) 'agent' means any person employed by
oi acting for another, and includes a person
serving under the Crown or under any municipal or other corporation;
(c) ' pzincipal ' includes an employer.
Hon. Sur MACKENZIE BOWELL-Would
subclause (b) of this clause include private
individuals?
Hon.
Yes.

Sir

RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-

The clause was adopted.
On clause 3, subelause (a>,
3. Every one is guiity of an offence and lia-

bis, upon conviction on indictment, to twc
ysars' imprisonment, or cto a fine net exceediug two thousand fixrs hundred dollars, or te
both, and, upon summary conviction, te imprisonment for six mcnths, with or without
bard laibour, or te a -fine not exceeding oae
hundrsd dollars, or to both, who,(a) being an agent, corruptly accepts or obHon. Mr. KIRCUHOFFER-No, we have tains, or agrees to accept or attsmpts to obtain, from any person, for himef or for any
nothing to do with that at ail.
other person, any gift or consideration as an
H<rn. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-- inducement, or rsward for dcing or forbear.
for having altsr -the passing of
ing
Then I suppose the Joint Oomimittee on this to do, or or forborne to do, any act rsÂct dons,

Printing would be conceined in it. Per- lating to his principals affairs or business,
haps my hon. friend might arrange with or for showing or forbearing to show favour
ùr disfavour to any person with relation to
the proper authoiities to have Mr. Par- his principal's affairs or bueiness; or
melee's suggestion complied with.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Might
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I will. Since I ask the minister whetheî he has conmy îight hon. friend bas given instructionF sidered the suggestion I muade at the second
we have not had the same difficulty getting reading as to the word ' corrupt,' or whether
Hon. '-\r. CLORAN.

MARCH 24, 1909
he proposes to make any amendmnent to
any portion of the BihF I presumne he is
aware that a number of merchants memorialized, I think the Minister of Justice,
on this matter, and pointed out that they
thouglit it would prevent them, in deahing
with their customers, fromn making any rebates or rather making uny dhcounts. I
confess I read the memorial, a copy of
which I received, and I presume many
others did also, with a good deal of attention; but I cannot understand this Bill
te apply in any way te the cases which
were cited by these wholesale merchants.
We &Il know very well that wholesalers
make different discounts to their customers. I take it this Bill would nlot interfere
in any way with that.
Hon. Sir RICHARD
1 understand nlot.

CARTWRIGHT-

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-In proportion te the amount of goods sold te
their customers, just so in proportion is the
discount regulated in ordinary business
transactions. If I understand the Bill, it
does nlot in any way interfere wîth that.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI think my hon. friend is right, that it
does nlot interfere in any way.

231

Justice concurs that may possibly affect to
some extent the question raised by the
hon. senator from Hastings. That will be
proposed aiter the last suhclause.
The subclause was adopted.
On clause (c),
(c) .knowingly gives fto any agent, or, being
an agent, knowingly uses wîth intent te deceive bis principal, any receipt, account, or
other document in respect of which the principal is interested, and which contains any
statement which is false or erroneous or defective in any material particular, and
u hidi, ite bis knowledge, is intended to mislead the principal.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I beg to move that
the following be added as subclause (d).
Every person who is a party to or knowingly privy to any offence under this Act shahl
be guilty of such offence, and shail be hiable
upon conviction te the punîshment herein
provided for by this section.
The object of the addition is this: there
is an apprehiension that the meaning of the
word ' agent' being defined in clause 2 of
the Act, it might be interpreted as excluding other provisions of the Criminal Code
which already covers subsection 2, be
cause under the Criminal Code any party
who is privy to any crime is liable for thci
crime the same as the other party. It i.
for the purpose of removing this doubt that
this subsection has been suggested. I must
say that the subsection was not suggested
or drafted by me, but I have no hesitation
in taking the responsibility for it. It cannet do any harun, and it will remove a possible doubt.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE~ BOWELL-Did
the hon, gentleman consider the other question I raised, as t0 the difficulty in proving
that the act of givig or accepting a consideration in sucli cases would be a corrupt one? I remember distinctly the answer that the hon. gentleman gave me,
that he would consider it such. I amn quite
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It a very proper
sure hie would, and so would I if I were amendment. It enlarges the section and
the acting magistrate under such circum- gives it a wider meaning.
stances; but the question is whether others
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is there no other
would put as rigid an interpretation, if I
amendunent propose&F
may use that expression, upon the word
. corrupt ' as the hon. gentleman and myHon. Mr. BEIQUE-No.
self would in the case to which I have
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
referrred.
would suggest that we should not be in
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- too great a huxry. Every one will admit
I may say to my hon. friend, that the that this is an important Bill. I have no
Department of Justice are of the impres- doubt the amendment, as f ar as I can
lion that the words are efficiently ex- underatiand it, will meet the case te which
preased; 'ýbut my hon. efriend 'from. De the lion, gentleman refers; that is, it is
Salaberry is going to propose an amend- not te inteifere with the Cximiinal Co-de.
ment in which, I believe, the Minister of The hon. gentleman did. not answer tihe

SENATE
question I asked hixn as to the point which
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have nobiceci
I raised witjh reference to the word ' cor- that there is always a great deai of reruptly.' I presun>e lie does flot propose to luctance to refer a Bill back to the coinchange thsst?
mittee unless it is somebhing of primary
limporitance.
Altihough not a suatter -of
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I primary importance sufficient to justily us
may say to my hon. friend that I under- in making the change when we are in
stand from the Department of Justice that comrnittee, just suppoise a case, bo make
they think the phraseoiogy they have used my sneaning clear, of a person who
has
is sufficient to cover the case which hie transactions with the governmesb,
and one
suggested, and that it would bear the in- of its einployees may have a keen
in.sight
terpretation that hie and I would indivi- into the fact that
something oi! this kind is
dually put upon it.
going on, it would be pretty hard to make
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I would suggest that employee hiable to crirninal prosecuthat my hon. friend'a motion might be tion unless hie communicated to the gevediowed to stand as a notice, and that erninent the information tihat hie employer
was doing somebhing of Vha kind. Being
we should go into oemittee again when
a party to it, of course, would be another
we see the eifect of it. I think it is going
matter, but if hie happened in an incidenvery f ar. It 'would onpei a person to
tai way to corne into possession cf sud>
become a prosecutor or informer, or otherinformation, lb might be oonsidered extreme
wise become aimenabie to a criminal suit.
I think we should have time to conaider it te make him liable.
moie ca.refully than we are able to do it
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTDO0W.
Possibhy, but these subterranean commissions, and this practice o! giving commisHon. Sur RICHARD CARTWIGHT-I sions, for corrupt purposes lias come te
think that is quite proper. It is an im- auch a head that pretty stringent legisiaportant measure, very decidedly oalled for tion is necesa.y te put a stop to it. We
frein circumstances with which the House have hsd too many cases in 'which. parties
is onily too well acquain4ed, and I arn with guity knowledge, and, in ail probquite wiiling that the measure should be ability, participation in the profits, have
placed on our records, but I would mnake hehd their bongues and have allo-wed private
this suggestion to my hon. friend: We employers and the publie bo be defrauded,
might pase the Bill in committee now not to make us desirous when we do put
and bring this matter uçp on the third a law in the stabube-book to ruake iA effecres.ding. That wiil meet bis vie-we and tive. I do not think any innocent party
give him an opportunity to etudy the fui] can suifer, but I amn qulte satisfied that
mesning of the clause.
the clause shall be fuliy oonsidered, and
we can adjourn the third reading or adopt
Hon. Mr. KERR-Why net pass the Bill
now and let the third reading stand til] the other course, whlch ever the hion. genhon. members have an opportunity of con- tleman prefers.
sidering the point?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
is a matter of indifference to me. I quite
agree with the hon. gentleman that where
an important amend>nent of bi kind is
inbroduced into a Bill, every hion. member
should have full opportuniby bo consider
it, and we are debabing now as to the best
method of accoxnplishing that objecb.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I would refer the
hon. gentleman to section 69 of the Crimmnal Code, whlch sayé:
Every one is a party -to and guilty to an offence Who
(a) actuaily commits, or
(b) does or omits an act for the purpose of
aiding any person to commit the oiffence, or
<c> abets any person in commission of the
offence,
(d) counseis or procures any person te commit the offence.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We are taken by
So that it wili be seen that the sub-amendsurprise.
ment which is suggested is merely carrying
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MARCH 24, 1909
out the prmnciple which is to be found in
section 69 of the Code. I arn of opinion
that it would be flot strictly necessary. It
has been submitted to an eminent counsel
in criminal. matters, who is of the opinion
that althougli the Orininal Code would
cover it, it would be better to have a subsection added for the purpose of rernoving
the doubt which may exiat, and avoid
having the question raised before a eriminal court.

Hon. Mr. WOOD, from the committee, reported the Bill with an amendment, which
was concurred in.

BILLS 0F EXCHANGE BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE moved the second
reading of Bill (G) An Act to amend the
law relating ta Bille of Exchange, Cheques
and Promissory Notes. He said: This Bill
speaka for itacîf. It consista of two short
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not see how it clauses which read as follows:
could be raised in a criminel court, because
1. Section 109 of the Bille cf Exchange Act,
the next clause says that this is ta be read chapter 119 of the Revised Statutes cf Canada,
as if its provisions formed part of the Crim- 1906, is hereby repealed and the foilowing is
substituted therefor;
inal Code.
109. In order ta render liable the acceptor,
endorser or any party ta a bill of exchange,
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-The words used cheque or promissary 4ote, it is not neeesaary
here sre 'Who is a party to or knowingly ta protest the bull, cheque or note.
Any law
aocepts.' What would be the position of a of 2.exchange, ta the contrary, as respects bilas
dheques or promissory notes, ie
merchant under the following
circum- hereby repealed.
stances; suppose a wholesale merchant in
Until now, especially in Quebec, ail diaMontreal has an agent here who has a
hononred notes have to be protested, imfree hand ta do business with the govern.
posing a fine on the endorser ai maker of
ment, and the agent gives a commission
the note cf some $3. They should be liable
to a government ernployee. A 'week or two
for the legal life of a note, which in Queafterwards his principal learns of that and
bec ie five years without protest. I do net
says nothing about it. Later on the whole
thing is discovered. What then will be the see any neceasity for that. Parties have
spoken and written ta me about it, but the
position of the principal?
abjections ta dispense with this costly pro.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CAETWRIGHT-I test always corne from, the same source,
frorn the notaries in the province of Quethink lie would be liable ta be punished.
bec and lawyers frorn other provinces. They
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-That is what abject because it will deprive them cf the
I should like ta know.
$3 which they receive now for the protest.
A member cf the Honse, a notary. said to,
Hon. Mi. FERGUSON-He would know
ail about it; but it rnight happen that some me, 'You are net geing ta puai Vhis Bill
other ernployee of hia would get this in- I hope P' I asked why, what is the neHe said, «There are
formation and it would be pushing it very cessity ta proteatP'
twe banks in my place and if the Bill is
far ta say that lie should be made criminpaesed I wiil Jase t.he protest fees.' If
aUv lable.
there is one geed public reason for mainHon. Sir RICHARD CAETWRIGHT-I taining the present pravision ini the law, I
think xny hon. friend will find that this could understand why there should be an
,lause which is suggested by my hon. friend objection ta the passing cf Vhs Bill, but
from De Salaberry practically reaffirmsas se f ar the oniy objection I have heard is
well estalylished principle contained in the the one which I have mentioned. In the
code already, in section 69; and I think in trst place, il the maker of a note is noV
the next place lie will find that in such a good, the endorser is obliged ta pay, a.nd
case as lie supposes the jury-and these the preteat only adda two or three dellars
cases will go before juries-will be suf- more Vo his liability. If the*maker of the
flciently lenient in dealing with offences of note is good, lie lias only ta pay it and it
that class.
is unnccessaiy ta Eaddhe him with the east
of a protest. 1 amn Det alene in Vhinking
The amen dment was agreed ta.

234

SENATE

SENATE
234
that there is io public necessity for conSo you see not only the Board of Trade
tinuinu thc present provision in the law. of Quebec, the Retail Association of the
I have in my hands here a resolution, Dominion, and the public press of Montpassed unanimously by the Board of Trade real and New Brunswick are discussing
of Quebec, asking the Minister of Trade the question, but it is attracting attention
and Commerce to amend the law in the throughout the country.
I am pressing
manner proposed by this Bill. The resolu- this Bill in the public interest. I have not
tion was passed after an expression of spoken to a member of either House about
opinion on the subject from a meeting it. If the only reason which can be shown
of the retail merchants of the Dominion for opposing this Bill is that it would deheld in St. John. They passed a resolution prive our good friends the notaries of their
unanimously, asking the government to fees, I do not think the Bill should be
abolish the necessity of protesting a note. opposed. When a man puts his name on a
Since giving notice of the Bill, not later note, or accepts a draft, he ought to know
than two or three days ago, an article on he is responsible for the payment of it,
the subject was published by ' La Presse ' and that is all a protest can tell him.
of Montreal, one of the leading French
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is he not responpapers, and having the greatest circulasible even though there is no protest?
tion. It said:Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Not in our proL'abolition des protêts notariés.
L'honorable sénateur Choquette propose vince.
trois lignes en amendement à ' " Acte des
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The acceptor or maker
Lettres de change" qui en disent long. En
is responsible.
voici le texte:
1. Est abrogé l'article 109 de de la "Loi
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE--Under sections
des lettres de change ", chapitre 119 des statuts revisés du Canada, 1906. et remplacé par 113 and 114 of the Revised Statutes in the
le suivant:
.109. Pour lier l'accepteur, l'endosseur d'une province of Quebec the parties other than
lettre change, d'un chèque ou d'un billet à the acceptor are in default of protest
ordre, ou toute partie à iceux, il n'est pas for non-acceptance or non-payment disnécessaire de protester a lettre le chèque ou
charge. I remember when the Act relating
le billet.
Les protêts ont toujours été une source de te bills of exchange was passed. Sir John
déboursés inutiles pour les hommes d'affaires Thompson
had charge of the Bill. Someou autres, et, même, une source de pertes
pour les prêteurs imprévoyants ou oublieux. body tried to de away iwith protests, but for
Nous croyons préférable en effet, que l'en- one reason or another it was left over for
dossement reste toujours bon durant la vie fkture consideration
and allowed to drop,
légale du billet ou de la lettre de change.
but ever since then the public have agitated
It shows that it is unnecessary to pro- the question.
I have said enough to show that this Bill
test a note. In the Montreal ' Star,' some
days ago, I read the following from a mer- is necessary; now I will show what is the
chant of St. John, N. B., under the head- cost of it to the business men of the couning ' protest charges.' It is as follows:try. I have a memorandum here showing that in the Dominion there are about
Protest charges.
two thousand banks, including branches.
To the Editor of the Montreal 'Star
Sir,-I have had the pleasure of having a The calculations were given to me by a rebusiness cheque to-day drawn by a customer tail merchant in Quebec, who was presidishonoured for the lack of funds to provide dent for some time of the Retail Associafor same. The cheque amounted to $12.50,
and 1 am called upon to pay $3.65 protest tion of the Dominion,, and he took special
charges or almost 25 per cent of the princi- care to have his figures as correct as
pal. What an outrage! Can any reasonable,
fair-minded individual consider $3.65 a rea- possible. He went around the banks, and
sonable charge for protesting a cheque of this from the information he gathered he found
size or of any amounjt? I think not. The that in each Bank there are on an average
system of cheque and note protest with
exorbitant fees for lawyers attached is wholly three protests per day. In support of this,
unnecessary, and the laws that permit such I may say I went myself a few days ago
an outrage and hold up should be amended.
to a bank in Quebec and learned that
This letter is signed ' A merchant.'
this average is about right.
Three proHon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.

whole

MARCH 24, 1909
hiable it is not necessary to proteet it. He
proposes te substitute for that the clause
That is the law
contained in his Bill.
for the general public,- but section 114 i
tee Reviied Statutes makes provision speciSo that
ally for the province of Quebec.
even if tee Bill now presented by my hon.
friend were adopted, it would do away with
the protest only o! ioreign bills and bis
of exchange. It would not teuch at all
bills o! exchange and notes in the province of Quebec, and according te the calHon. Mr. SCOTT--Lower the fees. They
culations made by my hon. friend, we are
are lower in other provinces.
spending in tee province o! Quebec over
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-We can dis- $5,000,000 ixn paying notarial fees.
Last week a
vues details in committee.
numnber of cases were cited for me, showing
Hion. Mr. CHOQUETTE-No, in the whole
that this legislation. is desirable. Take Domninion.
the case of a man in a country place who
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Even admitting it
does not know that a protest je necessary
to preserve his recourse against the en- is the whole Dominion. outaide of Quebec
dorser or maker. A man who has no credit there are no protests at ail except for
wants to borrow, eay $100. He gets an en- !oreign bille of erchange and notes. It is
dorser for his note, and a fariner or some only necessary to proteat foreign bills, Ii
poor wîdow who has a little xnoney lends Quebec inland bills have te be presented.
on the note, not knowing that a protest i.s and I arn at a loas to understand how the
necessary in case of non-payment te hold hou. gentleman can find fees te the a.mount
The note is unpaid, and no of $5,000,000 for the whole Dominion. How
the endorser.
protest being served on endorser he goes is it teat no banker, no important board
Why flot say that the endorser is of trade, no important me.rchants have sent
free.
responsible for the legal life of the note, us petitions to have the law passed? My
and do away with these unnecessary pro- hon. friend says teat in Quebec the chaintests which coet the country sucli an im- ber of commerce passed a resolution orderIf the Bill goes ing the proteet to be wçpealed. Was teere
mense sum every year.
te
te coinmittee, I shall be quite willing to a notice given to aIl the mambere of
question would
have it amended te provide that, if the board of trade thet such a
tee meeting of tee boardh
manager of a bank or the holder of a note be considered at
it very muoh. What
gives notice te the endorser 'within eight o! trade? I doubt
was tee number of gentlemen who attended
days alter the maturity o! the note, by regthat particular meeting? Wes teere a large
istered letter, it would be equivalent te a
number? The board o! trede at Quebec i-s
protest, or accept some ameudment in that composed of several hundred members.
direction. With these few remarks I leave
How many attended? Were there 50, 25
the Bill in the hands o! this honourable
or 10? We kn<>w how easy it is to pass a
House.
resolution at tee end of a meeting, when
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I have listened very everybody believes that the business of te
attentively te the remarks o! the hon. gen- day la completed, for ea men to rise and
tleman, and amn somewhat eurprised that say: 'I want to have such a resolution
instead of speaking of the Bill before te passed,' when there are only a few memHouse he speake of the commercial law of bers attending and when no notice has
the province o! Quebec, which has nothing been given of the intention te pass such
to do with the Bill now before us. The ob- a resolution. Are we going to smend so
jcct of thîs Bull is to strike out section 109 important a lew s the coimnercial law,
o! the commerical law which provides that the resuît of the study o! the ableast men
i order to render the acceptor o! a bill o! England and France? We know teet in

tests a day for two thousand banks would
give eighteen thousand dollars a day. If
you calculate 300 days in the year as business'days, it gives us the enormous sum
o! $5,400,000, which is paid by tee public
annually in protest fees. Why should not
tee maker or endorser of a note be held
responeible without a protest? Now, an
oteer point; take the case of a man who
bas no credit, he gets some responsible
party to endorse his note.

SENATE

England the coimnercial laws, which are
considered to be perfect, and the comimercial laws of France, which. are aleocoonsidered to be perfect. do not dispense with
the proteet. We know that in order to hold
the endorser responeible alter the maturity
of a bill of exchange or note it muet be
p'rotested; you must tell the endorser t.hat
the bil has no>t been honoured, that the
note bas not been paid, so that the endorser
if he wants. to protect himself can aay te
the debtor: 'You must pay it now.' My
hon. friend says, why not hold the endorser
responsible for five yaare? Why should
we bind a man to be obliged to pay - a
certain annount, $100 or $500, in five yeare,
when the party who made the note is
to-day able to .pay it, and he may not be
in three or feur years. If you do not farce
the holder of a note to give notice Vo an
endorse-r that the note bas not been poid,
you place the endorser in a very false
position indeed.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-What would
my hon. friend say if the manager of a
bank wae obliged to give -notice by a registered letter that a note is due without any
coite. Wouid that be satistactery to tahe
hon, gentleman?
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-No, I will reply te
that. Suppose a case where a note would
be endcoreed by a man by a false end-orsement, by a man who had no right to sign
the neme of bis employer, a forged endorsement, if there is a protest, the thing is
detected at once. The nomne whicb appears
on the note ie sean ait once and the party
who receives the notice can repudiate the
endorsernent as a false one; but 'where
there is no protest required, the endorser
is held lhable to pay the aimount i five
yeare, and by that tirne it might be impossible Vo prove that it was a false endorseimeait. The. great cooaPlaint of my
bon. friend le that protest oats Voo much,
that it ia only in the iterest of the notaries t.bat proteste are kept ini existence in
Quebec. If the hon. gentleman coacuits
the boards of trade, the merchants, bssnkers
anid judges, in nine cses out od tan he
will finid that these men are in favour of
retaining the protest. Why? Because instead od incurring expense it is curtailing
expense. As the law stands at present,
Hon. Mr'. BOLDUC.

a protest made by a no'tary is sufficient
to prove that the notice has been served.
In tihe case menitioned by the bon. gentleman, i which you *would have too give a
notice one way or another, if you have the
case before the court yen must establish
the endorsatÀon by witnesee, and you have
sometimes to keep those witnesses ini court
two or three days before they can be heard,
and the expenses, insteadl of being $ 1.50,
s ie generaily the case for a protest, wil
be $10 or $.15. More than that, if a man
wbo endorses a note wants to preet a
proteat, he bas a perfect right Vo do it as
it stands now. There ie a speeWa provision
in the law which aays-I think it hs clause
34 in the ERevised Statutes:
The drawer of a bill and any endorser may

insert therein an express stipulation,
(a) n etvn or lîmiting hie ow-n liability

ial
to the holer <')waving asregard
sorne or ail cf 'the holdera' duties.
Bo that acoording to the law as it stands
now, any persn endorsing ham the right,
by placmng the words above bis naine, tu
prevent aziy protest. For theee ocineiderat.ios, I propose te vote againart the Bill,
and I hope the deciaiion of the great majority of this House will be te permit the
iaw Vo remain as it is and reject this measure.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I hope the bon. gentleman fromn Grandville will net insiet upon
this Bill. I have a great deal of respect
for the board cf trade of Quebec, but we
must bear in mind that titis Bill is intended Vo make away witb the provision
which obtains in eveoey civilized oountry,
and that we, before adopting sncb a radical
change in the law, would require te be
moved by more than one chanher cf commerce or one board cf trade cf any city.
I amn not aware that there bas been any
expression of opinion in that sense, apart
fromi thbe board cf trade cf the oity of Quebec, and, as f ar as I. amn concerned, I believe the existing law hs a sa.feguard in
the interests cf trade and in the interests cf
endonrs cf bills or notes.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Allow me one
question. I arn informed-althcugh I have
received ne official. communication-that
the Banker's Association is in favour of
the Bill. They have done nothing se far

MARCH 24, 1909

237

against it. 1 arn told that, among them- years, and they were not discovered until
selves, they faveur the Bill, although they the inspecter examined the bocks, and stili
do not like to be mixed up in a matter the law of protest exists. So that it would
make no difference whether a note was
of this kind.
presented or not.
1Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that reliable inHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I do not think that
formation?
would prove anything.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If the members of the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No.
Banker's Association are in f avour of the
Bill, there is an easy way to ascertain that
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Forgeries canfact. So far as we know, they have flot net be discovered any sooner.
expressed any such opinion, and I would
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I think it is in the
be very much surprised if they did express that opinion. 1 cail the attention of interests cf ail parties concerned that prothe hon. gentlemen te section 180 of the missory notes be protested as f ar as the
Bis of Exchange Act as it reads now in endorser is ccncerned, and it is the saine
way with bills. This law obtains net only
the Revised Statutes.
has been for Qgebec but for the whcie Dominicn.
Where a note payable on demand
endorsed it must be presented for payment The only difference is as regards inland
vithin a reasonable tirne of the endorsement. bils, where à%prctest must be made in'
Section 181 reads.
Quebec; but it need net be made se in
a promissory note payable on demand other provinces. With regard te promisIf
which has been endorsed is not pressnted for sory notes the iaw is the samne. In my
payment within a reasonabie tiine the en- opinion it would be inadvisable te change
dorser -is discharged.
the law, and we wotild not be justified in
If the BiH now before us were passed, doing Bo without having an expression cf
what- would be the consequence?' A prom- opinion from the commercial bodies genissory note would be endorsed, and the eraily. I might cail the attention cf the
party would remain liable for 30 years in hon, gentleman te the wording cf the Bill.
the province of Quebec.
It says:
Hon. Mr,. CHOQUETTE-Oh, no.
In order ta render liable the acceptor, endorser or any party fte a bill cf exohange,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Would it be in the cheque or promissory note, it is net necesinterests of commerce; would it be in har- sary to protest the bill, cheque or note.
mony with commerce to introduce such a
It te not the prctest that renders him
state of things? As was very weil said by liable. It is the endereing of the note, and
the hon, gentleman <Hon. Mr. Bolduc) I the proteat is merely necessary fer the purthink it is. very important for the purpose cf pose cf preserving his iiabüity, but the
detecting forgery. A promissory note might liabiity exists.
be forged, and there wouid be' no means of
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-But if there is
detecting the forgery. The party might be
in collusion with the forger, and we know ne protest tihe endoser of the note or draft
perfectiy well, especislly in the case cf is net liable.
parties lending at a very high rate of iniHon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. gentleman
terest, and sometîmes closing their eyes stated that snother provision might be
te things of that kind, they 'would ailow a substituted, a letter by the bank. We know
promissory note to run for a period cf time, very weil that the provision te not made
and there wouid be no means ol detecting simply for notes which go through banks,
the forgery.
it te for ail kinds cf notes, and the notes
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-On thid very do net all go through the banka, and they
point, te show that this argument does are not necessarily payable at banks, and
not amount te anything, with due respect therefore, we must adopt a general rule
te my hon. friend, I refer te the Aitkinsen that will appiy te ail cases. Fer those
case in Quebec, where it was proved that reasons, I think the haw shouid remain as
forged notes had been in the bank for two it is.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-11 we ponder
a moment over the obligation that some
notice must be given to the endorser, of
the non-payment of the note, we must agree
that the notification ahould remain as it
la inscribed in the law. The endorser has
no means of knowing at the date of maturity if the note has been taken up, other
than by the notification? The maker may
tell him he has taken up the note, and if
the note remains aomewhere-and very
otten the endorser has not the means of
knowing where that note is, the only way
of protecting himaelf, and the only way
oi knowing il that note has been taken
up is by notification. If we are aIl agreed
that the endorser la entitled te the elementary protection of a notification, if the
note is not puid, then the only grievance
that remains la the amounit that is collected or charged against hlmi if hie should
ultimately be obliged to puy the note. If
thuat is the only grievance, I would then
urge my hon. frlend te withdraw his Bill,
und te see, as far as the province of Quebec is concernied, that the legisiature oi
Quebec ahould regulate the amount to be
collected upon those protests.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-There la no
jurisdiction in Quehec in regard te bis
of exchange, notes, &c. That belongs to the
Dominion parliament.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I do not see the
object of this Bull. The hion. gentleman
from Grandville knows perfectly well that
it is not necessary te brmng in a Bill at al
te do away with protesta. Anybody can go
to the bank and say: ' I wuive protest,'
and if it le such a good provision, why do
the people not avail themselves of it without a Bill? There la no more need of a
Bill than the fifth wheei on a coach. The
Quebec, Board of Trade need flot congratulate my hion. friend upon introducing a
Bill of this sort at ail, because they know
very well that every member, from the president down, can waive protest in the city
of Quebec or any other city. My hion.
friend from Grandville refera to the notaries. Let the notaries remain out of the
question altegether. We are not considering the notaries. I think protest is a necessary thing, because it aids collection.
Speaking for the province of Quebec, it is
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE.

the hast thing a country or city merchant
desirea to see-a note protested. They are
afraid of it. It is a sort of dishonour, and
they atrain every point sooner than have
a protest, and when the day arrives that
they have te pay a bill they will go to
their endorser and pay something on account te avoid a protest. If the provision
in regard te proteat did not exiat at the
present Unie. I think we would ail be very
unxious teo maire it. Laew mnaker6 before us
enacted thut law o! protest, and I think it
is a good, enuotiment, and I for one wil
cheerfully vote ugainat this Bull because I
think it la unne-cessary in the first place,
and I thinir the systema la quite sufficient s
it ws
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What I desired to
3ay a minute ago has just been said by
rny hion. friend. I wished te speak of the
waiver of notice.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETT-In reply, I may
say I ahould like to have heurd from members from other provinces on this question.
I arn sorry to see it is only Quebec members
who deal with it. I have flot spoken to
anybody about it because it is a public
luestion. I have no personal animus in
hie anatter, nothing e.gainst the notaries.
1 should like to hear from the members
I presume
representing other provinces.
that they are ail in favour of the Bill, as
Fhey have not aaid a word againat it. In
inswer te the hion. gentleman from De Baliberry, I had it this morning from a moat
reliable source that the Bunkers' Association are in favour of this Bihl.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Allow me to
Iraw attention te the fact that once the
'Dankers have notes in their hands, they are
-iot interested at ail in freeing the endorsýr, and will keep the notes as long as they
can.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Certainly, but
'he opinion of the Bunkers' Association la
.vorth more thjan the opinion of some
Ather parties who have spoken on the Bill,
30 I should like to know if my information
is correct or not. I should lire te know
the opinion of the Montreal Board of Trade,
and I will take the trouble to write to this
important association to ascertain their
opinion. I therefore, move that the order

MARCH 24, 1909
of the day be postponed tili after the Easter adjournment, to ascertain the opinion
of these bodies, and if they are against it,
I amn quite willing to withdraw the Bill,
with the feeling that I have done my duty.
If the Bunkers' Association, and the Montreal and Toronto Boards of Trade are opposed to it, I shall be quite willing to withdraw the Bil. I ask the House to allow
me to discharge the order and place it on
the Order Paper for second reading after
the adjournment.
Sorne hon. MEMBERS-Oh, no.
The SPEAKER-You can only do that
with the 1«eave of the House. which is quite
evidently againat you.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I don't sc why
it should be refused.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think it is a
very reasonable suggestion. that we may
have more light on it.

RIDOUT DIVORCE BILL.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
The order of the day being called, second
reading.Bill <W) An Act for the relief of
John Grant Ridout..
Hon. Mr. GIBBON moved the second
reading of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Bef are this Bill
is read, the second time, I should like to
be able to direct the attention of the House
to the evidence on which it is proposed to
grant this divorce. I see the chairman of
the committee is not present, and perhaps
it were bet&e tiiat it be postponed unti]
ancvther day, and tiien ion. gentlemen who have not read the evidence wil
have time to examine it, and the House
will be better prepared to come to a conclusion.
For my part I think the evidence is very siender indeed on which it is
proposed to grant this divorce.

Hon. -Mr. GIBSON-I accept the auggesThe SPEAKER-Shall the bon gentleman tion of the hon. gentleman, and move that
have leave to withdraw his motion?
the order of the day be discharged, and
Hlon. 1Mr. DANDURAND-The Senate that ht be fixed for Friday next.
muai be quite unanimous, but I do not
The motion was agreed to.
see any objection to giving the hon. gentleman a month if he thinks he can shed more BRITISH COLONIAL FIRE INSURANCE
light on the subject.
COMPANY'S BILL.
AMENDMENTS CONCIURRED IN.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I enove that the
The. order of the day being read:
Bill be read a second time this day six
Consideration of the amendinents made by
months, which will give the hon. gentleithe 8tanding Committee on Ban.king and
man ample time.
Commerce to <(Bi D) an Act to incorporate
the British Colonial Pire Insurance ComHon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I will second that Pany.-<(Hon. Mr. Choquette.)
motion.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE moved that thp
The amendment was declared carried.
amendments ha concurred in.
SECOND READINGS.

Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middlesex)-Explain.

Hon. Mw.
CHOQUETTE-These are
Bil (No. 50) An Act to inoorporate La
amendments proposed by Mr: Fitzgerald,
Compagnie du Chemin de fer International
who appeared before the committee. He
de Rimouski.-<Hon. Mr. Fiset).
asked the promoters te accept some amendBil <No. 57) An Act respecting the Van- ments eonce.rning the capital, and the
couver, Fraser Valley and Southern Rail- amount te be paid bel ore the company
way Company.-(Hon. Mr. Riley).
should go int-o business. The promoters
Bil (U) An Act for the relief of Victor accepted the amendments, some of whlch
are in accordance with the standard clauses
Eccles Blackhall.-(Hon. Mr. Campbell).
Bil <V) An Act for the relief of Annie in the proposed Insurance Bill.
The motion was agreed to.
Lonisa Coltman.-(Hon. Mfr. Campbell).

SENATE
APPOINTMENT 0F BYRON NICHOLSON. of the Privy Council. The committee repert
te the wbole council, and the whole council
M~OTION.
deal witb tbe matter. That is just tbe
The order of the day being cailed:
course that is proposed te be taken :here.
Consideration cd the memorandum from The Clark reported te his benour the
His Honour the Speaker recommending the Speaker; tbe Speaker taking the place of a
appointaient of Mr. Byron Nicholson te the minister reported tbe matter te the House.
staff of the Senate, &c.
The Senate then refais the matter te its
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved that the recom- standing committea, a cornuittea appointed
mendation be concurred in.
to deal witb questions respecting its officars. and that is the regular course. The
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do flot know whe- gentleman whe ie named in this racemmenther the motion is altogether in order; but da.tion of His Henour the Speaker will be
1 have the honour to move that this rn me- a permanent officer if ha is appointed, and
randuin be referred te the Standing Cern- the members of the Senate, as a rula, have
mittea on Internai Econerny and Contingent niot at baud the information 'which I asAccounts te ba considered and reported on. sume Ris Henour the Speaker bad. But I
think the members of the Senate'bave a
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I have ne objection right te ba informed as te ail the essential
te the amendment, and arn willing te accept qualifications of the gentleman wbom tbey
it in lieu of my motion.
piopose to appoint to an important office.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-May That is reasonable, and, naturally, the place
I ask why that course is adopted? I was wbere the information is te be get la in the
under the impression that the Civil Service committea. We cannot bring the gentleAct placad the power in the bauds of the man up bare and examina hlm at the bar,
Speaker te recommend appeintments te the and it would net be ireemly te discuss bis
Senate. Dees the law require that thesa qualifications bere. I bave ne doubt hie le
recommandations made by the Speaker a vary admirable man. I assume that from
shall be referred te the Cemmittea on In- thc fact that he bas been racommanded,
ternai Econorny, or is it doue for some othei but wa must bave soe fullar and more
purposa? If se, it would be well that the ccmplete infoimation than tbat. I thiuk
Senate should be acquainted witb the rea- the course I bave praposadi is the natura]
and pro'par course.
sens why the ]aw is departed from.
Hon,Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-This looks
Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn, on the whole,
to me very much like a vote ef want of
rather glad that the hion. member frem
confidence in the Speaker.
Belleville bas asiked the question wbich ha
bas because thare has been soene mxisHon. Mr. FOWER-No. Would my hon.
apprehension as te the effect of the law. It friand centend that wbeu the reoomanandawill ba noticed Vbat pains wera taken in tion o! a minister ceenes before his coldrafting the Bill which passad last year, leagues and le referred te a conuniâtea o!
amending the Civil Service Act, te preserve the ceuneil, that that is a vote of want o!
the rights and privilages te beth Houses confidence in the ministar?
witb regard te their staffs. The Act proThe
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middlsex)-No.
vides that in dealing with employees of the
Sanate, tbe Clark of the Senate is substitut- Speaker le acting as a min-istar. Witbed fer the daputy tminiater, the speaker eut the concurrence of the Speaker in this
of the Senate for the minister, and the Sen- referance it would ba a vote of want of conate for the cabinet. The course of proced- fidence. Suppo8*e this coemiittée recoinure in a dapartment is this: the deputy mends a different parson fixm the oe
minister racommends a classification te bis reccnamended by the minister, where are
minister. The minister approvas or arnends yoix? The Speaker acts as a minister; many
that classification. Than hae submits it te hon. menibers know what that respensithe cabinet, and the usual practice ef the bility involvas. A minister says: 'I recabinet, in cases whare datail is te be deait coxnmend John Smith.'
Ris coileagues
with, is te rafer that report te a committea say: 'No, let us rafer that te a cominittee.'
Hon. M. C.HOQUE'FTE.

MARCH 24, 1909
The minister says: 'No, I stand by mi ir geeted by the
lion. senator froin Halif-ax.
reco.immandation.' In that case, either thi 2On the contrary,
I think il, is well that it
reccrmnendatjon of the rn.nister goes o r shouki be taken. You
xnay have every consomebody else lias to go. 1 do not thinl zfidence in the Speaker,
but somebody sliould
mY hion. friend meant lis motion ae a re -investigate
the qualifications of the party
fiection on the Speaker, but unless yoi. recoimended,
unless tlie Speaker adds in
get the. Speaker's concurrence, you maj his r.ecoamendation to the
Senate the faet
get ]îîm in conflict with the House. Thai bthat he had
investigated and knows that
ouglit to be avoided. The Speaker is thE tlie paTty recommended
la fitted fox the
official to bring the matter before tbf positàon. Supposing,
for i 'nstance, eithler
House. If lie makes the reconmnendation, of the gentlemen recoxnmended
for appointit ouglit to go; if lie does flot, lie oan say ment now liad not passed
the necessary
to the Hlouse, I make that reconimendation, qualification examination
before the Civil
an-c you can acoept or rejeet it without Service Commission,
in wliat posi-tion would
reference to the comniittee. T mention tho Scnate be if
it confirmed the appointthis t0 prevent the establishment of a pre- moýnts?
Whethier these gentlemen have
cedent, wvhich miglit lead te collision be- passed the necessary
examînations or not
tween the Speaker and the House.
I do not know, but I have heard that the
etminhission lias flot lield any exannination;
H7on. Mr. DANDURAND-Docs flot the if flot
would we be justified in making
layingu down of that doctrine entai] this
these appointments?
The Internai Econconsequence, that the recommendation of
omy Committee, I suppose, ca.n report that
the Speaker must always be confirmed by
fiact.
the Senate?
Hon. Mr. ROSS (M.ýiddlesexL)-Supposing
H.-,n. Mr. POWER-In the otie House this committee reports another person than
the classification was reierred ko the Com- the one recommended by the Speaker, in
mission on Internai Eoononiy.
what position would the Speaker stand
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middlesex)-It is a then? That is my difficulty. I can understand a Speaker strong-bitted and selfmatter of practice.
willed, saying, ' This is within iniy privHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-As 1 ilege; At is my right to make this recomnunderstand it, in the House of Canimons mendation. The committee has rejected my
it went ko haif a dozen-first fromn the recommendation and I am put in a very
Speaker te the Internai Economy Commit- anomalous position. Wliat arn I ko do P'
tee, then to the Privy Council, tlien to the Of course a minister does not necessarîly
Treasu-ry Board, and so on until it got resign because his colleagues overrule him,
around again. But apart from that, the but he lias that right. It would not be
circumilocution to which the hon, gentle- well for him. to exercise it on ail occasions;
man referred ini the appointment of an there may ha occasions on whicli it is bis
officer on tlie reoommendation of a min- duty to exercise it. This is a case where
ister is flot always carried out in the man- the Speaker is Prime Minister of the House
ner that lie has intimated. If tlie rejection so f ar as these appointments are concerned.
of a recomànendation of one minister by The Prime Minister's recommendation is
bis colleagues and the appointment of some- rejected. I think if I were Speaker I would
body else would ha taken as want of feel under sucli circumstances that I was
confidence in bis administration of bis occupying a very humiliating position.
departiment, bis duty, I fancy, would be
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-The very fact
to resign. If that were the case, I doubt that the Speaker's
report is referred to us,
if many ministers who have heen long in means
that we have gometliing to say on it.
offica would not have reaigned a good many Now
we can delegate that duty to the Comitimes. That lias been my experience, and mittee on
Internai Economy. Supposing the
I think the lion. gentlemans colleagues who Internai
Economy Committee should reait beside him wvould confirin it as theirs port agaînat
the recommendation ut the
also. I do nnt object ko the course sug- Speaker
and say hie lias recommended the
16
REVISED EDITION

SENATE
wrong person, and suggest another person,
it would sirnply be because they were better informed, and were asking hirn ta make
a better appointment. It is no more a
want of confidence ini the Speaker than an
appeal frorn the decision of the Chair. I
do flot know what the cornrittee will report in this caue; perhaps they wiII say that
the recommendation of the Speaker is a
good one, and recornmend the House to
adopt it; but I protest against saying that
the reference of this recommendation ta the
Internai Economy Cornmittee is a want of
confidence in the Speaker. We send it to
the committee because we wiIl be in a better position to get information as ta the
qualifications of the persan recornrended
than in any other way. How can 1, as a
member of the Senate, say whether it is a
gaod recommendatian or not? I can flot.
I know the man persanally and on the spur
of the moment was against his appointment. After an explanation, I was no
longer apposed ta the recommendation, but
I did think it should go ta the (3oimittee
on Interna] Economy where information
can be had, and when the report cames
back we will be in a better position ta
judge whether the appointrnent is a gaad
one or nat. I cannot say whether I shall
vote for or against the report, but before
I arn asked ta accept the recommendation,
I should know something about it. The
Speaker may be mistaken; we are ail liable
ta errar, and I arn sure bis honour wiil
abide by the decision of the Senate.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-The effeot of that mile
would be ta defeat the administration under
the Act, because it -would place the wholie
contrai in the Internai Econorny Committee. It would give them pawer ta turn
down one man after another and approve
of nane except those recommended by thernselves.

tion, so the House wiil be in a position te
give an answer.
Han. Mr. WATSON-I arn inclined ta
think if the Senate bad undemstaod t.he
exact provisions of the Civil Service Act
when it was passed a yeam ago, they would
not have ooncurred in thie particular provision. From the tirne I have been in the
Senate, I have had sarnething ta do with
t.he Internai Econorny Carnmittee and I
arn strong-ly af the opinion that sa far as
the staff of the House is concerned, the
appointunents should ba made through that
cc-mmitee We have opportunities theme
as some hion. gentlemen have 6aid, of exarniininga those who appiy for positions.
and we can report te the House. As a
rule, but not always, the reports of the
cornrittee have been adopted by the Senate. I believe the cammnittee should originate those recornrendatians for appointments of officers. I underistand that the
Act provides to the contrary; but I have
no objection ta the mode suggested of meferring this report. I do flot zegard it as a
refiection on the Speaker. Sa far as the
staff of the House is concerned, it would
relieve the speaker of a good deal af trouble
if be had the assistance of the Internal
Eeanorny Carnrnittec te endorse his recominendation. It would be infra dig. for the
Speaker af this Hanse ta have te select
ail the officiais amound this building. I do
not think it is proper that we should have
ta discuse bis recomnmendatidns on the floor
of the Hanse. These are better discussed
in committee. I do flot expect t.here will
be -any controversy or trouble with reg-ard
ta recomniendations af the Speaker. I amn
inclined te tbink frasn what I knaw of the
carn.nittee, that they wili report favourabiy
on Vhem. As this is the flrst time the matter bas carne up, and -we are estiablishîng
a precedent, it ougbt ta be understaod that
tbere is no refiection on Mr. Speaker, if the
recoanmendations he make-s to the House
have te be mefermed te a coxumittea far consideration. It is simply unfortunate that
the provision af the Act should have been
sa worded as ta rnake it apparently abligatory an the Speaker ta make the recammendations in the first place.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The lion. gentleman
forgets that the report of the cornmittee
must be adopted by this House. The re
port of the committee is flot final. It cornes
here, and this House will be in the sarne
position that it is now. If the repart of
the cornrittee is adverse ta the Speaker's
recommendation we have ta accept either
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I haid this
the repart or the Speaker's recommenda- is an irregular procedure. It is cantrar"
Hon. M. CHOQUEI1TE..

MARCH 24, 1909
to the statute. The Speaker makEýs the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The Senate
recorniendations.
As I understand the does not divest itself et its powers. It
law, the nominations must corne frein th- confers limited powers te a comnittee,
Speaker. If so, how con you send t.he re- with instructions te report. Then the Senport of the Speaker to a cominittee? That ate is fully seized et the question.
committee has te rnake a report, and the
Hon. M~r. ROSS-But it takes a power
report has to be endorsed by the House.
which the statute does not .-ive it.
I arn speaking- on it now as a matter ot
procedure. We are laying down a preceHon. Mr. DANDURAND-It takes power
dent. We are divesting the Speaker of the that is given te it by its constituautthority conferred on him under the tion, and when the Senate is seized et a
statute. Rightly or wrongly. I understan;l report et a cemmittee it adopts whatever
hie hias that autherity. I do not care whe- decision it pleases. As to the danger et
ther the recom.mendation cornes froin the the Senate or committec coming in colSpeaker or trom the commit-tee; but Nvhat is lision with the Speaker, I again beg te disthe proper course to pursue? What is the sent troin the hion. gentleman. I teed that
course to pursue? If thîs applies in one it would be unseemly; it ýwould be against
case, it may apply in a number et cases. the traditions et this Chamber that it
I hold, as I underetand the law, that the should engage in a debate with its ewn
Speaker wvould bo at perfect liberty to re- Speaker on a mnatter of domestic economy,
commend te the House, notwithstanding because if this matter or any siniilar
tl.e report of the comniit.tee, his own nom- matter was net referred to the cemimittee,
inee, and it would be for the House to de- thien the report would bc discussod Withi
cide between the recommendation of the open doors-I trust it would be then Nvith
Speaker and that ef the committee. [s iA closed doors-as the hon. gentleman from
wise to put ourselves in a position to corne Portage La Prairie lias just said.
into collision with the pTesiding efficer of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Why?
the House? We have liberty to do se if
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Say that we sit
we ohoose.
'We rnay reverse his decision
on points of order, or any matter. We have with open doors, then thiere would be a
that authority, but we are taking a etep conflict et opinion, a (dissent in somne cases
now which may invite a collision between by some et the members as te the prothe Speaker and the comsnittee et this priety et the report or the qualifications
House. That is flot a wise position te take. et the party. We must net forget that in
I think the matter requires a lîttle more this present Act which we have te examine
consideration before we should take action. there are two actions that have te be
taken, a declaration bx- the Clerk, ef the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I would like to Senate that the Senate needs a certain
express rny dissent frein the views et the official. Then lis hon. the Speaker acts
hion. gentleman trom Middlesex.
The upon that declaration and ýiecomrnends a
statute says that the Senate shall appoint naine. The Senate is entitled te review
upon the recommendation of his hon. the those two actions, and I dlaimi it is net
in the body et the Senate, in the general
Speakercommnittee et the Senate, that that can be
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Not a cemmittee.
best done. It can be best done by a small
Hon. Mr. DANRURAND-Well, the Sen- cernmittee, and on that committee reportate. The Senate hias a right te ask any et ing, it is the Senate that discusses the
its cemmittees for a report upon any mat- work et that cornmittee and net the work
ter.
et his hion. the Speaker. se that there is a
Hon. Mr. ROSS-The statute does not buffer between the Senate and bis hion.
the Speaker whien we are discussing the
say se in this case.
report et one et the committees ef the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-But those are House.
the powers and privileges et the Senate.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I may be perHoni. Mr. ROSS-Oh, ne.
rnitted te add something te show the ne-

SENATE
cessity for sending a report like that to a
the Senate sees fit to take, either by refercommittee. Take the case of the gentle - ence to a committee
or otherwise, will be
man now recommended. I consider hinj entirely approved
of by me personally;
absolutely qualified, but another hon. gen. at the same time
I have to do what eacl
tleman may have personal reasons for op- one of you bas
to do, protect whatposing him. How can we place those rea- ever is.the
privilege and responsibility of
sons in the ' Hansard,' to cast a slur on the member
who may at any time
his reputation? When a man is a candidate hereafter
occupy this Chair. I say in
for a position we do not generally like to all sincerity that
personally I vill be
give reasons against his appointment. One
ipleased to we-ome arty suggestion tihe
member may say: 'I know that man in Senate may
make as to these appointments,
Quebec. He is an honourable man.' Sup- cither by
making them through me or
pose that I am opposed to him, and say otherwise,
and an- assistance that can be
that he is not an honourable man. I amay
given I shall be glad to welcome in every
have good reason to say that lie is not fit
to sit in the Senate, but should I have way. But one must look at whbat is the
scope of the Act. The Senate had its own
that reason published in the 'Debates' and
appointments absolutely in its own hands
perhaps prejudice his chances of securing
any position. I think we siould take prior to the passage of the Civil Service
the report of the Speaker, with all due re- Act. That Act has made a change, and
a change Iy which that appointment still
spect to him, and send it to a small con- I remains
in the Senate in a qualified way,
mittee to report to us.
and that cualification is that they can
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Supposing the commit- appoint upon the recommandation of the
tee recommends some person you do not Speaker. Nrw, under these circumstances,
approve, would you not then in open Sonate how are \ve to arrive at a solution? It
discuss the character of that man just does not seem to contemplate that old
as much as if the name were submitted methods of appointing are to be resorted
to. It rather seems to contemplate that
by the Speaker?
the old mnethods should be departed from.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-That is a per- It coes secm to contemplate
throwing a
sonal question. If the matter were discuss- responsibility on some person who is put
ed in the Senate, I should be compelled to in a position in which he can speak directly
place all my reasons in the ' Debates,' if I to the Senate and make such a recomhave reasons. I might go before the con- mendation as he thinks, at all events
mittee and be satisfied that I was wrong they can approve of. While I have said
-that what I had heard about the mari that, I am saying it rather
as explaining
was not true. In the committee I have a the position of the Speaker, not the inplace where I can give my reasons against dividual position at all. Under those ciran applicant without hurting his reputa- cumstances the question is, what should
tien before the public and satisfy my own be done? Personally, if I were
at liberty
conscience. I can put my views on record to do it, and had a committee, I would
without injustice to him. If we have a consult that committee, and would ascerright to discuse this question, we have tain whether I was or was not in accor I
a right to refer it to the committee, and with it before the matter came to this
then we can discuss it there with a know- House. That I am at liberty to do under
lede of what we are doing.
the statute. I should be pleased if the Senate will appoint a Consulting Committee to
The SPEAKER-Perhaps I might be per- whom
I may refer when the necessity
mitted to make a statement. This duty arises, and who
will support the recomwhich is east upon the Speaker is a very mendations that
will be made from time to
unpleasant one, and I do not think that time,
te that there would be some persons
I or ain' other hon. gentleman in this
responsible for the recommendations made
House would care to exercise it any longer
by m- instead of my being made solely resthan is absolutely necessary. As far as I
ponsible, so that there would be gentlemen
am concerned personally, any action which on the floor
of the House ready to defend
Hon. M. CHOQUETTE.

MARCH 24, 1909
the action of that cornmittee and ils recommendation. As I interpret the Actand I think 1 amn riglht-the responsibility
is on me to make the reconiffiendat ions
whatever view the cornaittee rnay t.ake.
I arn taking the abstract duty under the
Act. If, on the othee hand, the Senate
shall express to me a wish or if its committee shall express a wish before I make
a report, I would be only too glad to adopt
it. Otherwise it pute the Speaker in the
position of being subject to an appeal before a committee of the House who may
have no more information than lie lias, nor
as mucli. That is the difficulty of the situation. It seems to me, therefore, that as the
statute stands, it is for the Senate to say
that they do flot see their way to confirrn
the appointment, or to say that they confirm it. Any information they may want
they are entitied to get. How they are to
get it I ar n ot at liberty to say. They may
inforrn thernselves by information obtained
from the man who makes the recommendatien. I do flot say they cannot do it by putting a Comrnittee of Inquiry on it, but the
definite position is a change from the old
po-sition to one which in the words of the
statute vests in the Senate an appeintmnent,
but that appointment is qualified and can
obtain only on the reco-mmendation of the
Speaker. With that before yenu, what could
1 do but bring the iatter up in the way
I have done, by rnaking the recomniendatien, and this is very dîfferent from the
other duties of classification, On the
other hand, the classification is practically delayed, because if these appointments are, as I believe thexn to be, necessary and the persons na-med or any other
persons substituted for t.hem to be appointed, they should be in our classification. There is a reason for that, because
once we send in that classification the
Civil Service has control of the appointments.

position of a minister as regards the staff
of the Senate, and the Senate occupies the
position of the Privy Council. The recornmendation cornes from the Speaker to the
îSenate, and the Senat.e occupies the position of -the Privy Council. The Cabinet
takes sucli action as it deems o'l"isable to
take, and the action which is usuaily takeii
in sucli cases, I understand, is to refer it
to a committee of its own mernbers-a coinmîttee of the Privy Council. The course
suggested here, wvas, as 1 understand it,
the very sarne. There are two f sets upon
which the Senate bas to deal, firat of ail,
and may be the most important fact, is as
to Nwhether a new ernployee is necessary.
It is on that fact that the hion. Speaker
lias acted. The Senate rnay corne to a conclusion adverse to the opinion of the Clerlz
of the House. But it seems to me the Act
contemplates that 'the recomniendation
shall be made by the hion. Speaker, but
that the Senate shall deal with it as it
deerns proper. It rnay deal with it of its
own motion immediately or by referring
it to a subcommittee of its owvn, whether a
standing or special cemmittee, and which
committee may be invited to confer with
the hon. Speaker about it or with the Clerk
of the House for the purpose of obtaining
the proper information and reporting to
this honourable House. It is possible that
some other course could be adopted to carry out the requirements of the law, but
this seems te me to be perfectly clear and
logical.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Are
there not cases, when appointments are required for the Senate or in the Civil Service, where the matter is referred to the
Civil Service Commission to ascertain their
qualifications, -whether it requires a clerk
or an officer who possesses a technical
knowledge, or a knowledgze that is net genera]ly possessed. Is it not better that that
should be referrcd Ù) the Civil Service
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-My only excuse te Commissioners or sorne provision of that
say a word or two is the importance of the kind? I arn not sure upon that point.
question. What I desire to say is subject
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I do not think it
to correction, because I have flot the Civil applies te
the staff of eithier House.
Service Act before me, but if I ar n ot
rnistaken, tlic change is to this effeet: that
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
the Speaker of this House hecornes the should like to askz whet.her the classificahead of a departmnent. He occupies thý tion should ho delaved on account of the

246

SENATE

non-appointment of these twvo gentlemnen
recommended. Aitor the adoption of the
classification of the different servants cf
the House, in the future it will be niecessary to make appointments where vacancies occur or necessity for additional appointments arises. Then they would he
appointed and placed in some one class.
Why should flot the classification of the
presenit officiais of the Senate be adopted
upon the recommendation of the Speaker.
and then, if necessary, te appoint these
two gentlemen; afterwards they can be
placed in their proper class. I frankly confess, it is a question I have net studied
very closely, but when the Speaker wvas
addressing the House that point sugg-ested
itself te me. Hereafter necessity will arise
for the appeintment cf additional clerks
either on acceunit of extra work or seine of
the other positions being vacated by resignation or death. Mien the samne course
will have te be pursued by the Speaker,
making the recommendation te be approved
by the Senate. Why cannot the classificatien be adopted at once, and if these gentlemen are nlot appointed fer a month hence,
they can then be allotted te their different
classes.

respect te the offEcers, clerks and employées
cf -the Library cf Parliament and to such
othor officers, clerks and employes as are under the joint control cf both Hlouses cf par.
liament, shaîl be taken hy both Housos of
parliament hy resoîntion, or, if such action
is required during thé recess cf parliament,
by the Gevernor in Council, subject te ratification by the two Heuses at the next ensuing session.
The particular case aimed at by my hion.
friend is clause 21:
If the deputy head reports that the knowledge and ability requisite for the position
are wvhoUly or in part prefessional, techaical,

or otherwise peculiar, tise Governor in Council, upon the recommendation cf the head cf
the department, based on the report in writing cf the deputy liead, niay appoint a porson to the position without corupetitive ex-

amnination, and ivithout referenco te the age
limit, provided the said person obtains from

the commission a certifica.te te ho given with
or- without examination, as is deternîined by
the regulations of the commission that he pos-

sasses the requisite knowledge and ability and
is duly quilified as to liealth, character and
habits.

This clause 21 is governed also by 45.
It faIls under the scope of clause 45.
Hon.

Mr. ROSS

(Middlesex)-I

rise te

suggest that the hion. member f rom Hallfax should

withdraw his

amendment.

I

do think, in view of what has been said,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think the law answers the question put by my hion. friend. there is no other course. This is a motion
really. The motion was made hy the hion.
Clause 8 says:
inember from Portage la Prairie, that the
As soon as practicable after the coming into report cf the Speaker be adopted. I thixlk
force of the .Act the head cf each department that ivas withdrawn, se that the motion cf
shall cause the organization of his départment te Le determined and defined by order the lion. gentleman from Halifax is an
in council, due regard being had to the status of each officer, or clerk as the case may
maç be.
2. The order in council shall give the names
of the several branches of the department
with the number and character of the oflicers, clerkships and other positions in each
and the duties, tities and salaries thereafter
te pertain thereto.
3. After being se determined and defined
the organization cf the department shahl net
ho changed except by order in couneil.
4. Copies cf such orders in council shail be
sent to the commission.

That is clause 8 cf the law, but clause 8
is govorned by clause 45, which says:
Whenever under section 5, 8 or 10, &c., of
this Act or under the Civil Service Act any
action is authorized or directed te bie taken
by the Governor in Council such action, with
respect te the officers, clerks and employees
of the Heuse cf Commons or the Sonate shall
be taken by the House of Commens or Sonate,
as the case may be, by resolution and with
Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL.

original motion, and I think it ougbt te be

withdrawn. I do net want te invoke the
Speaker's judgament, owing te the delicacy
of the position hae eccupies, and raise it
te a point of order, that would put the
Speaker in a rather embarrassing position;
but in view cf the decisive raading of the
Act, and in view cf the difficultias already
raisod, I think the motion should ha with-

drawn.

Juat let me point eut, altheugh

I may net ba in order myself, we assume
that the Speaker, before hie made the recommendation, made due inquiries and
ascertained that the person recemmended
was suitable for the position fer which
This motion prahie recommended him.
supposes, possibly, that the Speaker made
a mistake, and w'e want te examine into
the fitness of the person se recommended

MARCH 9-5, 1909
to see whether we approve of the recomniendation of the Speaker. 1 say that is
a most humiliating position. -to be placed
in, and if 1 were in that position I do
flot know what I would do if such action
were taken. True, the Senate has a right
by its committees to do it, and it has a
right hy statute and by its own raies
to refer the matter to a committee, but
you cannot refer a matter for wbich there
is flot provision in the rules of the House
or the statute, and there is not provision
in the raies or in the statute ini regard te
this. Then are we going to refer to the
Committee on Internai Economy te do
over again what the Speaker has already
done and recommend to the Huse, and
possibly reverse his decision? No person
can eccupy the responsîble position which
the Speaker holds and have his decisions
reviewed contrary to law. He assumes the
Speakership subjeet to the fact that if his
rulings are flot agreeable to the House
they may over-rule him, and lie knows
what that means.
It would be very
humiliating to be over-ruled, but lie assumes the position in reference to the
staff of the House, that he had a right
to his recommendation, and that recommendation had to be ever-ruled by this
House, nat by a cemmnittee of the bouse.
I would vote against a recommendation of
the Speaker if I did not approve of the
sanie as I would on a point of order. He
has assumed the Speakership knowing his
decisions may be set aside, both as to appointments and rulings; but hie did not
assume the position knowing that his decisiens might be adversely commented on
by the committee.
We put ourselves
doubly in the wrong. First, this House
is, so-called, a committee to do that. I
think it bas no right te do it, and we may
over-rule the Committee of the House and
the Committee of the Speaker. We may
over-rule them hoth. We are being tempted
to transgress the statute, and act contrary to the report of a committee, which
we have no authority te do. I hope the
hon. gentleman from, Halifax will withdraw
bis resolution. The hon. gentleman's knowledge of parliamentary law is, perhaps better than mine, but I hope hie will accept
the view which 1 think is a sound and
strictly constitutional view.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I regret that under
the circumistances, I do net feel niyself able
te comply witb the request of the bon, gentleman from Middlesex. I amn satisfied
that the course which is now being «taken
is the proper and seemly course te take;
and it is -for the Senate te decide.
The SPEAKER-The question is on the
motion of the hion. senator frein Halifax,
seconded by the hion. Senater Landry.
The motion was agreed te.
APPOINTMENT 0F MR. ARTHUR
HINDS.
The order of the day being called:
Consideration of the memorandum fromn
RIis Honour the ýSpeaker recominending that
Mir. Arthur Hinds be appointed a permanent
officer of the Senate instead of sessional.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I make the saine motion in regard te this report.
bon. Mr. WATSON-I move that this
memorandum. be referred te the Committee
on Internai Economy and Contingent Accounits.
The motion was agreed. te.
SECOND READING.
Bill (No. 33) An Act respecting the Niagara-Welland
Power Company..-(Hon.
Mr. McMullen>.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (X) An Act respecting the Joliette
and Lake Manuan Colonizatien Company.
-- (bon. Mr. Tessier).
Bill (No. 79) An Act respecting the Canadian Pacific Raiiway Company.-(bon. Mr.
Young).
The Senate -.djourn..d until three o'clock
to-morrow.

THE SENATE.
OTT,&WÂ, Thursday, March. 25, 1909.
The SPEAKER took -the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (Y) An Act respecting the Central
Railway of Canada.-(H:on. Mr. Gibson).

SENATE

Bill (Z) An Act respecting the Bank of
Winnipeg.-(Hon. Mr. Chevrier).
Bill (A-A)
An Act to incorporate the
Prairie Province Trust Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Coffee).

behind him, if lie happens to die, will,
alter his death, be protected from want,

Bill (BB) An Act to incorporate the
Canadian District of the Northern Province
of the Moravian Church in America.-(Hon.
Mr. De Veber).

same temptation on the part of the employee to strike or to quit the service in
which hie is engaged. When an employee
feels that by striking or quitting the service hie forfeits his retiring allowance and
the provision for his widow and children,
hie is likely to hesitate long before taking
such a step as that. As I have already said,
this system bas been adopted by miany.
perhaps most of the large corporations of
a permanent character. I hope the House
ivill net think me tedious if I refer to
some of the provisions %vbicb are contained
in the reg-ulations of some cf our great
corporations. The Bank, cf Montreal bas
a regularly incorporated pension lund

RETIREMENT 0F JUDGES AND CIVIL
SERVANTS.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. POWER rose:
To cali attention to the unsatisfactory con.
dition of the law respecting the rctirement

he is naturally more happy and contented
than when that is not the case; and, as a
resuit cf this, there is by no means the

of judges, civil servants and others employed
iii the public service of Canada, and to ask
the right hion. the Minister of Trade and
Commerce if it is the intention of the government to take steps at an early day to remedy this condition?
society for the benefit cf its officers. 1
He said: The desirability of having a shall give the provisions briefly:
proper system. of superannuation and penlst. AIl officers and clerks are f rom the date
sion is, I think, generally recognized, and of their entrance ohliged 'to contribute ta the
this recognition is well founded. A pro- fond at the rate of 13 per cent per annum
upon the amounit of their salaries-deducted
per system for the retirement of employees monthly from the salaries pay-lists.
2nd. The scale of pensions is one-fiftieth of
has several advantages. One is that it
for each year's service
enables the employer to dispense wtAh the the salary year-which <35-5ths) is up to the
thirty-fifth
the limit
services of an ernployee when his services attainable. No pension shaîl excecd $5,000.
3rd. Any officer on the attainment of his
have ceased to be a fair return for bis
age can demand his pension and
salary or wages. I think that is a very GOth year cf the service-or any officer (after
retire fromn
important consideration. The absence of ten years' service) hefore lie lias aittained 60
a provision for the satisfactory retirement 3-ears of age, whose health incapacitates him
permanently from further service, is entitled
of employees tends tW retain in the service ta a pension on the above scale of one-fiftieth
(I amrn ot now speaking specially of the oif bis salary for eacb year hie has served.
officer
entitled,
long
public service), through motives of sym- asThe widow of anyremains isunmarried,50 ta
she lives and
a
pathy those who, as a matter of business, pension of half the amount to which her husshould be retired, and a resuit of that, band would have been entitled at the tirno
descends
cf which 'we see a great many exaxuples, of his decease-whichremarriage in case cf the
widow's -decease or
ta the childis the undue increase in the nuinher of ren until the youngest child reaches the age
the staff which is required to, do the busi- of 21 years.
ness, because n2vi moen have to be taken
The Bank of Commerce bas a pension
on to do the work. of those men who either fund administered under regulations simihave always been incapable or have be- lar to, those cf the Bank of Mýontreal:
corne incapable. A proper systemn for reWhen an officer enjoys use of free biouse,
tirement binds the employee and the em- fuel and liglit or other privileges, these are
ployer together, and gives pérmanency ta be valued hy the directors and treated as
and steadiness to the business or under- part cf his salary.
No officer who resigns, or is dismissed, betahing wvherein it operates. I do flot think cause cf misconduct shaîl receive a pension.
Under exceptional circumstances, the dirone need elaborate that; and where an
inay add
years ta
eniployee feels that by continuing in the ectors cf servicenot more than 10 provided the
termi
cf any officer,
he
service he is sure of a respectable retir- niakes payment under the fund in cne sum,
ing allowance when bie is past his labour, or in sncb instalments as the directors authonize, cf the equivalent of the contributions
and when he knows that those who remain, lie would have made had lie been actually in
The SPEAKER.

iMARCH 25, 1909
the service of the bank from the age of 25.
A pension may be given to an officer before
hehscompleted bis 60th year, on it being
shawn ta the satisfaction of the directors that
he is mentally or physically incapable; but if
be reovers lie shall again enter the service
of the bank, if the directors so require. If
ha refuse, lis pension shail be forfeited.
The pension is forfeited if the pensioner
enters the service of another bank, but the
pensianer may obtain the authority of tha
directors ta engage in other business.

The children of a deceased officar wlios3 wife
has predeceasad hisa, shall until the roungeat
reaches the aga of 18, receive half the pension
to whicli thair father wouid hava bea eantijtlad.
If a clark marries without the consent af
the board before hae has a salary of $1,000 a
year, ha incurs the penalty of dismissal and
forfaiture of ail rights ta this fund.
Hon. Mr.
that?

GIBSON-Do you approve

af

The Canadian Pacific Railway Company:

Hon. Mr. POWER-I do nat t.hink an
Ail officers and employees who have attain- officer shouid marry an less 'thnn $ 1,000 a
ed the age of 65 shail lie retired; those who
have been 10 years or longer in the coznpany's year.
service shall le pansioned.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I did.
Six maonths previaus notice to be given
Han. Mr. POWELI-M'y hion. friend diii
to employees who are compulsoriiy retired
nat have ta looki toa ny bank for a penbetveen the ngas of 60 and 65.
sion; lie tooli care of hirnself in tuit reThe pension allowance is £or each year of spect.
I have given these selectians as
service, 1 par cent of the average pay received
showing wliat is the pmactice of great corfor the ten years preceding retirement.

poTations.
Therec arc other corporations
wliich. have similar provisions, but I
The pension to lie nt the rate of 1 per cent thouglit it well ta quate only these I hiave
for eacli year of continuons service on the given ta the House.
highest average rate of his pay during aIiy 10
Naw, I wish ta call attention ta the proconsecutive years of service.
Thus, an employee in continuons service vision which aur law makes in the case ai
from the aga of 30 years ta 70, with highest judges. It will lie
iaund in chapter 138
averae rate of wages in any ten years of
$.00 year, would recaiva 40-100ths of $1,000, ai the Revised Statutes, known as the
cr $400 per annum.
Judges Act.
Section 19 ai that Act lias
No pension ta
Grand Trunk Railway Comnpany:

be less than $200 a year.

Bank of Ottawa:
To the ' Officers' Pension Fund' of this bank
the officars cantribute 3 per cent annually on
their salaries. No assessmants on any ana
salarv ta ha more than $215 per annumn.
No'rmie is fixed ais ta when a pension shall
lie begun but it is ito ba dec ided by the directors. As a ganaral rula, however, an officer
niust have completed 15 years of service and
have attained the age of 60.
If an officar rasigna or is dismîssed, ail payments made by him to tha pension fund, haeff
any sum hae may ha in deault; ta the bank,
shaîl lie raturnad with intereat at 4 par cent.
If an officer dies before haelias completed 15
years ai service, ail paymants made by him
ta the pension fund will lia returnad ta the
legal representatives with intareat at 4 par
cent.
On reaching the age of 65 an officer shall
Tetire, unlesa the directors wish him ta
continue in service and lie consents.
Tha widow of deceased officer ta lia entitled ta haîf tha pension ta which haer husband could have been antitled; but in no casa
for a longer perîod than har liusband's terna
of service. The pension ta cesa on haer remarriaga and at lier death, if she leava any
children, pension ta lia paid rta éhem, or ta
tiustees for 'them, until tha youngest shall
have attained the age of 18.

been in operation substantiallv ever since

canfederation.

It is as follows:

19. If any judga ai the Suprame Court ai
Canada, or ai the Efxchequer Court or ai any
Superior Court in Canada who lias continued
i.n -the office of judga ai a Superiar Court in
Canada, or in any of the provinces, for fifteen
years or upwards, or whc bacomes afflicted
with somns permanent infirmity, disabling him
irom the due execution of hai office, rasigas
his office, IHis Majesty may, by letters patent,
under the Greait Seal ai Canada, raciiting such
pariod ai office or sucli permanent infirmity,
grant unta suai judge an annuity equal ta
two-thirds ai the salary annexed ta the office
ha held at the time of his resignation and ta
continua thencaforth during hi. natural hife.
2. Courts ai Vice Admiralty shah lie deemed
to have heen superior courts, and local judges
in Admirait y ai the Exchequar Court ta lie
judges of a 'Superior Court, within the meaning of the seotion.
Under Vhis provision it is a fact tint
judges wha are really no longer qualified
ta exercise judicia] functions continue an
the bencli. It is supposed ta lie a difficuit
thing for a judge ta get a retiring allowance until lie lias served fiteen years; the

consequence is we have judges wlio reahly
ouglit ta have retired remaining on the

230

SENATE

bench ini order to fill up their fifteen years
to become entitled to their two-third retiring allowance. I cannot myseif see any
reason why the same system should flot be
adopted with respect to judges that was
adopted with reference to civil service employees, and is adopted by the great corporations. Inasmuch as a judge is generally
a man of mature years when hle gets the
position, 1 do not think he s.hould lie compelled ta serve twentv-five or fifteen years.
When lic hias served, say five years, he
should be entitled to receive, say tcn
fiftictlis or wliatcver proportion miay be
thought proper, of bis salary as a retiring
allowance, and if the law werc framed in
tliat way a judge wlio hiad been on the
bench for ten years, and wlio feit that hie
was not able ta give to the country the
service tliat hie oughlt to .-ive and tlie liest
of lis power wouid be probalily willingý ta retire on tlie srnallcr pension an*d
flot hold on for five years longer for
the purpose of getting- two-tliirds. The section which I have read gives the iaw
witli respect to judg-es of superior courts.
The provision as to county court judges
was srmilar. In the year 1903 an Act was
passed wliich altered the case very considerabiy. The principle provisions of that
Act are ta be found in section 20 of tÀhe
Judges Act which reada:
20. If any judge of the Supreme Court of
Canada, or of the Exchequer Court of Cnada, or of any Superior Court in Canada, resigns his office, Ris Majesty may, by letters
patent under the great seal of Canada, reciting such judge's age and the period of service, grant to hima an annuity equal to *the
salary of the office held by him at the time
of bis resignation, to commence immediately
after his resignation, and -to continue thenceforth during bis natural life if such judge
has,(a) attained the age of seventy-five years,
and continued in office as judge of one or
more of the said courts, for twenty years and
upwards; or
(b) attained the age of seventy year8, and
continued in office as judge of one or more of
the said courts for twenty-five years or upwards; or
(c) continued in office as judge of one or
more of the said courts for thirty years or upwards.
I venture ta assert tliat no such iaw as
that wili be found on the statute-bo,,k of
any country except Canada. I have underderstaod that the reason of thc passing
of that provision was that there were a
Hon. Mr. POWER.

certain number of very old judges on the
bench who protested that they could flot
afford to retire because they could flot
live on two-thirds of their salaries, a-nd this
Act of 1903 wvas passed in order to get
those j*udges off the bencli and to improve
th administration of justice. A number
of those gentlemen did retire, and it does
seern to me that the tirne lias corne when
that Act sbould be repealed; because it
works this way now-I speak fromn knowIedge of tlie matter: A judgc wvho bias
scrverl for more than fifteen vears, wlio
hias perhaps become disqualificd, wlio is
unable ta hear the evidence whviceli witnesses give before him, who does not even
hear the addresses before him, whose intellect hias become very scriously Jinpaired, will remain on tdhe bencli just in
order that bie max- corne under section 20,
tliat lie rnay put in either the twcnty
years' service or tlie twenty-five years' service, as tlie case may lie, and lie ini a
position to retire on full psy. The Act
of 1903, which proved a temporary remedy
is now responsible for the cvii in perhaps
an aggravated form, and it does seern ta me
tliat this provision sliould lie repealed. In
the province of Nova Scotia there are now
tliree gentlemen drawing the pay of chief
justice. One is draNving only two-tliirds.
He retired before thc
Act of 1903
ýae inta oiieration. Thon tliere
is
another ex-chief justice drawing his $7,000
a year and not doing anytliing, and
there is the chief justice wbio is now acting and drawing $7,000 a year. It doce
not seemi to me that it is riglit that such
lag
u sbouid lie charged against the
lresm
treasury, nor is it necessary, because, for
one thing, 'when a gentleman who hias been
popru

l

i

ieatisteaeo

i
taisteaeo
-ieolal
70 or 75, two-t.hirds iof bis salary ouglit to
lie quite enougli for bim to live on.
His children have grown Up and biis
tastes are naturally not very extravagant. This is a matter I have thought
about for some time. I know it bias been
said: ' Oh, weil, it would not bc fair to
the judge ta alter bis position; when lie
was appointed a judge lie was cntitled to
retire on full pay after a certain iengtli of
time.' I do flot think tbere is very mucli
force in that objection. Take thc other
side of thc question: When ail these judges

MARCU 25, 1909
who have retired within the last few years
were appointed to the bench, they were
appointed with the understanding that
after fiteen years they could retire on twothirds of their salary and no more. The
change in the law bette.red their position,
and 1 do flot think that a change made in
this law would seriously injure the position of the existing judges. If a judge is
fifteen years on the bench, and retires on
two-thirds salary, I t.hink that is a very
reasonable provision.
I desire to cal]
attention to another fact, that since thie
Act of 1903 wvas passed the salaries of the
judges have been ]arg-ely increased. In the
province of Nova Scotia-and the same is
true in New Brunswick and some of the
other provinces-the salaries have been increased by 50 per cent; so that to-day a
two-thirds retiring ailowance is the s-ame
as retiringc on full pay -was in 1903; consequently no judge who has retired on
a two-thirds saiary after this, and wvho was
appointed under the old scheme, could coinplain. He is really gettinig as much as he
would have got under the Act of 1903.
Judges who have retired on full pay should
not be eligible to, membership in the Senate or the other House and continue to
draw their pensions.
They should not
draw pensions and indemnities both. I do
not think I shall say mueh about the
county court judges, because, on the whole,
t.he law -with respect to them. is ver>' much
the saine as that with respect to other
Judges. There -is one point in connection
with the count>' court judges to which attention znight be called. Section 25 of the
Act provides:

has the right to say:
' When you attain
the age of 70 years or 80 years, or whatever
age lmît may be fixed, y*ou shall retire or
fo'rfeit the pension provided by parliament,'
and I do not think man>' judges would
remain on the bench under these circuinstances. I know it has not been the practice to treat the judges as civil servants,
but after ail the>' are public servants. The
members of the civil service are also public servants, and there is no reason why
the law which is fair and equitable as to
one class should not be as fair and equitable as to the other.
The provision with respect to the retirement of -civil servants falis under twa
heads. First there are the civil servants
who were appointed previous to thie lst
July, 1908, and then there are those who
were appointed after that time. As to t.he
former class, this is the general provision:
The Governor in Council ina> grant a
superannuation allowance not exceeding the
allowance hereinafter authorized to any person who has served in an establishied capacit>' in the civil service for ten year8 or upwards, and who has attained the age of sixty
years or become incapacitated b>' bodil>' infirmit>' from proper>' performing his duties.
That is section 6 of the old Superannuation Act, chapter 17 of the Revised Statutes.
Section 9 says:

The superannuation of ever>' civil servant
shail be preceded b>' an inquir>' b>' the
Treasury Board,<a) whether the person it is proposed to
superannuate is eligible within the meaning
of this Act; and
(b) whether the superannuation of such
person will resuit ia benefit to the service,
and is therefore in the public interest; or
(c) whether superannuation has become
in consequence
Every judge of a count>' court who has necessar>' infirmit>' of such of the mental or
physical
persan.
attained the age of 80 years shall be compulsorily retired; and to any judge who 15 s0
The superannuation allowance, which is
retired, or who, having attained the age of
seventy-five years, resigas his office, and in one-fiftieth of the salar>' enjoyed during
the latter case has continued in office for a the last three years of service for eaoh
period of twenty-five years or upwards, Hlis
Majesty ina> grant an annuit>' equal to the year of service, cannot exceed thirty-fivesalary of the office held b>' him at the turne of fiftieths-something over two-thirds--of the
his retirement or resignation.
salar>'. The old Act contains a provision
Now, the Dominion parliament has the that:
right to compulsorily retire a county court
If an>' person to whom this Aot applies ie
judge, but it has not the right to coin- removed from office in consequence of the
abolition of
purpose of unpulsoril>' retire a judge of a Superior court, proving the hie office for the the department
organization of
However, parliament has the right to, make tc which he belongs, or le remnoved or reired
the pension contingent on the judge retir- from office to promote efficiency or economy in
the Civil Service, the Governor in Council
ing at the age fixed by law. Parliament ina> grant hum such gratuit>' or superannua-

SENATE
tion allowance as will fairlv compensâte hira with the amounts which they had paid
fcr his loss of office, flot exceeding such as he
ivould have been entitled to if he had re- into the supecrannuation fund. On the retired in consequence of permanent infirmity tirement or dismissal of the civil servant,
of ibody or mind, after adding ten years to the amount Vo his credit in the retirernent
his actual term of service.
fund should be paid*to him with interest,
There is a deduction of two per cent and:
from the salary of every person appointed
If a person dies while in the Civil eervice,
previous Vothe lst of April, 1893, and from
the amount to
the
the salary of every person appointed be- J'und shall be his credit inlegal lietirement
paid to bis
representatween the 15V of April, 1893, and the lst tives, or to such pereon as the Treasury Board
of July, 1898, there is a deduction of 3ý determines
per cent. That was the law down to 1898,
That, of course, makes some slight proand the senior officers in the service are vision for those who remain behind the
under that law. I i-isli to caîl attention to departed civil servant; but it wifl be ohthe most serious defect in that old law. sexved that the country, under that Act,
If a civil servant retired in fairly good Joes not contribute to the fund at ail. In
heaith frorn the service, after serving the case of ail those corporations which
twenty years, he received twenty-fiftieths have been referred Vo, the cornpany conof bis salary as a retirinz allowance. That tributes as a rule half of the arnount, and
retired servant might live twent y or twenty- this provision in the Act of 1898 is flot
five vears afterwards and continue te drawv sufficient or satisfactorv. It is flot suffithat allowvance; whereaS in the case of nient to retain the civil servant in the puba civil servant who had served for lie service. If there hiad been a really
perhaps thirtx- or thirty-five years, and satisfactory and liberal systern of super1:appened to die at his post, there annuation and pensions a number of ver 'y
was nothing for the family. But the valu-able public servants wvho have go:ne
Governor in Council was authorized to into the service of other bodies %vould be
grant Vo his widow a gratuity which, as a ztili in the service of the goverfinient. Inrule, was fixed at two or three month' cidentally, in discussing the existing cé)salary. That cleaxly wvas a most stupid dition of things, I have given my own imand inequitable thing. I have neyer been pressions as to what ought to be. To sumable Vo understand howv the parliament marize: I think, as Vo judges, you should
which passed the old Superannuation Act begin at five years, an*d afterwards allow
eould have passed it subject Vo these con- a judge, say' two-fiftieths, for each year
ditions. While the man is alive and able until he has put in seventeen years. He
Vo work, he really does net need .mueh con- would then have thirty-four-fifti-eths, and
sideration, but after he is dead, leaving per- I think that ought Vo be the end of it. T
haps a widow and several srnall children. do not see any reason wby a judge should
they need it very much indeed, and it flot contribute a percentage -of his salary
seemns to me, as in the case of aIl these in the sarne way that other public sergreat private corporations Vo which I have vants do. Then as Vo the civil servants,
referred, tihe servant of the public should they should be put on the same footing
be able to look, forward to a protection for as the employees of the big corporations;
bis wido',v and children in case of bis death. there should be a proper system of superIn any provision that may be made annuation. The civil servants should couhereafter for the retiresnent of civil ser- tribute perhaps 5 per cent and the govvants. I trust that wilI form a feature. ernment should put in a reasonable proIn 1808S an Act was passed creating ,ýrtion, so that there would he no risk
w-bat w-as cailed a retirement fund, and of a man wvho had served the public
this fund was formcd by the re6ervation fithfully for many years dying with the
out of the salary of each civil servant ap- fein.- that there was no provision made
pointed after that date of 5 per cent of for bis widow and children. I arn satissuch salary. t contained also a provision fied that if some such system as that wcre
enabling those who were in the civil ser- adopted it wvould not cost the country a
vice before to corne under it, being creditod vers- 1,irgte sum, and it w'ould enable the
lion. Mr.POE.

MARCH 25, 1909
government to dispense with the services
of some officers who are really not performing any efficient or satisfactory service. I
assume that it is not the intention of the
government to move in the matter this session, but I trust it is their-intention to do
something about it at an early day. The
form in which I have put this notice opens
the subject for general discussion.

253

years producing a certificate from a doctor
that he is too sick to be on the bench
and retires with a pension of two-thirds
of his salary of $7,000, and as soon as he
has retired with his parchment giving him
his pension, he enters an election contest
and fights for a position in the House of
Commons. If elected he would draw an
indemnity of $2,500 in addition to his
pension. I do not think that is right. As
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-There is only to the pensions
the judges get now, L do
one point in the hon. gentleman's speech not think
they are too large. Certainly
with which I agree; that is about the rethey are net in the province of Quebec.
tired judges who draw pensions. Such re- I understood
my lion. friend to say that
tired judges have no riglt to become canin the maritime provinces salaries hiad been
didates for parliament, or for appointmient
increased 50 per cent, but in the proto the Senate, or to practice their province of Quebec the increase was only
fession and at the same time draw their
from $4.000 to $5,000 for judges in
pensions. If the government does not move
rural districts, for Montreal and Quebec
in the matter of amending the law in order
$5,000 to $7,000. L do not think the
to suspend the pension of retired judges
increase is sufficient. I know the salary is
whro become members of either House of
enough, because a man on the bench
parliainent or practice their profession, I not
with a salary of $7,000 does not get enough
shall take steps in that direction myself
to live on properly in a big city and even
next session. It is nothing less than a1
in some country districts. They are slaves
scandal to sec a judge who has been reto their duties, and are obliged to deprive
tired on a pension because of ill-health
themselves of many good things because
going on the hustings and running as a
of their position. I know of judges who
candidate for election to parliament.
I have resigned because their salaries were
do not go so far as to say that a retired
too low. In conclusion, let me repeat that
judge should be debarred fron sitting as
if a judge wants to enter public life I
a member of parliament, but if he chooses
have no objection, but he should not draw
to do so his pension should be suspended
a pension and an indemnity at the saine
so long as he is a member of parliament.
time. He should be on the same footing
Hon. Mr. POWER-That is really what as other members of the House and not
I intended to say.
fight for a party while he is drawing a
pension froin the government.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-When a judge
has left the bench with his pension, it is
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
neither fair nor just to young men in the do not propose to follow my hon. friend
profession to find themselves in competi- into a discussion on superannuation at
tion with ex-judges, as we find in Montreal present. There are many things that he
and Quebec. I admire a man like Judge bas said which, in my opinion, deserves
Angers who retired from the bench, drop- attention. However, I do not feel called
ping his salary in order to fight for a posi- upon to review that important question,
tion in parliament. It may have been a although I have no doubt his remarks will
foolish thing in the interest of bis family; receive proper attention in due time. The
but be takes his chances. It is another point made by my hon. friend opposite
matter when a man who was Chief Jus- (Hon. Mr. Choquette) does certainly seem
tice of the Court of Appeals retixed and to require consideration at the hands of
took his pension, and then became the the government and of the House. He has
organizer of a party. It was derogatory cited the case of a judge retiring after he
to the honour of the bench. It was unfair had been a very few years on tee bench,
and unjust. Again, when we see a judge on the plea of ill-health, and drawing a
w'ho has been on the bench six or seven pension of two-thirds of his salary, not

SENATE
on the ground that hie had performed tht their duties on tee bencli. A judge cannot
requisite Iength of service, but t.hat h(
now see te his 0wn affaîrs.
was toe ill te remain on the bench, and
then having effecteil, by sorne miraculou5
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Oh. yes.
process, a cure se complete teat lie wai
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-He mu8t devote nis
able te undergo the fatigue of a contesl
for the House of Gemmons. That is a turne entirely te, tee bench, and te tee parstate of things that I must say does re. *ticular duties hie bias te fulfil upon the
quire redress and may require an arnend- bench, except in the case of tee chief
ment te the statute. That is an abuse, *justice of the province of Quebec; lie is
I think, of the pension retirement, and allowed te conduet political inquiries.
was neyer contemplated or intended when
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Not political.
tee pensions were granted to judges. Sa
far, I ar nl entire accord with my hion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Inquiries. H1e may
friend opposite. As te the question whiclb be on the bench as a royal commissioner
my lion. friend has put te me, I eau only on political matters; but if he is a good
say that the gevernment do not intend Liberal there is ne fault te find. If hie is
this present session te make any altera- a Conservatîve hie is put on tee left haud
tion ini the Acts that he bas alluded to. side and hie is alVhat may be done hereafter is, of course,
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Bad man.
quite another matter. That will be considered in due course; but they will not
I-on. Mr. LANDRY-He is in a verv bad
he prepared te act during the present ses- place.
sion.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-He must remain
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I presume my right sick. He bas no riglit te get well at al].
bon. friend tee leader of teis House does
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think my lion.
flot take it for granted tihat what my hon.
friend will not take it entirely for granted
friend on my left said is true?
what the hion, gentleman frein Grandville
Hon. Mr. OHOQUETTE-It is true.
has said. Let hum hear tee eteer side
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I challenge the aise. If my hon. friend frein Grandville
bas an attack te direct against any one
statement made by my hon. friend.
A
mnan may be very sick and unable te sit of the judges or tee ex-judges of tee provon tee bench, but hie miay be able to walk, ince cf Quebec, let him stand up and
and tee fact that he bas the certificate of formul-ate an accusation, ask for an ina doctor teat hie was unable to perforin hjs quiry and give a chance to tee accused
duties as judge at the turne he get the party to defend himself. It would be a
certificate does net prove that lie is con- little more manly tean the precedure bie
demned te eternal fire. He rnay recuper- has adopted to-day. I teink my hon. friend
ate; hie may becoine young again, and hie will net act prematurely iu this case, that
may be able te fight. My hon. friend was hie 'will, if hie bas semething te say, give
at one time on the *bench, but he got off it. the aceused parties an opportunitv te defend thernselves and te make good te
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I have no pen- position they have thought cenvenient te
sion.
take iu tee circumstances. I wifl eall atHen. Mr. LANDRY-He bas ne pension. tention while we are on this subjeet te a
Why did hie get off the bench? Perhaps grave injustice which. I think bas beeri
doue in regard te the salaries paid te the
to make a littie more -money.
judges. In the province of Quebec yen
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-That is right. will find teere are sixteen puisne judges
of the court whose residences are flxed
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Perhýaps to makze wvithin districts
te-at receive $5,OO0 other
more money in politics. H1e must net for- fhan Bonaventure and Gaspé
and Saguenay
get that a iaw was passed in Quebec for- but when you cerne to
the two puîsne
bidding judges te do anything more thian judges of the said court whose
residences
Honi Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MAIRCH 25, 1909
are fixed within the districts of Bonaven.
ture. Gaspé and Saguenay, they receiv
mly $4,500.

THIRD READINGS.

Bill (No. 29) An A~ct respecting the Winnipeg and Northwestern Railway Company.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-That is.true.
-<Hon. Mr. Young).
Bill (No. 61) An Act'respecting the BurHon. Mr. LANDRY-That is an erroi.
raid, Westminster Boundary Railway and
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Yes.
Navigation Company.-(H-on. Mr. Bostock).
Bill (D) An Act to incorporate the British
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-When the govexn.
ment brought down that mneasure a feçw*Colonial Fire Insurance Company.-(Hon.
years ago, 1 think it was the Chief Jus- Mr. Ghoquet.te).
tice of the Supreme Court who was at that
SECOND READING.
time Minister of Justice, he brought down
Bill (No. 59) An Act to incorporate the
the zesolutions, and those resolutions put
the judg-es on the same footing as the Victoria and Barkley Sound Railway Comot.hers. They have more work to do than pany.-(H-on. Mi. Riley).
rnost of the other puisne judges, and they
THOMAS L. SMITH PATENT BILL.
receive five hundred less per annum.
I
cali the attention of the government to this
SECOND READING.
fact in order that they may correct tîhe
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the second
error and remedy the injustice.
It is reading of Bill (No. 71) An Act respecting
really an error that occurred, and I think
a patent of Thomas L. Smith.
the government in justice to these two
judges should make this correction. I do
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Would it not be
flot know what their polities are, and 1 well that we should have some explanation
care not. They may be equally divided.
with respect to the Bill P I understand
that it is with regard to a patent, and
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Â judge lias no the proprietor is in Chicago and
he is
politics.
desirous of having the time extended. It
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There is no politios would be as well if we were informed
in the judges exoept when they corne down whether anything has been done during
the time lie bas held the patent up te the
froin the bencli.
pissent to secure the rights of the patent.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Without pen- We are granting too many renewals of
patents. If there is te be any advantage in
sion.
a patent to the general public, after the
Hon. Mi. LANDIRY-I hope the Minister patentee lias had
six or eighýt years to
of Justice will be in a position to correct proceed with the
manufacture of the article
the error that has been made in the past.
that is the subject of the patent and has
Hon. Mi. CHOQUETTE-I may be al- failed te do so, the xight ahould lie thiown
lowed to say just one word on that. What open te the public. We have no explanathe hon. gentleman lias just stated ini re- tion why it l.s that this patentee has not
gard to the difference in salary is absohitely availed hinseif of the privileges we have
tine. As to the other matter, I will simply granted him some six years ago ; he has
leave it in the hands of the House. 1 saw treated it with indiffeTence, and he now asks
the resolution introduced by the Minister of us to extend ta him the riglits for another
Justice at the time, Mr. Fitzpatiick, and six or eight years so that he may hold his
the salary was the same. It was promised patent against the general benefit of the
to be the same, and by a mistake when the public. If there be any just cause why
Bill was brought in there was that differ- tïhis patent should be renewed, or if there
ence. I therefore appeal to the govern- are any good grounds shown why they
ment, and if it cannot be correeted now, have not Zone on with the patent up to
1 would euggest that next session they the present time, I hope the hon. memnler
who bas charge o! the Bill will be able te
ought to remove that injustice.
cive us that information that we may be

SENATE
in a position to vote intelligently uponi the
second reading of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. W'ATSON-I must admit that
1 know very littie about the Bill. I observe
fhoiin the Bill that it is just about what my
hon. friend bas explained. A gentleman
from Milwaukee is asking a renewai of a
patent, which, I see, is for new and useful
improvements on mixing machines.
I
thjnk the title oughit to commend it.self
to the hion. gentleman, and probably hie
can gct more information w'hîei the Bih!]
is before the Commiittee on Private Bills
than I can î>essibly give to, the I{ouse.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
fact that it is a mixing machine may be a
reason why a doctor should be in faveur
of it, but I have the same coinpiaint te,
make of this Bill that I had of the hast
that nwe considered.
TJlîere is ne reasen
given why this Bill s]îould be passed, other
than the fact that the six years have expired, durinz whjch time the owner ot the
patent might have commcnced thc manufacturc under it, but lie did net. There is
nothing stated in the Bill, se far as I can
sec, settîng forth any reason «other
tean te
one of which I have called thc attention
et the Senate. It simply says that
hie
bas flot complied with the haw,
and he
desires, though six years have
expired,
an extension of it for another six
seven
years in eider te prevent otheror people
trom 'manufacturing the article. It is truc
the hast clause bas a proviso which protects any maanufacturer who may have commenced during that period te manufacture,
but it shuts off the right of any one else
to enter inte tee manufacture or te estab.
lish a factery for tbe purpose. I do tbink
tlat when an extension of this character
is asked for an explanation ought at heast
te be centained in thc Bill betore we adopt
the principle of it. The patentec may bave
cor sidered test tIe mnarket was net sufficient]y large te justify the manufacturing
cf the article in Canada, or hie may have
cc-me te the conclusion that the arti&!e
w as net reouired. There must be s imp
reason whv tîev did net manufactu-î., I
do net think ive oucht Ie lamper oui'
laws bv g-ranting extensions et patýýnts in
the manner iii which wc have beex cnn1
stantly doing.
lLia Mr. WVILSON.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-I fuily ag-ree with
the remarks madle by the lion, gentleman,
and I ivili try and g-et a brief on the subject and find out some better explanation
than I. am possib]y able to .-ive at the
present tiîne, and if it is the wish. of te
House that sonie further explanation be
given ratàher than refer it te the committee,
where the explanation might be madle, I
wiii move that the order of the day be discharged and that it be piaccd on the orders
of the day for Tuesday next. Tf the lion.
gentleman will withdraw the objection and
alhow the Bill to go te the committee, 1
have no doubt that the counsel for the
company wiil be there to expiain.
Hon. Mr. CAM-ýPBELL-I do flot tdhink
this course should be takenii i regard te
this Biii. This is ene of many sucli Blills
that have comne before the Houso for a
iimber of years. Full exl)lanatiens were
given before the committee in the House
of Commons and the Agricuifural Departnient, and the Commissioner ot Patents,
who liad special charge over these Bis,
was satisfied with the explanations; that
were given. I underst.and that we are not
extendin- the time et the patent.
The
law provides than an inventer or a patentee bas a certain time allowed as the lite
of a patent, but hie may every six years
renew bis patent by paving the usuai fee.
It seems that this party, through some
oversight on the part of sime et hia officiais,
neglected te pay lis usual fee, and hoe
simply asks, net for any greater privilege
than the law allows, but simaphy that he
may be allowed te pay now tee tees he
should have paid before and get the extension that the law alhows him. As the
hon, gentleman from Belleville bas stated,
the latter part et this clause protects every
one w.ho bas madle any progress towards
manufacturing this machine since the
patent elapsed. Ail their rights and privilege.s are guarded, and nobody is going
te suifer by the extension.
Hon. 'Sir MACKENZIE
mentioned that fact.

730WELL-I

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Yes. Se I think
the proper course would be te let this Bill
go te committee.

MARCH 25, 1909
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-1 think the lion.
gentleman who made the objection in the
firat place is quite willing, alter the explanations given, to have the Bill referred to
the cominittee, in view of the fact that it
hias been threshed out in the Commons.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I certainly witbdraw
any objection, with t.he understanding that,
after it goes to the Private Bis Comrnittee,
and is reported to the House, if we should
then feel that we have not received the
full information to which. we are entitled
in order to vote intelligently upon the
measure, we shouki have the rig-ht to raise
a question. I therefore, with that understanding, withdraw rny objection to the second readingc of the Bill.

foreigner to corne in here and manufacture
or control, or get a higher price for it than
would be the case if it were open to the
public and there were no patent? If it is
in the general interests of Canada that
these machines should be obtained as
cheaply as possible, the owner cf this
patent, having absolutely no right for a
considerable period before this, unless parliarnent re-enacts that right, why sbould we
impose upon the country a condition that
would be more or hess onerous, and wvhiohi,
I think it goes without saylng, we wouhd be
better without? The principle invohved does
not lie ini submitting to the coinmittee a
question as te whether this man forgot, or
whether he did nlot forget. He bad no
business te forget. If a Canadian forgets
in the country wbere this inventor cornes
frorn and asks for a reinstatement of bis
patent, I challenge any member of this
House to refer to a single instance in 25

1-on. Mr. JONES-I do not wish to object
further than to enter my protest against
this class of legîslation, as 1 have fromn
time to time protested heretofore. I arn years where such a reinstatement
lias -been
advised that the patent in this particular granted. I arn advised it bas not been
case wvas taken out in 1902. According to doue. I would like to refer, for the informathe laws of Canada, it would be necessary, tion of the House, to some working requirethe owner of the patent being a foreigner, ments as indicated by solicitors wbo devote
to manufacture the article in Canada within time and thought te the taking out and
protwo years. If I arn correctly advised, there tection of patents. I happen to bave
a slip
was no manufacturing done on account of in my hand headed: ' Working
requirethis patent in Canada within the two years. ments not a hardship,' issued by a
promThe patent bas been absolutely void or of mnent firmn of solicitors. The
hast clause
no effect since August, 1904. 1 do not know gives a number of details wvith reference
whether I arn correctly advised or flot te what is required of a foreigner or a Canias to the k-ind of mixer it is, but adian in taking out a patent and the pro.
I think it is for the purpose of mix- tection of invention and so forth. It says:
ing cernents. It is well known to hon.
It will therefore
gentlemen in this House that the use of working requirementsbe ofunderstood that the
the Canada Patent
cernent in Canada has become greatly Aet appear at first to be much more onerous
than they really are, and this fais. impresincreased in the hast few years. Probabhy sion, conveyed
by many
no industry in Canada bas grown with tisements, hias been the unscrupulous advermeans of deterring
many patentees in the United States from obsuch rapidity. The rapid development of
taining patents in Canada, and it sbould be
the cernent industry and the necessity for remembered ithat aIl
the gcvernment of Canivarious styles of rnixing machines, which ada require as set forth in the conditions of
are great labour saving devices, enabling th. patent, is good faith as regards the
persons to use cernent without skihled manufacture of the patented invention in
this country, and this cau be don. with coinlabour, makes it an important part parattively littie expense in most instances
of the rnanufacturing interests of Canada.
It is quite true that provisions respecting
Let us suppose that no one is rnaking this manufacture,
if they are flot complied with,
mixer or is using devices that wouhd in- can be gotten
over with verv littie expense.
terfere witb this patent-and if they are, The solicitor gets
a reasonable fee, and
they are aniphy protected-I ask this House the parliament
cf Canada reinstates a man
whbat reason there is why we should impose who
has had no rights for years without
upon the people of Canada a patent that mach question
as to whetlier there is any
lias existed for the purpose cf enabling a bona fide reason why parliaient
shouhd do
17
REVISED EDITION

SENATE
so. I subanit it is a condition which exists
in no other country than Canada, and I
challenge any one ta namne any other parliament. whether in Great Britain, France,
Germany or the United States-and I know
the conditions intimately in those countries
-that bas granted a single reinstatement of
a patent. You must protect yourself and
your patent from the beginning, or you
shall lose it for the benefit cf the country
which hias granted patent righits in the first
place. For that reason, I dlaim tbat the
principle ta be laid down by this parliament should be a different one entirely
from what we act upon, and we ought not
ta reinstate this applicant in rigbts ta which
hie is not entitled.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
should like te ask the hon, gentleman who
gave a partial explanation, whether any of
the articles mentioned in this mixer had
been. imported during the last six years inte
this country, whether the article covered
by this patent is now in use by t.he ditferent cement manufacturera in the province, and in tbe province o! Quebec.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I have no information on the matter at all.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELL-I
should like te ask whether the committee
te which this Bil1 is te be referred will investigate these points to which attention
bas been called?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I should say se.

Bis Committee, we wouldhJave no information when we are asked to pass the Bill.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have a suggestion
te make to the promoter of the Bill. We
have had eonsiderable to do, as t.he hon.
gentleman bas just stated, in regard te
patent legisiation. It would be advisable
for the promoter of the Bill to have a full
stateinent of the facts fromn the Patent Department in regard to this measure. The
deputy of the department would know whether the provisions of the Patent Act had
héeen violated.
Hon. Mr. JONES-The Patent Office
would not know whether manufaoturing
had been continued or not. They do not
pretend te look after that feature of the
law. The only thing t.he department would
be able te advise would be the dates of
payments and of renewals.
It may go
without saying that they did nlot pay for
a renewal. In Canada you can pay for
the eighteen years in three payxnents every
six years, or you can pay the whJole amount
at once. In Great Britain you can pay
once every year, but if you fail te pay you
have lest your rights.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-We have made it a
point with the Deputy Minister of Agri-.
culture te secure the information which,
the hon, gentleman says is not supposed ta
be given. He makes it a point te ascertain the faet as te the real cause of the
lapsing of the patent. I do not suppose he
gets all the f acte, but he gets sufficient
froan affidavits of the ompany. In recoimending the renewal of the patent he
would be justified in doing so. At any
r'ate I amn sure the Deputy Minister of
Agriculture will be only too glad, if he has
~tot ahl the information required, to get it
.n regard ta this or any other patent.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-First,
as ta whether there has been any importation o! the article. and secondly, as te whether there has been any manufacture established in this country, or whether there
are any machines in process of manufacture. My hon. friend knows that in ahli
parts of the Dominion at the present mo<ment cement factories are being established.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-There can be no
It bas become a very important industry, >bjection
te discussing the principle
and the object, it seems ta me, of asking for ,vhether we should renew patents
or not;
an extension of this patent is ta meet a )ut discussion on the merits
o! this Bihl
demand wbich is increasing in the country i n the House is out of
place. The Comfor mixers. Whether we should give ar nittee on Private
Bills is appointed for
monopohy to a foreigner under such circum- t he purpose cf considering
sucli Bis as
stances, when machines could be manufac- t bis, where investigation
is necessary. They
tured cheaply in this country, is a questionv vill not report
the Bfll back unless it is
wbicb we ought to consider. Unless those one which they
can recommend the House
points are investigated before tbe Prîvate t o pass.
The best place te get information
Hon. Mr. JONES.

MARCH 25, 1909

259

required is before the Priv'ate Bille Cozn- a good deal of injuîy has
been done to
mittee.
Canadian intereets by an indisciliminate
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does rsnewal of patents, and that should be
the hon, gentleman know what thie mixer borne lu mind.
la used for?
The motion was sgreed to, and the Bill
was read' a second time.
Hon. -Mr. WATSON-I do flot.
Hon.
Sir
MACKENZIE
BOWELLThere are machines used lin cities and tovwns
for rnixing the maternal required for tihe
construction of sidewalke.

MONTBEAL TERMINAL RAIL WAY
COMPANY'S BILL.
SECOND READ>ING.

Hon. Mr. ELLIS (in the absence of Hon.
it Mr. Casgrain) xnovsd the second reading
of BiI (No. 48) An Act respecting the MonHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHIT-My treal Terminal Raiiwey Comnpany.
hon. friend from Portage la Prafrie is right
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-This Bill je one of
in eaying that this paîticular Bill aan be importance, and I shouid
like very much
very well discussed in tihe Private Bill te have an explanation
of it from the proCoanmittee, but I amn bound to say that the moter. I do not suppose
that ths hon.
House and the Private Bis Comnnittee also member who Sias moved
it by courtsy is
would do very well to lay to heart the re- in a position te expiain
it.
marks made by the hon. eenator froin
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The Bill is to grant
Toronto. My own impression is that there
is a very considerable iaxity in the matter an extension of turne for two years. That
of renewing patente. I make that remark je the wihole objeet I understand.
in my individual oapacity as a senator
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No other powers?
and flot as Minister of Trade and Comsmerce. I undere.tand thet acoording to
Hon. Mi. ELLIS-I think net.
our custom it je quite open to any
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-As I amn not a memhon, gentleman to attend any commUttes
ber of the Railway Comxnittee, I wouid
of this House and take part ini discussions,
thougli he may not vote uniss he ie a caîl attention ta this fact, that it je the
meinher of the commrittse. Such points sixth renewai this company has asked for,
as the hon, gentleman fîom Toronto has so it will be time for the committee te see
raised can and ought te be discussed, and that a final renewalis granted.
would be very proper things for investiThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill
gation in oui comniittees, more eepeciaiiy was read a second time.
as oui woîk la iargely and necessariiy
revisory in character, and it je possible
SECOND READINGS.
for us to give much greater attention to
Bull <No. 66) An Act iespecting the Abidetails of a pîlvate Bill than, s0 far as
my experience goes, de usuaiiy given in the tibi and Hudson Bay Raiiway Company.Committes on Private Bis in the House <Hon. Mi. Watson).
Bill (No. 67) An Act respecting the Alsek
of Cornmons.
Aithougx tais is flot the
time toeconsider the question of public and Yukon Raiiway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
policy, it may be that, eepecialiy in view De Veber).
Bill <No. 68) An Act respecting the Athaof the practice which prevails, as I have
baska Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Talheard, eisewhere, and as my hon. fîiend
has stated in other countries, and notably bot).
Bill <No. 70) An Act respecting the St.
in the United States, that 'we sihould be
Marys and Western Ontaio Railway Coina good deai more careful than we have
been in granting- renewals of patents where lpany.-<Hon. Mr. Ratz).
the parties have negiected te manufacture
The Senate adjourned until to-moira-w at
in this country. Theie is no doubt that tiree p.m.
171
Hon. Mi. WATSON-I amn informed
may be used for mixing flour.

SENATE

THE SENATE.
Friday, March 26, 1909.
Tihe SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
OTTAWVA,

Prayers and routine proceedingas.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (CC) An Act to incorporate the
Canadian Medical Association.-(Hon. Mr.
McMifllan).
THE EASTER ADJOURNMENT.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
would like to mention to mv hion. friends
opposite, and to the House generally, that
I hope etili we may be able te adjourn on
the lst or 2nd of April; stili I cannot positively arrange that, inasmuch as it is pos-sible we may be asked to concur iii grantinSupply to His Majesty within the first two
or three *days of the following- week. However, we shall endeavour to see if the matter can be arranged as previouslv cstated.
THE STRATHCONA GRANT.

any sohool or bouse of education in the
whole Dominion-I am Gure of Quebecwhich is maintained out of public funds.
I s.hould like te know if schools in Quebe-c, either French or English, Protestant
or Catholic, which are under the control of
tihe school commiesioners with schoel instructors, paid eut of the tax on property,
would be what we caIl public schools, as
distinguished from aschools ithat are not
maintained entirely eut of public funds?
Take, for instance, St. Hyacinthe college,
where there is only a small sum paid by
the -!,ca! g-overnment every year, which is
inaiintained out of the amount l)aid for
board by the students eaoh year, which I
believe is about $150 for eachi &tudent. The
l<-cal government grants about $3,000 or
$4,000 a year. Can we ýsay th-at is a school
maintained entirely .by public funds? If
se, I think the reading- of the letter is al
.right, but if flot, I do not -see what -we can
do with that amount o! money granted by
Lord Strathcona.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
would ask my hon. friend to put dus question on the order paper, and I wîll obtain
an answer for him. I am not prepared to
answer the question at the moment. If hoe
will be kind enough to give notice of an
inquiry on the order paper I will obtain
the answer for him.

Hon.
M-r.
CHOQUETTE-Before
the
orders of the day are called, I should like
to eall the -attention of the righit hon.
leader of the House to part of a 1,etter that
was publislied in the press during the last
few days, and then puhlished in anether
place, from Lord Strathcona, froin -which Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before this question is passed over, I wishi to point eut
I read the following- sentence:
v) my right lion. friend the extraordinary
I will only add that I fihould prefer, for manner this House has been dealt with. iii
the present at least, the whole of the moaey regard to this subject. Why
sbould flot
grant should be dev oted to those educational
establishments which are rnaiatajned entire- this letter of Lord Strathoona's be laid
ly out of publie funds.
before the Senate as well as before the
House of Commons? T-his is net an isolated
This is part of a letter sent from Lord
instance, but every day we are treated in
Strathcona to the Minister of Mfilitia, offer
the same way. That was an important
ing a quarter of a million dollars, or au
document, and it wvas laid before the House
income of $10,000 a year, to be devoted
of Commons, and my bon. friend has had
te military training in eschools. I -should
to resort to the newspapers te -get informal4h-e to as], the right. hon, leader of the
tion with reference to it. Should flot the
House bis interpretation of the words
' maintained entirely out oif public funds? ' members of thiis Houýse be treated with the
same courtesy as are the members of the
If the words are interpreted literally, as far
House o! Gommons?
as I know, the provision will act in such
a way that aIl sehools, colleg-es and acaHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
demies, in the province of Quebec at least. a.m quite sure that Sir Frederick Borden
and I think aIl over the Dominion, 'will bé- hiad no intention whatever of sligliting the
excluded, because I do net think there is Senate, but the letter whici lie read te thie
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

MARCH 26, 1909
House of Commonýs appeared to have been
addressed to hini simp]y as Sir Frederick
Borden. It was rather in the nature of a
private, or, at least, an unofficial comimunication froni Lord Strathcona to hiu.
I amn fot quite certain that under suc1i
circunistances we could very well cail upon
hini to communicate such a document to
the Senate. If it had been addressed to
hini in his officiai capacity, then I think
it should have corne to us; but I observe
that it was, in the first instance, simply
a communication from one gentleman to
another, offering a very generous and munificent contribution to a particular object.
T.he House of Conimons, it is true-, at once
acknowledge it by -a vote of thanks; but
1 apprehend that that does'not neeessarily
make the letter a public document in te
senise to 'which my hon. friend refera.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-When the hon.
Minister of Militia received it and determined to use it as a public document in
the House of Cominons, and presented it to
that body, he ghoul have given a copy
of it to my right hon. iriend so that he
could treat his colleagues in the Senate in
the sanie manner that the Minieter of
Militia treated bis colleagues in the House
of Gommons.

261

days ego if lie could tell us wben the report of the Georgian Bay canal wi]l be
laid before us, and he told mie be would
inquire. Can he give me tbe information
now?
Hon. 'Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
understand it is not quite ready.
Hon. Mr. De BOUCHERVILLE-Is there
any probability of its being presented to
this House before the end of the session P
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-J
hope it will be within a few d-ays.
BLACKHALL DIVORCE BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved the third
reading of Bill (U) An Act for the relief
of Victor Eccles Blackhall.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I wish to rai-se a
point of order. This Bill is not regulariy
and legally before the House. The evidence ini the caýse is not printed in both
languages. I bave a copy of the evidence
in Englièh. The evidence, however, la not
printed in French, and I raise the Epoint
of &rder.

The SPEAKER-Wîll the bon. gentleman kindly refer me to any rule or auHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It thority that the proceedings
before a cornis a sosnewhat nice point; I do not know mittee bave
te lie printed in French?
that 'it bas arisen before. My hon. friend
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I refer the bon. geniknowis that 'when a minister quotas a document he is bound to lay it on -the table, tle'man ta the constitutional right of the
and it is on that ground, no doubt, that French-speaking mem-bers of this House to
Sir Frederick BoT~den laid Lord Strathcona's have before theni all the proceedinga in
letter on the table. As my hon. friend bas Frencb, so as ta know what they are doing.
raised the point, I shall bring it to the If the hon. gentleman wants to ruie tAiat
we can paes measuzes here without having
notice of the Minister of Militia.
thern in the two languages I an prepared
WATERWAYS TREATY.
ta accept his decision.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Has a copy of the
The SPEAKER-The Bill itself le printed
waterwaye treaty been submitted to the
lin both languages. I underatand it bas
Senate?
not ibeen the practice heretofore ta reHàon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- quire tjhe evidence taken before the comYes, thbe documents were laid on the table mittee ta be printed in French, unlesa
specially ordered. Therefore, I rule that
of this Houae by myseif on the l8th met.
it is in order ta deal with the third readGEORGIAN BAY -CANAL.
ing of thxe Bill.
REPORT.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I raised the point,
Hon. Mr. De BOUCHERVILLE-I asked flot on bebaif of my-seif, but on behaîf of
the right bon, leader of the House some senators who are absent and wbo speak

262

BENATE

the French language, and who can better
appreciate evidence in their own language
ithan in English. 1 regret very mnuch. on
behali of the French members o! this House
that they have to deal with matters of
whieh they have no constitutional knowledge. I amn sur-prised that so many Frenchi
members Ghould accept the decision.

The evidence proves that the petitioner
was the výictiin of irnpropriety on the part
of his wife, and the committee recoinmend
that he be granted a separation with a
right te remarry. I ain flot going te discuss this question on theolog-ical or evcnl
legal grounds; but I ask this honourable
lieuse te say 'whether they are prepared te
give the respondent, a dissolute woman,
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Has any French
the Tight te remarry? The evidence before
senators complained?
tihe House proves this womnan te 'be a
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Yes, Mr. Landry, woman of contagieus charaoter, of dissoluite habit, and is this honourable body, by
who is absent.
its vote, prepared to give her the riiht
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I may say, to to continue
this dissolute life?
satisfy the seruples of my hion. friend, th-at
Hon. Mr. LANDR Y-As a reward.
we do flot care to have that dirty evidence
printed in French.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-As a reward.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is not a quesAn hion. GENTLEMAN-How -are vou
tion of the evidence being dlean or dirt.y. going te prevent it?
The saine point ivas raised the other day
Hon. Mr. POWVER-If we hiave ne power
in another place by a French mnember,
who wa;s perfectly at home in the English to prevent social diseases, it is time for us
language, in connection with the Insur- to cease deahing with centagious animal
ance Bill. Hie contended t.hat a Bill of diseases. We have the right te say te a
such an important character should not bc faxizer: 'You cannot keep on your farm,
discussed until it was printed in both a herse, a eow or a pig affiicted wvith
a contagions disease; you will have te
l-anguages.
destroy iL, and if you do not, the inspecter
Hou. Mr. ÀCHOQUETTE-We do flot want of the department will destroy it. We have
the evidence in these divorce cases in the power te protect animals, and will
French.
tihe 'hon. senat-or &ay we have not thre right
te p'roteot hunran society and social life?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-If the lion. gentleIs there any hion. senater in tis lieuse
man is willing to concede that pointat 'the present monment-and I put thre quesHon. Mr. POWER-I rise to, a question cf tien te ahi of thein-who would allow Mis.
order. The hon, gentleman is discussing Mabel Blackhall te go int his home and
marry any of his sons? I çloubt if there is
the Speaker's decision.
one 'who would sanction iL.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-I am net discussing
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax>-Would the
the decision of the Speaker; the hion. senator from Halifax ought te know 'that I amn hon, gentleman allow me te explain? 0Of
discussing the point raised by the hon. course the law is aIl right, and you can
gentleman fromn Grandville. The hon. geix- punis-h such people when you can get hiold
tlenen should keep in his place and net of thein, but when you cannet reach thern
raise needless points of erder. I now pro- thre law cannot be enforced.
ceed with my mortion.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Like aIl escaped
fugitives froin justice, the sooner a diverced
Hon. Mr. POWER-Hear, hear.
man or woman gets eut of the country the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-We are getting tired better for the country-the saie as a
cf these interruptions. 1 do flot wish te niurderer. Neither the right hon. leader
dispute the decision of the Divorce Coin. of tis House, nor thre hion. ex-leader of ti
mittee in this matter. 1 think the cern- House, nor the ex-Speaker of this House,
mittee did their duty in declaring that nor any inember of tire Senate would al.low
Mr. Blackhall is entitled te a separation. that woman te go into his home and marry
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN.

MARCH -96, 1909

M6

any of hîs sons. 1 ask hion. members if propagate human vice and
allow it
they are going, by their votes, Vo aliow vail in other families. It is tirne Vo prefor us
that woman to go into the familles of their to call a hait in thi-s miatter,
and
neighbours, who may know nothing of this that human society is entitled
at least Vo
case and who are flot aequainted. with the the same rneasure of protection
as the anif.acts as we 'are? I amn discussing this ques- mal king«dom or commercial
firrns. This
tion flot froin a theological or legal point of Bill gives the right to one
Victor Eccles
view, but on the principle of protection of Blackhali to be separated
from his wife
human society, as parliarnent deals with and the righit Vo remnarry.
I have no dist.he protection of domestic ani-mais. There pute wvith the decision
of the committee,
is the wvhole question. The resolution rnay and I do not enter into collision
'with it.
be strong. I arn prepared to accept amend- AIL I a.3k this honourable
House to do is to
ment. Ail I want thi-s h<nourable flouse prevent the woman wlio made
it necessary
and parliament te do, and ail the mothers for the cornrittce
to so declare, from. having
of ths country and the reiigious institu- the right Vo fiaunt lier im-morality
and prostions of the country want te have done, is titution in honest homes
in Canada, and
to protect society against the invasion of prevent lier from
remarrying within our
such cuiprits who, by the evidence pro- limits, and
if she rcrnarrys outside the
duced before us and by our votes, we de- limits
of Canada, once she re-enters she
-clare te be enemies of society and of the shahl corne
under the provisions of -the
faxnîly. Are 'we by our votes to reward the Criminal
Code in ail circumstances regarddissolute, the reprobate, the scoundrel, the ing penalties
and fines Vo be irnposed under
brute that has broken up a fami]y and a the
law. It is a question of putting mnan
home and lef t children unprovided for and and wvoxan
face Vo face with their duties
give him the right Vo enter our neigh- and responsibilities,
and I ask hion. senabour's family and take another daughter, tors if they
can, in their conscience, deor for a woman to corne in and take another clare hy their vote to-day
that this womani
son? 1 say it is not right from a social, is entitled Vo go
into rny family or their
religious, moral or any other point of view. family
and enveigle my son or their son
In our jurisdiction we have the right te
into marriage? If thev do so, they may
declare men and wife separated, and this have
a lot of compunction and a lot of symBill provides that the petitioner is enpathy, but it is rnisplaced. They would
titled te separation wi'th a right to remarry.
noV allow lt, because they know the 'woman
But it does noV say anything -about the
from the evidence. But what do the other
guilty party, about the man or wosnan
million of families throughout the country
-who has ruined a home and blasted the
know about this wornan? If she goes te
lives of ohildren and a man and wife. I Winnipeg,
Vancouver, Toronto or Belleask this honourable House te put an end ville
and walks into a farnily and inta this syatem of disorganizing society. veigles
a young man into marriage, with
While we are careful te puni-sh a man her
reputation there is every chance of
under the Criminal Code who, as a partner repeating this
divorce experience.
The
in a firm, takes from that firm illegally, matter is
now before the flouse. I have
unlawfully or unjustly si or $ 1,000 and done my
duty as far as my conscience
aiend him te the penitentiary, we shoald ompels me
to do it, and I have doue my
go further. We proteet t1he animal king- duty as far as
requested te do so by pubdom frorn contagion, but when it ornes to lic opinion. I do
noV ask the Hlouse te
the protection of the human family, 'which~ pass the 'motion
worded as iA is; I am J)reis the foundation of the nation, we are pared te neeept any ameudment
that will
prepared te let thinga go with a free hand. tend"teo pntnish the offending
party, whether
If a brute has destroyed a faanily, give hirn lt be for a term or whether
it be for ever.
a chance to reformr.
Why noV adopt t-hat
course with a dishonest partrier in a firrnP
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I have lisWhat surprises me is thaet hon. senatorç tended with much interest and attention,
in this Chamber, great grandfathers and but I amn bound to, say without mnuch. congrandfathers are desfrous and anxious to viction, te the reasons given by the 'hon.

SENATE
gent le4man who desires that the parties
who have been granted divorce by this lionojurable House should be condemned. tahereafter to a life of enforced. celibacy, or if
they are obliged, through natural instincts.
Io gratify their animal passions, they
should be forced into a state of prostitution.
Hon. '-%r.
already.

CLORAN-They

are

there

Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-For that is
the logical out-come of the argument of this
hion. gentleman, *who possesses ail the
ni&rality of Christendoin, so far as 1 cati
gather from his remarks. 1 do not say it
is impossible for certain persons Tto go
t.hrough lufe without gratifying their sexual
instincts. I arn aware, throughi the advantage I possess of getting my medical
information free of charge from the hion.
and medical gentleman who occupies a seat
upon the Divorce Cominittee, :that there
are certain individuals who do flot possess
what we might caîl natural passions, and
of course we ail know of the large ninnber
of clerical gentlemen w&io, through their
high principles and selfsacrîfice and devotion to the tenets and doctrines of their
chur-ch and the mortification of their flesh,
are able t-o devote themselves te a life of
ceiibacy. I cannot, therefore, include in
these remarks anybody who, from religious
conviction or phivsioal inoompet-ence, or
from advanced age, would preclude iny
remarks from applying t~o any member of
this House. I say that outaside of these
exceptions, the rest of the population of
titis, or indeed eny other country, is normal and possessed of ail the ordinary passiens which God in his wise purpose hias
given to ail living creatures, enimal or
human. Now, I will assume that onetenth of the world is able and willing to
entiireiy control and restrain their sexual
emotions. It follows, therefore, that aanong
the* remaining 90 per cent will be found
ell w.ho are within the sphere and influence
of the hion. gentleman's measure, and ail]
the divorced pers-ons who are protected
by the iaw as it now stands from breaking
any moral iaw by remarrying who wiIl now
be obliged to live in a state of immorality.
We can see, -should hie suceeed in rnaking
the reman-iage of divorced persons a eri!me,
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER.

what an awful responsibility will lie upon
the hion. gentleman, not that 1 think it
makes any difference to him as long as hie
lias an epportunity of fiash-ing his inorality
upon the members of the Sonate and showing hiimlf as large as he does in reg-ardl
te other measures hie hias been introducing
here, over the wires to foreign countriesz.
Hon. Mr. CLOIIAN

Tdiat is sm.ali t.a]k.

Hon. Mr. KI1ICHHOFFER-It is so
small I think, I can include the hion. gentliman in it, because if it is smal] tell, if
applies to him and lus measures. The lion.
gentýeman talks about 'small ta]k,.' We
have heard a great deal of talk from him,
thougah it sounds loud. The hion. gentleman hails from Ireland.
Hon.
not.

Mr.

CLORAN-I

sav

that

1 do

Hon. Mr. KI1ICHHOFFER-Then 1 take
that back. I am a native of that distres-ed
coumntry myself, but my hion. friend,' I
think, is of the Franco-Iris!h-Griffintowvn
productHon. M~r. CLORAN-I wish to rise te
a point of order, and te a question of privi,lege. This is the second time t2he hion.
gentleman hias endeavoured to conneet me
with a certain district in Montreal.
He
did it last yearl, and I had no opportunity
to answer it, and hie is doing it now. Not
that I am ashamed of Griffintown, because
that is the only spot that neyer had a
prostitute in its area; but I do not come
from there. I was born in another part
of the city of Montreal. Tfhe hion, gentleman is wrongly informed, and hie bias no
right te use such small talk and cast these
siurs on me to make a point.
Hon. Mr. KIIICHHOFFER-It is the
first time I have heard the hon, gentleman
disclaim, any connection with the country
hie was representing when hie introduced
the other day a most extraordinary re-solution with regard te Irish affairs.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do net disclaim
connection.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I think the
hon. gentleman should be ashamed o! himself.

MARCH 26, 1909
had before him when he spoke about one
who was boun ' the applause of listening
Senates to commnand.' New, I do not want
the House to be carried away by the hon.
gentileman's eloquence. -The gist of w7hat
he advocates would tend to promote im.
H c)n. '.%1 FERGUSON-I think the point moxality in this counmtry, not to do away
is well taken.
with it. We have had many cases before
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-The hon. our committee, of parties who have ibeen,
inember attends large meetings in the many of them young people, joined together
constituency he represents, and lie has in earIv life before their minds were made
thoroughly convinced them that he is the up, and before they hiad any experience
man who runs the Senate. I have heard of the world. As tlîey grew older, frein inlots of thern speak of it and they got that eompatibility o! temper or varions other
impression from him. We heard the won- re'asons, they drifted apart. It does not
derful speech hie nmade the other day. I necessa.rily follow because in sueli cases
eould flot help thinking thle hon. g-entle- they are separated by t.he Divorce Committe o! this House, that the committee
man was full.
le promoting imrnorality. On the eontrary,
Hon. M-%r.
PERLEY-Order.
they are giving- an opportunity to those
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Full of en- people, if they see fit to do su, to remaruy.
thusiasin. Ail I can say about thîe lion. lu many cases they have uemiarried, have
gentleman's speech is that lie ivas in-toxi- become respectable members of the communit-y and have brouglit up familles to
catedbe a comfort and a pride of the househoid.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Order again.
All this would be done awey with by
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Intoxicatedl thie hon. gentleman'e motion. I am sure
with the exuberance of his own verbosity. if the House looks at the hon. gentleman's
proposition from. the view of wlhether it is
Hon. 'Mr. CLORAN-I think thie hon. gento 'promote immorality or to do away with
tleman ought to be ashanied of his exit, they wlll join with me in taiinking tbiat
pression. I rise to a point of order.
I
the hon. member's motion tends to imask the Chair to state if this is parliamentmorality.
ary language? If the Chair says it la, 1
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I t.hink my hon.
can tell the hon. gentleman from, Brandon
friend f rom Victoria division would do well
that he 'will get more than he is giving.
He has
to withdraw hie amen<hnent.
The SPEAKER-I hope hon. gentlemen notice of a Bill on the Ouder Paper on
wilI preserve order and flot use language which the whole question will ceine Up,
which. is calculated to vex.
and I do not thînk a division should be
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I did not invoked upon one particular case when
the whole subject la so soon to be dealt with.
make any attack on the hon. gentleman.
I shaîl not, therefore, say anything on the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Do it manfully, not general question now, because it will come
eowardly.
Up. when the hon. gentleman's Bill le beHon. '.%r. KIIRCHHOFFER-I amn afraid fore us.
Hon. -Mr. CLORAN-The hon. gentleman
has no right to say that I disclaimed connection with that country. I say that I
wa-s flot born there, but I arn proud of the
country.

thie House will be carried away by the
enthus-iasii of the hon. gentleman. I know
the great influence he bas over the House,
his sober reasoning, his dignity of appearance, his chaum of nianner, the gracefulness of bis style, and the persuaeivenesa of his eloquence, joined to the
beauty o! his peuson, make a combination
tliat the autlior of 'Grey's Elegy' must have

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I amn qui-te prepared
to aecept the suggestion. I made a sisnilar
proposition two days ago wihen I gave
notice of my Bill on this matter. I proposed that the hon. chairman of tihe Divorce Committee should postpone the consideration of these divorce Bille unll after
the fate of my Bill was decided. lit îe not
a question of my pronioting immorality.

SENATE
1 amrn ot doing so any more than thE
Anglican bishops of this Dominion or thec
ministerial associations or the MýeblhodistE
or Bap.tists, ail of whom approve my Bill.
1 am n ot voicing my own sentiments
mereiy; I 'am asking this parliament to
put an endAn hion. GENTLEMAN-Order.

General at tise samne time, and tise general
law will cover every case.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I
to let Vthe third reading
ready Vo withdraw the
mover of the Bill will
stand.

arn not prepared
go to-day. I amn
amendment if Vise
consent Vo let it

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I amn ot at liberty to isold over the Bill.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Do I undestand that thse lion. gentleman withdraws
his arnendrnent ?
The SPEAKER-I understood him Vo act
on tise suggestion of tise hion. senator fromn
Marshfleld.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Suppose
this Bill were to pass to-day, and on tise
15Lis the Bill promoted by the hion. senator
from Victoria division were to pass, both
will bse sanctioned by tise Governor General
and ail tisese cases wili be subject to thse
Hon. M-%r.
CLORAN-If that is the case, provisions of tise public Bill; therefore the
I arn certainiy quite willing to bow Vo the hion, gentleman ought to wait.
decision of tise Chair. If I have no right
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-No.
to answer the rernarks of tise hion, gentlemen who preceded me, I will Nwithdraiw
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Then rny aîmendtihe amendment and reserve my remarks ment stands.
for a future occasion. I am prepared to
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I supcoincide with the views of the hion. senator iromn M-arshfieid and withdraw my pose every member of the Senate knows
amendment, on condition thiat tise mover that I arn positively and entirely opposed
of tise orizinal motion shiail ask that this t-o divorce, but while I think we have noV
order be discharged and placed on the the right we have tise power, under the
Orde. Paper after the Bill in question. British Nortis America Act, Vo deal witis
That is only fair. I do not want a deci- divorce. 1 am afraid I shahl have to vote
sion of this House on an individual case; against tise amendment if it is pressed.
but since I have been forced to take this if I vote for it, what arn I doing? I arn
approving of divorce for Vise mina who is
action I have Vo take it.
not Vise gixily party in tisis oase-I amn
Tise SPEAKER-With the leave of tise approving of sometising to whi<si I arn deHouse tise hion, gentleman withdraws his cidely opposed. As I arn against divorce
amendrnent.
under any circunistances, I must vote
against the arnendment.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-On condition.
The amendiment was declared icet, and
The SPEAKER-I arn not in a position
to impose conditions. Thse suggestion was tise Bill wma read 'the tisird Visne a~nd
that the generai law, if tise Bill ehould be passed, on a division.
carried, wiil cover ail these oases.
COLTMAN DIVORCE BILL.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If this Bill isý
THIIRD READING.
given priority to-day, it wili flot alter tise
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved the third
cise, because very Iikely ail these Bis reading of Bill (D) An Act for tise relief
wili receive Vise assent of tise Governor, of Annie Louisa Coitmnan.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.
The SPEAKER-I wouid cail the attention of the hion, gentleman to the rule, and
I do so with a good deal of reluctance, that
the mover of an amendment is not allowed
to speak- a second time, and, as I understand the hion, gentleman intends to adopt
the sugeestion made by tise lion. senator
from Ma.rshfield and not press tise arnendment now, I would suggest that tise debate
on the subject be postponed until there can
be a full discussion on tise Bill which appears on tise Order P1aper. If the amendment is -iithdrawn, thiere is no necessity
for further discussion now.

MARCH 26, 1909
Hon. Mr. CLORA]N-This Bi-I is for te
divorce of a good woman from a man who
is an acknowledged reprobate in society.
a man who is known te have led many
women astray. Parliament is asked hy this
Bill to give him the right to continue to
do so leg-ally. The hon. gentleman frem
Brandon said that my amendment is calculated te promote immorality; it certainly
is flot calculated to make imxnorality legal.
It is calculated ta put down men like the
respondent in this case, whose evil record
is set forth in the evidence. N'ow, that man
should be treated as a criminal -wou1d ha
under the Crixninal Code, as men who
violate commercial mora]ity are treated.
The chairman of the comittee has Gympathy for a brute who has ruined his ownl
f amily and dishonoured many others. He
is in favour of giving that man a chance
to go on in his evil way in other families.
We have no guarantee that next year we
shall fot find some other woman coming
here for a similar divorce fro.m him. The
ladies of our families do flot want te hear
of such things. and no one wante te have
a man of that kind marry his daugliter.
My motion is net to promote inunorality,
but to condemn it, and, if I had my way,
the man guilty of such conduct s'hould not
only be prevented from remarrying, but
should be quarantined in the penitentiary.
Imrnorality will prevail as long as human
lile exists, but that does net justify us in
giving it the sanction of law. 1 hope te
day is corning when the members cf this
House will adopt my view, and not only
my view, but the view ef the women of
this country, of ail honest men, and religai.
eus institutions, that imsnorality should
not receive psiliarnentary sanction.
I
have ne intention of pressing my motion,
in view of the feeling of the Hlouse. I have
no expectation that the venerable senators
here with gray hairs, who ouglit te preteot
the fainilies cf this country-

Hon. M'~r. CLORAN-I say parliament is
hound to protect human society as it protect.s animais. Has the hon. gentleman any
objection te that>
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I did flot
catch thé hon. gentleman's remark.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I say parliament has
a right te proteet human society from moral
diseases as mueli as it ha-s te protect the
aniinals of the country from contagious
diseuse.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-This parliament is quite well able te do se, witih the
aid of the hon. gentleman or without.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I amn glad the House
is net without me, and I know lots of peopIe of the country who are glad te have me
here te speak their sentiments. I know that
millions and millions of people are with
me. It is net for pleasure that I stand
here and put these views before the House.
Not simply as a maLter of personal vanaty.
What difference dees it ýmake te me whether
Coltman or Mie. Blackhall get Sarried
again? But iL matters that I should put
right principles before the country and
ask for seme guarantee for the safety and
stability cf honour and respect in the
faanily. I amn net arguing simply on tha
cases now before us. They are only two
email specs on the sea ef human lite, but
when it gees forth te the country that this
honourable Senate is prepa-red te let these
black sheep go free-people who have
brouglit dishonour te their homes and
driven children te distress-the country will
eek what riglit hais the Senate te give
such men and such wemen the legal right
te repeat their evil experience?

Hon. Mr. WILSON-I rise te a point of
order. MXr hon. friend ought te know
whether t.his is legal or net, whether we
are acting under the law cf the land. Until
that law is changed, he has ne right te
censure tee oinmittee as lie is doing. If
Hon. Mr. KIBCHHOFFER-Order.
he wants te change the law, lie known te
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I say eught te pro. proper course te pursue; but until the law
teet.
is changed we are trying te proteet society,
and my hon. friand lies ne îight te insinuHon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-Order. The
han. gentleman has ne rigiht te make re. ate that we are net.
flections on gray hairs. My hair is gray,
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I amn glad my hon.
and I do net want any reflection on it.
friend has raised tee legal and constitu-

SENATE
tional point, because it givez mie new
ground to stand on. The lion. gentleman is
a]tog-ether wrong from a legal aiid constitutional point. The parliament of Canada
is a Supreme Court of Justice in this country. What parliament lias done it cao
undo. If parliarnent has a riglit to go
the whole way it hias a right to go hall
way. Now, what arn I askingY
Simp!y
that parliament shall do its whole duty.
The Bill provides that the petitioner shall
have a riglit to remarry. What. arn I ask-ing in my amendment? Sirnply to coinplete the work ive are doîng- under the constitution of this country, and to exercise
the duties and obligations o! parliament
and prevent the guiliy party from remarrying. The hon. senator from -Montarville
thougrht that by offering t.his amendrnent
I admit the principle of divorce. I do nothing of the kind. If I did so, I should be
goine against the doctrine o! the Roman
Catholic church, of which I arn a humble
member. 1 simply want parliament to go
one step further t.han this Bill goes, and
prevent the guihty party remarrying.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFEII-And have we
ears that dîd not hear, or intelligence
that did flot understand.
Hon. '-%r. CLORAN-I have been talking
te ears that did flot hear or intellizence that
did not understand.
Hon.
M.
1r. KIRCHHOFFER-That
prettv hard on the Senate.

is

Bil1 (No. 51) An Act 10 incorporate te
Royal Ca-sualty and Surety Company of
Canada.-(Hon. Mr. Ellis).
Bill (No. 79) An Act respecting the Canadian Pacific Raihway Comp)aiy.-(Hon. Mr.
Young-):
Bil] (X) An Act respecting the Joliette
and Lake Manuan C.olonization Railway
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Tessier).

WINDSOR, ESSEX AND LAKE SHORE
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
ORDER 0F THE DAY POSTPONED.
The order of the day being called:
Third reading Bill (J) An Act respecting
the Windsor, Essex and Lake Shiore Rapid
Railway Comnpany.
The SPEAKER-In this case tdie fee has
not been paid.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Then I move that te
order of the day be .discharged, and that it
be phaced on the orders of the day for
Wednesday next.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELL-I
should like to ask how it is that this Bill,
with the fees unpaid, bas passed through
the comrnittee and arrived at the third
reading stage before the rules governing
the introduction of Bills and their consideration had been cornplied with?
The SPEAKER-The explan-ation is this:
This Bill carne hefore thc cornmittee when
a new clerk wvas temporarily attending the
duties of clerkship. The initial fee for
the printing ha-d been paid and the clerk
was flot acquainted with the duties and
did not exact the production of the receipt
for the general fee, and in that way it was
overlooked, and tee report was brought into
the House and allowed te go through.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I arn not discussing
the question of divorce. I amn simply asking that a penalty be imposied on the man
or woman who destroys the honour or
stability of a family. I do not think there
is anything extravagant or unreasonable
in my request. H-owever, in view of the
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-That is not tee fault
rnanner in which my motion is being re- of the promoters of tee Bill.
ceived 1 shah] not press it.
The motion was agreed to, and the order
The Bihl was read a third tirne, and of the day postponed.
pasfed on a division.
RIDOUT DIVORCE BILL.
SECOND READINGS.

SECOND READING.

Bill (No. 38) An Act respecting the
Hon. Mr. GIBSON moved the second
Canadian Northern Quebec Railway Coin- reading of Bihl (W) An Act for the relief
pany.-(Hon. Mr. Tessier).
of John Grant Ridout.
lion. .fr. CLORAN.

MARCH 26, 1909
He said: There were two clerical errors
which will be noted. Inetead of the «city
of Toronto ' it should read the tiown of
Barrie, and the word ' living' should be
« has since lived.' I move that those ainendmeulés be made.

second rending of the Bill,. although 1
would pTefer it should be deferred, and I
would like to make them on Tuesday next.
The SPEAKER-lt is quite open for thbe
hon, gentleman to makie bis observations
on Tuesday next.

Hon. M.r. POWER-That is flot t3he way
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is a strong
to amend a Bill. W*ben -the Bifil is read
step ta take ta reject a Bill et thbe tihird
the second time, -iv hon. friend should
the
give notice that on the third reading he rea.ding. If tche objections I have tao
Bill are sufficiently etrong ta convince the
wiIl move an amendrnent.
Hous the Bill should not be passed, that
he SPEAKER-lt can only be by t.he verdiot sbould be given at the second rendunanisnous consent'of the House. I tahink ing, if at all. It wouid be like bringing
the Bill hai better be read *a second tiffne up the discussion aflter the real point was
as it stands, and notice of -motion to a.mend passed upon. I do not feei that in that
event I shoulci proceed with my observagiven for the third reading.
tions at ail.
If the second reading is
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I intended tic taken now, I -%ould let the Bill go tbrough.
make some observations on the Bill, hap- My judgment with regard ta Ibis case is
puly of a very different character from those that there is not one iota of moral culpto which we have been listeni-ng. In this ability attached to Ibis woman. Technicase the party held to be the guilty one cal blame may nttach to her in the minds
iés flot mooeally ciripable. But I think we of hon, gentlemen, and penhaps that may
have had enough divorce.for one afternoon be right; but if hon. gentlemen will look
and I would prefer making my observa- over the evidence I tbink they will not
tions altter we have overcome the effects differ from the view I take of it, that there
of the eloquence to which we have been is not one iota of culpability resting at the
listening. I would ask the hon, gentleman door -of this womnan on the evidence given.
il he would flot allow his aanendment to
The motion wvas agreeci ta, and the Bill
stand as a notice, and let the second rendwas read a second lime.
ing- be deferreci until Tuesday?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I do not see any
object ini 'deferring tihe second reading,
because I have been acting on the advice
of the clerk as to this amendînent. I arn
a very poor hand to conduct divorce legislation, but I place myseif in thbe jucigment
of the House. If il is the wish of the
House I have no objection, but there ia
no object to be gnained by delay.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I inove that t.he Bill
be rend a third time on Wednesday next.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think the
second reading, should not be taken nomw
when there is'a request to adjourn il.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I t.hink the hon.
gentleman is not askîng nnytbing unreasonable.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The second reading
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It would be better bas been carried.
that 'we defer the second reading and let
The SPEAKER-Yes.
the notice stand. Il would only make a
difference of a day or so.
1tr. WILSON-I arn sorry it bas been
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I object to that. carrieci au quickly.
There is no good object in delaying the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I desire ta call the
second reading, because my hon. friend attention of thbe bon. gentleman in oharge
can make his observations on the ljhird of the Bill ta the fact that he should put
reading.
bis notice in Nvriting.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think il is betMr. WILSON-Before the motion
ter I should make my observations on the lis carried, I desire very distinctly ta ex-

IHon.

270

SENATE

press tÀhe feeling that we ought not to force placed on the
Senate Debates, which stands
upon the members of this lIeuse the prin. as a practical disgrace, and to
my mind
ciple of a Bill t.hat they feel ought not to degrades the position
we occupy as senpass. The second reading- is the proper ators.
tisne to express one'ýs views on the principle 'Of it, and Vo endorse or disapprove.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE I3OWELL-These
If we adopt this method of ignoring the are questions of
a very delicate character
right of members of this House to have to discuss, and I should
not express the
their views expressed on the second read- opinion I arn going
Vo utter had it flot
ing, we are endorsing a dangerous principle been for the remark o! the
hon, gentleman
th«t niay lead us to difficulty; tiherefoTe, it from Marshfield. He
said he wished it
is only reasonable and fair that the view put on record, that there
was not evidence
entertained by t.he members of this House brought before the Divorc.e
Committee to
should be taken into consideration. While show any immora]ity
on the part -o! tlc
1 approve -of the Bill, there are others whd) woman. I amn fuhly in accord
with the
oonscientiously feel that it is not right, opinion he expressed. But what
we have
and they ehould not be compelied Vo, en- to consider is this: that though
the woman
dorse the poinciple of a Bill to which Vhey married aiter having obtained
a divorce
are hostile. I think my hon. friend ought in Vhe United States under the impression
to have an opportunity of expreasing his that she was legally divorced and
had a
vie-ws upon the second reading.
right Vo re-marry, having re-married, living
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn quite satis- wvith her second husband and raising a
fied. I have placed my views emphatic- family in Canada, where the divorce, as
aliy on record, that I believe there is flot I understand it, is flot recognized in law,
a scintilla of evidence of moral culpability and the mnan should be prevented £rom
on the part of this woman, and 1 do not obtaining a divorce. I read that case, heing
care whether I do more or not. When the of a very peculiar character, with a good
measure goes to another place it will flot deal of interest, and had some trouble in
be said that there was flot one member of rnaking up my mind as Vo how rny vote
should be cast. There is nothing in the
the Senate Vo express that opinion.
evidence to show that she had been guilty
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-This Bill was put in
of any act o! immorality. She parted arnicamy naine without any solicitation on my
bly frorn ber husband in Canada.
She
part. I took it up as a matter of courtesy,
weut Vo the United States, and after se4eurand it does seem to me rather a singular
ing a divorce there she re-rnarried in Canthing that the abuse seems to be pointed
ada and has been living alternately between
Vo the hon, gentleman in charge of the
Canada and the United States. But the
Bill. I amrnfot in charge of this measure,
husband says: Having re-rnarried under
I do think that some improvement might
the impression that s bad a right Vo be
be made with regard to conducting divorce
re-married, I desire to be relîeved from the
proceedings. The Bills should be in the
obligation attending a married man.' That
hands o! members o! the committee dealis the point, I think, the Senate s.nd the
ing with that subject, and when charges
committes considered wben they made the
are made in regard to such a Bill the
report granting the divorce Vo the man.
members o! that committee should be in a
position Vo give the House the information
The motion was agreed to.
asked for. I do not read any of the filthy
stuff anyway, so that 1 know nothing about ROYAL CANADIAN ACCIDENT INSURthe Bill. I think we have heard enough
ANCE BILL.
of divorce this afternoon, and I hope these
SECOND READING.
unseemly remarks which have been made
will flot be repeated. The evidence is given
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, in absence of Hon. Mr.
in a confidential way to the members of
Casgrain, moved ths second reading of Bill
this House, and then, after the evidence
îNo. 63) An Act to incorporate the Royal
is ail produced, we have it reiterated and
Canadian Accident Insurance Company.
Hon. ýMr. WILSON.

MARCH 26, 1909

271

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I may mention to hon. Committea on Miscallaneous
Private Bills
gentlemen that there is an English company to
(Bill K) an Act respactîng a certain letwhich bas the prefix of *'Royal in the ter patent o! the
'
American Bar Lock Comntitle, and this mensure wilI tharefore be pany.
opposed on that ground. The promoters
Hon Si r MACKENZIE BOWELL-Would
had better ma-ke up their minds to get anothe hon, gentleman inform the House what
thar titie, otherwise it will
lead
sion. But apart fromn that antirely, to con!fu- ' the amandments are that have baen made
the word
« Royal ' ought flot tra be used unless the to this Bill?
authority of the Crown bas bean obtained.
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-Tba first aniandThot bas baen decfded. The matter came
ment is as follows:
befora me when 1 was Secretary of State,
Page 1, lina &.-Alter 'theraundar' add the
and I got a ruling from the imparial govarnment and they decided]y objected. They follow.ing clause 2: cf any said importation
2. If since the date
said that the word should flot ha used ex- any person, other than a licensee or a person
cept in regard to scientifie companies. Thay having occupied the position of a licensea bas
commenced in Canada ta manufacture, use
cbjected te the word 'Royal' baing used or sali any of the patanted inventions
covered
in the case of companies which had to do by the raid letter patent, auch person may
-vith mioney matters. The Royal Company continue such manufacture, use. or sale, as
the case may
full and
1 refer te is incorporated in England, and ner as if this ha, in ns not been ample a manAct had
passed.
it could not sacure that word 'Royal' exThen there ia a small amandinant in
c'ept with tha approbation of the Crown,
and they obj*ect to the word 'Royal' being oe lina changing the word 'eowner ' ta
holder.'
put in by any insurance company. Thase
companies are known by the first dafinite
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Would the hon. genword, and the Royal Insurance Company is tleman axplain why it was they allowad
the
well known aIl over the Dominion, there- patent te die, and then coma to parliamant
tcre this company should ha incorporated for a ranewal of itP Thosa who wara not
under some other name.
on the Private Bills Committea hava not
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I am only acting for had an epportunity of knowing ail the
&ny hon. friand from De Lanaudièra. I con- arguments brought forward so that we would
aur genarally in the viaw expressed by my ha li a position te vote intelligently upon
hon, friand. The Bill will go to committea, it. If hae would make that explanation to
and they can deal with it thare.
tha Senate, perhaps we would ha in a batHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That is ter position, and my hon. friand fromn Hasta question for the committea to dacide. As ings would ha able te understand it.
a ruIe, they adopt the principla advocatad by
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-The petition that
the last hon. Sacretary o! Stata. I think it was presented, asking for a revival o!
this
would ha a dangerous thing for this comn- patent, sets out
very f ully the ressons 'why
pany to ha called 'Royal' in viaw o! the it lapsad. It was in the petition
that was
fact that thare bas baen an English coin- laid on the tabla whan
this Bill was intropany with the word 'Royal' in existence ducad. The manufactura was carrned
on in
for ball a cantury at least.
the city of Montreal hy a licansa, and they
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-All 1 can say is that wera not manufacturing such goods as this
il the attention of the Governor Genaral cempany fait thay had agraad te manuwera drawn to the fact, hae would not giva factura, and they imported some goods from
thair factory in the United States, to 611l
bis assant.
contracts thay had in Canada, and that of
The motion was agread to, and the Bill itself causad the
lapse o! this patent. Thay
was read a second time.
wara net awara at the turne that they ware
hraaking the law, but the patent bacame
BAR LOCK COMPANY BILL.
void. They afterwards arranged with a
AMENDMENTS CONCURRED IN.
firm in Taranto ta manufactura the geods.
Hon. Mr. McHtTGH moved concurrence This importation was only a smaîl
quantity
in the amandmants made by the Standing and for a short period of turne. As sean

SENATE
as Vhey found they were violating the Pat- (Speaker), deputy (Clerk), and cabinet (the
ent Act by importing the goods, they ceased Senate). Now. section 21 of the Act provides
ta import, and they have come here now that if the Clerk reports that the .knowledge
to get their patent revived.
and ability requisite for the position are
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL. The wholly or in part professional, technical,
bon, gentleman has put the case clearly or otherwise peculiar, the Senate may,
enough. Provision is made to proteet those upon the recommendation of the Speaker,
who may have commenced the manufacture based on the report in writing of the Clerk,
of the article. Another improvement in the appoint a person to the position without
examination,
and without
Bill is, it shows that the petitioner 'vas noV competitive
the owner of the patent, but the holder of reference to the age limit, provided the
the patent sîmply. When they were flot said.person obtains from the commission a
able to manufacture the article here, they certificate to be given with or without eximported it themselves in order to supply amination, or as is determined by the
the market. It is one of those cases in regulation of the commission, that lie
which the request ought noV to be granted. possessed the requisite knowledge and
1 do not intend to divide the House upon ability and is duly qualified as to health,
it, but I enter my protest agaînst renewing character and habits. Now I feul to find
patents under circumstances similar to, that the provisions of this section have
those set forth here, and baving done that 'been complied with. I find the Çlerk's report to the Speaker as follows:
I sha]! say nothing further.
Sir,-I had occasion, at the commencement
The motion was alareed Vo.
of the session, to invite your attention to the
of obtaining additional help for the
THE APPOINTMENT 0F MR. NICHOL- necessity work -of the Senate.
cierical
Now that the
SON.
creation of the six additional committees bas,
by the appointment of the memnbe-rs thereto,
MOTION.
become a fixed fact, some member of the staff
to be detaile-d to attend the saine as
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON moved concur- will have committee.- Inasmuch as there are
clerk of
rence in the second report of Vue Standing but two clerks who are available for coinCommittee on Internai Economy and Con- mittee work, viz.: Messrs. Soutter and Caron
only
novice) it
be
tingent Accounts of the Senate in re Nichol- (the latterthem toa answer ail will cails inmpossible for
the
made
eon appointment. He said: It is mere]y upon them.
1 do not include Mr. Creighton, who lias
endorsinga the recommendation of the
heretofore held
of clerk of
hon. the Speaker. The committee had the tees, because in the office to the legal commitaddition
work in
Speaker before Vhem and hie fully explained bis office and having to attend the meetings
the situation, and hy unanimous vote of of the two large committees of banking and
commerce and of railways, teiegraphs
the committee his recommendation was harbours, hie bas some twenty odd cases and
of
divorce to attend to, whîch must necessarily
accepted.
1
take a great deal of bis time. I wouid, thereHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do fore, recommend that the services of a coinnot risze for the purpose of opposing the petent Igiglish clerk be secured and by preference one who understands the French
recommendation made by the hion. the language.
Speaker, or to object to the appointment of
So far the only information given to the
either of those youngc men; but on looking
Speaker is noV in accordance with the 2lst
at the law, and et the recommendations
mnade in the letter -sent by the clerk Vo Vhe section of the Act. The letter is simply a
Speaker, and the Speaker's recommenda- notification to, the Speaker that two clerks
tion Vo the Senate, it strikes me that we are required and giving the reasons thereare transgressing the provisions of the f or. Then the c]erk points out that in his
law, and the Senate might possibly come in opinion these gentlemen ought to possess
conflict with the Auditor General when the the knowledge of both languages, which
pay list is sent to hlm for the payment of everv one of us admits is a correct position
Mr. Nicholson's salary. The Speaker, the to take; but there is no statement in that
Clerk of the Senate, and Vhe Senate stand, letter that the two gentlemen it is proposed
under the provisions of the Act of ]ast to appoint possesses a single qualification
session, in the relative position of minister laid down in section 9-1 as necessary. What
Hon. Mr. McHUGH.

MAROR 26, 19099
Position will the Senate be in with the Auditor General if he takes the position that
they are not legally appointed' The Auditor Generai may ask «Has Mr. Nicholson
obtained a certificate from the commission
under the. provisions of the Act? Il hie
has not, will the Auditor not -be in a position to say that the appointment is
iliegal and refuse te sanction the payment o! the salary? I find also that
there is nothing in the report of the Contingent Accounts Committee as to the qjualifications of these young men. It simply
concurs in the recommendation made by
the Speaker. If the iaw has been complied
with, I presume there is not a senator who
%vould object te the recommendation made
by the Speaker. It may be urged that Mr.
Nicholson wiil obtain the certificate of
qualification from the commissioners, but
that is problematical. We cannot tell. Supposing, on the other hand, lie should fail
to obtain the certificate, and it turns out
thalt he is flot quaiified, what position
would the Senate occupyP I casualiy caiied
attention to these points wvhen the recommendation was firet made. To my mind,
from the beginning, the provision5 o! the
Act have not been complied with.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-The Internql
Economy Committee were fully satisfied
with the explanations made by the Speaker
of the fitness of these young men. The committee did not like te pass it over. Th-e
matter was thoroughly considered with respect to the work they were required to discharge, the need for addition to the staff
to do the work that was required to be done,
and although we did not cover it in the report, I may say we did flot neglect our duty
in the way that has been ista1ted.

ficate of the Commission before submitting
the matter to the House; but if the Hou:--çe
did flot approve of the recommendation,
both the candidates and the Speaker would
l)e placed in a very embarrassing position.
We are* governed by section 21 of the Act
pa6sed last year, and on belhalf of eacli of
the gentlemen who are recommrended for
appointment a certificate must be obtaine1
from the Commission. Until that is done,
the appoint.ments of these gentlemen are
only provisional, and I assume that no
notification that Vhey have been appointed
will be conveyed te them until the necessary certificate has been obtained. I assume the certificate can be obtained.
If
not, what we have done goes for nothing,
because it would be fiyiiig in the face of
the law, but it is te be hoped that, under
ail the circumstances, a certificate may be
obtained. I quite concur ai-so ini the v'ew
of the hon, gentleman from Hastings that
neither candidate possesses the special or
technioal qualifications .Nhie.h exempt him
from undergoing the examination, because
I do not think the fact that a candidate
is acquainted with the two languages would
be regarded, in a bi-lîngual -country like
thîs, as a special and ted.hnical qualification. If his Honour the Speaker gets the
approval of the House, as I suppose he will,
I hope he may be able te deal successfully with the Commission, but if not, there
is really no great harm done.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Could
flot the difficul.ty be got over by ma.king
them provisional appointîments until they
obtain ce-rtifloates? The fact of the Senate
approving o! the appointments on the recommendation of the Speaker, if hie is flot
wi-thin the law, would flot make themi legal.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
The SPEAKER-There is a great deal
found no fault with the committee. What I
calied attention te was the fact that the iaw of diffieulty in knowing how we are to
go in the-se matters, but had I known the
had not been complied with.
hon, gentleman was going te deal witlh the
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon. gentleman matter I would have spoken to hlmn befrom Hestingts expisanation. of the law is fore. It is a very simple question if we
round, but I do mlot draw the same con- foiiow it out and are acting in accordarice
clusions that he lies reached. 'When this with the Commission. The Commissioners
report is 'adopted, the reet resuains be.- are not in a position te undertake te issue
tween his Honour the Speaker and the a certificate for two or three months to a.ny
Commission. 0f course, his Honour the body. In the meantime we want heip in
Speaker might have tried to get the certi- the offices.
To guard that matter I wae
18
REVXSED EDITION

274

SENATE

pxoposing, if this report be concurred in.
to sulirit as the order of the House that
the appointmnentGs be made, provided Mr.
Nicholson obtains from thîe Civil Service
Commission the certificate required by section 21 of the Civil Service Act, whichi
'would mnake bis appointým,.nt conditional on
that being done. That saves t.he necessity
of coming back to the Scnate for anything
about it. It was ifiten(Ied, if the report
&hould be adopted, ta subinit an order to
that effect, and if it ean be woîked out in
that way it covers the iwliole ground. The
Commission have intimated their -willingness, for oui special appoiîtments such Il
have been spoken of liere. to deal with the
matier under section 21 of the Act.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thiat
miay get aver the «difficulty ta that extent,
but is the duty which is to be 1)erformcd
by Mr. Nicholson of a cliaracter ta justify
the commission in giving Iiiin the certifieate? Whiat are his duties? I understand
they are simply clerk, of the conixnittee,
and that is merely clerical work whichi requires no techinical knowledge.

Clerk. The committee laoking at the fact
that the Law Clerk's duties were sessional
only, and at other facts, dccided that Mr.
Hinds should be placed under the contrai
of the Clerk of the Senate. with the understanding that during the session it would
be his principal duty ta act as assistant
to the Law Clerk. In the order to be submitted after this resalution is adopted,
there is no reference ta that and 1 do flot
think the reference is necessary; but I
wish ta say that the cffcct ai this report
is not ta be dcstroycd by the omission in
the order ai any reference ta Mr. Hinds
being- placed at the disposal af the C1Lýrk
ai the Senate, bccause, ai course, ail the
officers ai the House are supposed ta be
under the supreme contrai ai the Clcrk.
The SPEAKER There
ta add it ta this order.

is no

abjection

Hon. Mi. POWER-There is tlïis abjection, that if whien we appoint one officer
wve expressly statc that lie is ta be uiider
the contraI of the Clerk it nîiLlt raise
some doubt as ta the position ai ather
officers. All aur officers are under the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie Speaker's cor- contrai of the Clerk.
tificate that the 'work, was of a teclinical
The SPEAKER-There will be îîo difficharacter -would isatisfy the Commission.
culty on that score. It is well uziderstaod
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn that hie will act in that way.
asking whether the duties ta be performed
The motion was agreed ta.
by the gentleman -sho is ta be appointed
BILL INTRODUCED.
are of such a technical character that they
Bill (DD) An Act respecting the Maniiwould justîfy the Speaker in saying so?
However, that is a respansibilitv which toba Radial Railway Company.-(Honi. Mr.
Watson).
the Speaker himself may assume.
THE

PPONTMNT MR
0

HIDS.at three o'clock.

MOTION.

Hon. Mr. THOMPSON moved concurrence in the third repaît ai the Standing
Committee on Internai Economny and Contingen t Accounts ai the Senate in re Hinds
1
appaintment.

THE SENATE.
OTTAwA, Tuesday, Maich

30, 1909.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tlirîe
Hon. Mr. POWER- I understand that o'ciock.
the order which his Honour the Speaker
Prayers and routine praceedings.
proposes to submait does nat say anything
THIRD READINGS.
about Mr. Hinds being placed under thc
control ai the Cleîk ai the Senate. *It wihl
Bill (EE) An Act for the relief ai Evelyn
be borne in mind that when we first ap. Martha Keller-(Hon. Mr. Periey>.
pointed Mr. Hinds as a sessionai clerk, it
Bill (FF) An Act for the relief ai Frank
was for the purpose oi assisting the Law Parsans. (Han. Mr. Derbyshire).
The SPEAKER.

MARdI 30, 1902

THE EASTER ADJOURNMENT.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
ehouid like to -mention to t.he House that
I have just conferred with the Minister of
Finance as ta when we may expeet the
Supply Bill. I arn informed by him that
he icannot give it to us this week, and,
therefore, I shall fot be able to carry out
t.he intention I had expressed of endeavouring to adjourn on Thursday. Next Tuesday will be the earliest date et 'whir-h we
can adjourn.

vides that no amendment shaHl be made to
a private Bill at the third reading uniess
notice of the amendment has been given.
This is a surprise to the House.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Surely the hon.
gentleman is not serious. We neyer require
notice toi move the three months' hoist.
It is flot a proposai to change the Bill at
il.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I think the
question arose iast session, and it was decided that such a motion wvas flot an amendnient to the Biii.
THIRD READING.
The motion wvas deciared lost on a diviBiil (Q) An Act respecting the Quinze
sion.
snd Blanche River Raiiway Comnpany.(Hon. Mr. Beicourt).
The Bill was then read the third time
Bill (H) An Act respecting- the Ang-le- and rpassed.
Canadian anîd Continental Baiik.-(Hon.
GREAT WEST PERMANENT LOAN
Mr. Cloran).
COM.NPANY'S BILL.
Bili (No. 37) An Act to*incorporate the
WVestern Canadian Life Assurance Company.
THIIRD READI.NO.
-(Hon. Mr. Bestock).
Hon. Mr. CHEVRIER mnoved the third
Bili (No. 55) An Act to ineorporate the reading of Bill (No. 40) An Act to incorBritish Columbia Life Assurance Company. porate thue Great West Permanent Loan
-(Hon. Mr. Riley).
Comnpany.
Biil (No. 76) An Act te incorperate the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I stated to the lion.
Canada National Fire Insurance Company.
gentleman from Winnipeg that I would
-(Hon. Mr. Chevrier).
cail attention to this Bali, which, to my
As I
CANADIAN, LIVERPOOL AND WESTERN minci, requires sorne innendiment.
arn net a member of the Comniittee 0o1
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
Banking and Commerce I do not visl to
THIRD READING.
propose any amenciment, but rather to offer
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL rnoved the third a suggestion, and it wiii be for the hon.
reading of Bill (No. 44) An Act to incor- gentleman andi this honourabie House ta
porate the Canadian, Liverpool and Western decide -çhether the suggestion shoulci be
Raiiway Company.
carried out. The first point to which 1
desire to call the attention of this bouse
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I nîove an amencipoints to the fact that it is very uncertain
ment, seconded by the Hon. Sir Mackenzie
whether parliament has jurisdciition over
Boweil, that this Biil be flot now read a
this Bill, for this reason, as mentîoned in
third time, but that it be Teaci a third
the preamble: this company was incor.
time this day three months. This is a
porated under the Manitoba Building Socieprovinciai Biii, entireiy of a local character.
ties Act; therefore it was a private comIt lias been fought on those ground-s in the pany, and to give jurisdiction to this parHouse of Commons and in our cornmittee,
liament it eeenis to me it should be etated
and I think 'we shouid protest against its
in the Bill that the company shall be
adoption here. The only way to protest
authorized to carry on operations in more
hoist.
is te inove the three months'
than one province. There is nothîng at
Hon. Mr. POWER-I ask the hon. sena- ail in the Bill to that effect. The oniy
tor from Stadacona if lie does not think thing 1 can see in it that bears on this
that lie sliouid have given notice of this point is the fact that the company srnay
amendrnent? We have a rule 'which pro- change the head ,ifice of the new corn-

SENATE
pany from Winnipeg te any other place in
Canada; but I doubt very niuch if that
wouid be sufficient to give authority to a
company which was inoorporated as a
local coxnpany to carry on business outaide of Manitoba. The second point te
wbich I desire te cali attention is te sectien 16 cf the Act, under which the corn*
pany is given power to issue debentures.
Under the Companies Act, section 69, ail
joint stock companies have the riglt to
issue debentures, 'but only witb the sanction cf hoiders of not less than two-thirds
in value cf the subscribed stock of the
cernpany. Here there is ne provision of
that kind, and it seeins that the directors
wouid have the right, as far as I can
see, te issue debentures, wvhether meortgage
or other debentures, without any authorization from the shareholders.
I do net
think it is in harrnony with our practice
and with our Companies Act. Then, 1
desire aise te cail attention te sectione
18 and 19, under which the directers of
the company are given power te Issue
debenture stock, and it is etated that this
debenture stock shall rank equally with
ordinary debentures and with deposits.
The cornpany bas the right te take deposits, and the debenture stock is te rank
with the other debentures and with deposits, and in section 19 it is stated that
the company shall keep a register in which
ail debenture fstock shahl be registered,
and that the regcister shall be accessible

property, liabilities, name and goed-wiii,
&c., of any other company, and carry it
on-that is similar businesses. Itis quite
a common practice te give that power, but
this section goes %much further and in
addition provides that this company may
acquire any business which the new cernpany is authorized te carry on:
Or poswsssed of property suitabie for the
pposes cf the new company, and pay therecash or in stock either fully paid up, or

for 1
n

partiy paid up, or partiy in cash and partlv
in stock, either fuliy paid up or partiy paid

up, or in any other manner; and any of the

said companies, whose.ass-dtg the new company
desires to purchase are hereby authorized te
seil and transfer their respective assets, busiceas, preperti-, naine and good will, and the
uiew oompany and any of sucli companies May
enter into ail agreements of purchase and sale,
and exeoute ail conveyanees and assigninents,
and do ail other acts necessary or convenient
for the purnoses of sueh purchase and sale;
provided alway.s that speeified assets may be
excepted from any such purchase and gale.
1 think it is going very f ar.

The power

is aise g-iven to ail] the ether companies te
seil.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I think the promoter of the Bill is wiiiing to let it stand
over.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is better to let il
go back to the comrnittee.
Hon. Mtr. BEIQUE-Under clauses 31 and
32 the power is given to this cornpany to

purchase other companies and pay for themn
in cash or in stock or partiy in cash or
for inspection and perusal at ail reason- partiy in stock, either fully paid up or
able times te every debenture hoider, partiy paid up. Then under clause 33 it
mortgagee,
bondheider,
debenture-stock- la stated t.hat:
holder and sharehoider of tee new cernThe liabilities cf the holder of snob partiy
pany witbout payment of any fee or charge. paid up stock, in respect of the unpaid portion
thereof, s3hall be reduoed by five equai ennuai
I think for tee protection of the
creditors.
at the end of one, twe,
especiaiiy the deposit crediters, with whom ainounts years respeetively from three, four
and five
the date of
the debenture stocks are te take rank, the the issuing of such partly paid up stock; provided that no such annual reduction ehall be
word «'creditors ' should be added.
The mnade
uniesa and until the liabilities of the
creditors should have the right te see what new company whioh have matured up to the
anieunt of debenture stock had been is- time when the reduction is sought te be made
shal -have been met by thse new oompany.
sued, as these debenture stocks are enNow, this is a very extraordinary protitled te rank with them. Then tee next
section te which I desire te cail attention vision. Power is given the company te
is section 31. Under this section tee cern- issue unpaid stock te which a liabiiity
pany is given power te acquire other corn- therefor i$ attached, and then it is statei
panies carrying on any business which that the iiability arising from the issue of
the new colnpany is authorized te carry, to that stock shahl be re-duced by five equai

purchase the entire assets and acquire and lannual arnounts witheut stating te what
undertake the whoie or part of the businesý, 'extent it is te be reduced. Crediters are
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE.

MARCH 30, 1909
safe-guarded who hold matured dauimis, but
those whose dlaims have flot matured are
flot safeguarded at ail. The liability connected with the issuing of the stock may
be wiped out without regard to the existing
liabilities which are flot maturcd.
Although a creditor's debt has flot matured,
it ought to be protected in sorne way.
Under clause 37, power is given to the
company to apply to the King's Bench
for Manitoba to restrain any action, suit
or proceedings against the new company in
cases mentioned in the clause. It is a
1-roper provision so long as the head office
shial reinain at Winnipeg; but suppose the
l.ead office is changed from Winnipeg to
Toronto, surely power should flot be given
to the King's Beach for Manitoba to stop
all actions and proceedings against the
company? That power should be in the
court where the head office is situated.
UGnder clause 40, sections 136 and 137 of
the Companies Act are excluded.
These
s~ections provide for the changing of the
hc..ad office of the Company, and they are
appropriately exicluded, because, under
clause 17 o! thie Bill, power is given to
the compa.ny to change its head office;
but these sections safeguard the public
and the creditors o! the company by requiring that notice shall be given o! the
change. By excluding those sections and
flot retaining the safeguards in section 137,
the public would flot be protected. These
are the main objectionable features of
the Bill to which I desire to eall attention. There are other features of it, but
as they concern the company only, and as
the public are not interested, I do not
think it is my duty to cali the attention o!
the promoters to them.

we should sometimes .look behind those as31ur8nces.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There is probably
a good deal of force in some of the criticisms of the hon. senator from De Salaberry. WVhen this Bill was going through
the coxumittee, there was a very long argument over the title, and. we had very nearly
reached
one o'clock, and were going
tbrough the clauses very fast when I incuired whether the Insurance Department
had looked over the Bill and 8een that it
contained onily the usual provisions. We
got that assurance, but it eeems now that

Hon. Mr. DE VEBER moved the adoption
of the first report of the Standing Committee on Public Health and the Inspection
of Foods. He eaid: This is the firat report
of the new committee. Although new, it is
a very important one, and deals with matters which should be of very great interest
te the people of Canada. This House has
no power to, enact legislation in regard to
health; that lies altegether within the purview of the provincial legislatures, s0 that
our efforts will have to be instructive and

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Did the committee
have a report from the law clerk on that
Bll
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think they had.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-A written report?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We had the assurance both from the clerk and the officer of the Insurance Department, that the
Bill contained the usual provisions applicable to loan companies.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Generally, a report
of the law clerk accompanies every Bill
that cornes before the committee. If there
are objections to any clause in particular.
the law clerk points out the objections. This
Bill has not been the object of thorougli
study by the law clerk, or bis report was
not given to the cornmittee. If it was,
have they looked into the report? I think
the Bill should be referred back to the comniittee with instructions to report progress.
The motion was wîthdrawn, and a motion te refer the Bill back to the committee
on Banking and Commerce for f urther consideration was agreed te.
SECOND READINGS.
Bill <Z) An Act respecting the Bank of
Winnipeg.-(Hou. Mr. Chevrier).
Bll <AA) An Act te incorporate the Prairie Provinces Trust Company.-<Hon. Mr.
Chevrier).
PUBLIC HEALTH AND INSPECTION 0F
FOODS COMMITTEE.
FIRST REPORT ÂDOPTED.

SENATE
educational rather thian legfislative.
The
cammittee purpose contini lg their inquiry
this session ta matters of gencral sanitation, such as the watcr supply of cities,
towns and villages, the disposaI of sewage
and the pollution of rivers. IV will be
necessary, in ordlex to get the information
we require, ta cite persans, papers and reports, and we ask that power ta do so frorn
Vhis House. We also wishi ta employ' a
stenographer to takze down the evidence
which we collect. I do noV thinlz tliat the
tncpense will be very grcat. I understand
that arnong the new officials of the House
there is a steno.-rapher, and we would, as far
ais possible, utilize hirn. The wýitnesses we
would bring before us are men who have
niade a life study of the subject, and the
majority of them live ln Ottawa. We *would
like ta caîl Dr. Montizarnbert, Dr. Bryce,
the provincial health officer, and the city
enguineer. They, of course, will entail no
expense. W'e would like also Vo have the
health officer and the city engineer of Toronto. I understand that the water supply
of the city of Toronto is a very seriaus
question, and both these gentlemen have
been aIl over Arnerica investigating the
subject. After collecting the evidence, aur
ides is ta have it publishied, probably next
year, and keep it here on tap in arder that
smalleî villages and towns such as are unable ta obtain this information for thernselves, or ernploy health officers, may be
able ta geV oui reports.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI arn noV familiar with the details of the
work assigned ta this committee, but my
hon. friend should give us some idea of
the probable cost of what he proposes ta
do. Giving unlimited authority ta those
committees might entail on the Senate a
larger expenditure than it is disposed ta
incur.
Hon. Mr. DE VEBER-It would be a
very hard matter for me Vo give an ides
of what the cost would be. The only cost
I can see during the present session 'wauld
be the charges of the stenographer, provided we could not have the services of the
one ernployed by the Senate, and the travelling expenses of the city engineer and
city health officer of Toronto. The total
cost would noV be $500.
Han. Mr. DE VEBER.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe reason I put the question to my hion.
friend is this; we have had somne experience
in other places, and here ta, perhaps, of the
extraordinary value that parties -wýho denominate themaselves experts in variaus
branches of science are apt to set on their
services. The conclusion I camne to myself, when I was a member of the otiier
House-and which perhaps miglit bie jusified bv our experience here-is that givinunlimited power ta a committee is somiewhat dangerous. 1 ar n ot averse to anv
reasonable linjit, and the coimmiittee itself
could ascertain what, they oughlt to ask
for sa that a lirnit can b1wfixed of thoe total
expenditure that should be incurred. If it
is faund that more is wanted, the Senate
can bie applied to for further indulg-ence;
but I can assure my lion. friend that power
to send for persons and papers, wlien it includes sending for scientific persans, sometimes involves us in pretty hieavy expenditure, more than he, I think, would be wilRng- ta recornmend.
lion. Mr. DE VEBER-I do noV wonder
at the hion, gentleman )being- afraid of a
western man havinur hold of the funds.
We are rather inclined to be careless and
lavish with our money, but I think thiere
are sorne eastern men who would
liL
me down. The expense -would be next ta
nothing.
If the hon. gentleman would
name a sum, perhaps it would be satisfactory. 1 arn certain our expenses would
not run ovei three or four hundred dollars, until xve came ta, the publishing of
the bhook, and, flot being a printer, i do
not know what they would cost; but in
obtaining the evidence I arn sure the gentlemen I have narned would noV ask the
fees of experts for carning here. If they
had their expenses paid, I thinkz they woli
be only too wvilling Vo corne. They are public officiaIs.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Perhaps the
lion, gentleman could adjourn his motion
for concurrence until Thursday, and from
this tiil Thursday he could have an estimate of what the cornmittee would be likely
to need this session.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesx)-I think the
work, the comrnitte-e is about Vo engage in

MARCH 30, 1909
isQexceedingly important. Il the cstimatc tizambert, and the others named, would
af the chairman, that the expenses would have a good deal ai weight with the counflot exceed three or four hundred dollars try. We do not want this simply for the
is correct, 1 do flot think 'we should hesi- city, who can afford ta bear the burden ai
tate a :moment. It is proposed to deal with expense easily; but we want the -report an
the pollution of international or inter- sanitation for the benefit of aur towns. A
provincial streams. Take, for instance, the system 'of sanitary sewage disposal is very
city af Ottawa. The Ottawa river is an expensive, and the small towns cannot
interprovincial river.
The sewage ai al afford sometimes ta take it up. The saving
the lîttie towns above the citv is dumped we vould have of lufe and health, and the
in, the benefit of -,vhich we get in forms prevention of malarial fevers *would pay a
we do not like, and that is carried down hundredfold of -%vlat such an investigation
stream, and the city of Montreal lias to %would cost. That point should be impressed
take the cansequence. In the same way on the people. We pay thousands ai dolail the towns along Lake Ontario have ta lars for immigrants, but we should also
suifer frani the sewage of Hamilton and take care of the people we have here, and
Toronto, and I think the question, if save life and hea]th and pravide for the
properly investigated, mighlt very wcll comfart af aur people. I hope the right hion.
reach an international stage. The question, gentleman will not press the objection ta it.
are these international waters to be polluted The hion. meniber who lias made the motion
by the sewage ai the different cities, De- as a medical man is invaluable as chairtroit, Buffalo, Cleveland and cities on bath man, and I hope lie will be able ta acsides of Lake Ontario, is a very large one. camplisli something.The chairman proposes to talie up tewo
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
branches. First, as far as the city of Ottawa and the waters af the Ottawa river may point out ta the hion. gentleman that
are concerned, and, secondly, ta ascertain I did not abject ta the investigation at ahl,
how niuch information Dr. Sheard, who is nor to a reasonable expenditure. All I
an expert in matters relating ta health, and asked is ta know roughly how much it
Mr. MeCallum, who is the engineer of the would be.
city of Toronto, can give of investigations
Hon. Mr. DE VEBER-Supposing I say
in the United States and Canada as ta a
a sum nat ta exceed $500.
septic system ai sewage disposal. That is
a large question. I do nat know what the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTpractice is, but I would be surprised if Thiat is not et all excessive.
either of these gentlemen would ask a
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I am sorry I was
fee for giving their evidence: if not. the
expense would be merely travelling and not able ta hear clearly the explanations
hatel expenses. As ta the charges af a ai the hion. chairman of the committee, but
atenographer, that is a mere bagatelle. this is flot the usual kind ai repart upon
Then you have the ather expenses con- which the Senate acta in such cases as this
nected wvith the publication ai the repart or in which the Senate gives such aut.hority
by the Printing Commnittee, which is gen- as is apparently asked foar. None ai aur oamerally dumped inta the general expenses mittee are clothed wîth this power, as far
for printing, and which would neyer be as I know, except the special committees,
seen or heard of by the Senate, and it where there is P special order ai the House.
would not be very aeriaus anyway.
I I think the propeïr course would be for
agree with the riglit hon. gentleman who the comniittee ta recammend that tliey be
raised this point, that we should nat rush instructed ta carry on a certain investigainto expense; but we have a big proposi- tion, and ask the Hause for the necessary
tion affecting the health of thousands of powers ta carry it on. As it is now, if we
people, and I think a deliverance of this pass this repart we are committing aurSenate, sustained by the evidence ai sucli selves, and empowering the cammittee ta
men as Dr. Bryce, whomn I know persan- employ stenagraphers and send for perally to be an expert, and Dr. Mon- sons, papers and records, &c., especially te

SENATE
employ stenographers, and I think t.hat
power would continue *with the life of this
parliarnent. I do flot think that is usual.
The proper course 'would be for the comjnittee to recommend that they be instructed to make some investigation, and
to ask that this House give them the
necessary powers in order to carry it out
properly, and when that investigation ended
the expense would end. Perhaps it would. be
better if the report wvere referred back to
the committee to make a report in the -way
I have indicated.
Hon. Mr. DE VEBER-Is this flot the
usual report? We are asking the power to
investigate. The committee was appointed
for a specific purpose by this House, and we
wish to proceed with our work, but -we
cannot do so without we have power to incur
this expense.
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-No one can question
the importance of the investigation which
is proposed by this committee, and no onc
would be disposed to differ from the language used by the hon. gentleman from Lethbridge and the hon. gentleman from Middlesex with respect to the importance of the
inquiry; but it is better always, 1 think,
to size up the situation in a practical way.
We are now on the eve of an adjournment.
That adjournment will probably carry us
to somewhere near the end of April-cert'ainly some distance beyond the middle of
April-and this committee 'would not be
likely to do anything in the way of examining witnesses until after the Easter adjournment. It is evident, therefore, that
we ca.nnot make anything like a complete
inquiry during the present session, because
there is an impression abroad, which I hope
is well founded, that prorogation will take
place before the end of May, and it seems
to me that while there should be no desire
to unduly interfere with the work of the
committee, the committee will find enough
to do during this session in making a sort
of preliminary înquiry. The subject with
which this committee proposes to deal is
one as to 'which there are a great many'
important publications. With respect to
this question of the public health the provinces have done a great deal in the way of
investigation also. I know that in the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON

province of Nova Scotia' there have been
some very important blue-books published
dealing with the subject 'of the public
health and with the very important matter of drainage. I know particularly of
one on septie sewage, to which the hon.
gentleman from Middlesex referred. Before we begin Vo examine at very considerable expense and a considerable expenditure of time the question de novo, I think,
it twould :be better that :the icommittee
should know just what publications there
are on these subjects. I do not mean to
say that they should not republish what
has been published already, but if, for
instance, in the province of Nova Scotia,
or in Ontario, an investigation has taken
place, and there are certain officiai reports
which s-et -out the essential f acts as to
aewage and other such matters, I do not see
any reason why our committee should acquire that information over again. They may
verv well take it from the works which
have been published, and it should not be
necessary to bring witn-esses here from
Manitoba or from any remote region, because, as the hon. chairman of the committee
bas intimated, probably Dr. Bryce and the
medîcal officers of Ottawa and some of the
other experts will come here without charging any tee at aIl, and perhaps the hon.
gentleman had better flot take any steps
in the wav of expenditure until he bas
prospected the ground a bit. That is my
humble 'opinion.
Hon. Mr. DE VEBER-I have seen quite
a few gentlemen, and I may aay the health
officers and engineers are willing to come
here and give evidence. The evîdence is
worthless unless it is recorded by a atenographer, and we cannot have a stenographer
unless we are empowered to eniploy one.
Does the hon, gentleman wish the committee to read up the subject, make themselves experts and give the evidence themselves and send it out Vo the country? I may
state to the hon. gentleman, that the inost
of these reports that he speaks of are some
few years old. Stephens and Murphy are
probably the greatest authority in book
form on this clasa of investigation. The
fast edition is some four or five years old.
Within that four or five years, new discoveries and new devices have been put

MNARCH 30, 1909
forward, and it is made a special study by
city health officers and city engineers. The
latest evidence, therefore, is the only evidence we should gather and make public.
We do not want any stale old books or information of four or five years ago, because
they are co mpletely out of date. They were
of value when they were written, but they
are obsolete now.
What we want is evidence of the present time, and there is
no use in asking these gentlemen to corne
here and testify unless we can have their
evidence on record. 1 certainly cannot take
it down rnyself. If we can get the typewriters, the new officiala of the House,
to do the work, that will cost nothing, and,
as far as I know at the present time, the
gentlemen wvho are to corne fromn the city to
give evidence have not said anything about
wantin.- to charge to corne here and give
evidence. The expense will be nominal;
but we have no right, unless une are empowered by the House, to go ahead. If we
were to follow the lines the hon. gentleman from Halifax has laid down, we might
juat as well abolish the committee for the
present session. If we 8tart in at present,
and have the power and get in form, we
might accomplish something. I do not
mean to say we shall do very rnuch this
session, because I do not think we shall
have the tirne, but we would be ready to
start the beginning of next session. If we
wait till near the end of the session the
sarne objections will be raised, and it will
be said, «Oh, you wiIl have to put it off
till next session'. If the committee is to b.
of any benefit it should be given power to
commence at once, or it might as well be
dissolved.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-This report asks for
authority to employ a stenographer, and
to send for records and witnesses. But the
question of expense of the witnesses is
governed by rule 91 of our rules, which
sys.

ant, énd no witness residing at the seat of
governrnent shall be paid for bis attendance.
Hon. Mr. k..ýRGUSON-Does that deal
with Standing Committees?
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Any commîttee.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-A committee that
has power to summon witnesses?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The committees are
divided, a committee of the whole House
and a committee of part of t)'e House. A
Committee of part of the House is a select
committee, and a select cornrittee may be
standing or special.
Hon. Mr BEIQUE-This is a standing
committee.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes, but usuafly in
the standing commitees no special power is
given to summon persans, because they do
not need that, and when we go out of the
general rules of tuis House, we do it by
instructions. We instruct the committee to
do such a thing. I think that would b.
the. proper course that we should follow
in this instance. We should, as those different standing comîinittees wvhich have
been created since the last session, have
not received proper instructicns, give them
instructions so that they will not go beyond their business.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I should like te
cail the attention of the hon. gentleman
from Stadacona to the Mutual Reserve
Association investigation. There the chairman passed the bilsHon. Mr. LANDRY-That wvas a special
committe.

Hon. MT. DOMVILLE-Yes, and after
they had been certified by the clerk and
chairman, the leader of the government
would flot allow the bis to be paid. How
would it be in this case? What guarantee
The. Clerk of the. Sonate i. authorized to pay will there be for these witnesses, with *your
every wttness summoned to attend bafore
Il
-commnitta., a reasonabla sum for hi& living rules before you, to be paid?
and travelling expenses, upoD the eertific'ste
or order of the chairman of the committa., baHon. Mr. LANDRY-I Nvould recaîl the
fore which ha shall have bean summonad, and attention of my hon. friend to the fact that
no witnea. shall b. so suxnmoned and paid noless a certificate 8hall first have been filed in the case of the Mutual Reserve thst
with the chairnian by a member of the coni- investig-ation caused the diffBculty. I think
rinittee statinz that the avidenca of such witnass is, in his opinion, niatarial and import- the sum asked was perhaps too large. I

SENATE
do not remember well, but m-hat I conteni attend to these cemmittees and Vo perform
is that if the House made an order, there what is supposed to be tise extra duties
%vhich w~ill have te be performed by thoens.
is no doubt it would be carried eut.
Now, the chairman of that committee
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-The lion. L-exstle. has made
anoth -r report asking for
man remembers ho~ case of couiisl cmn- authority which, if the conimittee is to be
ployed by the M-Nutual lieserve Cnmmittee, of any use at ail, ouzht te ho granted to
and the report was made to the House t]sat it. What the expense woisld bo lias been
he had been employed. The Houise adopted very properly askzed. I tlsink, hy tise hon.
the report, but woulcl fot pav him.
leader o! the House. It is impossible te
say. Tise cemmnittee rsîs be scsîding for
Hon. Mr. FEIIGUSON-They did pay hlm. witnesses
and doctorS from Britishs ColuniHon. Mr. DOM VILLE-NLi, they only hia and frons Cape Bret-oî for auglit ýw'
compromised. Thev hiad not enou.-h mioney, know.
se they compromised.
Hon.
r.LANDRY-They nîiglt ask to
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The hion. gentle. b)rin.- Bernier from the North Polo.
flan from Ilothesay was very wvell pleased.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-No,
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Whether I was frons the Souti Pole. To my mind it is
plea.sed or not, that is not the question. a question for the Senate Vo consider,
It is a niatter of caution to mv hion. friend whetlser tîsat cons:n,)ittee is te ho of any~
to sec ivhat hie is doing.
uze. If it is to be of any use, you slsould
,ive themi the powver which tlsoy ask. I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do have vers' grave doubts, and have alwavs
flot think there le any doubt about this liad, as to the propriety of appointing
point. Standing committees have never manv o! these committees, incurring-, as
liad the power, if my recollection serves me, they necessarily would, a large expenditure,
to employ either
counsel
or
eteno if thev are te perform tise duties allotted
graphers, or to send for witnesses. That te them.
is a power aiways conferred upon specia]
Hon. Mr. WILSON-\-While 1 agree fuill
committees appointed for special purposes,
and if this committee, -%hich is a standing with the statement made by the hon. gentlerman from Stadacona, this being a
committee, desires to exercise otdher powers
tha:n those which are conferred upon as cemmittee authorized by the Senate
stanidin.- committee, they have pursued, to last year, that it is a standing cernmy mmnd, the only correct course in aski- mittee, that committee according te the
ing the bouse to give theni power Vo incur rules, have certain righlts and powers
that expenditure.
It seems to nme that granted te them. Tlsey are net a 6pecial
that is not enly the practice, but the committee; a special committee niight
correct course to pursue. The other stand- as], this blouse for special authority.
ing committees that have been performing Therefore, net beinz under that obligation,
the duties of legislation have not been of but being a standing cemmittee, they posthe samne charactr as the new committees sess the right of a standing cemmittee, and
which have been appointed. They have they can exercise that right. 1 have ne
been appointed to inquire into certain sympathy with tIse views expressed by the
thîngs; the one under consideration is as hon. gentleman from Halifax. If he deVo the health of the country, and wvhat sires that we should net have an opportunreport they eould make in order to assist ity of investigating the diseases that are
in suppressing epidemies or in preventing prevalent in the counstry, and the rneans
the spread of disease. It is one of the whereby we cen prevent the spread of those
incidents that every one knows must arise diseases, he should say se. The hon. genon the appeintment of these cornmittees- tleman baggles over a few dollars. I 6upthat is the incurring of expense. We have pose that hon. gentleman would be quite
already incurred an expenditure of $3,100 ready and quite willing te give a grant, if
in the appointment of the two officers to it were te make provision te guard and proRon. Mr. LANDRY.

MARCH 30, 1909
tect the lower animais. I am n ot in a
position to say what benefits would accrue
frorn thîs investigation; it is a broad ficld,
and one which we can thoroughly investigate and arrive at a conclusion which snay
greatly benefit the people of the country.
Do we pretend to say at the present moment to wvhat extent we should go, if we
thoroughly understood thie diseases that
are prevalent, with suggestions to prevent
the enormous amount of preventaie disease and deathP WVe are here to make provisions for the protection of the people of
the country. WVc are here to legfisiate ini
their interests, and is there aliv question
of greater moment or of more paramount
importance than the question of health?
I will say to rny hon. friend 'who has
brought in this report, that if ive could
through t.his comrnittee amelior-ate the sufferings o! hurnanity and save human lives
it is our duty to grant not five hundred
dollars merely, but many hundreds of dollars more. To object to the cornrnittee
going on with the work because of the late
period of the session is no argument. Our
duty is to try as quickly as possible to
save human lives. It is a question that
should occupy the attention of every individual, whether lie lie a member o! the
Senate or a private citizen. We know that
diseases are stalkîng through the land in
every iormi and shape and that it is necessary for us to suggest means to guard and
protect the water we drink. It miglit be
that by investigating carefully, and receiving reports from the people in Toronto,
we could prevent much of the typhoid
lever which is prevalent in varlous parts
of the country. Therefore, while I amrn ot
perhaps so ardent a supporter of the coinmittee we have, and not having the confidence in some Of them I would like to
have, I believe this cornrittee is a neuessary one. I believe their duties are of importance to the human race, and that they
can, by the investigation they can make
from now until the end of the session, perhaps corne to soine conclusions that will be
of material benefit and advantage to the
people. Therefore I arn thoroughly in accord with the views expressed by the hon.
gentleman from Stadacona, that we should
flot wait until another session before granting the comrnittee such powers as are

necessary to investigate this question at
the expense of a small arnount of money.
Our duty to our fellow beings is to do
everything in our power to proteet lufe, and
if w-c are not to consider whether it is to cost
one hundred dollars or one thousand dollars because one life is supposed to be
worth a thousand dollars to the country. It
is our duty to accede to the request of this
cornmittee and I arn strongly in favour o!
it.
lion. Mr. FERGUSON-It is flot at all
a question o)f expense. nor is thcre the
slighltest doubt that this is a competent
cornmittee to conduet an investigation on
tlu subject of the public healili, but the report does not start rirlit. It should indicate and recomnrend to the House that
il be instructed to carry on a certain inquiry and then ask for thiese powers. If
the Banking ind Commerce Committee, for
instance-and they are on a par-were
just sirnply to ask for powers like
these, without telling th-e House what
investigation they %vere going Vo con.
duet into the bank-ing aiffairs o! the
country, I think wve would ask thern whnt
they were going- Vo do, whcether they wexe
going Vo inquire inVo the affairs o! sorne
o! the banks that have failed, and we
would have to -ive thern instructions, and
having done that, we would naturally provide a means. «-%v point is that there
should lie a recommendation in the report
for a certain line of inquiry, and then
ask the bouse to give that power.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTWVould my hon. friend let the matter stand
and bring up an arnended report to-rnorrow
or Thuirsday? I do not object Vo any« reasortable surn.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Would it flot bie
better Vo withidra-% it, and Vo refer it back
to the cornmittee?
Hon. Mr. POWER-It would bie more convenient that it should be referred back to
the comrnittee and then corne up to us
again.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Would the best practice not be for any conimittee of that kind
to ask an appropriation of a stated amount,

SENATE
subject to cominlg again to ask for further
ameunts that rnay be required, hecausa
then the House would flot be committed
to any definite surn, and te an expense
which xnay exceed whvlat the House may
have intended, especially when there are
several committees. I arn satisfied for my
part *it is an important committee which
should have the rneans of obtaining pru.
per information, but it rnay be estahlishing- a precedent for other cornrittees, ani
I sugg-est that this course be followed.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I believe in proceeding deliberately; but it was understood. that
we were likely to adjourn over the Easter
holidays within the next four or five days,
and jnasrnuch as this merno. deals with
our staff and with their future position, it
would go in any case to the comrnittee.
I thought we would be quite safe in zending it te the cornmittee first, in order to
save time, and then, if the report of the
cornrittee is not satisfactory te the House,
of course the House can arnend it.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-There are two wvays
Hon. Mr. POWER-I move that the report bie referred back to cornrittec for in whichi the mnatter could be deait with.
One lias been sugg.ested by the hon. senaturther consideration.
tor frein Stadacona. Inasmuch as there is
The motion wvas agreed te.
some delicacy about this classification, I
thought possibly it would be as well that
the Committee on Internai Economy should
BILLS INTRODUCED.
consider it first, and then there would be
Bill (No. 30) An Act respecting the .sub- but one discussion
on the revised report
sidy from the Ontario governrnent to the
after it was returned te the lIeuse. PosLake Superior branchi of the Grand Trunk sibly
there might bie cbjections, -which my
Pacific Railway.-(Hon. Mr. Watson).
hon. friend may feel vould be removed
Bill (No. 69) An Act te incorporate the in the committee.
If the committee should
Fort Erie and Buffalo Bridge Company.- fail te act
upon my lion. friend's sugges(Hon. Mr. Domville).
tion, hie could urge his arguments on thp
floor of the House. The discussion on tha
CLASSIFICATION 0F SENATE
oonsideration of the report should, in my
OFFICERS.
judgment, bie transferred te the committee, which is a more reasonable place to
MOTION.
discuss details, and when the report cornes
The SPEAKER subrnitted to the House back, te the House,
if need lie, any details
his report on the classification of the van- which are objected te can
bie fully conous officers of the Senate.
sidered.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG moved that the said
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Let us suppose that
report be referre. to the Standing Corn- the motion carried imrnediately, and that
rnittee on Internai Econorny and Contingent the report is referred te the Comrnittee on
Accounts o! the Senate.
Internai Economy. Let us suppose that
Hon. Mr. POWER moved, in amendrnent, the comrnittee meets to-morrow; in what
position will we be to discuss the report
that rule 24 be dispensed with.
in the cornmittee when we do net knowHon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not see any what the report contains?
necessity for suspending the rule.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It will appear in the
Hon. Mr. POWER-If there is ne neces- 'Minutes.'
sity, it wvill do no harn.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But if the committee
lien., 'Mr. LANDRY-If the report is
brought down to-day it should appear in
our 'Minutes' te-morrow, and we can then
see what it centains, and we should have
an opportunity te see what it is before it
goes te the coxnmittee.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

sits at fine or ten te-morrow that will bie
of no use.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I made the motion,
with the information whe.ther right oiwrong, that the committee will net meet
to-morrow.

MARCH 30, 1909
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is on the servants of the Senate. Why should
there anything in the law that necessitates it be a delicate matter to have the discussending this report to a committee? It is sion here? If you are ernploying servants,
rnerely a matter of courtesy, and, as my you are not afraid of stating what salaries
hon. friend (Hon. '.%r. Landry) has pointe-] they should receive. It only verifies to a
out, the committee may be satisfied, but certain extent what lias been so frequently
no meruber of the House would know any- asserted, that the deputy heada and clerks
thing about the report until alter it ap- in the dep)artments control the ministers
peaxed in the ' Minutes.' I cannot see the and the government of the day. That same
necessitv of se nding the report to the In- charge might be made against this House
ternai Econorny Comrnittee.
Under the and its ernployees. That is the delicacy
lawv as it stands on the statute-book, the' to which reference lias been made, but
report is made by the Speaker to the you can get over that hy discussing- the reSenate, and it is for the Senate te accept, port with closed doors, just as well as by
reject or arnend the report. Until we have referring it to a comrnittee.
an opportunity to see the report, none of
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The point I
us is in a position to give a vote on the
question. Past experience has taught nme wanted te make waS that a amali comthat we gallop through such proceedings rnittee is preferable to the whole House
without seriously considering wvhat we are for discussinz a question of this character.
doing, Nvhat expenses wve are incurring, or
Hon. Mr. ROSS (M-%iddlesex)-I think
how far we are acting in compliance with
we are acting contrarv te statute, 'but we
the provisions of the law. We can arrive~
at a safer conclusion by flot sending the laid down the precedent the other day
report to the eornmittee, but by having it that these memos. submaitted by the Speak-,
printed in the 'Minutes of Proceedings' er should go to the Internai Economny CornWe have plenty of time before the House mittee. That is a precedent established,
adjourns riext Tuesday to fully consider and we had better follow it now, because
and decide what we shall do with the re- it is hopeless te argue againat a decision
port. That seems to be the shortest way of already arrived at hy the Senate. I shall
arriving at a conclusion, and it is 'the not object to the reference of this memo.
correct way to act under the provisions of to the Internai Economy Committee, but 1
do not think we should be in such a hurry
the kaw.
about it. It should go on 'the 'Minutes'
Hon. 'Mr. DANDURAND-The hon, gen- to-morrow, and then corne up for consideratleman forgets some of the discussions that tion. Vie will see then ivhat is being Yehave taken place in this House, since both ferred to the committee. The proposition
of us have been in the Senate, on in- now is te suspend the rules and tsend the
creases of salaries. Vie have found that report te the committee without knowing
the work of the Senate was not generally what it contaîns. I do not know what it
ideal, and that the committee itself was in is; it may be merely a memo. about pura better position te quietly weigh the status chasing a 'Dreadnoughit' for the defence of
of the officiaIs, and could distribute justice the country for ail we know. I decidedly
more evenly and satisfactorily than the object, particularly at this stage of the
Senate. The Senate can ask for a report session, ta the suspension of the rules.
from any of its committees, and that ie There is no hurry. We have two months
what was do-ne last week on the previous before us, probably, before the House wil]
report from the Speaker.
rise. I do flot wish to be obstructive, but
I have always felt that we were precipitatHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I coning business in suspending ithe rules, and,
cur ini what the hon. gentleman has
stated;' il nobody else abjects, I she.hl object to susbut it will be remembered that we were
not then acting under the Civil Service Act pending- the rule.
as it stands to-day. The objection to disThe SPEAKER-The hon, gentleman is
cussing lhese questions on the floor of the tooo late; the order of the House has been
House is delicacv in expressing opinions madle already for a suspension oi the mile,

SENATE
and the question is
motion.

now on

Hon. Mr. ROSS (M-ýiddlesex)-I
more alert next time.

the -othcr rule 24h be suspended in order that the
report may be adopted now.
shaIl be

Hon. Mr. WILSON-I think it is about

time, if there is no geod explanatien
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wa., offcred why a rule should be suýspended,
the suspension of the rule for the purpose that this practice should cease . We cerof enabling the House to send the report tainly ought to have some substantial. reason why applications for Bis have flot
to the Oommittee on Internai Economy?
been advertised sufflciently before we acThe SPEAKER-Yes.
cept an application for a suspension of the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Was rules at once. Let the motion be deferred
there any necessity for that? It is usual until t.o-merrew.
to refer a repoit to a cornmittee %vithout Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Does the hon. gentlesuspending the rules. I do not objeet to manî object to the suspension of the rule?
the suspension of tlic rule, but I see ne
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I merely caîl the
necessity for it.
attention of the lion. gentleman to the faet
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose it is tisat these ruIes are' susupended almost
understood that the report wi]1 be printed every day without just cause. If a good
iii to-morrow%ý's « Minutes?'
.eason is iven for the suspension, I do
not w-cnt -.0 interfere w-ith the progress of
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Certainly, and there
wvill be no meeting of the Internai Economny legislation. But I do object to having the
raiez suspended without proper information
Committee to-morrow, 1 arn advised.
being- furnished. In this case I objeet.
The motion wvas a.-reed to.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Then I move that
The Senate adjourned until to-morrow at this report be taken
into consideration tothree p.m.
morrov.
The motion was agreed to.
THE SENATE.

LIBRARY

0F PARLIAMENT.

OTTAWA, Wechiesday, March 31, 1909.
The SPEAKER--I be., t,) submnit te the
The SPEAKER took, the Chair at Three House the report of the Joint Committee
on the Library of Parliament.
o'clock.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I beg te ask, if that
GRAND TRUNK PACIFLO RAILWAY
report is a classification?
COMPANY BILL.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG presen-ted the eleventh
report of the Standing Committee on Standing Orders, re Bill (S) An Act respecting
the Grand Trunk, Pacifie Branch Lines
Company.
He said: We found the Grand Trunk
Pacifie Railway Gompany was short in
advertising through a newspaper in Montreal some three publications. The publication in the western papers, where the
branch lines for which they were making
application, were complete, se far as observed, and, therefore, we have Tecommended to the House that -the rule be sus
pended in regard te this motion, andl with
the permission of the House I move that.
The SPEAKER.

The SPEAKER-No, there is no classi.
fication in it.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I see that a report
has been presented to the House of Gommnons jointly sig-ned by the Speaker of that
House and the Speaker of the Senate. We
have net received that report here, and
I do not see why if a joint report is piesented to the House of Gommons by the
Speakers of both Houses such a report
should not be presented here aiso.
The SPEAKER-I was under the impression it had been presented here. It
is my fault if it bas not been, and I will
look inte it.

MARCH 31, 1909

BILLS INTIRODUCED.
Bill (GG) An Act for the relief of Hannah
Ella Tompkins.-(Hon. Mr. Mitchell>.
Bill (No. 94) An Act respecting the Cedar
Ra.pids Manufacturing and Pewer Cernpany.-<Hdn. Mr. Belcourt).
DAM ON RIVER SCUGOG.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. M~cHUGH inquired of the government:
1. Ie there a dam on the River Scugor,, at
Lindsay, Ontario?
2. In or about what year was the eaid dam
placed there?
3. ]3y whom was it constructed?
4. What was the original heiglit and length
of the said dam?
5. Was there an agreement made at the
time of the construction of said dam between
the Board of Works of Canada and the nmiliowners at Lindsay, as to the mill-owners'
i iglit to the use of a certain portion of the
water at said dam, and on what condition
ivas this riglit given to raid milI-owners?
6. Ras the government at any time 6ince
its construction either reduced the length or
increaýsed the heiglit of said dam?
7. Or have they permitted any other persomi
or persons to do so?
8. To whon was such permission given and
what representations were made as to why
such a request should bie granted?
9. What is the length and what ie the
heiglit of the dam at the present time?
10. Are there on file in the departmnent,
petitions fromn the ripai ian iand-owners complaining of the serjous*injury done to their
land oiving to the increased servitude caused
by the additional penning back of the waters?
11. Are there on file in the department,
mnemorials f rom the municipal councils of
Cartwright, Manvers, Mariposa, and Ope,
complaining of the additional burden placed
on them ini the maintenance of their higliwaye, cau*sed by the increased penning back
of the water in consequence of addition to
this damP
12. In compliance with the prayer of the
petitioners, was Mr. Gage, goveraiment engineer, sent te inspect the grievances complained
of by the riparian land-owners, and the
mnemoralizing municipal councils?
13. 19 this engineer'e report on file in the
department, what is the purport of this report, was it acted on, and if not, why not?
14. Was any compensation ever paid te any
of these rîparian iand-owners on account of
the damages caused to their lands by the
s5hortening and raising of this dam?
15. Ras the government taken any stops to
ascertain how many thousand acres of land
are drowned by this dam, ami, for which no
compensation has been paid, and this notwithstanding the patents to their land were prior
te any dam on thia riverP
16. Are the plans and specifications now
prepared for the construction of a new dam
at this point?

287

17. Do these plans and specifications show
an increa6e in the height of the proposed new
dam from that of the old dam; if so, for
how many feet along the apex of the new
dam will the height bie increased, and how
muchP
18. Rlas Mr. Geo. Smith, O.L.S., the engineer, actilig for the municipality of the township of Ops, sent to the department a prufile
pointing out an increased height, as shown
on the plan now preparcd by the government
eagineer?
19. Ras the municipal council of the township of Ops forwarded to the departmnent a
petition in which they point out the injurious effect that the raising of these waters will
have on the municipal drains that have been
coiistructed, and others that are under construction, _the cost of which drains have been
in the neighbourhood of one hundred thousand
dollars*!
20. Is the government aware that in or
about the year 1900 a very full hearing was
givcn as to any right the government or miiiowners had to impose on the lands of the
riparian land-owners any greater servitude
than that caused by the dam of 1843, that the
hearing vas hefore Hon, J. Isreal Tarte,
Minister of Public Works, Hon. David Mills,
Minister of Justice, and Sir Williami Mulock,
l'ostmiaster General ; that the mill-owners
were represented by Thomas Stewart, Esq.,
barrister, Lindsay, Ont.; Hon. Mr. Belcourt,
Ottawa, and S. Il. Blake, Esq. K.C. and that
Mr. G. Mcllugh, M.P., and R. J. McLaughlin,
K.C., appeared for the land-owners? Is there
on filc in the department from these ministers
of the Crown, ur from any one or more of
themn, a statement of the conclusions they or
lie arrived at as a result of sucli hearing? If
so, fromi whom, and what is the purport of
such statement?
21. Is it the intention of the government to
have their officers take charge and controi
the waters at this point, in such a mnanner as
ta give the mill-owners every right they are
entitled to under their agreement with the
government, bearing date the 8th December,
1843? And further, will the government see
that no unauthorized iinjury is permitted to,
bie inflicted on the 6aid iand-owners by any
interference with the free flow of the water
over this dam at and dur ing ahl seasone of the
year?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-1
have the answers here which I will hand to
the officiai reporter so that they rnay appear on the 'Hansard' in some shape.
The anewers are as follows:
1. Yes.
2. In 1843.
3. By the old province of Canada.
4. 280 feet long, 30 feet wide at base and
9 feet high.
5. That they were to use the surplus water
not required for navigation.
6 and 7. Permission given in 1847 to Hirarn Bigelow to increase height by one foot,

SENATE
1provided it will flot subejct the department to dlaims for damages fromn individuais owing property in the vicinity of the
lake and that you do the work at your
own expense.. . and ehould the department from any cause find it neoessary to
lower the water to its former level, you
will be required to remove any planking
or timber work which you may have put
on, 'without remuneration for either labour
or materials.
8. Hiram Bigelow, to Taise water to equal
level to that of previous year.
9. A plan bearing signature of N. H.
Blaird, dated August 19th, 1842, tracing of
which, bears date 19th September, 1882.
shows spillway 167 feet 6 inches long. The
heigbht of the crest of the dam above te
top of the locksill is 12 feet, showing elevation 46-81 over datum.
10. Yes.
11. Yes.
12 and 13. No information in the Department of Public %Vorks, nor in the Department of Railways and Canais.
14. Yes.
15. Plan of fiooded lands was made by
John Ryan in 1849. No contour survey
made by the Department of Public Works.
16. Yes.
17. No, the crest is O-21 feet lower than
that shown in answer Vo No. 9, now fixed
at elevation 46-41 over datum.
18. The profile is on file, but no report.
]9. Yes.
20. (a) Yes. (b) No conclusions on file.
21. Yes. The intention is to regulate the
flow, so as to keep the water at crest level
as near]y as possible.
THIRD READINGS.

ing of IBill (J) An Act respecting the Wind
sor, Essex and Lake Shore Rapid Railway
Company.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I think when thiç,
Bill was up for second reading in Vhis
House, the question arose as Vo whether iV
was -within the jurisdiction of the Dominion
parliament, although At had been stated
that it was for the general interest -of 'Canada, and that it was merely a renewal of
a charter already granted. We were informed when it was read a second time
that we should be furnished with the
necessary information Vo enable us to vote
intelligently upon this Bill. From that
time up to the present, the gentleman who
has had chargae of the Bill in the interests
of his frîends, neyer made any explanation
or gave us any reason other than that
which we had at the time the Bill was
being read the second time. It is now
being read the third time %and passed, and
is Vo go to the House of Gommons, I suppose, and we are not in any better position
now as Vo information about it than we
were at the second reading. It is an electric railway, not a éteam railway, runnifig
fromn Windsor down Vowards the lake. It
is certainly noV a Bill particularly in the
interests of Canada, any more than any
other private Bill, and I do not think iA
is reasonable that we should be asked to
pass it without some explanation from the
hon. gentleman from Beamsville.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If the hion. gentleman will refer to the statute of 1906, chap.
184, section 2, I think hie will find that this
railway wss declared to be a work for the
general advantage of Canada and the question of jurisdiction wsas settled by that declaration. This Act of that company could
noV therefore be extended or modified by
any other power than the parliament of
Canada.

Bill (No. 31) An Act to prevent the payment or acceptance of illicit or secret commissions, and other like practices, as
amended.-(Rt. Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright).
Bill (K) An Act respecting a certain letHon. Mr. WILSON-I mentioned that it
ter patent of the American Bar Lock Coinhad been declared Vo be a work in the
pany.-<Hon. Mr. McHugh).
interests of Canada. I had no doubt of
WINDSOR, ESSEX AND LAKE SHORE that at all. What I complained of was
that -we had no information whether they
RAPID RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
had gone on and built the road, how much
THIRD READING.
money had been expended, and whether
Hon. Mr. GIBSON (in the absence of the plans and specifications were located
Hon. Mr. McMullen) inoved the third read- through any Vowns and villages objecting
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MXRCH 31, 19f)9
tû this railwav.

That is ail necessary iiiformîation. Under the rulmng of the Railwav Committee, these facts should be
submitted to the people, se that they wvould
have an opportunity -of judgin- of the
miatter. This lias been refused svstematically, and we are not iii a position now any
mlore than we were before to vote intelligently- in reference to this road. I kno-w the
road perfectly well; I know it is nlot in the
public interests, hecause there is the Michigan Central Railway and other roads ruflning along this route towards the lake, and
froni th-ýre down east.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-It -%as originally
chartert-d by the Dominion.
The motion was agreed te and the Bill
%vas read a third time and passed.
PZIDOUT DIVORCE BILL.
THIRLD 1RADIXC.
Hon. MNr. GIB3SON moved thle third
reading of Bill (WV>
An Act for the relief
o! Johnî Grant Ridout.
Hon. Mr. Young moved that
amble of thu Bill be amended the preas follows:
Page 1, line 4.-Leave out ' at thse said city
of Toronto ' and insert ' at the towiî o! Bai-rie
in thse said province.'
Page 1, uine 18.-Leave out «is nlow living
and insert 'hlas since lived/'
The amnendment was adopted.
The Bill was tier read a thîrd tiuae and
passed.
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
AMENDMENTS CONCURRED I-N.
Hon, iNr. BEIQUE mnoved concurrence in
thse amendment made by the Standing
Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and
Harbours to (Bill 6) An Act, to amend the
Railway Act. He said: It was sugg-ested
that any discussion which would take
place on this Bill should be had on the
third reading.

are azked to accept it. That is what the
consideration of the repoit means.
We
are aske.I to accept that amendment, and
should -we do so, the third reading of thA.
Bill will be printed as the amendnient
reads now. It will be Bill (6) as amended.
WVhat is 'the principle of the Lancaster Bill?
It is to make a railway company prima
facie Iiable ut cominon law in case of accidents ut ail crossings which are nlot propcrly protected or arc flot coilstructed and
iantaiiîed in accordance NvitIî on order cf
the Board of Railwav Conuniissioncrs. It
is eibodied in onie I)aragraplh only, and
tlîat paragraplh reads:
Section 275 of the ltaiI.way Act, chapter 7, of
the lievised Statutes of 1906 is repealed, and
the following substituted therefor:
No train shall pass over any highway crossing at rail level in any thickly peopled portion of any city, towu or village at a greater
speed than ten miles an hour, unless such
crossings are properly protected.
So that the principle of the Lancaster
Bill is to inaku the railway liable at coinmon law. I contend that the aniendments
adopted by the Railway Committee have
substituted a different principle.
The
amendment miade by the Railway Committee relievea thme railway fromi a prima facie
liability by authorizing the board to except
all crossings froni the limitation o! speed
prescribed in the Lancaster Bill, %vithout
requiring- that such crossingas be properly
protected or constructed and maint ained
;n accordance with an order o! said board.
Thiat is quite another principle.
1 contend that this House, having accepted the
principle o! the Lancaster Bill, cannot now
adopt this ainendment. It is out of order.
On this point 1 quote May, page 486:
The chairman stated that thougli tihe conimittee had full power to amnend eremi to the
extent of nullifying the provisions of the Bill
they could îîot insert a clause which reversed
the prinoiple which' thse Bill, as read the
second time, sought to affirm.
So thse action of the committee in destroying the principle of tise Bill as affirmned
by this House, is asking thse Senate to go
back on its former decision and adopt a
Bill the principle of which is contrary to
the principle of the Lancaster Bill as read
the second time in the Sena&te. I quote
also Blackmore's Decision, page 9:

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do flot want this
House to commit itself by accepting the
report o! thse onmittee, because I 'want
to raise a question of order just on that
point, .and I will raise it immediately.
Thse amendment has been passed by the
Amendments are inadmissible which reopen
Standing Committee on Railways, and we a question already settled which are flot germane ta thse question under consideration,
19
StHVI5ED EDITIOX<

SENATE

which go baek to an earlier part ûf a question
already determined.
And on page 51:
An amendment referring ta a matter already decided by the Hause cannot be put.
And Peel's Decisions, page 21:
An amendment which. raises a point already
discussed and disposed of is out of order.
The principle of this Bill va-s discussed

and accepted. by the Senate on the eecond
reading. In one of the decisions we find
on page 486 of May the following:
The ohairrnan also regarding an amendment
offered to a Bill that ws.s limited in soope to
the repeal of a clause in the statute ruled that
the amendment was out of order beeause its
abject was the oontinuance and extension cf
the clause to b. repealed.
That is precisely the case here. By the
second reading of the Bill as it came to
this Bouse, we decided that section 275 of
the Act should be repealed, and now we
are asked ta decide that that clause shall
not be repealed, but that it shall remnain
part of the statute. We are asked to rever6e our former decision. For these reasons I a8k that the motion be declared out
of order.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I do not desire to
question the authorities cited by the hon.
gentleman, which I would do if occasion
called for it. 1 merely desire te, show that
the hon, gentleman ie astray in ss.ying
that we are departing from the px'inciple
of this Bill. The principle of the Bill read
the second time in this House was as to
the way of protecting the public at highway crossinge. The Bill was referred ta, n
commîittee, whose report submits another
way of dealing with the very same question. Therefore, it is not rever8ing the
decision of the Bouse. I may add alsa
that the second reading of the Bill M'as
pro forma and was se understood, as in
the case of many Bills that we have passed.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The rephy of the

senator from De Salaberry ta the point
of order raised does not cover the point.
The objection of the hon. member from
Stadacona le that w~e are reversing the
principhe of the Bill, which is that crossinges muet be properly protected. My hon.
friend disputes that that is the principle
af the Bihl.
se because

cuscd for four or five earF. and it has
been s.b6olutely a settled point in the
minds af hon. gentlemen that that ie the'

principle af the Bill.
Hon.
that.

Mr.

BEIQUE-I

do

flot

dispute

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-These
words
which form the principle of the Bilh are iremoved by the amendment, and in another
part of the amendment we find the fol]owing words: ' Unleas permission je given by
the order af the board,' witlhout requiring
any protection. Here we have a Bill, the
principle of which ie that crescinge muet
be properly protected, and an amended
Bih] substituted Jfor it practically says that
crossings need not be protected, if the
board gives. a blanhtet order that trains
may -be run at any speed over these crossinge. Th-at point is sufficienthy clear in
iteh; but we have a case in the British
House of Comnmons whichi is a variation
of exactly the came principhe. In 188tJ
parliament was dea]ing wîth the question
af parlidamentary ehections, and a Bil] was
intx-oduced by the govern ment propocin-,
te continue the Corrupt Practices Act and
te digsontinue somne sections, one section
in particuhar af the Representation of the
People Act, -which was then in farce. The
thirty-six-th section of the Representation
of the Peophe Act M'as heft out by the
Bouse at the second reading, and the Bill
was sent te a Committee af the Wha]e
House. The report can be found on page
1134 af No. 251 ' Parhiamentary Debates,'
t.hird series. When iA came up ini the
Committee of the Whohe House, the chairman eawd thatv he liad considered with
great care the questions eubmîtted in that
amendment, which was ta re-enact ln other
words clause 36 af the Representation af
the People Act, which at the second reading was heit out by the House:
It appeared to, himn that the effect of the
amendmnent of the han. member from Swane if it were adopted, would b. not merely
ta annul the obiect of the Bilh, but that praeticahly the ultimate effect of it would b. to
reverse it.

Juet as the hon. senatar fram Stadacona
I amn surprîýsed that he d*oes shows, that is the real effecet af the cornthis question bas been dis- mittee's amendment to the Lancaster Bill,

Hlon. Mr. LANDRY.

MAIRCU 31, 194J9
to reverse the decision that crossings miust
be proper]y protected, and to subatitute
for it a provision that crossings need not
be properly protected, and to substitute
Einglish Hansard:
Wheni the Hous sent the. Bill to a conmmittee for the express purpose of having its
clause considered, to reverse the object of the
Bill and te send back to the Hlouse a measure
which carried exactly opposite objecta wouild
be irregular.
In another place lie said:
It certainlv appeared te, hixo that so far as
the committee wers conosrned they wers re,quired by the House to consider any Bill sent
to themn in accordance with the objects with
which it had been sent to theni by the Hou.
It was open for theni ta mnodify the propositions contained in a Bill, or to annul thein ;
but it was not open for theni to intrcduce au
amendaient whieh would enact something in
an entirely opposite sense to the object of the
Bill sent to themn.
I think I understood my hion. friend to
say there were some statements made at
.the second reading of this Bill which
pointed to what was done in the committee,
but hon, gentlemen will agree with me
that expressions in debate are not really
what setties a matter of this kind; but it
is the express provision of the Bill itseif
ithat is being amended.
In the case to
which I have referred in the Britishi House
'of Cemmons, the discussion went on and
one or two members took part, after which
the chairman enlarged on the point and
became much more explicit. He said:
The Bill propoaed to repeal the 36th section
of the Representation of the People Act of
1867. The. effect of that section of the Act of
1867 vas to <leclare a certain practice to be
illegal. The object of the present clause was
to make that praotice legal. The proposai of
the.lhon. member for Swansea (Mr. Dilivyn
Tas net only to isave the practice illegal, but
by amending the clause to attach a penalty
to the illegality and to affirmn the. opposite cf
the prinoiple; in point of fact to reverse the
principle which it vas sought by the Bill to
affinai, that being so it appsared te hini that
it vas flot within the funotions of the coin'nittee to take such a course without the sanction of the Hlous.
Juat as the Bill which passed this House
proposed to repeal section 275 of the Railway Act.
The discussion wvent still further on and
on page 1137 we find the chairman again
expressing himself in this way:
Tii. observations of the hon. member for
'Reading (Mr. Shaw Lafevre) would have great
forc'e if this vas one of the sections of the
191

Act it was proposed to continue; but the Bill
simply proposed to, continue the Corrupt
Praotices Act, and the section affected by the
arnendinent was one of the Representation cf
the People Act, whioh it was not proposed by
the. present Bill to continue.
SThe ca *ses are exactly parallel.
In the
icase now before us, the House, at the second reading, left out section 275 and did
somte other thinga and sent the Bill to the
tommittee. The committee report back the
'Bill, restoring section 275, the very identical thing which was ruled againat in the
case I have just cited. We have not only
the point made by the hon. inember from.
Stadacona, which is in itself obvious and
cîcar, that the amnendment reverses the
principle cf the Bill as it ivas read the
second time in this House, but we have
the futher point that the committee has
net only reversed the principle of the Bill
as far as its own wording is concerned. but
they re-enact clause 275, which the House
proposed at the second reading te repeal.
Hon. Mr. POWER-As stated by the hion.
member from De Salaberry, the principle
of the Lancaster Bill vas net specifically te
bring back the common law as to accidents
at railway cressinga, but te give greater
security te human life in connection with
these railway creasinga. The committee
and the Senate were not bound to adopt
the exact means set out in the Lancaster
Bill for attaining that object. Furtiier, the
hion, gentleman from Marshfield laid
great stress on the fact that the Bill vas
read the second time and that the House
vas thereby prechuded from making any
amendment te it, particularhv an amendment reinstating section 275 of the Railway
Act. As I say, the principle of the Bill vas
te better secure human life at railway
crossinga, than ia the case at the present
tie.
The amended Bill reported by
the committee dees this.
Then the
hion. gentleman toek the ground that
the provisions of the Lancaster Bill
were absolute, that they provided that
certain thinga sheuld be done, and that inMtead of those absolute provisions the substituted Bill reported by the committee left
the matter in the banda ef the Railway
Commission.
Nov, I take the Lancaster
~Bill as it came te us and ivhat do 1 find?
It substitutes for the existing section 275
eof the ]RaiIwav. Act the following:

SENATE
275.. No t vain shall pa.ss over any highway Ireported by the coiiiniittee and( the princrosing at rail level iii aniv thicklv peopled Iciýple of the origin~al or Lancaster Bill, as
portion of any c-1ty, towl -or vilLage at
greater speed thîil ten miles au houî , uiile,ý, it carne froni the Comnnions.
1 certainily
asuch orossing is properhv prote.-t.d.
1think t'iat His Hunour caniiot consistentlv
1 cail SpeCiai aittention te this part of i ul thit thi- amienditiolit iS oJui of order;
the clause tlîat 1 ain about to read:
anti 1 11îay Say thiat it was distinictlv unOr unhess sucli crossing is constructed andi terstood Iliat the Hlouse in reading this
thereafter duhy maintained iii accortiance with i i" the second tirne did tiot adopt the
the orders, reguhations andi directionîs of tie Lancaster Bill. If it hiat flot beeii for thiat
llailway Committee of the Priv «vCounctil andfc
ie
hiBl
ol
nthv
ett
of the board ini foi-ce witli respect tlieîeto.
f t1wBhwudnthv
eî
ett
an
~ ~ thttht h
~~ te ~ il~ awai care~~i liavP, gouî te Coînnlittee. The Bill wouldi
So ~acatr
SoLncaser
tat
ih, s
t
the Curnnittee of the Whol,
us, is opent to tHe very saie objectioni whîich House after it m-as read the seconid tinte,
'the hon. gentlemn lias taken te tHe Bil but it wvas referreti te the Commiittee on
whichi the corniinittee reportcd, thit tHe Bill Railwavs simply because it Nvas feit thiat
is flot an absolute prohibition. l'he Bill pro- ich
vhiole question coulti lie miore saltis
vides for excrnptiîîg -cases where thîcre have factorilY discusse in hiie Railway Ceinbeen orders, directions, and icculations of in
mittee nliait in a Coînnmittee of the WVhol'
the board; se that I feul 10 sec thiat auv House. I aiti îerfectly clear thiat this pinit
tase hiat been made out.
WVhile on that 1 of ortier lias nôt been wvell takeii.
point, I inay call aîttention te tHe fact'thîough it dues not comne strictl v %vithiiithe i The SPEAKER-I arn uîîdor the i!!ýq~uestion of order-that one of the aîîieîd- 1!
pessic.n. that, as stateti
hY the last
ments matie bv the coiiiniittee wa- te rein-j speaker, the understaniîg -was that the
state the provision of section 275. That principle of the Bill was not atiopted at
section miate provisi oti for othier places iiifi
eodraiîgaîita
i
i
a
thickly settled portions of cities, towns and sent to the RalyCoinînuittee for t!i.,
villages than the railwav crossiinc-s
A great censideration of the various provisions wvîthproportion of the accidents -%hrichî occurlotadtriaino
i
ato
i
happen at other places tlîan the railwav Senate te any of the provisions being abcrossing-s, andi the Lancaster Bill, as it solutely adopted. Thiat is a practice whicl
camie to us, wvhile rnakiiiîg provision for lia been frequently a(lopted in this House.
railway crossings, took awa ' the provisioni and it was the understanding on thiat ocrelating te othier p)arts of the track. Iii re- casion. That being se, it wvill tiot. be necesinstatîng the olti provisions of section 2.75, sary te discuss the question tif order whichi
1 think the coînniiittee titi a g-ooti thinig; ia now raiseti. But if there is any dusand their amiencimient increases the protec- pute as to such understanding,, I hiave 11i)
tien given by the law if thîis becornes law, hiesitatioti in determininr that the prînto human life. The amendment does not ciphe of the Bill now under consitieratiexi
do away withi the protection given at the s tce protection cf huinan life. Tlîat is
crossing.
It reads almnost in the sanie the principle on w-hichi the Lancaster Bill
words as the Bill:
M'as fountiet.
This protection -was te be
2. No train shail pass over *any highway provitied bv a certain rnethod, and that
crossing at rail hevel in any thickly peopled methot was by guardinc the crossings. The
portion of any citv, town or village at a Bill and the anendiinent
hoth providc for
greater speed than ten miles an hour, uîîhess
6uch crossing is oonstructed and thereafter the protection cf huian life iii the samne
duhy maintained and protected in accordanîee manner. Botli provide for a rate of speet
wîth the ortiers, reguhatioan, anti directions
specially issued by the Ilailway Committee of at whiich trains inay travel, net being great,
the Privy Council or of the board in force er than a certain rate unless conditions
with. respect. to s'îch crossing, or unhess per- are observet, a greater speed being deerneti
i1ssion is given by sonue reguhatioît or order
of the board. The board mai- froni tirne to te be dangaerous te liunian life. The contime fix the speed in any casa) at any rate that ditions whichi I hiave stated are practicahll
it deeins proper.
upon the sanie Iines, ailthougli iii onc case
I really do not sec tiat there is any sub- thev tiffer from those prescribed in the
stantial difference between the principhe other, anti these conditions in eacli case
of the provisions cf the new subsection dtermining the extent te whicli il is neces-

Ileu. Mr.I'

]y.

'M.ARCH Si. 190t
sary to niake provision iii eacli case ini
respect of the danger. I therefore have no
besitation in hoülding thlat the anîendment
;s in order and that the principle of the
Bill is iaintained in the aniended Bill as
niuch as it is iii the Bill as it came to
the Senate froni the House of Coînmons.

-ztz't-. that thert, was an understanding
arrived at whien the Bill was read the second tirne that no one was cornnuiitted to the
principle of it by so doing. That may be
ilhe casé,; I do not deiiv it, althoughl I do
not remnenîber 1h, but in future whien such
an understanding is arrivcd at an entry
Hon. '.\r. FERGUSON-May I ask, if that slhould be made of the facts in our
Minutes.'
is intended to cover the othier point of the
conimittee undertaking to restore a clause
Ho'n. Mr. CASGRAIN-Would that apply
whiich was ]eft out bv the scond readinsr to paublic Bis and private Bills ?
,
of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Certainly to aIl Bis.
The SPEAKER-If the principle be ilat
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Because there is
cf protecting humnan life, undoubtedly the a rule tliat public Bills should go ho a Coinapplication of the decision to the case put mitî,ee of
the Whole House. This is a pubbv the hion. nieniber is clear. Iii the one lic
Bill and it shuould have gonie to a Coincase thiere was an absolute repeal of the
n1itt4r-e of the wVhole House:
section whichi nakes provision respecting
Hon. Mr. LANI)RY-A public Bill inay ho
the rate of speed at which trains shall
pass through thicklv peopled parts of cities, oneC in whlui îprivate interests are involv1towins- and villages, while in the ainend- v.1. ôiid there are a great niany private iiiinflt-. zuch p)rovisions are continued unless terests involved iii this.
-h-railw ayz are fenced, and protection to
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-It is not always
hurnan life being the prevailing principle,
certain thât every one is iii tavour of the
I thin], the restoration of flhat section is
on the sanie lines. The principle of the prineiple involved in a private Bill, but
private Bills are allowed, as a rule, to go
amýendnient in that respect is the saine as
thie principle upon which the Bill is found- ho the cominittee. because the conunittee is
sup)posed to be in a better position te get
ed.
information than the House is. They caui
hear counsel and witniesses and get inf orHoni. Sir )IACKENZIE BOWELL,-I concur in the statemnent that the pîassage mation which is net the case with an or(if the second reading of the Bill for the dinary public Bill, which ought ho be dealt
purpose of referring it to a comnîiittee did with hefore a Conînîiittee of the Whiole Sennot repeal that section in the Railivaay Act, ate. I have always feit that a public Bill
nor could it be repealed until tlc third should lie deait with in a Conirittee of the
reading had taken place. It was only pro- Whole House to niake it more regular and
posed to the Senate for the purpose of con- allow a free discussion in the Senate; afîidering the propriety of adopting the Lan- terwards if the Comniithee of the Whiole
caster Bill whichi provided for the repeal of find that they cannot get necessary inforthe section, but until the Bill had passed nuation, the Bill nîav be referred to some
conintittee where it can be more conventhe Senate the section was flot repealed.
iently procured; but wlien you depart from
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-W11 this decision the rules which are wisely made, that pubbe entered in our minutes.
lic Bills should be considered in the Cemmithee of the WVhole. you raise a lot of difThe SPEAKER-There is ne reason w~hy
ficulty.
it should not be.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There is a wide
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want more. If <ifference between the treat.nient by parliathe declaration should be at the second ment of p)ublic Bills and private Bills. It
reading of the Bill that we do flot commit is open for the commithee to whom the priourselves to the principle, that should be vate Bill is referred te report the preaxnble
put in the minutes and thus avoid dis- net proved. That is distinct]y the parliacuasing the matter.
The Speaker lias mentary practice, but the sending of a pub-

SENATE
lie Bill to one of the Standing Gommittees
and flot to a Committee of the Whole
was very irregular from first to last. However, it wvas done iii this case, but it does
flot follow that the Standing Committee has
the same power to deal with a public Bill
that it bas to deal with a private Bill. In
view o! what has been said, it is very c]ear
that there is a wide difference of opinion
with regard to this amendinent, and it becornes the gentlemen who have chargé* of
t.he amendment to explain to the House
w'hat that amendment really mean-s, and the
reasons whichi induced the committee to
miake it, before we go any farther on this
quIestion.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Is it the desire of the
House that we should discuss the question
now P
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why
flot '
Honi Mr. BEIQUE-The suggestion was
made in another place tlîat it should be
considered on the third readin.
Hon. M.Nr.FERGUSON-I meant with
the Speaker in the Chair. If we adopt
the amendment there is very littie use in
considering it at the third reading. It is
on the adoption of the amendment that the
whole question turns. I prefer a discussion
with the Speaker in the Chair, because it
is more dignified, and can be more
thorough.«
When my hon. friend makes a motion that
this report be adopted, he should explain
the amendment and give the flouse what he
considers good reasons why it should be
made.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-This Bill is evidently a public Bill. By the forbearance of
the flouse it was sent to the Rai.lway
Comznittee, with the understanding that the
principle of the Bill might be fairly discussed after it came back to this flouse. I
think the righit hon, leader of the Flouse
so intimated to us. Under that consideration
the Bill was allowed to go to committee,
and it is now in the stage that the committee having discussed the measure thoroughly, their duty is to report their
findings to the House. This Bill actually.
under the rules of parliament, belonged t.)
a committee o! the whole flouse, and any
other course pursued will be depriving the
lon. '%i-.

TERGUSON.

Senate of thieir righit to discuss it. It i8
necessary that we who are not of the Railway Committee may have an opportunity to
vindicate our position and show to the
country that we are not ail in favour of
slaughtering the Lancaster Bill, that many
miembers are in favour of the Bill. If the
Bill is not to go to a Committee of the
Whole House where it may be freely discussed, it will be doing an injustice to rnany
of the members of this House. Had notice
been given that the rules of parliament
rnight be violated when the Bill reaches us,
it would be different. It is necessary that
such notice should be given unlesa the
Senate is unanîmous. I feel strongly that
we are entitled to consider these amendfienta in committee of the whole, where we
will have an opportunity of expressing our
views freely and unreservedly upon them.
\Ve hiave been misrepresented in the country
and we should be afforded an opportunitv
o! expressing our views either in approva:
or disapproval of it.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
question now hefore the Senate is the
adoption of the report. The statement
which bas been so frequently made that
the rules of the flouse had been violated
by referring the Bill to the Railway Committee of the Senate certainly is flot
justified either by experience or practice.
Whenever a Bill is one affecting variou3
and varied interests, whether it be of an
individual character or of a public character, even government Buis, instead of referring them to a Cornmittee of the Whole
flouse, the practice bas been to refer them.
to the Standing Committee, or sometimes to
a special committee. The regular practice
of pnrliament is this: A Bill is read a second time. If it be a public Bill, the duty
of the gentleman who has the measure in
charge ia to move that it be referred to a
Committee o! the Whole House on a certain
day. If that be not done, and he, or some
one else, takes the responsibility, for reasrns which he may advance, of moving that
it be referred to a standing committee for
consideration, it is quite proper and quite
in order and is no violation of the rules o!
parliament to do so That is the course
pursued in this case. I have heard this
point raised and discussed over and over

MARCH 31, 1909

295

aga in, tliat we violate the rules because a
public Bill is flot to a Committee of the
sent
Whole House. That is flot a violation of
the rule. -It becomes the duty of the senator having the Bill in charge to refer it if
hie desires. to do so, to a Committee of the
Whole House for consideration.

Hon. Mr. WILSON-Would it not be
necessary ta place a notice on the paper
that when such a report came up 'for
consideration, I could move that the report be not adopted. but that it be referred
to a Coenmittee of the Whole House?

further consideration, that can easily
be accomplishied by the House acquiescingy in a motion to refer it. Ail that 'would
be necessary would be ta move that
the report be not adopted, but that it be
referred ta a Çommittee of the Whole House
for corisideration, and if the House concurs, ail that my hon. friend asks will be
accomplishecl Mv lion. friend ta my right
(Mr. Landry> cails attention ta the fact that
the course -which I suggeat was adopted
last year, and it had been adopted on previous occasions, and if it is necessary and
advisable, the whole question could be discussed there. I f uily agree in the remarks of
the hon. gentleman from St. Thomas, that
there has been a great deal of mierepresentation flot only in connection with the prin.
ciples of the Bill itself, but with the action
which has been taken by the Senate committee whose report is now before -the
Senate for adoption. They had good reason
no doubt for their report but those who
take a different view of the matter think
the reasons are not good. I can aee no objection to a reference of this report, which
involves a consideration of the whole Bull,
to a Committee of the Whole Hause, so that
it may be discussed there.

Hon. Mr. WILSON-If this is a public
Bull, where should it go? Should it go to
the Standing Committee, or the Committee
of the Whole House? This not being a
private Bill, I contend that what my hon.
friend froin Hastings said is not borne out
by the facts.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The hon. gentleman can make the motion now without
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I made that motion
notice.
with regard to this Bill.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I would like to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That know where the rules axee which enable
is his duty, and I think my hion. friend is me to do So? It ia ail very well ta violate
quite right; but it was moved in amend- rules where you bave liberty ta do so, but
ment that it should be sent ta the llailway I amrneflt prone to do that. I like to adhere
Committee. There is nothing imp)roper ii closely to t.he rules of parliarnent.
.hat procedure. If my h on. friend from St.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Thie lion. gentleThonrias desires this measure to go before
the committee of the whole House for mnan is vio]atin.g the rules now.

Ilion. Mr. ELLIS-Thie hion. chairman
bas brought in a report in which hie submits certain amendnents ta the Bull. The
lieuse is asked to concur in tham.
No
reasons for tahe amendments have been
stated. 1 think the hon. gentleman should
make some explanation.

Hon. Mr. J3EIQUE-I amn ready ta make
explanations, and will do so immediately.
The Bill as it came before this House
sought ta repeal section 275 of the Railway Act as it is embodied in our statutce.
This section provides. not for protection
at highway crossings, but for protection ini
thickly-peopled portions of chties enud tawne
traversed by the ra.ilway track, and, as
I have had occasion ta 9ay to this honourable House on a previ-ous occasion, I
think it is inadyjoable ta repeal that sec-'
tion of the Railway Act. That is a wise
provision. It la neesary and it should
remain in aur statutekbook. It la a pro-.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Would a notice flot tective section thst nobody hais taken any
objection ta; therefore it should be le! t
be necessaryF
alone. The purport of the Bill as it cae
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oh, before this House, and which we rnay
no, no.
describe as the Lancaster Bill--beoause it

SENATE
nS kinown under that name-was ciearly
est
ior protecting human 11fe at Iiigliway cros-in.-s. The Bill sougit, to attain that object
lu two different ways. First, by limiting
the rate of speed in sucli parts of cities,
ioivns and viliazes as I have rnentioned;
t'nat is, in thickl--peopled portions of such
places, to ten miles an hour, unless one
of two conditions obtain. The first condition was that the crossing shall bc con-;tructed aud thcereafter dulv niaintained in
accordance vwith the orders. regulations
;ýind directions of the Rajlwnv Coimittce
*fthe Privy Council and of the board,
in force with respect thereto. As I have
h>ad occasion tco rtate ijefore, under
sections 237 and 2-38, ail railwav-s on highwav crossings have to he constructed according to orderz o! thie board. and, therei(,re. thiere exists in ail cases an order o!
,lie board or of tbe ('oimittoe of the Privy
Council authorizing the railwav te cross any
-iven hii,,hwav-; consequentiv it, would not
be adding anything in substance to thc law
às it exists; in other %vords,the first alternative which is provided for in the Biii
ia aireadv in existence, and ail raiiway cornpanies are obiiged to coxnplY with that; requirement.
Then the second alternative
is that the crossing be properiy protected.
As teDwhat the protection shouid consist
of there is ne indication at al]. I think
it is very proper to exact from the railway
that raiiwav crossinc.s be protected, but,
-on the other band, if raiiway companies
are caiied upon to see that the railway
crossings are preperly protected, they are
entitied to have somebody designatcd t4,
whom they can apply for the purpose o!
deterniining in what the protection shail
consist. If flot. then what is the position
cf railways? They may make a protection
which will be deciared a proper proteclion in one case, a4nd which %villi he deciared an insufficient protection in the next
case. T-ake the case of an action ibrought
against a company where two different persons are kîlled. There may be l«o different
Irials by the heirs or representatives of
these two persons. In one case the jury
xnay corne to the conclusion that the pro.
tection wa,- a proper protection. In the
Etecond case, the next day, another jury
Mnay corne to the conclusion that it was
not a sufficient protection. I do not think
Hon. Mr. BEIQLTE.

that the law~ shouid be framied so that it
miay be open te conflicting verdicts of that
kind. When we are entitled te cali upon
the raiiway companies te provide for t.he
protecion and bear the cost of a proper
protection, 1 do not think it is but fair that
the companies shall he entitled to cali
upon eit.her the Boaird of Railway Cernmissioners or soe other body who miay be
designated by this honourable House te
decide as te ho-% the protection shall be
given.
Hou. '.\r. WILSON-Are we net making
prov'ision by the appropriation of $200,COO
annuaiiv to defray the cest? Yet thlionv~.
gentleman says the railwvays are calloi
upon. I contend it, is the Dominion that, is
doing it.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The contribution
which shahl be made by the parliament of
Canada wili take place oniy when a state
o! thing-s such as has been suggested wil
have been provided for occurs. No money
will be paid under that Bill, if it passes,
unlea-s and until the Rail-wey Board has decided and determoined in what the protection shahl consist, and has apportioned the
cost of the protection between the municipalities, the railway companies and the
governrnent.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I ask whether the
government, or the parliament. of Canada
is net making a provision to assist the
raiiway conipanies to pay the expenses of
naking tho changes?
Hion. Mr. DANDURAND-In certain cases
only.
Mr. BEIQUE-The government, is making
provision in that Biii for a, change of policy. The pelicy of ihis parlianient has
been, up to this date, to ailow the raiiways
to cross high'ways at rail level without more
than ordinary prot2ction. TIhot has been
the polîcy te this day.
I understand the
governrnent suggests that this poiicy be
departed from; that a ncw policy be
adopted, and that hercalter no raiiway be
authorized te cross highways, eixcept effective protection be provided for; and, for
the purpose of aiding that being donc, the
governrnent proposes te contribute $200,(1O0 a vear for five years, and propoFes aiso

MARCH 31, 1909
ilhat the lliwvComnissioners be emipowered not cnly to determine how the
p)rotection shahl be given, but also to app-urtion the cost of the protection between
the- government, the imunicipaiity and the
railway comnpany. What we ore dealing
w%%ith is ziot the adoption of any new
now
policy, but the protection of life at highway crossings, and the oniy question Uefore this hionourable Huse is as to how this
should be done. r have indic-ated how it
was soughit f0 be done by what is c&lled
the Lancaster Bill, and 1 mny put it in
îwo ivords: It iwas to be done first in providinui that the highway lie prutected; 1)0w
it was to bý protected is left to ba deterlini(1- hb a court, and jury iii every case.
Bv the aniendment whichi is now submitte1 to this House, p~ower is given to the
Rai]wvay Board to determine how the protetjuui shall Ie given, and thle mionient. a
railway has complied with the order of the
Raiiway Board. then it wili hîave satislied the requireirents of the law, and the
door ivill bcelcosed to investigation as to
whether the protection should have con-isted in thi-, or that. It wiii be determined by the Raiiway Board, aud béfore the
accident has happened and it wiii avoid
the conflict of verdicts or decisions of the
courts such as 1 have mentioned a moment
ago. The other alternative, to my mmid
vas perfectiy meaningless, because it did
flot carry in if, the %vord 'protected.' It
required merely an order that the railway be constructed and inaintained in accoi-dance withi the order of the board. Instead o! adopting that -wording, we are
importing into it the word « protected;' flot
only the words constructed and maintained
but that the crossing so eonstructed and
maintained shahl be protected according
te the directions of the Board of Raiiway
Commissioners. Again the Lancaster Bill
had a provision in which the board w~as
given the power to lirait the speed of trains
te ten miles an hour. W~e are substîtuting
for the word 'limit' the word 'determine.'
The ]Railway Board mrould have had power
merely t0 order diminishing or dec-easing
that speed; but in no case would it have
had power to increase the speed from ten
miles an hour at any given hour of the
day or night. Under the wording of the
amendment the board is given the full

power to permnit increasing the speed and
if the board is o! the opinion that there la
no danger at that crossing, to order that it
may be done at certain hours of the day or
night. Again, the Lancaster Bill in its
spirit-because there 'is no question that
the intention o! the Bill and the intention of the promoter of the Bill-was to
adopt a cast-iron mile whereby ail railways
would be obliged to lirnit the speed
to ten miles an hour for 24 boums
a day at ail cmossin-s. in thiekly peopled
poTtions of any cities, towns or villages.
If I properly undemstand the effeet of the
amndment and the spirit which has dictated it, if 15 to t-bis effect: That if, would
be inadvisabie to adopt such a cast-iron
rifle, l)ut that the malter must be ieft, and
ought t-o be left to the Board o! Railwvay
Commissioners to determine in eachi case,
because there miay bc liundreds o! highway
crossings ivîere there nîiay be danger, and
there inay bc hiundreds wvhere there niay be
no danger, or there may ha danger at certain hourýs of the day and there be ne danger at othier hours o! the day, and also the
speed o! the locomotive may be limited te
feu mileýs an hour, but the train itself, or
the remaining portion of the train may be
allowed te pass at a hig-her speed than ten
miles an heur. It is well known that trains
are now pmetty long. They cover a great
de-ai ef space, sometimes three-quamters of
a mile, and would there be any necessity,
aiter the locomotive has passed the higliway cmessing, f0 limit the speed o! the memaining portion of the train te ten miles an
heur, and net te allow if, to exceed that ?
Under the wording of tue Lancaster Bill,
the speed.would be limited, not only for the
locomotive but also for the whole train.
There is no distinction. If, has been stated
that the object of the amendment vas to
take away the commen law responsibility
o! railway companies. I de not understand
the effeet ef the amendment te be that at
ail. Railwvay companies have be-en responsible for accidents at railway cressinga, not
be-cause they cross the highways at 30 or
40 miles a-n hour. They were authorized to
do so, and being se authorized under the
law, if, did not involve their -re-sponsibility
at ail. If there was any accident at railway crossings, the Tailway companies. under fthe law as if, ln nov in our statute-book,

SENATE
are responsible only if it can be proved that
the cornpany has neglected Vo f ulfil any of
its st.atutory obligations, such as neglecting
Vo ring the bell or sound the whistle, or if
th-e company lias committed any other act
of neg-ligence. For instance, if the engineer
could have seen in time that there was it
vehicle on the road. ilt became his duty to
reverse hi-, engine, and, if he 'failed to do
so, then the company would be responsible.
But the company being licensed Vo operate
a railway and the speed noV being limi ted,
the company, providcd they are noV guilty
of negligence as I have mentioned, incur
no responsibility at aIl. This is the common law. as modified by the Railway Act
iltelf. and this doctrine bas been laid down
by the Privy Council in the case of the
Canadian Pacific Railway and Roy, which
is reported in Appeal Cases 1902l, page M2,
as follows:
A railway company authorized by statute
to carry-on its railway undertaking in the
place and by the means adopted is flot responSible in damages for injury flot caused by
regligence, but by the ordinary snd normal
uise of its railway; or in other words, by the
proper execution of the power conferred by
the statute.
It was a case where sparks fromn a locomotive set on fire Borne farm buildings, and
it was held by the Privy Council, reversing
the decision of the Superior Court and the
Queen's Bench Court in Quebec, that the
company was flot responsible. IV was for
that reason, that i 1903 this parliament
adopted a special provision in the Railway
Act which renders the railway companies
responsîble in cases of that kind, but limiting the amount of damages i any sinigle
case to the suin 1 think, of $4,000. This doctrine has obtained in England for a gxeat
many years, and has been applied in a
great many cases. 1V was thought at the
ime, in my own province that it was aimost an abuse of power on the part of the
Privv Council, thaV the Privy Council was
over-riding the law of Quebec. It did nothing of the kind. The iaw of Quebec remained intact, and had its full effect. Its
application was modified by the facV that
the parliament had licensed railway companies to operate raiiways; provided they
followed the ordinary precautions Vhey were
entitled to do so without incurring any
liability. It was also state-d that in McKav
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

vs. Grand Trun< Railway, railway coinpanies were exempted from damages or liability at highway crossings. Ail that was
decided in that case wu. as follows:
In passing through a -thickly peopled portion of a -city. town or village a railway train
is not linited to the minimum speed of six
miles an hour prescribed by 55 and 56 Vic-

toria, c. 27, sec. 8. so long as the railway
fences on both sides of the track are maintained and turned into the cattle guards at
highiway crossings as provided by section 6 of
said Act. Judgment of the Court of Appeal
(b Ont. L. R. 313) reversed, Girouard, J. dissonting.

It appears from this holding that the
question involved in that case, which is
reported in 34 Supreme Court Reports,
page 81, was noV in regard Vo highwav
crossinga, but was in regard Vo the fencing
of tise railway. In other words, although
the accident had occurred at the railway
crossing and Vhe company was sued on account of that accident, it wvas held that the
limit of six miles an hour did noV apply
at the hig-hway crossig, bu t that it applied merely Vo the other part of the town,
city or village in question. This is borne
out by the fact that since that time there
have been cases where railway companies3
have been declared hiable for accidents at
railway crossings, and in this point I refer
Vo a recent case, Wabash Railway vs. Misner and others, reported in Canadian Railway cases, volume 6, at page 70, -where the
decision is reported as follows:
M. attempted to drive over a railway track
which crossed the highway by an acute angle
where bis back was almost turned Vo a train
coming-from one direction. On approaching
the track ho looked both ways, but did flot
look again just before crossing when he could
have eeen an angine approaching, which
struck bis team and ho was killed. In an
action by bis widow and children the jury
found that the 6tatutory warnings had flot
been given, and a verdict was given for the
plaintiffs and affirmed by the Court of Appeal.
Hleld, affirming the judgment of the Court
of Appeal (12 Ont. L. R. 71), Fitzpatrick, C.
J., hesitante, that tbe findings of the jury
were not such as could flot have been reached
by rea-sonable men and the verdict was
justifed.
So that the law in that respect will remain as it is. To conclude my remarks in
s few words: under the la was it stands on
our statute-bock, the speeci of railway
trains is noV limited at higahway crossings,
and railway companies, therefore, incur no
liability because of accidents happening at

MARCH 31, 1909
a highway crossing, provided they are not
guiity of negligence. It is suggested to
limit the speed unless the hig-hway crossing
is properly protected. WVe are ail agreed
as to that, but in the onie case, it is suggested th 'at it be left to the jury to decide
in each individual case as to whiether the
protection existed or not. In the other
case--that is for those who aye in favour
of the amended Bili-it is to be determined
at once or as soon as possible by the Board
of Railway Commissioners, in order that
railway companies may know what la their
obligation in that respect, and the moment
they have complied with that obligation
they shall be relieved of responsibility unless they have been guilty of acta -of negligence. Under the Railway Act as it is, especially under section 30 of the Railway
Act, the Railway Board is vested with ail
the necessary power; but the effeet of this
Bill will be to make it the duty of the Railway Board to act as soon as possible, and
until they have acted, whether by issuing
an order for the crossings, or for a class of
crossings. or uniess they have given a permission to exceed ten miles an hour, al
the railway companies shall be limited to
ten miles an hour. The provision gives
the board the right to issue a permission,
because they have ta deal with hundreds
and thousands of crossings of that kind.
They, therefore, will be unable to deal with
ail of them within the time between niow
and January 1. Consequently it is necessary, pending their being able to deal with
ail these crossings, to allow them to issue
a permission for such places as they may
deem it proper to do so, to the railway companies to exceed a speed of ten miles an
hour if they choose. The effect of the law,
if adopted, will be ta make it a duty of
the Board o! Raiiway Commissioners to act
with ail speed possible and ta settle 'the
question as to how the protection should be
provided for.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The meaning that I
attach to this la, that it is to be issued
specialiy for ail crossings where trains are
permitted to exceed a speed of ten miieà
an hour. In otlher words, as 1 understand
it, an. order may be issued covering a
number o! crassings; but it has to he a
special order. It %ould be because they
would be designated by the board as beingin a certain class. In practice it wiii cal
for a speciai order in almost every individual case.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-Are the words 'speciaily issued' intended mereiy to appiy to
the protection, or to the construction and
maintenance as weli? The reading of the
section would make it apply to both.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-As 1 have had occasion ta say already, under section 237, railway companies have had to obtain an order
for each highway crossing.
There actually exists for eacli hig-hway crossing an
order as far as the construction and maintenance are concerned. That is already
covered. For ail cases there are orders oi
the Railway Board, or of the Railway Committee of the Privy Council, in existence.
Therefore a new order is reaily required
only as regards protection.

Hon. Mr. WOOD-I presume there are
some orders in existence with regard to
protection, by the Railway Committee of
the Privy CounciiP Would those go under
this description of 'specially issued"'
Hon. Mr. BELQUE-Thev would comply
with this wording.

Hon. Mr. MoMILLAN-It la contended by
parties who are opposed to this Bill, that
a blanket order of that kind debars the
public from having right of action against
the railways unleas there is a speciai order
by the board with reference to a special
crossing. Is that what the lion, gentleman
refers to when hie says a special order must
Hon. Mr. WOOD-I shouid like ta ask issue from the board havingc reference to
the hon. gentleman, while he is offering
a speclal crosslng.
his explanations. just what meaning he atHon. Mr. BEIQUJE-I think it is imtaches ta the words 'speciaily iasued' in
the a.mendaient which is proposed?
I portant that every ineinber of this House
confess 1 hardiy understand t.he meaning should have a clear understanding of this.
of the words, or 'why they shouid be in the As it is, under the ]aw, raiiway companies
are licensed or authorized to cross highBill.

SENA TE
way crossings at ammv
spced thev- like wîthifit saînendmneît, wt- have to look, at seme
out iineurrilng a Y liabilit.- unless thex- are of the evidence put hiefore us iu the comiguilty of negligence,-tha.t is, if tbey nie- mittee. 1 do flot accept the a-hole of it, but
glect to rifle a bel! or blow the %Yhistle, there i~ sesme of i t which fornis
a
or unless thieir empbevees are guilty ci foundation of fact. That evidence shlowis
sonme act of negligence which may- take a that onlv about ten lier cent of the
level
variety of forai.
Tbat 15 the laNv as it cro*
sngs i cities, toi;nls and \-illae-es arc
stands. Noix,
under
the
amendment protected; therefore 90) per cent of such level
lirought te this honourable House by- the
crossings would fali under the provisions
P.ailwa.v ('ommittee, railwax- companies wvill of the committee's
amiendment, and regardnot be licensed or authorized te mun thei r ing tilei, permission
may b e got to run
train.4 at a spced exceeding ten mniles ant at a
greater speed without theùste rossin'"s
heur. ualess the crossing has been prolin otected in any -wv
ie t'(d according te the requirenumuts (if an
The' Bill before the House is ver v
ei-,Ier of the Board of Railiv-iv C.îiiiisiolishrt t deals with the protection of
hiighivay crossings. the sneed of trains over
Iort. '-\I. McM-NILI,A\N-Does that ittean thiei and the powers of the Board of Railrspc-cial order?
wa 'v Commissioners. These niatters, how~evei-. do not constitute the main principle,
Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
involved in this lezislatioa. The ]iabilitv ofi
Hon. 'Mr. M.\cMILLA-N-Not, a blanket the railway comipanies in
respect of acciçcmder?,
dents at these crossingas is the matter whicli
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-Un1esz, pending, tbe is it'ally involved.
board being able te issue those orders, perIn the early days of railwav const'ruction
mission has been gix-en te exceed that rate in Canada the conditions wvere widely
of speed, and then when the order lias been different fromn what they are to-day.
issued what will bc tbe l-egal effect cf the Populatioù was sparse, trains were
few
issuing cf that order ? As it is non', rail- and their speed limited.
Hemîce acciwax- conmpanies are net responsible for ac- dents at higliway crossings
were coincidents at highway crossings, ex-en if they paratively rare.
Our Railway Act w-as
cross ait the rate of forty miles an heur. fmamied
to meet these conditions. As our
Thev %-ill be prevented frein passing lit that
population grew our transportation inrate of speed unless the protection detercreased 2radually, but enormoush-. Railniied b', the board bas been gfiven, but if
wavs w;ere built evervm-here. Trains hetbe protection determiaed by tbe board has
came not only, more numerous on ail1 our
been given, thea tHe companly xvi] net be
lines, but their rate of speed -%vas greatlY
responsible un]ess tbev are guilty cf some
Provisions for the protection
act of negligence ia complying witb the or- increased.
ders, the saine as ntow. I hope I have made of the public at highway crossing-s, which
were flot neecesamy at the oujtset, became
ntyseif clear.
indispensable te stop the loas of humari
Hon. Mmsl.
FERGUSON-If I bad beard life and injuries to persons conelantly octbe remarks te which we have just listened curring froi the lack cf simple safleguards.
frein the hion. member frein De Salaberry
Parliament has dealt very differently -with
addressed to a court and jury, I would say anothex subject. the equipment of trains.
thiey weme exceedingly skilful. They are It is provided that the trains muet be
skilful anyway; there is ne question about thoroughly equipped. Now, why this differthat; but I think that a broader discussion ence? Simply because the Bmc4herhood of
of the Bui
before us, and a more Engineers came te parliamrent and were
frank statement cf the position of those se influential and made their case so strong
wbo support the amendaient and of the that these drastic provisions ivere enacted
ameadmnent it.self wou]d perhaps be better and are to be found in Section 264 cf the
suited for a discussion of tbe question in Railway Act. But the people scattered ail
parliament.
over the country are net organized and
In considering the Bill and the coin- do not coule personally te parlianient te ask
Hon. Mm. BEIQUE.

MARCH 31, l1.)ý19

for protection at level crossings, littie tlîinking that members of their own famnilies miaY
at any time be victims. But while the
toi! on life and the danger to the public
at thcse crossings have increased enormously, our Tailway legislation retains al
the laxity regarding them 'which iras imparted to iL at the be,-innin.
Whenever parîfament attenipted to dcal
with the question,
it was at once
beset by the rai]way corporations whosc
influence was strong enougli to prevent
the cnactment
of sucli provisions as
are found in the laws of other counitries.
As an illustration o! mnv nieaing, 1
simplv point to the fact that our Railwav Act docs flot contaii a solitarv
provision binding railway companies to
protect highwav crossin.-s. The erection o!
a wrarning board, the blowing of a whistle
and ring-ing of a bell on thie train, are
simply warnings, flot protection. Not only
has the Act been left without any direct and
positive provision regarding this danger, but
our Railw-ay Board, which is costing the
country a large amount o! money, has no
positive duty or obligation placed on it by
the Act to examine the hig-hway crossings
and order necessary protection. It may do
things on application, or o! its own motion.
It lias ample power.
But parliament lias
not imposed a duty or obligation on it to
so provide protection for the public at highway crossings.
The resuit of the laxity o! our law became from year to year more apparent in
the death toîl at these crossings. It iras
not, however, seriously doubted until 1903
that the ailway company n-as liable at
common law for accidents at these ufiprotected crossings, unIess contrihutory -negligence was shown on the part of the iiijured persons. In 1903 the case of Joseph
McKay vs. the Grand Trunk was hieard
before the Supreme Court o! Canada. Judge
MeMahon and a jury had found a verdict
for McKay awarding damages for the deatli
of his wife and two cbldren and injuries
to himself, through collision wîth a locomotive at a crossing- in the town o!
Forest, Ontario. The jury found that the
railway was neg-ligent in running too
fast and not providing a flagman -or gates,
and that McKay was flot guilty of

coiitribut!)rv ineglizence. The case Nvas anpealed to a higher court ini Ontario
where the judgnîent o! the trial court was
sustained. When, however, it camne to te
Supreme Court the judgment was reversed,
and iL w-as held that there being rio statutory provision for the protection of higliway crossings, and parliament hiaving coustituted a board %withpower to deal with
the subject, it iras tlit!refore renioved froin
the jurisdiction of a court anîd jury. The
judgment went so far as t.) say that evezi
if the board did not exercise its power Lte
jurisdiction w-as taken awaY froin the court.
1 %va surprisel to huear th,- hon. mcmiber for De Salaberry- s:l:. that ail that iras
decided in the Mackay caze waz as foilows:
In passing tlîrough a thickly peopled portion Of a City, towtn or village a railway train
ia flot limited te, the mininmum speeed'of six~

miles an haut- prescribed by 5.3 and 56 Victoria, c. 27, sec. 8, so long as the railway
fences on both sides of the track are nmainttained and turned inito the cattle guards at
highway crossings as provided by section 6 of
said Act. Judginent of the Court of Appeal
(à Ont. L. R. 313) rei-ersed, Girouard, J. DisSenting.
The honourable gentleman appears to
have the Supreme Court report of the case
before him, therefore it is difficult to understand how lie could have overlooked the
foliowing- words ini tlc opinion read by
Judge Davies and concurred in by the
Bench with one disentient.
Ia ruy judgiment parliament has hi- the 187th
section of the Railivay Act (238 of Revision of
1906) vested in the Rýailwvay Coniinittce of the
I'rivy Council, (noli the Board of Railway
Commissioners), the exclusive powver and duty
of determining tlîe character and extent of
the protection m-hich should be given to the
public at places w-lere the railivav track
crosses a highwvav at rail leî-el * *'ý
I
cannot tlîink that these powers so full, so
complete and so capable of being made effective, can if exercised, be subject to review
either as to their adequacy, or otherivise by a
jury, lior do I think that failure to invoke
the exercise of the powers is of itself sufficient
to take the matter away froin the jurisdiction
to whiclî parliameut bas cotumîitted it and
vest it in a jury.
This judgment was thus made possible by
the inflrmity of our Railwav Act, and that
infirmity is due to the influence of raîlway
corporations over the Parliament of Canada.
The eminent lawyers for McKay,
believing the judgment to be wrong, obtained leave of appeal to the Privy Councîl
o! Great Britain, but the appeal was stop-

SENA TE
ped by the Grand Trunk settling the case
on termis whichi were satisfactory ta McKay. The effect af this settlement, however, "-as to al]ow the judgment af the
Supreme Court to stand and it lias ever
since governed the provincial courts of
Canada. The strong- presumaptian is that
this judgment would flot be concurred iu
by the Privy Cauncil. This must have been
the opinion of the solicitors of the Grand
Trunk or they would flot have aettled the
case. It is safe to say that injured tamilies
have been deprived of redress in a vast
number of cases during the last six years
by the akilful manoeuvering of the Grand
Trunk railway in protecting %vliat is generally believed ta be a doubtful judgment
tram a review by the Privy Counicil.
It is certain that parliament did not intend at any tîme to emasculate the railwvay
law so as ta shut the widow and orphan out
of court in cases where the breadwinner
wvas killed through noa fault of his own,
but through the negligence of the railway
Parliament was influenced uncampany.
consciously by the railway campanies into
shaping the Act so as ta make the McKay
judgrnent possible.
It was under these circumstances that
the House of Gommons, aiter prolonged investigation by a special committee consisting of Messrs. Emmerson (then Minister of
Railways), Lemieux, Aylesworth, Macdonald (Pictou), Stockton, Lennox and Lancaster, who heard the experts of the railway campanies, unanimously passed what
is known as the Lancaster Bill in the session of 19W6. The abject of the Bill was
ta force the campanies through a restriction of speed ta apply to the board for directions respecting unprotected crossinga in
cities, towns and villages, and to make
clear, in the meantime, their liahuhity for
damages in cases of accidents, wlhere there
was na cantributary negligence.
The raîlway campanies, through their officers and solicitors, befare the committee, have endeavaured ta obscure the issue
by lextravagant representation in regard
ta the effect af the Bill on the time tables
oi railways, and here allow me ta point
out the sericus difference an this point betv een the views of Mr. Wainwright and
those ei the lion. member from De SalaHan. Mr. FERGUSON.

,liTv, bath of wvhieli were submitted ta, the

co-mmrittee through the hion. member for
De Lorimier. Mr. Wainwright said that the
.mcoccupied in the running ai trains from
Montreal ta Toronto ýwould bie increased
by the Lancaster Bill ta tramn 14 ta, 16
hours. The haon. member for De Salaberry
says that the speed of trains wvauld remain
unlimited as before. 1 submit that bath
these statements are incorrect. I need not
argue the question as against the lion. gentleman tram De Salaberry. If the effect of
the Bill would be, as hie asserts, is it Iikely
that the railway companies would be makîng
such desperate efforts ta defeat it? Nor
should the hion. gentleman train De Salaberry quarrel with the Bill for the reasan
-which he gives, for has own amendment
will, if it becomes law, relieve the railways
tram limitation of speed at every highway
crassing in cities, towns and villages.
The Senate hias been treated with great
disrespect again this year by the salicitors ai the railway campanies, in submitting what they called tacts, as well as
legal arguments bath ai which they must
have known ta be erroneous. Let me cail
attention first ta the statement already referred ta as made by Mr. Wainwright ta
the committee, that the Lancaster Bill
would increase the time ai the run between
Montreal and Toronto by six and one hait
hours. I have gane over this matter with
twa experienced engine-drivers on different
railways and I have conaulted authorities
an the question of slowing down or atapping
trains, and 1 submit the result ai my investigations for the consideration of the
Hause. In addition ta consulting authorities 1 have familiarized myseif with the
use ai the brake on running trains.
I copy the following framn the text book af
the International Echool ai Railroading of
Scranton, Pennsylvania, United States of
America:
The following table gives the results of
tests made on the Central Railroad of New
Jersey at Absecon, New Jersey, in May, 1903.
The train cansisted ai a locomotive and seven
coaches, the locomotives having brakes applied ta the engine truck, drivers, trailers,
and the tender.
The percentage ai breaking power of the
entire train was 72-8. Six of the coaches had
92-9 per cent, while the other, a chair car,

had only 68-9 per cent. The locomotive per
,cent ai hreaking power was 48-3; it was re-

MK\IRC'H 31, 19-19

duced b3 the unbreaked weight of the coal
c.nd water on the tender.Thtoawigtf
the train was 774,650 pounda; the locomotive
alone weighed 294,700 pounds, six of the
coaches averaged close to 62,000 pounds, and
the chair car weighed 107,600 pounds. Ordinary cast-iron brake shoes were used en the
cars and tender, and steel shoes on the engine. This train was fromn the service and
represented ordinary conditions ;the track
where the tests were made vas level.
Tests were made with the seventy-pound
quick action brakeý and with the 110 ponnd
high-speed equipment.
The table gives in the flrst column the
épeed in miles per hour; ini the second, the
distance in which the high-speed brake made
the stops; in the third, the distance in which
the 70 pound brake made the stops; and in
the fourth column the difference in feet in
fav-our of high-speed brake.
LYNGTH 0F STOP IN FEET.

50.

80

458o

0,
70

705

10,;
1a50[
2240

I
à;

»3>
?.020
2,780

150)
175

300
460
540

303

There being, accordîng to Mfr. Dillinger, 90
crossings unprotected between Montreal and

Toronto, the total tinie lost would be 22à
minutes.
This would be assuming ideal conditions,
and that the engineer in charge of the train
discharged his duty with the utinost exact-

neas.
Inclemaent weather, unfavourable condition
of the track, aud other coutingencies require
to be allowed for.
To put the matter beyond ail reason-tble
doubt, we double the figures at which we
have arrived, and even after making this
liberal allowance, the increase of time in the
run between Moatreal and Toronto would be
only three-quarters of an hour over that ci
present time tables.
This shows quite a difference as com par>d
with Mr. Wainwright's statement to the committee, through Mfr. Dandurand, that the
tîme of the same run would under the Lancaster Bill be increased to from 14 to 16 hours,
of 6J hours over the present time table for
express trains, which varies, from 7J to 9J
houtrs.

Mr. Creelnian contended before the coinmittee that Canadian railways would suffer through competition with American
roads if the Lancaster Bill was enacted.
At this point he "as asked if the American roada wers not alao under restrictions of speed where they did not proteet

their highway crossings.
The reply was
that the American roads, whatever were
From these tests the following conclu- the restrictions placed on thein, rnaintained
a high rate of speed. This anawer was
sions are plainlv deducible:
A train running on the level at 45 miles an
hour equipped flot with high-speed. brakes of
110 pounàd air pressure, but with quick-action
brakes of 70 pound pressure, can be brought
to a stop in 710 feet, and can be slowed down
to ten miles an hour in a distance of 552 feet.
The original rate of 45 miles an hour can be
regained in a simîlar distance. Both the
elowing down and recovery of speed can be
accomplished in a distance of 1,104 feet. Il
the highway crossing is at a greater elevation
than the railway track the slowing down and
regaining of speed can be dons in a shorter
distance.
If the crossing is depressed a
greater distance is required.
If the operations of slowing down and regaining of speed hav-e to be performed on an
ascending or descending grade, the distance
occupied would not on the whole be materially changed. At the rate of 45 miles an hour
this distance of 1,10)4 feet would be covered
in 23 seconds.
The slowing down to ten miles an hour and
the regnining of speed to forty-flve miles an
hour in a space of 1,104 feet neceseitates an
average speed of twenty-seven and one-haif
miles over this distance and would occupy
38 seconds.
The difference between 23 and 38 seconds,
namely 15 seconds, represents the time lost
at each highway crossing in slowing down to
ten miles an hour and in rýecovery of fpeed.

undoubtedly true, and is confirmatory of

the statement I have just made regarding
the limited effeet of a restriction of speed
at highway crossings on railway time tables.
The greater restriction of six miles an hour
generally imnposed in the United States in
regard to unprotected crossings is probably
fully offset by the langer proportion of
protected crossings in the United States
as compared wit h
Canada. It
may be
1known to hon, gentlemen that, according
to the law, of most states in the union, municipalities are given power to enforce a
reduction of epeed at unprotected crossings.

Our railroads would flot be willing te submit to that. They are very unwilling to
have any limitation at aIl, but certainly
they would not like us to put in the hands
oi municipalities power to compel Railways
to Teduce the speed of their trains te six
miles an hour at unprotected crossings.
As an objection to the slowing of the
trains we have been told by the railway
representatives that long trains would have

SENATE
to be divîded b2cause. while the locomo- ia the Lancaster Bill, apply te probably
tives woull cross the highlway at ten miles niot less than 90 per cent of ail the highway
an hour, the rear end of a long train would crossing-s in cihies, towns, and villages.
when it reached the highway have a higl Tise Lancaster Bill provides that tisese crossrate of speed. It is truc that the rear ing.s must be properly protected or the speed
cars would cross the highway at greatlv in- of trains passing over them reduced, or
2reased speed, but that would flot be open the company shall be held prima fadie
te objection. The locomotive only would Hiable for accidents occurring at them. The
cause dangýer, and the wvord ' train ' in the Senate amendinent sweeps away ail necesRailwav Act includes tlte 'locomotive' and sity for protecting- suchi crossings or redurit is the locomotive that is uteant in the ing the rate of spied tîtereat, and, by invokLancaster Bil.
ing the exercise of a virtueless jurisdiction
Another objection whih. lias been urgeà by the board, relieves the railw ay cernpany
wsth great pril
itvi t bat tu s1oivitig prima facie from liabrilitv for accidents at
of speed to ten miles an hour at a crossing sucli crossings. TIse people are asking for
%vouldtempt persons te board tIse train and bread, but in tIse fermi of titis Sonate aincrndthus cause accidents.
As the passenger ment they are beino offered a stone.
eârý would net cross the highiway at a lowv But the hion. miemnber for De Salabcrry
rate of speed this objection lias ne force.
appears te, daim some menit in a coupl,!
ihave alreaýdx- roferred te fallacious legal rf miner chanzes which ]le lias made in
oic.tioins offered tuj the Lancaster Bill witli the second alternative ot tIse Lancaster
a i-iew of confusing the laymen in this Bill, when it appears as the first alterna{ouse un whiix the dutv of defending titis tive uf tIse Sessate atniendsnlent. TIse insernit-asure fiat niaitill'v devolved. In support tion5 of in-q
',rl
and pretected ' fls tIse
of mv staternent let me refer te Mr. Biggar's third lino of subsection 3 of the amended
contention at the last sitting- of the commit- Bill is, in my opinion, of no value whattuf- that notwithistanding a compliance witli ever. The
orders, regulations and directhe orders and reculations ef the board in tion referred te, are past eues, althougli
respect of an% crossin. a court and a jury
now in force. The words 'constructed,'
would stili be the tribunal under the Lan- 'maintained,' 'protected'
are governed by
caster Bill to decide whether sucli crossing
th,, words which follow: 'In acoordancee
-\%as properley protected. I question -whether
uith the orders, regulations, &c.' If the
any legai gentleman in this House w~ill asorders, regulations, îc., do flot in themn
sume the responsibility -of endorsing Mr.
selves embody the requirement et protecBirrzar's contention. After Mr. Biggar hiad
tion, the
withdrawn 1 called attention to it and hiad 1protected insertion lu the Bill of the word
' annot supplv the defect. A
the satisfaction te find one of the best
similar argument applies te the word-i
law-yers in the committee, although taking specially
issued,' in the same paragrapli
a different view from mue, regarding the Bill,
of the Senate amendment.
In the Lanendorse my opinion. The other lawyers
caster Bill the orders, regulations, &c., are
-ere silent, from which I inter that mxsuchi as are in force ' in respect thereto,'
view as set forth befere the conimittee mnust
meaýning a particular crossinga. Surely this
be the correct one.
I will now turn my attention for a mo- is specific enougli.
Thé, lion. nsemnber for DeSalaberry's conment te the amendment ot the Bill which
wvas made last year in this House and which tention thiat nearly ail the hig-hway crossis aLrain reported from tIse Railway Coin- ings iii Canada are regulated by section 237
mittee. The material difference between of the Railway Act is without foundation
the original Bill, and the committee's in fact.
The orders made by the board under
amendment is the substitution of the words
.uniess permission is giveni by order ef section 217 of the Railway Act, having rethe board,' in the amendinent, for the words gard te the plan and profile filed when a
unless sucli crossing is properly protect- railw.ay is bei ng construoted, could not
ed,' in the Lancaster Bill. These clauses, ne fer te aur higahway crossing except such
the first in the amendment, and the second am was then in existence, or was being
Hon. '-\r. FE1IGISON.

APRIL 1, 1909
broughlt into existence by the orders in
question. Take the towns of St. Cunegonde
and St. Henry for example.
When the
Grand Trunk was constructed through thes2
places they were farm lands and no crossings wvere required, except perhaps over one
<r two highways. It is safe to, say that theze
bre ai the present trne fifteen or twenty
âidditionai crossings in these towns, flot one
of which could have been included in any
order made under section 237. This show.;
that thiere is very litile if any value in the
introduction of the words ' protected 'and
speeialiy issued ' in the amendment reported by the committee.
The word, ' unless such crossing
is constructed a.nd thereafter duly inaintained in
accordance with the orders, regulations and
directions ' of the board, possess no value
when inserted iii the amended Bill, even
whden the words 'protected ' and 'specially
issued ' are therein inserted. The bianket
permission might as wefl include the 200
or so crossingas 'with which the board has
o1ready deait as with the 2,800 crossings
which remain absolutely unprotected.
In conclusion, let me say these few
words. It is not likeiy 1 wiil say anythîng
more on the subject to-day, and perhaps I
may neyer have another opportunity.
The fact that the House of Commons,
after a most patient and prolonged
investigation, made by seven of the most capable
men that have sat in parliament for a good
nany years, reported this Bill unanimously,
and that the House of Commons passed it
unanimously three years ago, two years
ago, one year ago, and again ibis preseni
session of parliament shouid rweigh with
this House. What were the words of Sir
Wilfrid Laurier when the Bill came up for
ii second reading in the eàrly days of the
present session? Mr. Lancaster had made
a short speech, when Sir Wilfrid said he
did flot think it was necessary to discuss
the question. 'The oid members of the
House, he said, have no intention of tevising their opinion with regard to this
Bill. It is certainiy open to new rnemnbers, who have jusi corne to this House to
discuas il if tliey think proper.' There was
a pause ai the third reading, because the
governrnent, feeling the importance of the
question, determined to deal with some
phase of it in another wav, and the Min20
REVISEO

ister of Railways asked that the Bill should
be hield over to ascertain whether the ground
traversed by this Bill would be covered by
the governrnent Bill, and the understanding
wvas arrived at that in the meantime the Bill
was to be placed ai the head of the orders
for the following Thursday, and when the
orders were reached on ihat day, Mr.
Graham, Minister of Railways, said ' carried,' and the Bill was carried unaniinously.
Does it flot hehoove hon. gentlemen io ask
themselves seriousiv to consider the question. Is it possible thiat over two hundred
niembers of the House of Commons have
four times in four years succeeding- one
another, deliberately taken this attitude,
and that ihey were ail wrong? Even assumîng they were ail wrong, Which I think is
not a reasonable assuniption, is it flot plain
that they have felt the force o! public
opinion behind them, that they regard this
legisiation as a public demand, and is it
not 'worthy of note that ihis parliament.
coming back from the people, re-enacted.
as its predecessors had done, the Lancaste.r
Bill?
Hon. Mr. ELLIS moved that the consideration of this arnendment be adjourned
until to-morrow?
The motion was agreed to.
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (CC) An Act to incorporate the Canadian Medical Association.- (Hon. Mr. McMilian).
Bili (DD) An Act respecting the Maniloba Radiai Raiiway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. WVatson).
The Senate adjourned tli
to-xnorrow.

three

o'ciock

THE SENÂTE.
OTTAwA, THURSDAY,

April 1, 1909.

The SPEAKER took the Chair ai Three
O'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (80) An Act respecting the Kootenay
and Arrowhead Railway Company.-< Hon.
Mr. Bostock).
EDITION

SENATE
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (X) An Act respecting the Joliette
and Lake Manuan Colonization Railway
Company.-<Hon. Mr. Tessier).
Bill (No. 70) An Act respecting the St.
Mary's and Western Ontario Railway Comipany.-(Hon. Mr. Ratz).
Bill <No. 68) An Act respecting the Athabaska Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Taibot).
Bill (No. 67) An Act respecting the Alsek
and Yukon Raiiway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
De Veber).
Bili (No. 66) An Act especting the Abitibi
and Hudson Day Railway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Watson).
Bill (No. 48) An Aet respecting the Montreai Terminal RaiiwaY Companv.-(Hon.
Mr. Casgrain).
Bill (No. 57) An Act respecting the Vancouver, Fraser Valley and Southern Railwav Companv.-(Hon. Mr. Riley).
Bill (O) An Act respecting the Aigomna
Central and Hudson Day Railway Compani-.-(Hon. Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
Bill (N) An Act respecting the Ontario,
Hudson Day and Western Raiiways Company.-(Hon. Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
Dil <No. 15) An Act respecting Mexican
Land and Irrigation Company, Limited.<Hon. M.Nr.
Kirchhoffer).
Dili (No. 10) An Act respeeting Drazilian
Electro Steel and Smelting Company, Lirnîted.-(Hon. Mr. Kirclihoffer).
THE DEDATES 0F THE SENATE.
REPORT 0F DEDATES COMMITTEE.
REFERRED BÂCK.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS moved the adoption of
the report of the Com.mittee on Debatee
and Reporting. He said: This report appears at page 237 of the ' Minutes ' of the
Senate. The committee express the opinion that it would be advisable to have the
reporting of .both Houses made by the
êame staff of reporters, under the control
of a joint eomnnttee of parliament. 1
observe that since the new rules and iist
have corne out in regard to officers, there has
been soine change in the mode of appointment or control of the reporters of the
other branch of parliament, and they have.
The SPEAKER.

passed to a very large extent under the
control of the Speaker and the clerk of the
House, while the committee is stili in existence. That has arîsen since our report
was mad1e and may affect it. The first para.
graph says:
That sucli report, though not strictly verbatim, should be substantially a verbatim report with repetitions and redundances coitted, and with obvious mistakes corrected, but
on the other hand leavintg out nothing that
adds to the menning of te speech or illustrates the argument.
The idea is this: many hon, gentlemen
have made observations w-ith regard to the
published report of the Debates as they
appear, that they are hardly as pure and
undefiied Englishi as should be uttered in
this assembiy by gentlemen who speak in
that language. The important item in the
report is:
¶'hat the unrevised edition of the debates
of the Senate be issued to the public as is
now done in the Rouse of Cornons.
Hon, gentlemen are aware that the report
of the debates which is circulated among
the members is really a proof, and is the
substitute of or the natural successor of the
galiey slips which came to us first. Dut it
is s.imost impossible to get beyond a stage
when we receive the revised edition 10 or
12 days after the actual day on which the
remarks are made. Whether that is due
to any retention of the proof by hon. gentlemen themseives or not I do flot know.
I 'will say off-hand that I wrote a letter to
the Bureau about it. The King's Printer
was good enough to ca.U upon me, and he
assured me that the evil of which I complained would be modified, so that the long
intervai of time which e]apsed between the
deiivery of the speeches and the printing
of the revised edition would be reduced.
Dut whiie there bas been some improvement, there is stili a very great delay. For
instance this is the first of April, and we
have to-day the revised edition of March
12, which is 19 days behind in the
issue cf the form which goes into circulation. If hon. gentlemen thought weli of
the proposition to risk the issue to the
public of the unrevi-sed edition, as is now
done by the House of Commons, the debates
'would go out immediateiy. They wouid
pass to ail] the newspapers, to ail the per-

APRIL 1, 1909
sons w-ho usually receive themn, and the
bound volumes would be prepared for the
purposes of record. 1 do not know whether I have made myse]f sufficiently clear.
but that is the main idea in this report.'
Looking, however, to a future when the debates of parliament will corne out in the
one issue, as is now the custom in England,
Australia and the United States, of course
these are great changes, and they can only
ba brought about by time, and the confient
of the other Hanse, and public men acting
together %vith regard to the whole question.
Hon. '-%r. DANDURAND-I understand
from the first recommendation that the committee are of opinion that the reporting of
the debates o! both Houses should be done
by a staff controlled by a joint committee.
if this should be concurred in *by the,
Houýe. would it empower the committee to
mneet the cornmittee of the House o! Gom.
inons for the purpose cf carrving out this
idea?
Hün. 'Mr. ELLIS-Of discussing the matter.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I agree
with the second and third paragraphs of
this report, that is as to the character of
the report, that it should not ba strictly
verbatim, but that it should convey fully
the views expressed by senators on the
floor of the House. I agrea, also, that we
should have a wider distribution of the
daily reports than we have at present.
1
do flot know to what extent the reports of
the Gommon's de-bates are distributed,
whether they are sent te the press in the
same manner as the 'Votes and Pîroceedings.' Copies o! Bis, &c., or if our debates
might have as wvide a circulation in the
same way. I think copies of aur debates
are sent te niembers of the House of Gommons; but whether they have a wider circulation than that I do not know. Tbey
might properly be sent te ail the newspapers of the country.
My objection is te the first paragraph of
this report. I do flot know that joint neporting o! the debates of the two Houses
is practicabie. I had the honour cf being
Hansard~' ommittee of
chairman of the *
the House cf Gommons when the official

reporting of the debates -%vas inaugurated. That is a good many years agio,
more years than 1 care to t.hink of. It
was found that joint reporting of the debates of the two Houses in those days
was flot feasibke, and it was a.bandoned.
Let us look at it in a practical way; they
have seven Englisli and two French reporters in the House of Commons. The
idea is that when we had a heavy debate
on---ivhich sometimes occurs-we eould
send for assistance to the House of Gommons in order to strengthen our own staff,
and if they should *be pressed that they
could send to us. The fact is they are
neyer pressed in the House of Gommons.
Seven -reporters are found quite sufficient
Two mnen are emwithout assistance.
ployed reporting the debates of this House
There is no complaint on their sido-there
is no call from the Gommons on us, but
our staff is weak. It is nlot large enough
to report our own debates, and the idea
is that we should petition the committee,
when the debates are heavy in this Rouse.
for additional assistance. 1 do not want
I
the Senate to be put in that position.
think 'we oughlt to be complete and selfsustainîng ini ourselves. So far as I arn
concerned-and I think I offend perhaps
oftener than any other member in speaking at considerable length-my speeches
are admirably reported. They could net
be reported better. Very littie revision is
required, because it is unnecessary; but
if the reports of our speeches are not as
finished as they ought to be, what is te
prevent us supplying the staff with an
additional reporter? I do flot know what
the cost would be, but it seems a weak
thing for this Senate to ask assistance
from the House of Gommons to report our
debates. It puts us in a secondary position. We are in forma pauperis practically
going te the House of Commons to get help
when we have the means within ourselves
to supply our own staff. Now, I do net
want that. Under what mode of procedure
are we sure we could get help? We notify
the -chief of the staff, or the editer who is
in control of our amalgamated étaff, that
there is a debate on, and ask him te send
us a reporter for the afternoon or evening;
but he says: <We cannot spare men; we
have a heavy debate in our own Rouge.

SENATE
anld ive znust keep) our staff for our own
pose of library niatters and it is done, so
iNork.'
WVhat would happen then? WVethe
two cases are flot parallel. To appoint
could not, under those circuinstances, ask
a joint conimittee whiere the work to be
the committee of the House of Gommonis to
done is beyond the power of a cornmittee to
weaken their staff to supply us with help.
do, and do it arnicaLbly and sucoessfully,
Then supposing, conversely, they apply t.
is a proposition which we should flot enus for help. We have only two reporters
tertain. Any action we miguht take noiv
anld we could flot spare one of them with
could flot affect us this session, so there
our House iii session. I do not think it
is plenty of time for a fuller consideration
is feasible, for do I tlîink it would conof the matter.
tribute at ail to the efficiency of our reOne thing that the Senate seems to want
portion. service. We would corne into colThe recornlision with the Commons; there would bp is puhlicitv of its repo>rts.
menclation made by the conîrnittee ini the
striving for assistance, perliaps whien assistance could inot be rendered. I do not third parkagraph ainis at that, and witli
know that our reports are perfect flow, that reconimendation I heartily agree. It
but they are so near it that flothing is re- is a cu.rious thing that the debates of this
quired but to employ an additional re- House are not as ful]y reported iii thoe
porter. WVe need flot employ his whole press as the debates of the Gommons. The
time, probably; that would be a detail work doile iii this Chamber is important,
to be wvorked out by the committee, per- and rnany of the speeches are worthy of
haps bet.ter than on the floor of tIse House; pubMicationi, but tîtere is no reporters' gaIbut at the mioat it is a srnall mnatter of lery and no provision mnade for press reportera. Is not that an architectural misperhapa a thousand or fifteen
hundred dollars per session to perfect our reports if bake? M'e appoint a. reporter to prepare a
they are flot perfect mow.
Certainly 1 surflrnary of our speeches for the press *
would flot ask for more assistance. I urider- That summiary is fairly good. I do flot
stand the staff attends the cornrittee work, think it is always just as good as it miglit
uhich emiploys thern during the forenoon. be; still it is fairly good; but there is noa
Then they are here until six o'clock and anxiety on the part of the press to get thiese
sometimes later reporting our debates reports. That is an unfortunate con-dition
That is more work than we should exact of things, and one whichi I should like to
of theni. If so, we should see that there di-scuss with the committee if I hiad an
remen enough tomakze our reporting opportunity. WVe want publicity; we do
service satisfactory.
I should like very flot get it. Public interest does flot seem
much if the chairman of the committee to centre here, partly because we are flot
would agaree to ]et this matter be reconl- kflown to the public and partly because
sidered. I arn sorry to confess I was absent our speeches are flot before the public.
when the matter was considered in the I think we could excite great-er interest
committee, although I arn one of its nern- in the Senate if wve found some way to get
bers. I had flot a chance to impress my our debates read. Thiat is a matter of equal
views on the committee, and I arn now giv- importance with the others to which I have
I do flot want to enter into a
in.- tbem to the House. If the report could referred.
be reconsidered, we rnight arrive et some contest -with the chairman of the committee,
solution; but as I understand the subject but without trying to press my views too
now, I think it is utterly impracticable ta strongly I move that the report be referred
maniage the reporting by a joint commit- back to the cornmittee for further contee. We have a Joint Comrnittee on Print. sideratiori.
ing, but there ia no possible collision between the two Houses as to what docuHon. Mr. BEIQUE-As aIl the members
ment should he printed. It is sirnply a are agreed as to the second and third paraquestion of printing or not printing a cer- graqhs, I would suggest that t.he motion
tain report, and there it ends. We have a rnight be to adopt these paragraphs and
Joint Cornrittee on the Lihrary. There that the balance of the report be referred
is no poss;ibi1itv of collision there. We diq- hack for further consideration.
Hon.

Mr. ROS,

<Mfidd1ese-ý

APRIIL 1, 19O9

3ffl

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-It is flot porter, but the lion. gentleman forgets that
material how it should be done. The second the reporters are 'lot officers of this House.
and thîrd paragraphs are net material. Our reports are published by contractors.
They will be operative two or three wveeks
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Farmed out.
hence jusi as fully as they would be now,
and I thought it simpler te send the whole
Hon. -Mr. POWVER -Farmed out, as the
of the -report back.
hion, gentleman says. We cannot, without
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is to be regretted departing altogether fromn the system which
that the hon. member f rom Middlesex has has prevai]ed for the last thirty-five yea.rs,
neot been in the House longer, because to get an addition to the staff on the floor of
my knowledge this subject of securing the House.
greater publicity for our debates, which is
Hon. MNr. ROSS (Middlesex)-Pay the
the o-bject of the first paragrapli of tlie recontractora more and they will increase the
port, Ilas been considered ever since I came
inte the Senate, -which. is now a very long staff.
time.
A number of gentlemen, perhaps
Hon. Mr. L'OWER-If nîoney is ne object
not knowing as much about reporting as at ail, thien the hion, gentleman rnay lie
the hon, gentleman tromn Middlesex, but right, but here is the position-the Senate
stili gentlemen who have had a good deal dees not sit liait the time or anlything
of experience in the Senate have been like hait the time froul the epening of
very anxious to see that the reports of the parliament until prorogation, and if yeu
Senate was read by the public, and alnîost compel your contractors te keep a staff
every device that could lie thouglit of lias on their hands for the whole time froîn
been tried at one time and another te f- the epening of the session te prorogation,
tain that objeet.
they cannot do the work except for a very
much larger suni than we pay now. This
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, liear.
matter has heen considered, on a great
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hion. gentleman many occasions, and, finally, the combeside me, who lias been here longer than imittee became cenvinced that the only
1. knews that what I have stated is per- way in which our debates were likely te bie
tectly correct. Wha.t particular use is there read by the public, w~as by having theni
in spending -a very considerable sum ot issued in the saine pamphlet every day
money in having our debates reported if with the debates of the Commnons, and
nobody reads them; and that is about the when they were treshi. The debates that
position new. We have tried having re- teok place a tortnighit age, nobody wislies
porters seated on either aide ot the Chair te read. The lion, gentleman undertakes
in the House; we have had reporters down te tell this Heuse that this is impractica-ble,
at the Bar, and everything lias been trîed, but how ia it that, if it is impracticable,
but the truth is that the public, for reasons they are able to do it at Washington and
whichi I thînk can be easily exPlained, de in London and in Australia? In the Ceinnot take mucli interest in the preceedings mens we have the best system that exists
et the Senate, and the press will flot send in the whole ot the civilized 'world, -and
reporters here. As a result ot that condi- there is ne serious difficulty in the way et
tien of things, we have adopted the plan deing what this report looks te. The report
et having a gentleman here who prepares dees net say it shahl be donc. If the cernsunimaries et our reports. That work is ndttee inquired into the matter and ferinudone in a very satisfactory way, and eue late a scheme, that scheme bias te ceme
can get some idea at any rate from the befere the House te lie dealt with; and
papers xiew as te what takes place front I think that, under ahl the circumstances,
day* te day in the Senate. That w'as not the hion, gentleman is a little unreasonable
the case up te a very recent period. Now. in asking that this report, dealing wîth the
the lion. gentleman seems te thind< that it subjeet now, lie postponed.
It the ceinis a mere matter of paying ene thousand mittee are net able te submit a practicable
or fifteen hundred dollars more for a re- and desirable scheme fer joint reperting,

SENATE

that is aui end of the matter, and we
I am not disstay where ive aîow are.
cussing now the value of the report, but
the main object-and I wishi to impress
this on the House-is that the public
shall read what is said in the Senite. My
humble opinion is that, in a great mnany
cases at any rate, and withi respect to a
good many measures, the discussions in the
Senate are just as well worth reading as
those in the House of Gommions.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Hear. hiear.
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-I do net say that is
the universal rule, but that is the case
with respect te a great rnany of our debates,
and 1 think it is desirable that the people
who receive the Gommons 'Hansard 'every
day shouid have a chance of seeing what
the Senate is saying and doing new, and
1 am surprised that the lion, gentlemnani
should be apparentiy anxious te prevent
that desirable consummatien being reachied.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex>-No, ne.
Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON-It is a matter
of regret that the hon, gentlemian froni
Middlesex -,vas flot able te attend the cernmîttee, se that ive couid have the advantage of his viexvs on the subject that forms
A recomthe substance ef this report.
mittal of the renert would enable the
committee te get the benefit of bis judgment, sud xvili enabie ail the niemnbers te
corne backi te the subjeet after having heard
the discussion whicbi is nowx geing on in
this House xvithi regard to the wlioie matter. Tbeoreticaliy, the cemmittee ivere of
the opinion that it would be desirable te
amaigamnate the staff of the two Houses,
in order te bring eut a report simultaneously at ail events, if net stitched in the
same issue or volume. And we aise agreed
te the third paragraph that the unrevised
issue sbouid be. at once mailed to the
'Press 'and te the members of the other
House. We have been continualiy cernplaining that the Senate is net receiving
that attention frein the newspapers that
its importance as a branch of parliament
deserves, or that it is desirable it should
receive. In niy opinion it has been iargely
our ewn fault. We have withheid our unrevised editions from the public, and the
revised edition cornes eut two or three
lIon. M1r. POWER.

v.,jeks aîterwards, -%vienI tihe miatter is staie
and ne newspaper mnan on earth cares an'.thing for it; therefore we have been, as i
were, hiding our liglit under a busiol and
preventing the newspapers from getting a
knowledge of %vhat ,ve are doing. We are
inclined to censure the 'Press ' for not
hiaving a staff of reporters here. Most of
the niewspapers in Canada are net very
weaithy concerns, and it as niuchi as they
can afford, to kecp a reporter, perhaps, in
the popular branchi of parliamnent, and thev
cannot verv weil keep r.- ,orters in bothi
Houses. But if we wjll agreeý te the tiaird
paragaph of this reort, and hiave our
unreviscd editien corne out anid be iu the
possession of nienibers of the House o:
Conimons and the newspapers, so that our
unrevised debates of yesterdav would be in
their hiands at the present moment, we'
w-ouid find that a great deal more attention
would be given te us by the newspapers
WVheii important
than -%e are receiving..
debates take place, they will formn the
basis of editoriais iii the ncwspapcrs, and
the crucial points of what the Senate is
doing i i be placed before the public iii
a very ivide deg-rce comipared -with wlhat
it is at the present moment. Althoughi I
theoretically concur in the first paragraph
of our report, that it is desirable %ve should
amalgamate the« staffs, if possible, yet I
freeiy admit that there are sorte difficuities
in the way, and if it sliould be found that
these difficuities are insuperable, we wvould
have to continue mnaintaining our own staff
as we have it at the present time. The
subjeet is well worth being investigated,
and it is our duty, 1 think, to ascertain
whiat we can do in that direction. 1 would,
however, be very strongly of the opinion
that we should keep our own debates in a
separate volume, and that it should flot
be stitched or issued with the 'Haîasard
of the House of Gommons.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) -Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think that our
report shouid corne out by itself as early as
thiat of the House of Commons. It mighit
corne even earlier, because, it is not generaily of a volurninous character; but I would
like, under ail circumstances, to retain
our own volume as t lias been maintainied
for thirtv or forty years, snd I have no

APRIL 1, 19"9
hesitation in saying that it is a niust deisirable record. I have had occasion since
I have heen a member of this House to
study some of the more important questions that have been di.scussed in Canada
siîîce the officiai reports of our debates
were brought out in their present shape,
and I flnd that 1 can get more information with less labour, generally
speaking, out of t.he Senate debates
than I can out of the Gominons ' Hanard,' from the mere fact that the Gommons 'Hansard ' is so voluminous that it is
a]most impossible to find any specific information you are looking for in it; 'while the
Senate debates is a tolerably well condensed
summary of what has been going on in Canada for inany years rcg-arding the more
important public questions, and I ivould
be aorry to see those volumes
disappear.
It would *be very desirable if w;e could
amalgaamate
the staff in such a way
that if there was a spare man in one chamber he could be called on to relieve the
force at the other end. That would be
ail very well if it were practicable, but I
would be very much afraid o! any partnership of that kind. I have my doubts whether the Senate would get fair-play. The
dominating House is the House of Commons, and they would dominate the whole
thing, and it miglit be found after a littie
while that we would be squeezed out of
notice almost altogether. The subject has
been brought tentatively before the Senate
in the report, and I think that the motion
of the hon. member for Middlesex ia well
worthy of being entertained. As one member of the committee concurring in the report, as I have said, theoretically and tentatively, I would stili be quite ready and
willing to go over the matter again in
view of any further light that can be thrown
upon it, and in view of the expressions of
opinion that may be found to be uttered
by gentlemen in the House during this
discussion. I shall therefore, support the
motion that the report be referred back;
but I think we cannot begin one hour too
soon issuing our unrevised, and that we
might agree, if that would be regular, to
have that clause of the report go into effect
at once, and let the other matter be re-

ferred back in order that we might get
furtiier information upon it.
Hon. Mr. GLORAN-Since the hon, gentleman fromn M-%iddlesex moade bis remarks,
I have made it my business to find out how
this plan would work. I have seen a member o! the staff on the othier aide, and he
does not favour the idea very much at al;
in fact, I think he is a.-ainst it from the
way lie apoke. He does flot think it is
practicable. I think his opinion ought to
be worth soinething, and it simply goes to
back up wvhat the lion. gentleman from
Middlesex has4 proposed tW the bouse in
regard to this matter.
Hon. -Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I
night
be allowed a word o! explanation. I arn
not opposeil to clauses 2 and 3. 1 thînk
it is important and very. desirable that our
unrevised report shoul-1 issue immediately and have just as wide a circulation
as the unrevised report iii the House of
Gommons. I uriderstand that is the proposition contained in this report. 1 approve of it most hearti]y. 1 would like Wi
know the extent of the circulation o! the
unrevised edition o! the House o! GCommons. I know it g-oes to the miembers. I
should like to know if il, goes to the press
of Canada; if it does, ours should go there
also. If it goes to -public libraries, to colleges, and has a wvide circulation, wherever
one goes the other should go.
The one
is almost as important as the other.
As
to the firat proposition, I think we ought
certainly, before we adopt this report and
commit ourselves to what ma' -be an impracticable. scheme, give it some further
conisideration.
I feel that very strongly.
We ouglit to take the evidence of the
reporters o! the House of Gommons, or
have them before us, and get their views
on the subject, and obtain further information, and possibly ascertain whether this
joint arrangement might incur additional
expense anyway. It is possible by doubling
up we may save money. That bas to be
settled; but the mere saving of a few
dollars la a matter I would not consider
for one moment for the sake of getting a
prompt report. If we have the right te
exist, we have also the right to be heari,

31*2

SENA TE

and to make ourselves heard in the most
Hon. Mr. ELL1S-I risc to a point
of
effective way. Publicity is apparently what order. This motion was brougit up in
is wanted; flot that the Senate is doing order to have a discussion on the question
nothing-. It is supposed to be doing noth- iijvolved in the report, 1 do noV sec the
inz, because wvhat it does is not wide]y necessity for hon, gentlemen inaking two
known. There is a story told of Horace or threc speeches, and those who have
Greely, when he was publishing the 'Tri- spoken once oughit not to speak again until
bune,' that after a few months' publication every hon. memiber who desires to speak
he called his editers together and said: has done s.o. I think wc shouid observe
*We are flot getting on very well; 1 would sorne rule, especially wlien we are discuslike to consult you because 1 think the sing such a inatter. 1 suggest that we
'Tribune' should be a paper men would should caeli take our turn.
swear by or swear at.' Well, they are now
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Just a niatter
Ewearing- at the Senate, for ail practical
purposes. We should have our reports got of explanation. 1 do flot propose to inake
WVith reference to the
out in such a way that the people would a second speech.
swear by the Senate, and let them be fully work of our reporters, 1 w~ish to say tliat
eonsidered. 1 have sevcral ideas as Vo 1 have been some 16 years iii this Huse,
how it could be done more effectively, and and have conipared the wvork of the Senat,
how we could gain more publicity than we Debates with that of the House of Coincani at the present time, and if the House mons 'Hansard', and I desire to express
would favour us and slo-w this report to nmy very great satisfaction with the quagr) hack hefore it is absolutýe]y closed, I lity of the %vork that -,ve are getting in the
think it would be in the public interest and Senate report.
help the publicity of our proceedings.
Hon. MNr.
ROSS (Nliddlesex)-Hear,
hear.
Honi. Mr. WVATSON-I ar nfot going to
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Not saying by
enter into the merits of the reporting, but
any ineans that 1 have flot, found some
1 wishi to miake a suggestion for the consideration o! the Senate. Sometimes speeches Vangles in sp)eeches that 1 have nmade; but,
are delivered in the House, which for the to be honest, 1 would have to admit that
credit of the Senate, might better flot be pub. the fault wvas in myself, tha-t 1 was Vangîci
lislied at ail either in the unrevised or re- in my thouglits and flot sufficientlY cîcar
v'msed edition. During the debate which and when that is the condition one cannot
took place in this Chamber on the 26th o! expect the reporter to iinake cîcar wvhat
this mionth, in regard Vo a divorce proceed- was not car i the speakcr's own mind.
ing, two or thiree speeches were delivered
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I rise to a question
which wvould flot do this Chamber or any
o! personal explanation. Some hon. senother chamber credît.
In fact, the ]ang. ators
have heard with indignation the
uage used iii that debate, if published in
remarks nade by the hion. inember froni
(lie Calgary 'Eye-Opener', would be pretty
Vhe west. He believes aIl tlic eloquence
nearly enough to mnake it cease circulation.
cornes from there.
ht right be well if sorne action were Vaken,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Thiis is a personal
when speeches of that kind are delivered,
and if it is necessary such matters should explanation.
be discussed, it should be done with closed
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Yes, the attack w'as
doors, or the reporters should be instructed personal. The speeches iii the Debates on
noV to report the speeches.
For the credit the questions he refers to, do flot come up
uf the Senate some action should be taken to his point of appreciation. He lives in
with regard to such debates. I think both the heavens. WVe live on the earth, and
the charge and the reply ought to be elirn- we have to deal with what your commitinated from our revised edition.
tee has p]aced before the House.
The SPEAKER - I would ask the
Hon. M.Nr.
FERGUSON-I would like Io
lion, gentlemen to confine their attention
explain.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

APRIL 1, 1l0
to the subjeet immediately before the
Tlîe SPEAKER-What I said was-and
House, which is a motion for the adoption 1 think hion. gentlemen understood nieof this report, or the amendaient of the that there %vas no reference to any person,
hon. gentleman froin Middlesex.
and there is nio question of privilege arisHon. Mr. CLORAN-Do 1 understand the ing in that way. I aan not wishing to conruiing to -be that an lion. ieniber lias no fine the debate.
right to answer a personal attack?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The insinuation was
The SPEAKER-There
lias been no worse.
personal attack. No naine was znentioned.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
1 have heard no personal attack made on
discussion wlîich bas taken place conany meiber, and 1 would have asked the
non, gentleman to curtail his*observations, vinces nie that so-iie c4hRnge ouglit to
be mnade, noV so inuch in the mode of
but lie made his staternent short.
Howreporting, but more in the mode of cirever, ihiere lias been no personal attack.
culating the Debates after they have been
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the lion. niember lirinted. The report, to iny inind, is not feasifroni Portage la Prairie refers to the mani- hie. There is îîo question that there would
ner in which a debate lias been conducted, be difflcultv in carrying out the suggestion
and that the report is a true report of that made in the first paragraph in regard to
debate, the hion. gentleman lias a right to tlîe joint comniittee. No one 1 think reading- this report czan coinet to tlîe conclusion
answer that.
The SPEAKER - I arn not saying arrived at by- tle hion. senator frorn Middlelie lias notv, but 1 arn saying the subject sex, that the Senate is seeking assistance
an apîilicant for aid ini a
we are discussing to-day is the question of and hecoîinn
ojur systern of reporting and there la a mo- pecuniary or any otiier w~ay froin the
tion by the chairnian for its adoption, and Commons. The suggestion, if 1 understand
ail amendruent proposed to refer it back. it, is simply that there should be a joint
That is on the question of reporting gener- comrnittee on reporting, and that cornmittee
a]ly.
It is not with reference to any parti- should eliminate, or rather there should
be sorne editor who would eliminate ail the
cular debate.
redundancies and repetitions of speech in
Hon. '.\r. FERGUSON-And the subject order to bring our reports as near as possiof the reniarks of the hion. gentleman froin ble to the standard of the English ' HanPortage la Prairie wvere entirely out of sard.' Take up any important sul)ject you
order. We were noV at ail dealing wîth the wisli to study, if you want to know what the
coiîduct of niembers in debate, or whether opinions of the publie men in England were
they spolie elegantly or vulgarly or other- upon the question, you will get in the one
wise. That is noV our business, and it %vas volume the utterances and opinions of Lord
entirely out of order.
Salisbury in the House o! Lord-s, and
Hon. '-\r. WATSON-My rernarks ivere flot also the opinions delivered by leading
on that point at ail. My remarks were members of the House of Gommons withapplicable to the third part of the report. out havimîg to go tlirougl two or three
because the suggestion is that the un- volumes. To miy mind. that would be a
revised edition should be circulated, and nîiuch preferable mode of 1îaving your lib1 wvas iii order and to the point in making rary supplied with parliamentary information than that which we possess to-day, and
the suggestion I did.
it would, in addition te that, save a very
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And the hon. gentle- large amount of expenditure to the oounman referred to what took place on the 26th try, while the senators would receive ample
March.
justice at the hands of the reporters who
are employed here. The difficultY that sugHon. 'Mr. WATSON-I did.
gests it.self to me is this: You would have
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-And the hion. gentle- to be very careful in selecting a reviser to
nman lias a riglit to discuss thiat.
edit the reports of the speeches delivered.

SENA'1E
1 do flot hiesitate to say that we have a mittee intended when they made this
gentleman on the staff of the Senate who report. WVhether thicy go so far as to sugis quite capable of that, who has a com- geat that the debate upon any question
plete-andî I was g-oing týo say thorough, in the Senate should be printed in the
but flot so strong as that-a complete know- sanie volume which contained the debate
lcdge of the polities of this country, and in theý House of Gommons on the samie
the opinions entertained by gentlemen on question, is a matter wvhich they mighit
both aides of thc House and on both sides properly consider. If the Senate came to the
of politics.
conclusion that that were advisable, I see
Hon. Mr. ROSS (lMiddlesex>-Does the no difficulty whlatever in carrying out the
hion, gentleman think the Gomimons would suggestion. If, however, the opinion of
agree to have their speeches revised by the Senate is that wvhich was eiinneated hv,
the hion. member for Mýarslificll,, thieii weý
an editor of the Senate?
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I Any one who rakes care cf parliaînieitar%riever made aln' suchi suggestion, nior dg documents, desiring- the opinion of differentI
I understand the committee wlho made this statesmen and public men upon any quesreport to mnake any suchi suggestion. The tion, has now to go to the library and
referenco, if I understand it aright-and if redtewoeo
h dbtso
h
on
I am wvrong- I trust the cliairman of the nions on the question, and also the debates
eommittce wvill put mie righit-is that such a 1on the same subject which have taken place
report, thougl flot strictly verbatim, should' in the Senate. If they were ahl in one
be substantially a verbatini report, withi volume, and in the synopsis of what took
repetitions and redundancies omitted, and iplace, giving clearly' and distinctlv the
with obvious mistakes corrected.
That Ipoints which have been raised upon the
could be done, as I unders 'tand it, by a question, I think it would be much better.
getea
eetdadapointed by the 1 do flot know how it ia with hion. gentleSenate to revise the reports after they have men in regard to their libraries. I have a
been extended and reduce them to the lîbrary containing documents of parliafinished state contemplated by this report. ment for the last forty years, and I find it
That I take to be the object which the necessary either to build an addition to the
comrnittee had in viev in making this re- library or to throw thein into the xvasteport.
paper basket. I have some documents
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Tliere is not any oh- between forts' and fifty years old, my
jection to that clause.
own documents andthe documents which
Hon.Sir
ACKNZIEBOWLL-Iarnmy predecessor had in the old parliament oi
Canada goir backNZI fams 80.Id
asE
t
c often thus
as
I80
value
look t g
giving my interpretation of it, in answer Cnta
1vle
fentoug
olokathm
to the question put by my hon. friend. I
arn quite sure that 'no one who uiuler- them highly. Questions sometimes arise
stands anything of reporting the proceed- whe yo
att
ee o nin
itr
ings of this House wvould ever think of and one who is ancient, like rnyself, desires
watolpacwiele
bkt
suggesting a revision by an appointee of orf
wvas a
ours of what took, place in the Commons.tiso lad. I am stronglyv in favour of portsrerthchaenvude
I cannot conceive it possible that that was cionsideratin andor while Iarepa that Ine
the ntenion ot rpea thein-see some difficulty-though it could be overI wll
terpretation that I put on this report. If corne-mn carrying out tue suggestion
in
it goes back-and I have no objection to the first paragraph, I trust the committee,
that-I arn going to throw out the sug- when it goes back to thern, will make such
gestion, not being on the cornmittee, of a representation as will carry out the idea
leaving out the firat paragraph; but I contained in the second and third parawould embody the principles contained in
rps
the second and third paragraphs, and takegrps
such steps and make such recommendation
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The hion. gentleman
as would carry ont what I think the corn- from Halifax spoke of the excellent sysHoni. Sir M1ACKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIL 1, 19Yý
temi of reporting iii the House of Comnmions. That p)erfection, if I cau use the
word, which lias been reacbed by their
system is so g-reat that the House of Coinmons this session adopted the plan of issuing the .unrevised edition inîrnediately,
and it goes to ail the papers and people
who formerly got the revised issue. That is
a new practice this year. The systein lias
changed somewhat since our report was
presented and, in consequence of what 1
have said of the new mode of appainting
members of the staff, I rniRlt say, so far
as I ought te say, that I hiad santie conversation witb rncnibers of the House of
Connons 'Hansard ' staff as te the practicability of this prol)osal, and I thinik 1
ani correct in saying that the gentleman
who is at the head of the staff, who leads
the staff, sa far as it lias a leader in the
House of Comnnons, looked with favour an
the proposai. I do flot think I quite understood the hon. gentleman froin Victoria,
but I thougcht hie said the contrary. I have
the assurance that it is otherwise.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-He must have
changed his opinion.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I shall not pursue the
question any further; if the House thinks
fit ta send the report back, very weil. We
worked it eut in committee, and if it is
sent back, it will be going over the saine
ground again.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I should like te !iav,
some information aib-u. this Bill.
Hon. Mr. EDWVARDS-'-I cannat teil the
lion, gentleman more than the Bill contains.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE T L-Doe8
the hion. genitlemnan tell us that he intxoduces a Bill af sncb importance as tlii3
without knowing- anyth-*ngc about it?
Hni. '[r. EDWVARDS-I kiiow u1aw is iii
the Bill.
Hon. Sir MX\ICKE-NZIE BOWELL-It bias
bLeil on the statute-Ioý-)I sinic
1903, and
bias bean renew-ed froni finie to tiane. What
is wrong is that tbe chiarter bias boen s.3
long- in existence withiout anvythinz- having
been done.
H-on. MTr. EDWARDS-I arn not one af the
intereste.i parties. therefere I arn net in
a position to explain. Among otlier thrng.3,
the companv ask for an extensir-zi ai tinie,
which is flot an unusual thîiîî to ask of
parliament.

Hon. MNr. POWER-I understand iliat
one hion. rnemiber of this House w-ho, unfortunately, is not present just no-w, had
a very strong objection te the second readingý of tlis Bill, and it is rather unfair of
the lion. gentleman from Rockland ta proceed with tbe measure in his absence.
There is tbis te be said in favour of the
Han. 11r. B EIQUE-I do net understand Bill: I see by the iourtb clause tbat sorte
that the sending back of the report implies werk hias been donc.
any expression af opinion adverse to any
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-In se far as tlîe
of the recommendations in the report. Othbon. member te whom reference lias been
erwîse, I would take the liberty
of speaking in support of the report. I understand made is concerned, he was net in the Hanse
that it is ta give an opportunity ta the iihen the Bill was Up for second rcading
haon, gentleman from Middlesex to place before, and hie asked to bave it stand over
his views before the members of the com- unt-il to-day. That request was responded
rnittee; otherwjse I would have ta speak in te. and as lie is not here I takze it for
support af the report, and I may say in granted hie lias no abjection to tbe second
support af every paragraph af the report. Teading.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I knaw the hion.
The amendment was adopted.
gentleman -who hias been referred ta. He
CENTRAL RAILWAY COMPANY 0F
told me that ail hie wanted was ta move an
CANADA BILL.
amendinent in the conîmittee, and 1 informed hlm that he need not make any
SECOND EADING.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS moved the second reservation here.
reading af Bill (Y) An Act respecting the
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
Central Railway Company of Canada.
was read the second time.

SENATE

SECOND READINGS.

Hon.

thc power to

Mr. LANDRY -Vas

build that branch ]ine asked for in the
Bill (EE) An Act for theo relief of Evelyn petition'
Martha Keller.-(Hon. Mr. Perlex->.
Hon. '-\r. BEIQUE-Speaking subjeet to
Bill (FF) An Acf for the relief of Frank,
Parsonis.-(Hon.

correction, 1 think, so.

Mr. Derbyshire).

Bill <BB) An Act to incorporate the Canadiani District of the Norfhern Provinces of
the M.Noravian Church in America.-(Hon.
MNr.De Veber).
Bill (No. 39) An Act re.specting the subsidy from the Ontario Governinînt to the
Laike Superior Braricl of the Gmand Trunk
Pacifie Railwav -(Hon. '.%r. W'atson).

Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-I should like to have
more -information.
Hon. '-%r. BEIQUE-Iij the conîxittee 1
put the question f0 the representative uf
the company, and he and the clcrk of tho
House said if was covered by the notice;
but I do nof affirm it positively.

Bill (No. 69) An Act f0 ixîcorporate the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It seeilis very (lueur
Fort Erip and Buffalo Briidýre Comnpany.thaf a Bill is pre..enfed to tlis House
(Hon. Mr. Domvillpý.

with an a.mendment flot, called
peltiion in the first place.

KOOTENAY AND ALBERTA RAII.WAY
COM\PANY'S BILL.
A'MENDM4ENTS

CONCURI3ED

Hon. Mr. POWER-The
inake mistakes.

for in thec

Goinunojs often

IN.
Hon. Mr. WVATSON-The branch uine re-

The order of the day heing called:

ferred to is, 1 believe, already surveyed
Cowîideration of the aniendnients made by and is 6-8 miles in length. If if hiad heen

the Standing Committee on Failways, Tele- only six miles long the company would flot
graphs an<l H arbours, to (Bill 1P) an Act to
incorporate the Kootenay and Alberta Rail- have needed legishafion to empower then
wav ÏO.an.
to build if. The branch is simply n spur
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE nioved the adoption

t-o a mill, so no injury ean occur to an.v

of the report. He said: The aniendmnent, of one.
the Bill is to substitute for clause 9, which
The motion wvas agreed to.
contains tivo paragraphs, the standard
clause adopted hy the Senate. The clause
w-hich bas been removed hiad thé, effect o!
creating- pow'er companies independent]y o!

GRAND TRUNK PACIFIC BRANCH

JANES COMPANY

the Railway Act.
The motion w~as agreed to.
CANADIAN

BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon.

Mr.

WATSON

moved

tlic

sýecond

reading of Bill (S) An Acf respecting the
NORTHERN QUEBEC RAIL- Grand Trunk, Pacifie Brandi Lines Com-

WAY COMPANY BILL.
A'MENDMENTS CONCURIIED IN.
The order of the day hein-

called:

pany.
The motion wvas agreed f0, and the Bill
ivas read the second time.

Corîsideration of the aminedments made by
Hon. Mr. YOUNG gave notice thaf he
the Standing Comnîittee on Railways, Telegraphs and Harbours, to (Bill 38) an Act re- would move for a suspension of the rules
specting the Canadian Northern Quebec Rail- se far as they relate to this Bill.
way Comipany.-Hon. Mr. Tessier.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Rule 30 requires
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE movcd that the report
He said:
The amendment that in Zivin.- such notice the mile to be
bo adopted.
consists, mainly in the addition of a neiv suspended must be specified and also the
clause~ giving power
bui]d an additional

to the cornpany
branch

to purpose o! such suspension.

That course

line, and the ehould be followed whenever fie House is

other is for the purpose of iinereasing fthe asked to suspend a rule. We should be informed of the effect of fhe motion.
bonding powers of the company.
Hozi. .Mr. DANDURAND.

APRIL 1. 19409
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I foilowed our pracRAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
tice by quoting the rule, and asking" that if
COMMUITTEI: PEPORT A
%DOPTEEý.
be suspended in so far as if relates to this
Bill. ]Rule 119 requires the posting of a
The order of the day being cailed
Bill, and it is for the purpose of avoidResuînig
ing delay, .owing- te our report nef having sideration the adjournéd debate on the conof the anienduient made by the
been adopted yesterday, that I gave this Standing Coniîtee on Raiiways, Teiegraphs
and Harbours te (Bill 8) au Act te aniend the
notice.
Railway Act.
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Truru)-WVe have just
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Wheti this measure
passed fixe report of the Standing Orders
came up for a second reading, I moved that
Committee rcornnending the setting aside
of the rule whcre thle notice wvas flot coin- the Bill be referred te a Cornrnittee of the
WVhole House. I did not favour ifs going
piefe.
te the Railway Comrnittee, because 1 liad
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Wlîeî tie comniittee what might, perhaps, be six error in
iny
examnineil the documnîts ini conuiection with own mimd, an impression that ftle feeling
flua petition, they founid that ail the rules of the Raiiway Çomrnittee was
against flic
had been coniplied wikl èxcepting the Bill. I had Ileard discussions on previeus
publication of the notice iii one newspaper occasions, and if seemed te me
tixat there
at the liead office. Through an errer in was an influence iii tue coinînittee
thiat
the inwspaper office of o11e of the papers would flot permit
flie Bill to be treated
iii which the notice wit, î>Ii.sicd. it ap- with the cluseriess,
wlîich I tlxought if depeared once, but thiey oinitted te continue served. iii view of
the fact-fhe offen rethe publication as it sliouid have been done ferred to fact-tlîat
ftle oflier House hîaf
in fli caCse of the other papers iii the terpassed this ineasure on twe or tliree, if net
ritory throughi whicli the brandi Uines are four, occasions.
I arn not sufficienfiy
to be constructed. Had tlîey continued the long ouf of what yeu
nîighit cail public
publication, the notice would have been hife te ignore flic
views of fixe popular
complet e. On noticing the error fixe rail. branch of parliarnent, nor arn
I yet suffiway company îmmediately gave instruc- cientiy separated fron fihe
active affairs of
tions f0 continue the publication of the no- men f0 disregard the voice
of public opintices at the head office until the proper ion. I suppose that in
due fime I shahl
numnber were given. They have aise given readli that hîappy- state, when memory
xviii
an undertaking that the*y xviii continue be very duil and when I shahl
fhink it
until fixe proper notices are given in ac- makes no difference what anybody
says;
cordance with our ruies. So as to the that I must not be influenced by any ideas,
point raised by my hon. friend, did not thouglits or feelings expressed by my feiiow
understand that the committee considered men on great public questions, but that
that one week's posting wvouid enabie these 1 must take nxy own way uninfluenced by
ruies to be conîplied with, because they arguments of any kind. Mvf hife has been
are shxort of the f ime some two weeks in aiong lines which iead me f0 think thaf
tîxis particular paper, therefore the days the popuhar voice is important. 1
have
required for the posting xvould not admit my own views
on many public questions,
of fhis being compiete in their notices in but they often yiehd te the desire and
the turne suggested, so I rather fhink if opinion of my feiiowmen as expressed in
was on the ground that the Bill is originat- argument upon a matter, and when men
ing in fixe Senate and, long before it goes are influenced se strongly by some design
througi fixe two Houses, the notices wiii and desire, if fIat
be nef an irregular thing,
hlave been complete.
I am prepared te listen, and perbaps f0
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Truro>-One of the modify my own views respect ing if. Therearguments used for sefting the rule aside fore, feeling that the Railway PCommittee
is that the notice lias been posted for one would not give fhis matter, because of ifs
professionai character, fhe consideration I
week.
thouzht if ought te have in view of what
The motion was agreed te.
lias transpired. I feel if necessary te cex-

S'-NA TE
p:ain mwhv I tak-e the g-round I have as- to be imperative. It is iincrc-asing ail over
5umd.
Upon the merits of the measure. the continent to such an extent that every
as it camne fromn the bouse of rom- whiere pressure is hein- brought to bear on
Meons, I shaîl flot dwell, for my hion. friend managing boards and Eailway Commissions
:rom Muarshfleld (Mr. Ferguson), hias so ably and organizations of a similar kzind to
and so efi ectively prescnted the arguments make such regulation as will protect the
:n its favour, hias so fairly combatted the people. In this country, public opinion has
co.tjections to it, that it is quite unnecessarv also reached such a stage as to have a
zo go over .-rou nd lie lias sgo well covered. compefling influence upon the goveruiment.
His work, is complete. His reasoning un- Not only bias the House of Commons passed
inswerab)le. Honourable zentiemen wil the Lancaster Bill, but the governiment,
reniember vers' -l
tat
thiF matter has recognizing the effcct of that Bill, recog«Oîeni dizeusscd -vcrltinics in the buse nizing- the influence w hich the need for it
cf Commons. The cffect of the discussions exercises upon the public mmid and the ne;-hichi had taken place upon the public cessity of doing- somethimg. bias brougbt in
mi:nd bas been that that Heuse lias unanim- a xnoney vote w'bicb iS now before parlia~usiv pa.ssed on two or threc occasions tbe ment of, I tbink. $200,OOO a year for five
.neasure which is now before us. It bias years; to do wvhat? To enforce the very idea
î!een adopted in view of the fact that pub- in this Bill; that is to say, te protect thL
*
opinion became se strong- that it was people àt the crossingS. When the measure
inabsolute neessitx- for parliament te do came here flrst this year. an effort was made
ç,'mething to p.rever.t the slaughter of by lion. gentlemen to delax- its progres.,
human life bv railronds on the hig-hways until we knew tbe effect of the govern1
bre on.c-in« to the people. After mucb con- ment Bill.
The governiment Bill, I have
sideration, examination and thougbt by the held from the first, is merely an
C-ommons, this measure w-as decided upon. effort to lessen tbe burden wbich this
The Bill was considered in the House, ani Bill will naturally impose on the rail1w- the Railvay Committee of the House, w
%ays for the general welfare of the people.
at different, times. It finaliy passed to s So wve must recognize everywbere that the
sub-committee, composed, as 1 tliink my people of Canada, through their representahion. friend stated hast nigbt, of the Min-J tive body, tbe government, are determined.
ister of Railways and the Hon. 'Mr. Le-' if poesible, to put into effeet, a measure
mieux, representing the government; of wbich will reduce to some extent the evils
'-\r. Aylesworth, w'ho bias since become of which we complain. I listened to what
a member of the government, and who was said in tbe railwav committee. I dil
does not appear to bave changed bis views, not take much part, if any, in tbe discussion
and other men eminent in parliament. this vear and last year. Ail tbat was urged
There were four Liberals and three Con- against the measure, both by the railwav
servatives, and tbey reported this Bill. That people and tbose gentlemen in the coinsub-committee beard every argument -wbicb mnittee opposed to it, w-as reducable to
couhd be advanced against the nieasure four grounds. First, that tbe House gave
1w- the railwav companies. Their representa- the Senate Bill of last year no consideratives came with ail the force and lega] tion, and, therefore, there -was no reapower tbev possess, witb full knowhedge of son why the Senate committee or the Senail tbe facts of the case, w-ith every reason ate itself should give any real consideraw-hicb could be presented wby the proposed tion to the House. There may be somelaw should not be adopted, but notwith- tbing in that. I might be influenced by
etandîng tbe forcible way in wbicb tbey pre- the very saine feeling if nly idea were
sented their view of the question, the corn- not that the public interest and the pubmittee and tbe House did not accept their lic needa were stronger than personal
view but passed the Bill as ýwe have it now. feeling againat the other branch of parIn tbe meantime, public opinion e-îtb regard liament. I think it is our duty, notwithto the necessity for sucb a measure is standing that we are the Senate, to listen
steadihy increasing; the ne.cessîty for bav- to the voice of tbe other branch of parliaing some protection for the public i's feit ment, and wben it shows a reasonable disHon. Mr. ELLIS.

APRIL 1,

19

POSiliffl 'o act ini the interez1s of thie peo- owners to submit to that, and it was
Plle we sh-ouid flot oppose its decision ciaimed that British ships wouid be
simply 1beause ive imagine aur measure swept from the ocean and that they wouid
has i.-ot b. an treated with sufficient con- nat be able ta campete with ships of other
sid<(ration.
couniries who were trying ta ivrest the
The s-eoind proposition or ground wvas mastery 'of the seas from England; but
that ta
o
rc the measure would make better counsel prevailed and the Bill
the time cf tr;ive] from east to Nvest, as -%as passed. The Plimsoil legisiation put
he
c
~~it be, longer; that we would Engiand in the front rank f umn
le
then have the compet-ition of the United nations, for she seemed to sacrifice
S;ates railvav systems and great injury ber own interests for the good of humanity.
vculrl result to the trade of this country. I do flot attach the slightest imporTha: was put forwrird with mnuch force in tance ta dlaims which are made that if
.his Houz, and in the committee. Ever we make the raiiway guard every dangerous
Fine~ I have open able to remember any- highway crossing we ýshall loose an hour or
-hiî.Ieurmcbrtaifteeian
ten hours in crossing the continent. The
thinLe that ean scare the Canadjan people United States system is barder on the rail;t is somcthingf fhat the United States pea- raads than aur system in regard ta matters
p ina
I..
Wc~ hive in the midst of of this kind. W'hether thev enforce the iaw
c
a:ar îï-. aý,
1 think, a Lreat deal of or nat, I do not know. But the municipalithe inter-e-t of lufe would he tiken away ties contrai, to a very grreat extent, tbe railfrom us if tiiese aiarmns werc not eonstantly way crassings aver the highwavs, and the
r-re uz. The feeling miakes us alert, active state authorities have a contro, Se, that
and enerzet'e and-imaginative. sa we have there is notbing ne or -novaI in the idea
vielded to it to sucb an extent that it bad that tbere ils such a contrai, and we sbauld
a. considerable influence upan the commit- bave just as rnuch protection as regards
tee. I remember many things: one is in Ithe speed of aur trains as tbe United States
regard ta the Plimsoll Act.
Everybody have. It is a mere question, perhaps, of
knaws that Engaland is the mistress of the enfarcing- the law.
reas, not onlv in war sbips, but in the
The third objection wvas, tbat ta carry this
influence of ber mercantile marine, and measure out would largely increase railthat influence became sa poiverful that way expenditure, I wili briefly deal with
it wvas almost impossible ta get through that, because I have already referred to it
the British parliament a-nvtbing that in pointing ont that tbe government
the- chip-ownviers objected ta. Mr. Plimsoll, intends ta share apart af the necesa mnan af humane ideas, thaugbt that sary expenditure. Na doubt, it would cost
ioc. many lives ivere being last at sea tbe railway something ta put into effect
because ai overloading, and be may have sncb miles or regulations, or a systesu such
had a suspicion in his own mind that some as is contemplated by tbe Bill ; but, as I
limes vessels went ta the battomn because bave already said, the government itself
tbere wvere intercsts thet made it advisable bas camne forward and given the raiIways
for them ta go there, and that -wonld be a helping hand. Haw that -will work ont
helped, by sncb averloading. He raised an I do not knaw, but there is nO doubt iwhatagitation in England. A great many gentle- ever a system -will be devised by which, as
men wha are interested in vessels will rapidly as possible, flot pcrhaps with the
remember the Plirmoll -mark. We do flot quickness of lightning, the worst of the
sec mnch of that now, becanse things h#ve dangerous crossings will be, by the govern-'
changed. But ai ter much flghting in par- ment and by the municipalities and the
liament, and much effort, Plimsoll succeeded railways themselves, rednced or elixninated.
in persuading the British parliament that Of course it must al-ways be remembc'red
there sbould be some inspection, regula- that the highways belong ta the people.
lion and contrai of the loading of They were made before the railways, for
ships, and that there should be pr> the most part. They suit the convenience
lection ta buman lives on the seas. of the people who make them, and it is
It «was vers- bard for tbe British ship- right and fair that tbe people themseives

j~tJ

SENATE

z;hould have some consideration with regard
to them; therefore, althoughl it miay be
liard ulion the- railwîays, it mnay involve
sorne expenditure, stili it is necessarv it
should be done, and tlîey nmust assume the
burden. But I think the railways themselveS are semietinies needlessly alarmed.
I rernember once, when 1 was in the Hlouse
of Comnons, I was a member of a cernlnittee; the late Mr. Casey was aise a meinber, anid Mr. Ingrani, who now hiolds a
railwa '\ position iii the province of On
tario, and there were six or seven of us,
with powver to examine witnesses and send
fer papers; the inain idea %vas that ladders
ishould lie provided on the outside of cars
to save the mhen on trains, because there
%%ere se nianv accidcents happening to theni.
The railway people came arined with evidence and with ail sorts of arg-umrents and
rea-.ons why nothiimg should be done, or,
ait arn- rate, whatever should be done should
be limited to the sma]lest possible work,
bûcause it would involve a considerable
ýexpeiise and cause a great deal of labour,
and would riot have the effeet w-hich we
supposed it would have, and that was the
constant arirument. The resuit of that inquiry is to be found in section '264 of the
Railway Act. I think we shall have to hive
our lives tbrougbh fightiing this kind of scarecrew and Lo on and (I0 our w-ork, notwitlista n d in
The fourth and last cont{-rmitioi is, tiiot
if we pass this measure as it is to-day
it ivill put the railways at the miercy
of the cemimon jury. 1 heard the argument repeated in such a variety of ways
that it became riauseous. No doubt juries
some times do wrong. Sometimnes judges
do wronz. I have known them te do what
1 thoughit -was -wrong. I do not thîink that,
in a country like this, we can afford te discredit the jury.
We have no otimer real
safeguard for the people as against tyranny,
-o far as the exercise of law is conc.erned,
than the jury, and I do not understand
why if sbould be argued in parliament constantly. as it has been in this case, that
it is better for the railway company te
escape trial bv jury, and escape ail thp
safeguards that the jury -ives to the peopIe. We ought te, stand up for the jury;
w-e ouc-ht te admît that the jury is the rigbit
kind of tribunal te deal with sucb cases,
Ilon. Mr. ELLIS

and althougch occasiSnally juries may do
wrong, they are flot the onlv people who
do wrong. I do not, therefore, thinkl these
considerations shmould affect us ini the
sli.-htest degree. 1 do not thinik that ail
of themn toegether would justify us iii
rejecting this mieasure, whichi, in the hast
axialysis, simiply ineans if the railways do
net sufficiently pretect tlieir lîigliway crossîngýs they must reduce their speed on
those crossings to ten miles an heur.
Tite Chairmax, o! our Railway Conimittee is of an astute mind and a inan
o! legal knowledge ne doubt. If yeu read
bis amendment and keep in mmid the explanation he made iii the House yesterday, vou wvill find tîxat he. lîiinslf is flot
at aIl certain that w-bat lie proposes Iby
his amendment will be carried eut. At
h-ast that is wlxat 1 gatlxcred froni hiiî
and his constant use of the wvord 'may ini
hlis speech led mie te believe thiat altlioncîxi lxý
theught wlbat he said naiglit come te pass.
lie would not stake bis reputation thxat
it wvould. H-owever. 1 inay lbe wrong' witlx rtýgard tei that. 1 move that thxe ai.nnment
nowv before the House be flot concurred in,
but that Bill (No. 6), together with the arnendments thereto, reported from the Standin- Committee on Railivavs, Telegraphis and
Harbours, be committed te a Committee- et
the Whole House with instructions te report the Bill as it came frem the House of
Commons.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Wha-t p'ease I me
mest in this debate is the final rexnarks of
the hon. and venerable senater fromn St.'
John. I had already the saine ideas in
one or two respects regarding the subject
and I have put themi on paper.
Duringt
the able and akilful exposition of thie
amendment of the lion, gentlemian from
Do Sala-berry, he laid dewn a principl-P
whicli I think would flot receive the sanction o! the general public, and wvhich I do
net think parliament w-ill endorse, and that
is when he challenges the usefuinesa e!
the jury s ' stem. I may say that I wa3
asnazed et that statement,
and more
amazed that ne objection was taken to it.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I did net challeng-e
the usefulness e! the jury systemn at aIl.
Hn
r
LRNIw
ut
i x
act words from memorv: 'By this amnend-

APRIL 1, 1909
ment the jury will have no right to say of the other. You cannot rely upon the
whiether the crossing was proper or not.' opinion of the highest court.
They are
That was his statement.
liable to, be upset by the opinion of the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If the hon, gentle- Privy Council, which is the final tribunal,
man will allow ie to repeat what 1 said: so that it is no argument to say that the
It was merely this-and I will leave it to jury wiii render a decision in a certain
the judgment of any hon. member who case to-day and to-morrow a different deIt may be true,
is most competent to prescribe how rail- cision will be rendered.
way crossings ehadi be protected, whether but it la not a sufficient argument, to say to
it is the jury alter the accident, or the the public that twelve of their peers shall
railway board with the expert knowledge not have anything to eay in regard to the
maintenance or construction of a crossing.
that they have.
1 do not think the people of the country
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That point is not want that, and the board itself 'vouid not
involved in the Bill.
want such arbitrary, autocratic and unalterable powers. They would have under
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-In the way it is
this amendment the final aubd definite say
put, there is nothing objectionable; but I in this matter. It rwill lie
sufficient for me
go further and affirm, that the jury should to object to the proposed first
amnendment
have a right to say, even after the board of the comrniittee, as far as that point ie
has dîrected the railway company to pro- concerned. As far as the Bill is concerned,
tect a certain crossing, that that crossing it lias passed through the crucial test of
was or was not a proper one.
The jury, severe criticism and opposition, has been
in ail these matters, is the final tribunal tested, as hon, gentlemen have well said
of appeal, and we should flot put arbi- by the opinion in another- place-a Bihl
trary powers in the bande of any board which stands unparaileled in regard to the
without appeal, and, after ail, it is not the support it bas received, initiated by a priboard that directs the construction of the vate memnber, securing the endorsation of
c-rossing or who will be there to see if it is the unanimous vote of the lower House,
efficient. They will simply send an in- the approval of the Prime Minister and
spector, a foreman, who will examine the ail the ministers in the Cabinet. I think
surroundings, examine the conditions of that is correct, although the riglit hon.
the place and on bis report the board wil leader of this House lias
not exdirect what protection, if any, is to be pressed bis opinion yet. I do not say that
nmade. Are we-and the hon, gentleman the government endorsed this as a political
says so, in bis explanation although measure, but as a mieasure calcuhated to
he does not say so in bis Bill-to take promote the public welfare, one w'hich lias
out of the hands of the jury the right to received the sanction of the House of Gomcondemn the crossing and to say to the mons for the past four years. Whihe the
board: 'We must have one of a different Bill aims at a desirable and salutary obcharacter.' That la the right of the jury, ject, it also destroys an equally desirable
and when the hon. gentleman stated that one. When the Bill says in section 1:
one jury will say one thing to-day and anSection 275 of the Railway Act, chapter 37
other jury will say another thing to-mor- of tke revised statutes, 1906, is hereby repealed.
row, that is human nature. As the hon.
member from St. John bas aaid: 'Judges
I think that is a mistake, and that the secdiffer'. Juries are no more erratic and un- tion should remain without any change.
reliable in dealing with huinan affaire than IN you repeal that clause, you reare judges and leading coureel. What one move the obligation of the railway comjudge decides to-day, is reversed to-mnorrow, panies to fence their roads; for instance,
and the decision whi.eh ie Teveraed to-morr<>w going into the city of Montreal fromn St.
'will be restored by another tribunal, and Henry, a distance of two or three miles,
if you proceed through three or four courts where the population on both aides of the
you will find each upsetting the judgments tracks is dense. Although there are brick
21
BREVIBED EIDIrION

SENATE
'walls ail alonz there, the railwa- lias to be
fenced and the fonces kept in piroper repair
under section 275. It seems inexplicable
to me that the House of Commons, which
has had this moasure before them so of ten.
did not observe that they were taking away
from the public a safeguard, while trying
to accomplish a good objoct. I would suggost, if this Bill is to bo adopted, that the
first t-wo linos should road as follows:

of accident. The board issues its generai
order. It should hot bc the duty of a
private citizen or corporation te interview
the board and urge upon themi either by
i attorneys or otherwise to order the protection of a crossing. I suggest that overy
municipality through -which the railway
pajsses should have the power to indicate
what crossing, in their jurisdiction, ondangers the ]ives of their citizens by the
crossing- of the trains. We know that in
Sectioiu 275 of tho Railway Act, chapter 37, a municipality there max' ho a dozen railof the revised statutes of 1906, is hereby
ways traversing it norîli, south, east andi
amended by addinig the following:west. We know that there are many smal]
This section is absolutely nocessary, and villages of four or five hundred, or a thous1 do flot think, the railways aro anxious and. At country crossings where there is
to have it repealed. 1 %would
hiave a genera] no real danger it would not ho fair, in the
ordor go forth froin the board that ail present stato of our population and the
da.ngerous crossings bo îîrotocted. at once. difficulties under which our railways are
If the suggosted amondmcnt wvere adoptod, running, 10 force them to put up crossings,
and spocial instructions wore issued for cspecially where there are only two or
the construction, maintenance and protec- three trains passing in a day-say one in
tion of the crossin.,s, the board would flot the morning and one at night. A railway
get llîrough their work in five or ton years. mio-ht ho running throug-h a village fairly
Tho inspoctor 's wouid have to visit theqe wvell populated, four or five hundred indiffere-nt, points and make reports, whiclî habitants, and if the municipality declared
would have to be suhmitted to ongineers; it to be a dangerous erossing, thon il would
plans wouid lhave to ho drawn, which they* h-_ the duly of the board, if they wished
are doîng now, and it would take a long
tvorify tîie correclness of the complaint,
lime. I have hoard statements by in- te send an inspector -and have a report.
spectors working under the boa.rd that the That will ho a fair proposition to the pubreports are flot acted on for months ini lic, and to, the company. The municipalismall matters regarding stations, and thos- ties would not ho unroasonable, and they
stations romiain in a condition flot at ail w-ould flot as], for protection at every crosssuitable 10 public convenience. It would in', in thoir riding. I know I nover would
be necessary, under this amendment, to ap- do il, and I have been mayor of a munipoint hall a dozen men, and consider what cipality with a population ranging from
an enormous expense it would bo te send four te five thousand, and there are streets
inspoctors to every crossing, and the gov- which the railro>ad crosses in that mruniernment would have to pay for il aiq. The cipality. I 'would flot ask th e railway
amendmenl is flot f air 10 the board, ta company te proteet a crossing and have a
overload them with work, and flot fair man there day and night when, probably,
to the public 10 deprive them for such .9 onilv two trains would cross in a day. This
len•rth of timo of what they are askîng. I malter is one requiring careful considerause the words ' dangerous crossings.'
o
tion. and justice must ho done to hoth
are we going to find out whether a cross- aides. There must ho protection for the
ing is dangerous? The railway compan ' public, and the public should ho the judges
is flot going to inform the boa.rd, and the of the danger. The boar-d should have the
board may learn it from letters which are right, te, supervise the decisions of the munisent to them making complaint; but we cipal council; but once a municipal counknow how much care is taken of corres- cil, in the intorest of the public, has de.
pondence of that kind.
0f course, the cided th-at a crossing is dangerous te human
board would ho the judge of the -naturel life, it will ho the duty of the board 10
of the protection, and their order would he notify the raiiwav company to erect prosuhject to the decision of the jury in casie fective bitrriers at once.
Hlon. Mr. CLORAN.

APIRIL 1, 1909
There is another principle which -R ia liard
to overcome-the question of speed. I
know frorn personal experience and the experience of many others, that a train travelling at a low speed sornetirnes is more dangerous than a very fast train. Why? Because if you are driving on a country road,
or walking across a tràck in the city and
see a train approaching slowly, you are
likely te take the chance of getting across
ahead of the train. If that train were approaching at lightning apeed, you would
stand and look and flot try ta cross. Iii
Montreal there are crossings which are protected by barricrs, and guards are there
with lampa at night-, still they are the very
croasings where many o! our people are
killed. I know we take chances o! crosaing
when the barriers are down-we get under
the barriers and cross in spite of the gateman. In larg,,e cities, level tracks should he
done away with, especially where there is a
tremendous amount o! traffic. At Bonaventure depot. a hundred trains cross many o!
the streets every day, through a portion of
the city densely populated. Ail the way
up ta St. Henry there are probably 50,000
inhabitants on each aide of the track for a
distance of two and a haîf miles. The,
crosaings in such a place should be by subways or over-head viaduct. because people
will not wait when the barriers are closed.
At Mountain street, which is the on]y
avenue of traffic leading !rom the river up
to the mountain apart from McGill street,
the traffic is enormnous. The freight sheds
are there, and trains sometimes stand on
the track at the crossin-a for five or ten
minutes and people on their way home after
six o'clock are frequently obliged ta stand
there for perhaps a quarter of. an hour
awaiting an opportunity to cross the track?
What is the result? Dozens of people have
gone under the very cars while they stood
there, not knowing whien the signal wvould
be given ta start the train, and 1 have seen
people get between the cars ta cross tihe
track. People will risk their lives simp]y
because they know the trains are mot travelling fast. They think they will -not be run
down, but sometimes they are. In other
places, where the danger is flot so great,
common barriers would be sufficient. In
small towns and villages, where people live
in the vieinity of where they are occupied,

they are flot in such a Iiurry; they can
afford to wait until a train passes, but when
workingmen leave their shops and have to
travel two or three miles to reach their
homes they are always in a hurry. Once
the municipalities indicate that a crossing
is dangerous, that crossing shou]d be protected by an order of the board. 1 have
Iooked at this question from every point of
view, and at the end of four years I should
say we should take heed of public opinion
that bas been so unarimously and strong]v
expressed in another place.
We should
enact a law so clearly expressed that it
wvould flot need to be interpreted by the
courts.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-The lawyers would
flot like that.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I arn a lawyer myself, but I want the public to get ail the
advantage tliev can frorn clear andI distinct
laws laid down in plain language, so that
they can be understood by the people without interpretation by a court. We are the
Supreme Court, and our duty here is to
pasa our laws in such a shape that they
will be as clear as a mathematical problem. I have advocated the retention of
section 275 of the Railway Act; that could
be done by striking out one line in the present Bill. As to the merits of this Bll, I
arn not prepared to aay that it is perfect,
that there neyer can be an amendment to
it. that with the experience of coming years
we shall not be able te improve on it, but
I amn prepared to say that the amendrnent
which is proposed to take its place is flot
Fufficiently clear and distinct, and does flot
protect the public adequately. It limite the
power of the board to special instructions in
special cases, and that is a principle we
should not lay down in the common law.
Hon. Mr. DANDtJRAND-I should like to
draw the attention of the hon. member from
St. John to what I believe to be the irregulsrity of his motion. He wants to give an
instruction to the Committee of the Whole
House. I would draw his attention to thie
passage in Bourinot, page 652:
Considerable misapprehension appears ta
exist as to the meaning of an instrucdhon.
An instruction is given to a committee ta
confer on it that power which, without auch
instruction, it would not have.

SENATE
So I believe the hon, gentleman does
flot need to give the instruction, besides
the practice is flot to make it mandatory.
The expression used is that power is given
where there is need for instruction. If hie
moves to send the Bill to a committee of
the whole House, that committee will have
full power to rejeet the amendment and
-deal with the Bill, and I suggest to hirn
4o withdraw that part of his motion.

whole house in the Lords. Mandatery or imperative instructions can b. given te such
comm ittees.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This motion is
in perfect accord Mwith what we do very
fr-equently in this House every session. We
inove that a Bill be net now read the third
time, but that it be referred back te the
committee for the purpose of adding semething. That is an instruction. That is the
simplest way et doing. The House cernHon. Mr. LANDRY-Do I understand the mands the committee, and we can instruct
non. gentleman has raised a point of them.
.order?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-But they have
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I have made a the power, and the committee do-es fot
sug-gestion to the hon, gentleman.
n eed instructions.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That an order canHon. Mr. FERGUSON-We want to give
themn an instruction se they can carry out
not be mandatory.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-That there is the views of the House.
no need of instruction, because the ceinHion. Mr. CLORAN-WVould*it net be well
to have that understood before, a vote is
mittee of the whole has the power.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I remember two tiken?
years ago, in 1907, whien a J3ill camne here
Hon. Mr. POWER-There is a general,
on the same lines as the one now under well understood rule that you cannot give
consideration, that I objected because an instructions to a committee to do what a
instruction wvas given to a committee, and comrnittee has already the power ko do
my hon. friend declared my point was not without instructions. That is the point
well taken. I raised the same question cf order, as I understand it, and I think
that he is raising te-day, because it was the point is well taken.
an instruction to a committee that had the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I may remark that
power te do the thing without instruction,
and secondly because it was mandatory, the hon. member from Halifax was the
and I was ruled out of order by my hon. one that took exception te that, and pointed
eut that we had the right and he proved it.
friend himself.
I will get his littie speech.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-There must be
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I did not raise
something on record of what the hon, gens point ef order; I only made a suggestion
tleman states. 1 should like to see the
point he raised and the decision rend. te the hon. gentleman.
ered.
Hon. Mr. BOWELL-If this motion carHon. Mr. LANDRY-I can get it; I have ries, will the cemmittee have the power te
it in my room. I cal] his attention to the inake any change in the Bil] as it came
from the Gommone P
following, at page 547, in Bourinot:
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No.
Instructions May be mandlatory or permissive in the case of special committees. When
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
given to joint or standing committees they
should be in the forrn used in commîttee of it is mandatory. You declare that the.
the whole.
amendmrents made by the Committee on
It goes on to say, and it is on that point Railwaye be not concurred in, but that
iny hon. friend ruled that my point of order the Bill be referred back to the committee
was flot well taken:
-for wb.at purpose? For the purpose of
No such restrictions appliee te comniittees reporting the Bill as it came te the Sen,on private Bills fier to oemmitteee ef the ate. That is mandatory, and the re8uit
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND.

APRIL 1, 1909
would be that the comynittee would be
o>bliged to report the Bill as it came to the
Senate. If that is the wish of the hon.
gentleman, he is quite correct in the positoion he has taken,- but if it be bis desire
that the committee conskler the Bill on
ite merits, then the motion should be that
the report be flot concurred in, but that
It be referred back to a Comiruittee of the
Whole for the purpose of considering the
Bill'; then you would have a chance to discusa it if necessary, but if it is to go back
simply for the purpose of reporting the
Bill as it cornes from the Commons, there
ino use in discussing it.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It has this advantage, that in going to the conimittee it
follows our procedure; it goes to the committee with instructions and it cornes out
of the committee as the instructions say
it should come, without any amnnent.
When it cornes before this House it bas
passed throug-h the committee stage, and
then on1 the third reading another amendment could be moved, and any member
could move to recommit the Bill with another instruction.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I think we are losing
time. If the Bill should be sent back to
the House o! Commons with the amendme'nt which the Senate has mnade, there
'woul be an opportunity to consider it
before the end of the session; but il you
delay the Bill, iA will not be in the public interest. WVe are told that we ought
to listen ta the popular voice. I amn one
of those who believe that public men should
listen toi the popular voice; but there is
something above the popular voice, our
conscience and our judgment. We are told
that we must respect the House of Commons. No doubt we must, but we muet
also respect our own House. We are told
that the House of Coimmons has passed
this Bill two or three times. That makes
no difference; the Bill bas been submitted
to this Chamber. and the majority here
bas judged it proper to amend the Bill,
being convin>ced that it should be amended.
We ought ta have some reapect for our
own opinion and judgment. There is reason to believe that hast year the House of
Gommons did not have time ta coinsider the

amendment adopted by the Senaîte.
It
was flot conaidered as it should have been.
Why flot give them a chance ta consider
the amendment this year? If you follow
a course which will have the effeet of dehaying the Bill here, the Hanse of Gomnmons
may flot have sufficient opportunity ta coneider the measgure. I havé reason ta ibelieve
that if we send the Bill back to the House
of Gommons as amended, it will be taken
into consideration this session. I cannot
affiram, but I have good reasort to believe
that thls year they will be inclined ta think
as 'we think ourselves, that the Bill
as amended is more in the public interest
then it was as it passed the House of
Commons. I intended ta compare the two
Bis, but the hon. gentleman from De
Sahaberry has done that work so well that
I shall fot repeat wvhat he said.
I arn convinced that the Bill as amended
la better, for the reasons given by the hon.
member from De Salaberry. First, because
the Lancaster Bill removes section 275 of
the Railway Act, which 1 think we should
keep on aur statutes, because it gives more
protection ta the public, coupled with sections 237 and 238. The hon. member fram
Victoria has been obliged ta admit that
section 275 should be retained. Since the
Lancaster Bill repeals that section, and the
Bill as amended retains it, we shouhd pass
the Bill as amended. In the Lancaster Bill
the language used is ' properly protected.'
Who will decide that a crossing is properly
protected? Juries? We have great respect
for juries, but there are cases where I have
more respect for and confidence in the judgment and decision of an expert than in the
opinion of ten juries. It depends on the
matter ta be decided. One jury will decide
that a crasing is not praperly protected an
account of a variety of circumstances.
What wauld happen? Suppose the railway
company acted on the verdict of that; jury
and adopted a certain kind of protection,
and a few days hater another jury gives a
different decision, will the campany be ohliged. in either case, to change its systemn
of protection in compliance with the decision cf the juryP A system established
by the Railway Commission, as the ainendment calis for, instead of -by juries who da
flot know much about sucb matters, will be
a decision given by campetent men, and the

SENATE
systein will be uniform. Wjthout some such
control we would have as rnany systems as
there are juries. Now, on the question of
speed, if you rcmove section 275, what becornes of subsection 2 which deals with that
matter' There will he no more rules about
speed of trains in thickly populated places.
The least we can do, since even those who
have spoken a--ainst the Bill as amended
have been obliged f0 admit thev have doubt,
is to pass the Bill as amended. The hon.
member fromn Victoria bas spoken ail the
time as if he were full of doubts about the
efficiency of the Lancaster Bill If I wvere
not confident, a- 1 arn. tluat the Bill as
amended Nvas hetter than thec Lancaster Bill,
but had douhfs, I .%ou](' stand uvy the dec'ision of the Senate andi send tlie amended
Bill to the House of Comnions. It is a
question of honour, of flie dignitv we ought
%
fo show, and the respcct
oucht to have
oi'
for oui own judgment. Were we sincere
hast vear in niaking our arnendmnenfs fo the
Lancaster Bill' We thouzght -we were acting
in the public interest. Let us show that
last vear we kniei what uts -were doingc. The
ainendment was prepared by compefent
men, and we mnust respect ourselves, and
respect those who prepared that amendment.

Cloran,

Montff]aisir,
Perley,
Ross (Halifax),
Wil'..on.-16.

Ehlis,

Ferguson,
Gillmor,

Landry,

NON-CONTENTs:
Honourable Messieurs
]3eique,
Jaffray,
Beith,
Jones,
Bostock,
Legris,
Bowell
Mitchell,
(Sir Mackenzie),
Poîwer,
Campbell,
Ratz,

Cartwright
(Sir Richlard),
Dandurand,
David,
Dessaulles,
DeVeber,
Edwards,
Fiset,
Gibson,
Godbout,

Btjbertson,

lUvss (N1oosejaw,),

Ross (Middlesex),
Scott,
Shehvii,
Te-.si'er,

Thomp-oiî.
W a t..
Yeo.
You1tz. 'ii.

The motion -was a.creed to.
LORD STRATH-CON-"A'S GIFT.

Hon.

Mr.

CHOQUETTE-Before

the

House adjourns, I should like to ask the
ri,-ht hon. leader of the House if lie can

give me a reply to my question about Lord
Strathcona's letter, in which lie says that
thle money he contributes shahl be devofed
entirely to schools maintained by public
fands?

Hon. Mr. POWER-There is a question
of order to be decided.

Hon. Sir RICH-ARD CA1ITWRIGHT-I
consulted the Minister of Mihitia and that
The SPE \KER-I do not undersfand there gentleman is of opinion that bs xvili be abie
is any nuestion of order before the House. to deai with the point raised by my lion.
friend by reguhafion, and that Lord StrathIf bas been withdraw..
ecna %vil] he perfectiy content

with such

Hon. Mr. POWER-I hope that this wilh regulations as the department may proflot be taken as a precedent, because I pose.
think to give instructions to a committee
The Senate adjourned until three p.m.
to do 'what that committee already has
to-morrow.
ample power to do without instructions, is
altogether irregular. I amrn ot going to
raise the question if the hon. gentleman
frorn De Lorirnier thinks it should flot bs
THE SENATE.
raised, but 1 hope it will not be drawn into
OTTAwAk, Friday, April 9, 1909.
a precedent.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Thres
The Senate divided on the amendment
o'clock.
which was rejected by the following vote:
Prayers and routine proceeding-s.
CONTENTS:
Honourable Messieurs

Baird,

Bol duc,

Boucherville, de
(C.M.G.),

Hon. Mr. DAU~D,

Macdonald (P.E.I.),
McKav (Huron),

MoMillan,
Mc.Sweeney,

BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (HH) An Act respecting the Canadian Red Cross Societv.-(.Hon. Mr. Ross,
Middlesex).

.XPRIL 2, 1909
Bill (Il) An Act respccting thie Equity
Fire Insurance Company.-(Hon. Mr. Ross,
Middlesex).
Bill (JJ) An Act respecting the Mexican
Transportation Company, Limit-ed, and te
change its flam-e to the ItiIexican Northwestern 'Railway Companv.-(Hon. Mr.
Riley).
CANADIAN

MEDICAL ASSOCIATION
BILL.
THIRD READING POST11ONED.
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON (in the absence
of Hon. Mr. MeM-%illani) moved the third
reading of Bill (CC) An Act to incorporate
the Canadian Medical Association.
Honl. M-Nr.WILSON-We oughlt to have
sorne explanation from the parties promoting this Bill. I arn afraid thîey are asking
for very unreasonable powers. I do flot
know iv-hat view the Private Bils Comimittee
ma% have taken of it, but it seeins to iiitexfere bo a certain extent -%ith the curriculumn of the colle.-es, and the colleges
ought te have an opportunity of knowing
to what extent, if any, il affects them. I
do flot desire to prevent the passage of
the Bill, but we should have sorne explanation, and I hope the hion, gentleman -who
has undertaken to move the third readingwil] tell us somethirg about il, othierwilst
it should be allowed 10 stand over.
Hon. '.Ir. ROBERTSON The B3ill doe.-,
net interfere with the curriculum of any
cohlege. I amn onlv movin- the third reading because the Hon. Mr. McM\ihlan is
absent. If any objection is taken to the
third reading to-day, I arn villing to let il
stand.
The order was discharged, and the thurd
reading was fixed fox Tuesd-ay next.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (EE) An Act for the relief of Evelyn
Martha Keller.-(H-on. Mr. Perley).
Bill (FF) An Act for the relief of Frank
Pars4ons.-(Hon. Mr. Derbyshire).
Bill (No. 49) An Act respecting the 01ta-wa, Northern and Western Railway Coanpany.-<H-on. Mr. Derbyshire).
Bill (No. 62) An A-et bo incorporate the
Prince Albert and Hudson Bay Railiway
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Talbot).

327

Bill (1») An AXct te 1:tcorporate the Kootenay and Alberta Railway Company.-(Hon.
1%r. Bostock).
Bill (No. 50) An .Xct to incorporate La
Compagnie du Chemin dc fer Internationale
dce iosi-(o
i Fiset).
Bill (No. 59) An Act 10 incorporate the
Victoria and Ilarkley Sound Ilailwav Coinpan ' .- (Hon. Mr. Riley).
Bill (No. 38) An Adt respoctine«tuIe Canadian Nortbern Quebec Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. Tessier).
1IAIL\AY ACT

EDM

TBIL

THIRI) liEADING.
lion. -Mr. BElQUE iînoved the thuird rtading of Bill (No. .6) Aîilet
to antend tuie

Raiiway Adt as aiieîtd U
Hoii.

Mr.

~VLçN

tcuethiS

iîîoliuî

is carried-and

1 !lave nu doubt iroin the
vote recordecd yestorto v it will bc carried-1 desire to offe-r a icw reasofls why 1 ai"
opposed 10 the ainendrnuxtnt broughit in by
the Railw ay Coliîntittue. 1 am nût inan
way opposed 10 safeguarding human life

upon railway crossin.s.
Tihis important
question hias been before the public for a
length of time, and lias oceupied the attention of the electorate as well as of parliament. A good deal of lime lias been
spent and -uisdomn displaycd in trying to
devise a schieme

wýhcreibv

the destruction

of humnan lite upon railwav crossings rnav
he prevented. il lias been said. and I
think quite correctly, that it is very. difficuit to protect crossings so that more or
Iess human life will not be lost at such

places. A law lias been on the statutebook for a number of v.ears, the object of
which is to proteet human life fromn destruction by the railroads. If the railwavs
would *observe that law, many accidents
would be avoided. But the companies have
neglected the law, and they are responsible te a larg-e extent for many of the accidents that have happened. Not only -have
they neglected to enforce the law respecting croesings, but in the construction of
buildings and stations for their on-n use
they have shown no regard for the public interest. Many such structures are so
located *as te prevent people 'who have to
cross the trackS from seeing approaching
trains. Not only is that the case, but in

SENATE
many instances they have curves on the
line where they could, by good engineering.
lie avoided. The railway cempanies more
than anybody else are to blame for the
siaugliter of the people, and it is our duty
to provide against it without changing the
law materially, further than the Lancaster
Bill would enable us to do. The desire
of parliament, in the other Chamber,
is to see that under the la-%v the lives of
the people may be properly protected, and
when I voted against the amendments introduced by the hon. cliairman of the committee I had that object in view. I felt
it was necessary that some amendment
should lie made, but the difficulty whicli
arose in my mind was, whietlier flic amiendments introduced by the lien, gentleman
'were such as we ought or oug-lit flot to
accept; therefore I voted acgainst tliem.
Unless I arn perrnitted te explain my position and give a reason for the vote in this
matter, the people froin ene end of the ceuntry to the other wvill say tliat 1 w-as oppesed
to tlie proper protection of human life at
railway crossings. I arn in faveur of every
protection we can give at level crossings.
The interest of thle public is cf more importance to me at least, than tlie interests of
the railway, and, therefore, the people of the
ceuntry should have tlie first consideration.
True, the railways liave donc a great deal
for us, and are as necessary alrnost as any
other means of transport; l)ut arc tliey te
be superior to the people who came liere and
hewed out homes for tlieniselves in thi,
wilderness wlien there were no railways
and no reads of any description?
They
worked industriously and did everything
tliey could te develop the interesf s of Canada, and are we to treat them now 'with
indifference and te say tliat thcy have flot
an equal interest with the railways? I do
not think that is the feeling of the Senato.
I have no doubt the hon. member wlio
moved the amendment to the Lancaster Bill
desixed that the railway cressings shoul-J
lie so protected as to prevtait the destruction of human ie. The Lancaster Bill las
been befere the country for three or four
years. The electorate lad an opportunity,
by the election of members te the House of
Common8, te sely -whetlier tliey appreved cf
the Bill that was presented, and tliey have
Hon. Mr. WILSON.

appreved of it. Atter having gone before
the electorate, the meinhers of the Cernmons returned and unanimously passed the
Bill as it had originally been enacted. Are
we te say that the amendmients made by
the Senfate committee are as valuable as
the Bill as it came from the Cernmens? There the legal liglits cf the cabinet,
including the Minister cf Railways. examined this Bill and declared that it did
preteet level crossings. It was submitted
also te the Minister cf Justice, and I
suppose my hon. friend, the cliairman of
the Railway Committee, would say his legal
k-nowledge is equal te that cf the incinibers of this Charnber. The geverniment of
the day are held responsible for the legisiafion which is enacted, and tliey assume that
responsibility by placing this law upon the
statute-book.
Thiere mav lie member,, of
the government who do net entertain the
saine views as thcir cehleagues. We have
net had an opportunitv to know dcfinitolIv,
excepting iby fthe vof-e, ýwhicli way the
inember of the government here feels iii
reference te the amendments made te the
Lancaster Bill. Ail thie members in the
House cf Gemmons voted for the Bill. The
majoritv in the Senate cast flieir vete
against the Lancaster Bill, or in faveur
of the amendments introduced here. Which
House is riglit? Are the members, who are
responsible te the countrv, rielit or %vr.ng?
Eitlier the geverniment in the Commens
must be right or wrong, or tlie member cf
tlie gevernment liera voting against the
wislies of the members of ftie gevernment
in the Coxnmons must have a reason for
voting in the way lie did. The ex-leader
cf flie Senate voted for the amendment as
intreduced in the Senate by the lion, chairman cf the Ulailway Committee. Let us
make a careful review cf the conditions of
the Bill as intreduced, and tlie amendment
as offered by the hon. mover. Hon. gentlemen remember that certain questions wcre
asked him when lie was explaining the
Bui, and the replies that lie gave were net
satisfactory; lie could net explain definitely
and cIearly that the amendments introduced by hîm were those whicli were te be
carried. We have had an opportunity cf
learning wliat the sentiments cf the country
are in reference to this Bill; but we have
liad ne opportunity te know whether they

APRIL 2, 1909

would approve of the amendments introduced by the chairman of the Railway Gommittet. The Bill, as introduced in the Commons, has gone to the country three times,
and it was passed in the Gommons this session without a dissenting voice. I amrn ot
going to enter into the various negotiationà
which. took place between the members of
the House of Gommons, the government and
the Minister of Railways. It is not necessary to do so. Hon. gentlemen know what
conclusions they corne to, and they are
also aware that the people of the
country have declared that the Bill is
a proper one. So anxious are the govern.
ment of the day that crossings shall
be properly protected that they have iiitroduced a resolution granting a million
dollars to do away with dangerous level
crossinzs. When I asked the question in
reference to that, rny hon. friend tried to
convey the impression that the government
mîg-ht or mig-ht not do so. If that be the
case, I ask hon, gentlemen whether this
Bill ouzht to be passed and placed
upon the statute-book until such time as
the House of Commons shaîl have had an
opportunity of deciding wvhether iA should
or should flot become law? I appeal to the
chairman, wçho was so anxious for the
people to have an opportunity to express
their views, te move that the order of tht
day be dischargced and allow this amendedl
Bill to stand for a month te ascertain ivhat
the feelinz cf the country is in regard to
it.

As to the two hundred thousand dollars,
they say it is left to the Railway Board to
decide how that shahl be expended. If
that be proper, why net leave this Bill as
amended to be interpreted by the Raihvay
Board? If they say it will furniali ahl the
protection required, then I shall withdra'iv
my opposition to the Bill, but they are
given no opportiunity, though they met today,. to express an opinion upon it. The
Bill as introduced in tht other House, in
the opinion of the Minister of Justice, and
no doubt of tht Privy Council, gave necessary protection.
Tht Railway Bloard have
had an opportunity of expressing their
views, and ne doubt they approve aise of
Mr. Lancaster's Bill. Now what are the
chief causes of the destruction of life at
railway crossinga? Not the high speed of

trains.

I live in a town which is thickly

settled, and where trains run through at

a high .speed, but so careful are tht railway cempanies te, enforce the law that very
few accidents have ever occurred there.
The Michigan Central'Railway has a double
track running for about a mile through
tht thickly settled portion of St. Thomas,
and its trains pas at the rate of forty
or fifty miles an hour, and I have known
but one accident to have occurred on those
tracks. In that instance, the man was
partially deaf, and his friends did not
blame the company for his death. A double
track is more dangerous 'than a single
tack, because trains are passing both ways
at tht same time. Why then lirait the
speed of trains to ten miles an hour unles.a
tht tracks are properly guarded? Are we
getting the protection that has been demanded? We certainly are not under this
amended Bill.

Tht question was asked a

day or two ago whether tht notice would
be a blanket notice covering ail cressinga.

To that we got no satisfactory answer. Let
me eall attention to the reply I received
when I asked the mover of the resolution
how the grant would be appropriated:
Hon. '.%r. WILSON-Are we n ýt making provision by the appropriation of $200l,000 an-

nual to defray the cost? And the hon, gentleman says the railways are called upon. .1
contend it is the Dominion that is doing it.
Hon. Mir. BEIQUE--The contribution which
shahl be made by the parliament of Canada
itake place onlly when a, state of things
such as has been suggested will have been
provided for occurs. No iuoney will be paid
under that Bill, if it passes, uîîless and until
the Railway Board has decided and deteriinpiid in what the protection shahl cenqist,

and has apportioned the cost of the protection
between the niunicipalities, the railway cornpanies and the governrnent.

Adrnitting
t-hat this
contention
has
weiglht, is it not a strong reasen why this

Bill should not be placed on the statutebook now? WVe should wait to set what
share of this expense that is to be assumed
will be borne by tht government and what
proportion by tht municipalities. I asked
again whether tht government or tht parhiament of Canada are making provision
te pay tht cost of the proposed changes.
My hon. friend, tht deputy leader in this
House, stated that the governinent is malting provision in a Bill for a change of
policy. Tht Minister of Railways says

SENATE

they are going to bring in a Bill whierehy
they wiil insist uapon bctter protection in
the future than we have had in the past at
railvity crossings.
But in the past the
country lias heen to biame; il mnade ne
appropriation for the protection of raiiway
cressings.
The mover of the resolution
says: 'that lias lecn tUe poiicy to this day;
I understand that the governiment ýsuggest that the pelicy be departed from.'
WVhere dees tUe hion, gentleman find it is
dcparted from, with the eýxception of what
hias been stated by the Minister of Railways? Wc do îîet knom w-hetiier the suggestion made Uv tUe Minister ef Raiiways
wiil or ýwil1 îîùt Uc acco )ted Uv the House
1
of Cornmons.
li it docs pass, is that flot
a reason viîx* tlîis Bill should Uc deferred
until uc. l-n
hat th-, policy of tUe government may ho. The lioni. gentleman from
ascked %vlither this -%as or was
Gio %rr
flot a Iaktreýoiutiîn.
Supposing the
Railwav Commis.sien shoold pass a resolution, %vill j! flot have to ho applied individua]ll ' te evorv single crossing iii the country? We knowv that such w-ouid be the interpretation of the law. The original Bill
Provides tUia!
No train sUait pass over anyý iighi-ay crossing at rail level in any thickly peopled portion of any city, toiwn or village, at a greater
speed than ten miles an hour, unless such
cros-xeg i.s Proper]y protected, or uîîless sucli
crossîng is- censtructed and thercafter duly
maiutaine(l iii accordaîîec with the erders,
regulation, and directions~ of the Raiiway
Coxmiýte of the Privy Counceil and of the
board iii force withi respect thereto. The
board nîav liiîit such speed in anv. case to,
any rat,, that it deenis expedient.
*
Tha! is the Lancaster Bill as introduced
here, andl it ileets ail the requirements for
tUe protection of flie puhlie. Why net let
the Bill stand until the Railway Board
decides %vlat course they are to pursue?
No timoe need Uc Iost, hecause they are
meetinge to-day and ceuid promptly decide
any question eubmitted to them. Judging
from tUe reports suhmitted te us, I do net
thinkl there is more liaUility te accident
in thickiv settled parts of towns and villages than in rural settlements.
Frem
Windsor to Niagara Falls thiere are several
raiiways runninc througli thickiv settled
cities and towns as wel as through. rural
sections, and the reports show that more
accidents occur ini the country than in1
lon. Mfr. NVILSON.

tUe towns. That bcing se, the protection
ouglît to Uc provided at ail cressings; but
we confine ourseives, according to th'c
amcndment, te protecting only the crossing-s in cities and towns, leaving the
country' crossings entirely unprotected. At
some they have ciectrie belis, but et ton
they get eut of repair and ring for hiours.
They are not inuch. of a protection ut nny
time, Uccause the rattling of the raiiwaN
trains drowns tUe sounil.
Using electrie
Uclis and fencing the raJlways are ineffectuai to provide l)rolicr pîrotection at,
crossing-s. Give us the Lancaster Bi11 and
lot us sec that tUe la\% is eiiforeed. arîd
we shail find thieso level crossing.s botter
protected than they are a! the prescrnt tiî.
'The public de net kxîlow anv thing. about tUe
aînended Bill; thîcv iix'e liai noe op1ortunity to learn what it centains. Even in
this flouse there is a xvide divergenîce ef
opinion as te the effeet et tUe ainendmcint.
That heieg se, shouid w c net liesitate bcfore proceeding furthcr witl the BiWl
1
appeal te ftic Senate te cojîsider carefuily
whlat tiîey are doing on tiîis eccasien.
We should net Ue asked to enderse this
amended Bill, when there is such an agitation from one ed et the Domninion te
the other on the subjeet ef level cressings.
I do net know what the policy of the gevcrnment is, whether they want the level
cressings as they exist proected,
er
whether they want te do away Nwith love]
crossings alteg-ether, as in the olil country.
I shall net divide the lieuse, but! I regret
exceedingly that the hion. niemher cannot
sec hîs way te have the third rcading pos!poned. He frequently can sec his wav te
tUe postpenement et measures fremn day te
day and week te week, and 1 think hie
should iii this case consent te a pestpenement until the people are given an epportunity te decide what they desire.
TUe motion was agreed te, and the Bill
was read a third time and passed on a
division.
THE LIBRARY 0F PARLIAMENT.
REPORT

0F

JOINT COMMITTEE
ADOPT.ED.

Hon. Mr. POWER moved the adoption of
the report et the Jeint Committce et Ueth
Houses on tUe Library of Parliament. Hie

APRIL 6, 1909
said: there is nothing iii this report which
cR]ls for action on the part of the House.
it simply states certain facts. The committee met for the first time on the 19th of
March, and the report o! the librarians was
reail and .adopted. A petition from Mr.
Todd, asking that he be made deputy libr.:rian, -%vas ordered to be sent to the government for its favourable consideration;1
aiid tbe Speakers of the Senate and the
H-ouse of Commions were appointed a committee te consult with the Miinister of Public Workîs iii regard t 0 the enlargement of
of
the Librar *% Parliarnent I hope that the
lest reconinendation may have sonie effeet,
becaiise the,- library bias now reached such
a condition of congestion that it is highly
discreditable to the Dominion. I trust that
a sn'n will bo plaeed iii the estimates, if it
already placed there, to prol'as utl,eit
vide fur tbe onlargemient of the capacity of
tho lilrary.
Speakin.:. for mysoîf, I do not think thiere
cessit 'vfor a deputy librafian.
is an
There aru iiow two joint librarians, witli
salariezs of $5,OO0 each, and under those
librarianS there is a staff altog-ether of ten
cherks. I see no necessity for a deputy
librarian te carry on the work.

consider that it would not involve necessarily an increase of salary, or muchi at ail
events-I arn sure it should nok-but it
would put some of the officiais in a position of responsibîlity in the absence of the
librarian.
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I really cannot understand howv the efficiency or the powers of
Mr. Todd or Mr. Sylvain would be iiicreased by a change of name from chief
c]erk to deputy ]ibrarian, as the senior
chief clerk has chaý,rge in the absence of
the librarian, and just as rnueb charge as
if he were called deputy librLr;an.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE I3OWELL-I
fancy the objeet would be more to gZet a
hi2her salary than any,,tiing else.
Hon. MNr. POWER-Eitber iliat. or te give
the holder of tho, titi0 zii~ï~ position in
tho table of precedence.
Hon. AIr. FERCl1JSO-X I canniiot see how
the House can becoie crthusiastie over the
report, since it is oppose(l bv the hon.
g«entleman whio is introducing it.
Hon. Mr. POWEIZ

I arn net oppesing it

The motion w.as aLreed to.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE

BOWVELL-Are
the.v ail permanent clerks, or are some of
themn sessional?

SECOND READINOS.

Bill (No. 94) An Act respecting the Cedar
Rlapids 'Manufacturing ani Pom-er Company.
Hon. Mr. POWER-They are ahl permanent. It seems to me that there is no neces- -(Hon. Mr. Belcourt).
Bill (GG) An Act for the relief of Hannah
sity for more -enerals or colonels to officer
Ella Tomkins.-(Hýon. Mr. 'Mitchell).
so small an army.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I presumne what
ie, ne.ant by recornmending Mr. Todd's request for favourable consideration of the
government is that in the absence of Mr.
Griffin, the librarian, there should be some
person -who would be authorized and responsible for the business of the dibrary specially during the session of parliament. Mr.
Griffin must take vacations, and even when
he does not he cannot be always in the
library, particularly Nvhen. parliainent is
sitting, there are matters coming- before the
library staff upon which somebody 'would
require te act with authority. I know Mr.
Todd very well, and also other gentlemen
who are in the library, ahl of whom are
very capable. I presume the committee

The Senate. adeurned until three o'clock
on Tuesday next

THE SENÂTE.
OTTAwA, Tuesday, April, 6, 1909.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Threp?
.'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

MORNING SITTING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
may say to rny hon. friends opposite that,

if they do not object, I will move to sus-

SENATE
î

pend rule 24 (a), and aiso, for precaution's
sake, that we have two sittings to-rnorrow,
cue at twelve and one at three.
The motion was agreed to.
BILLS INTRODUCED.

FRENCH

COPY 0F EXPERIMENTAL
FARM REPORT.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
have the pleasure o! laying on the table
the report of the Minister of Agriculture on
Experimental Farms, printed in French,
being, I thiuk, the first instance in which
a French copy o! this document lias ever
been laid on the table withiu four days of
its publication in English, and I deeply
regret te observe that my hon. frieud from
Stadacona is flot present to take notice. T
hope the fact wiil be brought to bis attention.

Bill (KK> An Act for the relief of Mi1dred
Gwendolyn Platt Patterson.-(Hon. Mr.
Jones).
Bill (LL) An Act for the relief of Charles
Bowerbank Lowndes.-(Hon. Mr. Young).
Bill (MM) An Act for the relief of Isaac
Moore.-(Hon. Mr. Camnpbell).
Biil (NN) An Act to confer on the ComHon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-I shaîl take
missioner of Patents certain powers for the
relief of Washington R. McCioy.-(Hon. care that the hon. gentleman is informed
of it.
Mr. McHugh).
CANADIAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION
BILL.
THILID READING.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN rnoved the thirdl
reading of Bill (CC) An Act to incorporate
the Canadian Medical Association.
He
said: I understand that objection has been
taken to this Bill because it is supposed te
interfere with ruedical Acts in existence in
the aeveral provinces. I may say that it
does not at ail interfere with those Acts.
The motion was agrced to, andl the Bill
was read the third Urne and passed.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There bas beeti
certainly a cousiderable amount of aiacrity
in presenting this French copy to the House
four days after it was printed in English;
but it is brought do-%n late in the session,
and somebody must have been tardy.

THIRD READINGS.

The Senate adjourned tilI tw'elve o'clock
to-mrerew.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
think it only goes to the Ist of Januarynot te the ordinary period. However, my
hion. friends cannot complain that the
French edition is not down as quiclcly,
nearly-, as the Englishi editien on this occasion.

Bill (GG) An Act for the relief of Hannah
Ella Tomkins.-(Hon. Mr. Mitchell).
Bill (No. 71) An Act respecting a patent
of Thomas L. Smîth.-(Hon. Mr. Watson).
THE SENATE.
Bill (No. 27) An Act to incorporate the
London and Lancashire Plate Glass and InOTTAWA, Wedn-esday, April 7, 1909.
demnity Company of Canada.-(Hon. Mr.
The SPEAKER took, the Chair at Twelve
Kirchhoffer).
Biii (L) An Act respecting certain letters o'dock.
patent of Franklin Montgomery Gray.Prayers and routine proceedings.
(Hon. Mr. Talbot).
Bill. (F) An Act to incorporate tihe GovBILLS INTRODUCED.
erniug Council o! the Salvation Army in
Bill (No. 75) An Act respecting the CanaCanada.-(Hon. Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
dian Northern Ontario Raiiway Comnpany.
SECOND READING.
-(Hon. Mr. Jones).
Bill (No. 80) An Act respecting the KooteBill (No. 78) An Act to incorporate the
nay and Arrowhead Raiiway Company.- Superior, Western Ontario Railway Comn(Hou. Mr. Bostock).
pany.-(Hon. Mr. Young).
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIIGHT.

APRIL 7, 1909
Bill (No. 81) An Act respecting the Manitoba and Northwestern Railway Company.
-(Hon. Mr. Watson).
Bill (No. 84) An Act respecting the Athabaska Northern Railway Company.
Bill (No. 85) An Act respecting the British
Columbia Southern Railway Conmpany,(Hon. Mr. Bostock).
Bill <No. 86) An Act respecting the Cobalt
Range Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Belcourt).
Bill (No. 96) An Act respecting the Kettlc
River Valley Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Ross, Middlesex).
Bill (No. 102) An Act to incorporate the
London and Northwestern Railway Company.-<Hon. Mr. McMullen).

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
xnoved the second reading of the Bill.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read a second time.
Hon. -Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved the third reading of the Bill.
He
said: A certain portion of this measure
only grants supplies for three months, so
that we shahl have ample opportunîty for
discussing- all the items if any of themn appear specially to require discussion at our
hands.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-What is the total
amount we are voting?

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTWe are voting $3,371,935 toward deiraying
charges and expenses of the p)ublic service
SUPPLY BILL.
from the lst of April, 1908 to 3lst of March
FJRST, SECOND AND THIIRD IIEADINGS. of this year. They are supplementary estiA message -%vas received irom the House mates for the year just passed, and a sum
of$45,772,253 for the service from the ]st
of Commons with Bill (No. 117) An Act for
granting to His Majesty certain sums of of April in the present vear te the 3lst of
money for the public service of the financial March, 1910.
years. ending respectively the 3lst March,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The whole Bill
]909, and the 3lst March, 1910.
only amounts to the paltry sum of fifty
million dollars.
The Bill was read a first time.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWVRIGHT-I
move that rules 24 (f) and 24 (b) and 63 I think a little less, but this growing counbe suspended in s0 far as thiey effeot this try is becoming--I am not sure it is a matter te be congratulated on-so indifferent
Bill.
te a quarter of a million, thiat miy hon.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is it proposed to friend's statement, I am afraid, will have
take ail the three readings at this sitting? to be taken as fifty million dollars.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I wss
resd the third time and passed.
think we might as well under the circurnstances, but that is as my hon. friend
EASTER ADJOURNMENT.
pleases. If he has no objection we shall
MOTION.
do that.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. bir. FERGUSON--Could we not I beg te inove in pursuance of the notice
take the second and third readings at the given, that when the Senate adjourns at its
next sitting of the House? However, I second sitting this afternoon, it stands adhave no objection, but I would like to look journed till the 2lst of April at three o'clock
over the Bill for two or three minutes.
in the afternoon.
The motion was agreed te.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
will have great pleasure in handing it to
THIRD READINGS.
my hon. friend.
Bill (No. 79) An Act respecting the
The motion for suspending the rules was Canadian Pacifie Railway Company.-(Hon.
sgreed to.
Mr. Watsoni).

SENATE
Bill (S) An Act respeeting- the Grand
Trunk Pacifie Brancli Linies.-(Hoii. Mr.
Watson).
Bill (No. 69) An Act to ineorporate the
Fort Erie and Buffalo Bridge Company.<Hon. Mr. Domville>.
Bill (No. 33) An Act respecting the Niagara-We]land Pomrer Company.-(Hon. Mr.
McM-\ullen).
Bill (No. 41) An Act respecting the Tiisonburg, Lake Erie and Pacifie Rai]wa.y.
Compaîîy.-(Hon. Mr. Wilsoni).
Bill (DD) An Act respeeting the Manitoba Radial Railway Compaýiiny..(Hon. Mr.
Wa~tson).
Bill (No. 30) An Aet respeeting, the subsidy from the Ontario Goveruiment to the
Lake Superior Brandi of the Grand Trunk
Pacifie Railway, as amended.-Hon. 'Mr.
Watsoni).
Bill (I) An Act respecting-- the Quebc
Oriental Railwav Company. (Hon. Mr. Tessier).
Bill (R) An Aet respccting, the Ottawa
Fire Insurance Company, and to change
its naine to Ottawa Assurance Company.
(Hon. MNr. Belcourt).

friend tic leader of the House w iii reinember tiat we had a good dca] of discussion
on this matter at an early day ini the sessien, and that finally a typcwritten report
was laid on the table, whîch we kno\w, does
not go into gencral circulation and is iîot
wvhat is necessary for such an important
report as this. I have net hea-rd of that
report being- aistributed among the ncmnbers in printcd form, and it woull se(em
as if it liad net beeiî ref<*rred to the Printling- Committec arnd that ne order bas been
made ivith regard to it.
The SPEAKER Tîis report
standing for some tinie.

lias

icen

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It w~as snbmitted
to the House on thc 3rd April. That wam
a ver - fewv davs ago, and apart frein this
report I was going te maX-e an inquirv az
te whetier wc would have the report of thiRailway Commission in a printed forrn?
Hon. Mr. POWER-MNy impression is
that the statute under whjch the commission is constituted provides for the publication of their report, and it would not,
therefore, need any recommendation from
the committee.

PRINTING 0F PARLIAMENT.
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE ADOPTED.
Hon. Mr. POWER (in the absence A'
Hon. Mr. Ellis) moved the adoption of the
second report of tie Joint Committee on,
the Printing of Parliarnent. He said: There
is no reason for postponing concurrence.
because the report does flot contemplate tic
printing of anything, so that there is no
expense involved.
Hon. Mi. FERGUSON-I wish the hon.
cliairman, or some other member of the
committee, were in bis place to give an)
explanation. It is stated that the'report
does flot authorize the printing of any
document. I therefore conclude that there
is no aider yet miade by the committ-ee
for the printing of the Railway Commissioncrs' report. I had not time te go over this
report in detail, -but as the gencral
explanation is made, that there is no order
for printing anything, therefore there could
be no aider for pîinting the report cf the
Rai]way Commissioners.
My rigýht hon.
non. Rir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That wvas my vicw
whcn it was up in the bouse before. There
is, as a matter cf fact, what is called a blan-

ket eider that would cover ahi suci reports
as that, and the Printing- Bureau would be
authorizcd to proceed at once with the printing- whenevei they are furnished with the
manuscript. When on the Printing- Comnmittee, I was aware o! the existence of that
order, and on one occasion quite a discussion teok place on thc floor cf this bouse
wvith regard te what we thought was an unauthorized publication by the then Minister
cf Justice; but it was explained that there
was what was calhed a blanket order which
covcred aIl this.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Therc is one item in
whieh my hion. fricnd takes a vcry deep
interest not te be printed, that is the return te the House on thc lOth
Februarv,'
1909, showing since the constitution cf the
IRaihway Board in how many cases they
have ordercd protection cf highway crossing-s by' gates, &c., and otier details.

.XPRIL 7, 1509
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I saw that notice. that has lapsed. It has
only Iapsed for a
That is only a mere matter of detai]. What
e.-short tine. It is flot n contentious
wve want is the whole report of the com- Bill.
missioners in printed iorm.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The position
Hon. Mr. ROSS-I was going to ask in seenis to be that any qne who petitions this
regard to .itemn 104 (a)i.
The committee, House for the revival of a lapsed patent
has mnade a rccommcndatjoii with regard will .&et it as a matter of course.
to the report of the International WaterHon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-Is it in the
ways Commission, but the rider attached
says it is flot to be printed. That is a very interests of the people that these requests
important document. I have not seen a be flot complied withP
copy of it. I was in hopes it would find
The motion was a-reed to, and the BiIll
fis wav int.o print in some manner.
%vaS read the second time.
Hon. 'Mr. DANDURAND-It must be
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock.
printed, because it cornes here for sanction.
SECOND SITTING.
The motion wvas azrecd to.
SECON_1D READINGS.
Bill (HHI) An Act xesp)ecting- the Canadian Rled Cro-ýs ScietN..- (Hon. «Mr. Ross,
Middlesex).
Bill (II) An Act to iincorporate the Equity
Fire Insurance Company of Caniadat.-(Hon.
Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
Bill (JJ) An Act respecting. the Mexican
Transportation Company, Limited, and to
change its name to Mexican Northwestern
Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Ri]ey).
Bill (KK) An Act for the relief of Mildred
Gwendolyn Platt Patterson.-(Hon. Mr.
Jones).
Bill (LL) An Act for the relief of Charles
Bowerbank Lowndes.-(Hon. 'Mr. Campbell).
Bill (MMNl) Act for the relief of Isaac
An
Moore.-(Hon. Mr. Campbell).
WASHINGTON R. MeÇLOY PATENT
BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. M-%cHUGH moved the second
reading of Bill (NN) An Act to confer on
the Commissioner of Patents certain powers
for the relief of Washingaton R. McC]oy.(Hon. _Mr. McHugh).

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Routine proceedings.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (KK) An Act for the relief of M.Nildred
Gwendolyn Platt Patterson.-(Hon. Mr.
Jones).
Blill (LL) An Act for the relief of Charles
Bowerbank Lowndes.-(Hon. Mr. Campbell).
Bill (MM) An Act for the relief of Isaac
Moore.-<Hon. Mr. Campbell).
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (00)> An Act for the relief of John
Dennison Smith.-(Hon. Mr. Mitchell).
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.
BILLS ASSENTED TO
The Ho-nourable Sir Charlesl Fitzpatrick.
K.C.M.G., Chief Justice of Canada, acting
Deputy of His Excellency the Gouvernor
General, being seated at the foot of the
Throne.

The Honourable the Speaker commanded
the Gentleman Usher -of the Black Rod to
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is there any con- proceed to the House of Gommons and actentions feature about this Bill?
quaint that House: "It is His Honour's
the Deputy of Hia Excellency the Governor
Hon. Mr. M-NcHUGH-No, there is no con- General's desire that they attend
him imtentious feature. It is reviving a patent mediately in this House."

SENATE

Who being come with their Speaker,
The Clerk of the Crown in Chanccry read
the Tities of the Bis to be passed, as follows:
An Act. respectîng the Kootenay Central
Railway Company.
Au Act respecting the Grand Trunk Railway Company of Canada.
Aýn Act respecting the Collingwood Southern
Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Brandon Transfer
Railway Company.
An Act to amend the Animal Contagions
Diseases Act.
An Act to amend the Post Office Act.
An Act respecting the Union Station and
other joint facilitiee of the Grand Truxik
Pacifie Railway Company and the Midlaiid
lailwav of -Manitoba, at llort;ige lit 11riiw.
An Act to incorporate the Salisbury axid
Albert Railway Company
An Act respecting the Iiuron and Onit.qrio
]',ail%%av- Company.
An Act respecting the Alberta Central Railway Company.
An Act respecting the 'Southern Centrîil
Pacifie Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Toronto, Niagara anid
Western Railway Company.
An Act respecting the lludson's Ba andl
Pacifie Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Gxuelphl and Goderich
Railway Comnpany.
An Act re6pecting the Walkerton and Lucknow Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Vancouver, Westmins:-r and Yukon Railway Company.
An Act respecting the joint section of the
Canadian Pacifie Railway Company and the
Grand Trunk Pacifie Railway Company at
Fort William, Ontario.
An Act to incorporate the Canadian Western Riailwvay Comnpany.
An Act to amend the Government Railway
Act.
An Act respecting the Edmonton and Slave
Lake Railway Company.
An Act to àniend the Railway Act.
An Act respecting the Bank of Vancouver.
An Act respecting the Crawford Bay and
St. Marv's Railway Company and te change
its narne to 'The British Columbia and Manitoba Railway Company.'
An Act to amend the Dominion Lands Act.
An Act respecting the Winnipeg and Northwestern Railway Company.
An Act re6peeting the Burrard Westminster
Boundary Railway and Naçigation Comilnv.
An Act to incorporate the Western Canadian Lîfe Assurance Company.
An Act te ineorporate the British Columbia
Life Assurance Comnpany.
An Act to incorporate the Canada National
Fire Insurance Company.
An Act respecting the St. Mary's and We6t.
ern Ontario Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Athabasca Railway
Company.
An Act respeeting the Alsek and Yukon
Railway Company.
An Act respectîng the Abitibi and Hpudson
Bay Railway Company.
The SPEAKER.

An Act respecting the Montreal Terminal
Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Vancouver Fraser
Valley and Southern Railway Company.
An Act respecting Mexican and Irrigation
Comnpany, Lirnited.
An Act respecting Brazilian Electro Steel
and SMelting Company, Limited.
An Act respecting the Canadian Pacifie
Railway Company.
These bis having received the Royal
Assent, The Senate was adjourned until
Wednesdav the 2lst instant at S p.m.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA, Wednesday, April 21, 1909.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tliree
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
SUSPENSION 0F RULES.
Hon. MIr. BEIQUE-On behaif of the hon.
gentleman from Ottawa, I beg to, present
a petition in connection with the incorporation of the Commerce Insurance Company,
and therefore ask, the time for presenting

petitions having expired, that the rules be
suspended in so far as they relate -to this
petition.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I desire to know whv
this suspension is asked?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Because the time for
the presenting of petitions bas expired.
Bis may be presented until the end of
the -session, but as regards the presentation
of petitions the time bas flot been extended,
and, therefore, the petition caniiot be pre-

sented without permission of the House.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think there is
another way to obtain what the hon, gentleman is asking for. That is, by a petition
asking leave to present a petîtion.
That
is the corre~ct way.
The SPEAKER-There is no doubt the
proceduxe which the hon, gentleman fromn
Stadacona mentions is the correct practice.
but as we are at an advanced stage of the
session, the question is whether the motion
to suspend the miles would be permitted
to go. If the other course were adopted.

APRIL 21, 1909
and a petition were prescnted asking leave Canada, with power to employ a shorthand
reporter.
to present a petition. it would inean delay.
Hon. Mr. DOàMVILLE-When I gave
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Another rule is that
notice of thits motion there was no commitany suspension of the ruies, in case of a
private Bill, should be recommended by tee to which I couid refer this subject, a
very int «eresting subject to a good many.
the committee ieseif.
as it covers the very large oul shale fields
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I amn asking to sus- of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia; but
pend the rule. I amn acting on behaif of if the House wili consent, instead of moving
the hon, gentleman from Ottawa in this thir. motion now in its present shape, I
matter. I ar n ot concerned at all with the would move that it be sent to the Select
Bill, and as the lion, gentleman lias been Committee on Mining Industries.
ill for two or three weeks it rnay account for
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-How docs the hion.
the necessity of asking the flouse to b.' gentleman's
motion read?
lenient in regard to this matter.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I suppose the betHon. Mr. LANDRY-I shouid flot like tu
ter wvay is to ask that the order be disraise an objection to the procedure in this
charged.
House, but I tliink we are setting our ruies
The motion was witlidrawn.
aside every day. We do not require any
ru1es now.
THE DAM ON THE SCUGOG AT
Hon. '.%r. BEIQUE-The hion, g-entleman
LINDSAY.
has the riglit to object.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I quite concur with
Hon. '.%r. McHUGH inquired of the govthe hon. gentleman. I think we had better ernment:
let the raie be suspended; but the almost
1. la there in the Departnjent of Public
uniform practice up te last session was that Works a plan, survey, or tracing, made by
a party -who had failed Vo present a peti- John Ryan, P.L.S., of the dam on the River
Scugog at LindsayP
tion in time, presented a petition asking
2. Does Mr. Ryan's plan, survey or tracing,
for leave to present a petition, and setting both show and state the dam at Lindsay, as
erected by the Board of Works of Canada, in
forth the reasons why the petition had not the year 1843, to be a dam 246 feet in length
been presented in due time. I think that and 7 feet in height?
3. Is the government aware tliat, for damis the preferable practice.
ages caused by flooding from a dam of the
aboya dimensions, compensation waB by ordet
The motion was agreed to.
in council, dated the 2nd day of

December,
1858, granted as follows, viz.:
John Pyne. lot 12 in 4th con., tp. Ops.. $400
P. Hanavan,
Bill (PP) An Act respecting the Royal M. Lenihan, slot 10 in 4th con., tp. Opa. 20LI
J 7 in 4th con., tp.
Victoria Life Insurance Company.-<H4on. Oliver Bourke, a j 7 in 4th co.,. tp.Opa.. 200
Opa. '00
And that to be paid in other lanTs.
Mr. David).
On the Sth April, 1860, by order in council
Bill (QQ) An Act Vo provide for the in- compensation was given to John Hogan, Patk.
Itoey, Bryan Hoey, Thos. Pyne, M. O'Brien
corporation of Railway Companies.-(Hon. and Widow
Miller-making ten persons that
Mr. Davis).
received compensation for damages to their
caused
Bill (No. 90) An Adt to oreate a Depart- land Did the by this damPof Public
4.
Departient
Works, by
ment of External Aff airs.-(Hon.
Sir letter of the 5th June, 1847, permit the miii
owners at Lindsay to raise the water one foot
Richard Cartwright).
by use of a fiashboard on top of the damstipulating in said letter that 'the departTHE SHALE FIELDS 0F CANADA.
ment would not be responsible for damages
caused te individuels owning property in the
vîcinity of the lake' P
MOTION WITHDRAWN.
5. Dîd Mr. Page, government engineer, investigate the compiaints made to t he departThe notice of motion being called:
ment by the land owners as to the injury
done te their lands by this additional penBy the Hon. Mr. Domrviile:
ning back of the watersP
That hie will move for a Select Committee
6. Is thia engineer's report on file in the
of five, to inquire iute the ol &hiale filds of Department of Public Works? Whist are ite

BILLS INTRODUCED.

22
RxVIBED EDITION

~3S

SENATE

contents? Was it acted upoir? If se, wirat
action was taken? And if flot arrted upon,
why not?
7. Is the government aware that in the year
1881 the Ontario goverrnment, who then had
charge of these waters, removed this extra
foot of pianking from the top of the dam?
8. On the passing of the control of these
waters back to the Dominion, did the Public
Works Department, by leter dated 9th May,
1885, renew the permission to Sadier. Dundas
& Co., to again replace the pianking on top of
the darn-suhject to the conditions contained
in the letter of 5th June, 1847?
9. Wiii the governinent give tire nanres of
the persons te whon compensationr for tiji
increased servitude hy the additioiial pennuiýg
back of the waters was paid aF ,stated ini tire
affirmative given to question 'No. 14 of My
inquiry of tire Slre. liarei. snch qire..tioni nd
answer wý'lere as foilows: Was arit - compensation ever pnid anyv of thesc' riîiarian land
owners on account of damnages te, tireir ]anids
by the shortenting and raising cf tliis dam?
Answer-Yes ; the lots oit rvhch it rsas p)51(
and( the ameunt so paid.
10. Will the governinent give the iiaines of
ail personr ether thani Ili toný nanimd in qîuestion '\o. 3 te whoi comipensationî iva. iai(i
for damages causcd by the ccn-trrrctioni of the
daini proper?
il. Wnhat wiii ho tire heigit cf ti u
ne
turai work frein the bed of the rivr r
tl
creit cf tlie iîreîreed non- dam ?
1-. WVili ti- at aiîY point bý ait iliwrens
oer tire creat of Ille cli damn in its present
formi
13. What wiii be the inicroase in hoight <if
any) from tire prescrit iowe'.t point cf the oid
dam te the crest of tire new dam-and for
irow many feet aling tire presvont existieg
crest of the oid damn wiii the h'ýigit be in-.
creased?

14. Wiil tire goverrrnrent carefuuir- take imb
tiroir consideratici tire atims, cf tiie rîparian
land ow'ners, nranr- cf w'iroin pniiaiqd( and
paid for their land prier te tire buildirng of a
dam on this river, withir
view te adjrrsting
clainrs where it is foirrîd serinu, in-hury has
heen donc fer wiih coînîsatrot liras niot
hieretofore beei mrade?
Hon. Sic RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The
replies te tire lion. gentlenran's questions are
as foflcws:
i. Yes, in the Departmcent of Public
M'orks.
2. Yes.
3. Orders in council, 3rd Mav, 1854; Novemnber 29, 1858; December 2, 1858; April 5,
1860.
4. Yes.
'.%r. Paqge, on a report fremn J. W.
Rainey, then superintendent cf Vhe Trent
canal works, considered 1V distinctly chjectionabie that the miii owners should be
aiiowed to keep the water so hi.-h as te
darnage persons and property on the shores
cf Lake and River Scugog, and recomnivnded that the miii owners be informed
Hon. Mr. McHUGH

tirat tire departrient object Vo tiroir havigslashbcards on the top cf the dam or
doing arrytliing iîr any way whatever that
wnuid have a tendency Vo raise the water
aboya the level originaiiy intended.'
The
superintendent of the canal was notifled
by the Department of Railways and Canais
in accordance with Mr. Page's report.
6.« The eng-ineer's report is on file in the
Dcpartment of Railways and ýCanais. See
No. 5 for balance cf answer.
7The departnrent has iru irrforrn;rtion.
c. Yea.
9 anil 10. See erders iii couiicil a-sabove.
1l. It is net rracticallo lu a nsxvcr tire
quitestion as framri, orvin-. te the, irreguiur
lretforn. The elevation cf the crest is, to be
46r 6 over datum.
12. Yes ; the oid dr m i;i its nruesont feri
ha:s scttied te a re:iter or les
. ini
krue an irrc"-uiarcrn.
1.3. 11u, elevrti 3 ' (if 111(, (r--"t of 11w î opoused dami
i-1,
e.llout sev-i niel c..a
the lovr-est peint in thre existirîe crùýt. Tire
preposoîl crest level wiiii he hir2lîor tiran tihe
prpsent uneven cire for a distance cf i31) feet.
14. Thie intention is te se rerrulate the
flo\v ag te L-ive ne cause fer an'. dlaimis
arising, and te tiis cid. arr inqrrirv is
Linder wav te deterîn-ine heYoird doubt the
Sxrrct elevation the darr is entitiedc te be
fixed ait.
FRENCH TR-XNSLTATION
MA NU A L

()F SLNE
,ýTE

Heon. M-r. LA\NDRY-Befîrre tire orders cf
the day are cailed, I slrould like te inquire
flem the proper autheritv if tire translation
iîr French cf car M\anruail has been cornîrleted. The hon, leader of tis
House the
other day cailed attention to tire fact that
ho had presented tire French translation
cf the report cf the Department of Agriculture, and I think the lion. inember from
Brockviile said lie rvcuid bring- that fact
te my notice, but lie hias net yet donte se.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-I -\vas waitiurg
tli tihe orders oif tire dav were caiied.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tirat reas a report
printed this yer I hope tirat the M\anuai,
whici wvas printed ir Eng-lisi two years
sec, wiil soon appear in Frenci, se that
tire Frenei senaters w iii have an oppor-

APRIL 21, 190933
tunity of reading the rules and complying
with them. I hope it will be given to us
this session, and that proper orders will
be issued to the officers to have it Tushed
through. We have waitecd two years for
it, and I think it is flot too harsh on my
part to in4juire if we shall soon be furnished with that document.

planations, and will see that we are placed
in possession of that document before the
end of the session.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI will endeavour ta have it donc.
RECIPROCAL TRADE RELATIONS WITH
GERMANY.

Hon. Sir, RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-As
I understand, the translation is coxnple-ted,
but there is some considerable difficulty,
owing ta the, transiator having altered the
verbiage or the formi of the words that
were adopted ini thc statute.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Would the hion.
leader of the House be good enough to say
îvhether there is any truthl in the reports
which have beeîî publishied irom time t>
time as to the government having entered
into negotiations looking ta reciprocal trad'p
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-I do ilot quite uncler- relations with Germanv? Sa aften have
stand wvhat the lion, gentleman uilderstanids thiese reports apjieared in the press, apor whiat hie does not undcrstand.
parentx- as corning fromi inspired sources,
tUle impression is that thiere is cansiderable
Hon. Sir RICHARD CAPT\\rIG HT-I
truth i the rumour that the gavernment
think the transiators have takeii it upon
themnselves to alter the languae of the con- has entered into those negotiations. If so,
it is certainlv very desirable thiat parliastitutional Act.
ment should be placed in possession of the
Hon. Mi. LANDRY-WVe miglit replace facts before the information is given ta the
press.
the translators.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI mai- say ta my hion. friend-and I think
I mentianed it ta him befare-that there
have been no farmal negcotiations between
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I was just en- Canada
and Germany. Any communicadeavouring to find out who the transiattors tions
w-hich have been had at ahl have
were, and I have ascertained that it 'was been of a strietly
informa] and pour parthe hion. g-entlem,,tn froin Stadlacona andi lers
character. Thiere has been fia negatiamyseif.
tion in the proper sense of the terni.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think the hion.
Hon. -Mr. LOUGHEED-Would my lion.
leader of this House and his lieutenant
friend be at liberty ta say ta what extent
are flot up ta date in the information they
are giving us. We neyer translated the Con- those informaI negotiatians may lead ta a
etitutional Act. \Ve translated the rules of treatv- being negatiated between the two
this House, and they were printed in cauntnies?
French, and we have that part; but, as I
Hon. Sir RILHARD CARTWRIGHThave already said, the Manual comprises My lian.
friend knows it has neyer been
three parts. It comprises the rules adopted by the custom, fiai is it in ahl
probability exthis House, of which we have a translation, pedient or possible, ta discuss
conversait comprises, secondly, the manual of pro- tions of an infarmal character.
They bind
cedure, which is prepared by one of the nobady, and it would prevent any soit of
officers of this House, which is not yet approach being made if they were repeated
translated, and it comprises, thirdly, the publicly. I amn sorry ta say that I arn
not
Constitutional Act. But the Constitiitional in a position ta give any further
informaAct has already been translated. We have tion ta t.he lion. gentleman.
the revised statutes and there is no good
rea.son given ta explain the delay in furnHon. Sur MACKENZIE BOWELL- It
ishing us with that document. I suppose strikes me that the answer given by the
the hion, gentleman understands these ex. haon, gentleman is the correct one under
221
Hon. Sir RICHARD
think it is in the por
correct it.

CARTNVRIGHT-I
of the House to

SENATE
ordinary circumstances. Could lie inform
the House whettner these informai negotiations or conversations wvere with German
state officiais, or were they with some of
the consuls or consuls-generai? Because the
answer to that question iniglit be of great
importance. If these iniformai communications had been between the members of
this. government and the government of
Germany, there would be much more iiiiportance attaching to themn than if they
were with representatives of Germany who
may be in this country or elsewhiere.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThey have mot been with any authorized
representative of the Gernian office.
THE WATERWAYS TREATY.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the orders of the day are procccded wit.h, I nîight
ask My righit hion. friend if the goveruiment has arrived at any determination as
to the rider which lias been attached by
the United States Senate to the Waterways Treaty?
Considerable discussion
has taken place in the press on the
subject, and it is very desirabie that
parliament shouid be in possession of any
determination at which the government bas
arrived.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI will be happy to state the determination
of the government as soon as possible; but
I arn not in a position to speak, on that
subject just yet.
EVILS 0F DIVORCE RESTRICTION
BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN moved the second
reading of Bill (T) An Act to restrict the
Evils of Divorce. He said: This Bill, to
my mind, and to the minds of many here
and eisewhere, is one which involves a
problem of the gravest nature that can
affect human or Christian conditions in
civiiized life. It reads as foilows:
Whereas it is in the interest of society that
tht evils of divorce lie restrained: Therefore
lis Majesty by and with the advice and consent of the Senate end Hbuse of Commons of
Canada, enacts as foiiows1. The offending and guilty party to a marriage contract shalI have no riglit to remarry
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELT.

iii the Dominion of Canada after the obtention of a Bill of divorce through the parlismient of Canada, and if such party iemarry
lie or she shahl corne under the provisions of
the Criminal Code relating to bigamiy; and
further if such party remarry outside the
jurisdiction of the parlianient of Canada

sucli rernarriage shah

bho consiered,

for ail

purposes, invaiid and ille-gai; and sucli vart-v
rqonarried shallho
beonsidered
,itliin the territory of Canada.

a

bigarnist

I ishould like this House to approach
the question flot from any party point of
view-that is too small-or froin any religiius point of vi'ew-that is larger. I shouid
iike l)arliament to approach this question
n omi a point of view thiat invoives the wel-

iare of the nation-froin a national point of
view, and that is about the larg-est standpoint we can get at.
The Bill invulves a question thiat attracts and lias at1rarcted the attention of the bea,.t inindand inost deservingý and conscientious men
in ail counitries. However, the Bill doe3
flot propose to deal with the question of
divorce in its entirety. If that were the
case, from the religious point of view
whicli I hoid I siîould be uîiable to discuss
it. The lion. senator fromn Montarville
(Hon. Mr. DeBouchervilie) the othier day
made the remark that the adoption of this
Bill involved the sanction of divorce. If
it did so, I, as a member -of the Cathiolie
Church, would not be able to discuss it;
but 1 ho]d that the Bihl does flot invoive
the sanction of divorce, as my lion. friend
will see if he studies the question. The
Act is dlear in its titie and phraseologv.
Ht is simrply to restrict divorce and not to
sanction it. I know (romn personai observati-on, and by remarks passed by members
of thiis body outside of the Chamber, that
public opinion is in favour of the principie
laid down in this Bill. Aithougli many of
themi are not in favour of divorce, they believe in preventing the guilty party froni
propagating bis evil methods of life elsewhere. We take every precaution to guard
the honesty of commercial hife, and if the
member of any firm is guiity of crime in
ans- shape or form the iaw punishes him.
removes him from society and keeps him in
the penitentiary for a terni of years,separat.
in.- him from bis wife and f amiiy. That
is the punishment for stealing a few paitry
dollars; but our laws and the laws of nearly
everY nation reward thc guilty -party in a

.APRIL 21, 1909
divorce case by granting him anew the
privileges which shou]d belong alone to
those who are virtuour. and conscientious
in discharging the duties 'of family life.
That is a state of thing-s against which
the best minds and the most honest, con6cientious Christians protest. Now, why
should we be more lenient to the mnan who
robs a woman of her honour and destroys
the prospects of his faniily than to the man
who simplv steals a five or a ten-dollar bill
or a loaf of bread? That is one of the arg-uments which appeal to the common serise
and consciences of the people of this country. I have flot met any one yet who lias
said that I arn not right, even arnong- those
who lead fast lives. They (admit that I
arn right, and that guilty divorcees should
not have the privilege of breaking up
farnilies, especially by Act of parliament.
1 -%as toldl the other dav by the hon. member from Brandon: ' If v'ou do flot accord
to these divorced people the right to rernarry, thev will commit crime.' I wilI
ato hmr let themn commit their crimes,
but not witli the sanction of the Iaw. And
why cliould there be sympathy for the
guilty party, whether male or female? We
have no sympatliy for the thief, for the
murderer, or those wlio violate the commandments of the decalogue.

life, and1 we would. not admit themn into
our families. But, by our votes, we cast
'hemn on the surface of social life where
tliey cari grasp at innocent creatures who
know nothing of their past, who know
nothing of their immoral career and their
brutality. We would not allow one of
themn to take the land of one of our
daugliters or the lieart of one of our sons,
but by our vote we rehabilitate thern in
society, and it is the innocent wvho are
liable to suffer. That is a condition of
things to which we should put an end.
Parliamnent takes great care to safeguard
the health and lîves of animais, but when
it cornes to luman dornestie life we lift
the barriers and let irnroralitv flow broadcast throughout the ]and. I arn not alone
in expressing these views. I hold here a
number of documents; I will quote one or
two of tliern to show that I arn justified in
the course I have taken xitl respect to
this subjeet. I hold here the opinions expressed by nearly
ail the Protestant
dhurcies of the province of Quebec, a resolution adopted at a meeting of the Sherbrooke Ministerial Alliance held hast
month. The letter le addressed to the
mem.ber for Sherbrooke. The resolution is
as folhows:-

Whereas the Hon. Senator
inHon. Mr. POIRIER-Is the hon, gentle- troduced into the Senate of Cloran las Bill
Canada a
man in favour of the party who is flot to restrict the evils of divorce by providîng
tiîat the guilty one of a divorced couple shal
guilty marrying again?
not rernarry, therefore be it resolved that
tI.is association, representative largely of the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I cannot diseuse PI otestant churches of the counties of Sherthat. I ar n ot placing before parliament .biooke, Stanstead, and Compton, do express
Pur approval of
trust
a proposition that the innocent party lias tbie parliament ofsaid principle andenact. that
Canada may c
the riglit to remnarry, because I must keep
G. BLERY REÂD, president.
myself within the bounde of the Roman
A. E. SÂNDERSON, secretary.
Catholie doctrine. What I ask parliarnent
There is a etaternent of opinion from
to do is to prevent the mnan who ruine
the prospects of his family from having men who have at lieart the interests of this
the riglit to do the same thing over again country and tlie moral and social welfare
under sanction of our laws. I have put it of the people of Canada. I also have in
toi many Senators, ' Would you take any my hand the stateinent of lis Lordship
man who las been divoreed hy this House the Bishop of Ottawa, one of the prominas a member of your family? Would you ent liglits of the Anglican churel in the
give him one of your daugitersl" and the Dominion. In his letter lie distinctly states
answer, in every case, was an indignant that the Anglican chur<h le dead against
'Dno.' WhyP Because we are conversant divorce, not only from. the point of view
'witl the facts in every case. We know that I arn discussing, but againet the printhat the people against whorn divorces are ciple of divorce. This was ýsigned by Hie
brouglit are unfit for social and dliristian Lordship himself. He said:

SENATE
The difliculties connected with an innocent
partv being permaitted to marry again, while
bis or her partner lives, are iast seriaus.

Ia the same period between 1887-1906 there
w~ere 943,625 divorces graated, or nearly 50,000
a year! The United States bas granted mnore
divorces
1 arn not discussing that point at ail. Hj combined. than aIlis the Europeaa countries
This
certainly a most awful
continues:
blot upon our fair naine.
The ninthinkable crime of bigamy is anIf the flrst marriage stili existe for the a.ther blemish on o-or civilization. With uaico, howr can it ho dissolved for the other?
form and adequate marriage laws the crime
ot bigamy, which is of frequent occurrence
The Anglican churchi, as well as the in our country, causiag uatold suffeî-iag and
Roman Catholie churcli, favours the ab- di5grace to innocent women and children in
every state, wouîd be next to impossible.
solute perpetuity of marriage. It is a per.
Both the terrible crimes of polygamy, made
petual contract 'vhichi no man can put possible by divorce, aad wliîch exists in
±'.ery one of the forty-six states, and
asunder. WVodo it bv- bru te for,ýe, but flot sibouîd ho abolished' in this country.bigamy
_Žýo
by' conscience or just right. Tlie law is other kind of legisîntion iS So imiportanît as
the enactmnent of laws that will pi-exent anid
thiere; it is as plain as A, B, C. I wvill
make imposs'ible these tivin ex ik.
gix-e v. this House in a few words the
opiiiiùro'z of a statesmian, a religious man
There is t.he declarati-ju of a niaii %liose
who is lield in highest esteemn, flot only on opinions everybo-dty rcsl)ects; %vliose cunithjs ec. nt':ent but throug-hout the world, a victions might be shared by every olie.
maniw: seelzs the advancenieut of lîunan aîîd nobody eau question tlîu iact tiuat bis
sociùtv in all its aspects, religieus, political desire and w-Luf ivas, for the ý%-elfaae oi
and na:,ional-I refer ta Cardlinal Gibbons, society. Herc is a niaii who, bx- bis status
of Bal:ýni,)re. 1IJ is a mani who conîumands iii sc;ciuLv in gceneral and iii piublic
lue,
the n-~ra
respect of hi;ý ownpel.
is naturally in touch with everything that
the admiration of people w-ho do flot kriow is noble as well as low in the develophim, on account of the solid opinions and mient of the human race, and lie tells
views lie lias expressed during the last 25 his people, and,
tlirough bis people,
or 30 vears in regard to public, national, lie tells the world that divorce is one of
religieus and political matters. The other the great evils that underlie the conditions
day lie w-as askied what was the great prob- of domestie life to-day. I do not wish ta
lem the United States wvas confronted with press this matter very much further.
1
at the present time. lis answ~er -,as:
feel that time -%ilI ripen and open the niinds
of many of mv coîleagues iiu tlis House
The root of the cormmonweapýlth is in the
home of the people. The social and civil life whio have been opposeà to this measure.
spring. from the domiestie life of inalikind. I feel that with due consideration for the
The official life of a nation is ordinarly the facts
that surround human life, they
reflex of the moral sense of the people.
We are now confroatiag aur moral Hall1- will realize that the offending party ta a
Cate, which threatens our ship of state, and marriage contract should flot be entitled,
whichi fi requirer more than the genius of a
N1ýewtoni to remove. We are confroated by at by Act of parliament at least, to, repeat the
least three great evils-polygamny and di- evil that hae hias been convicted of. I feel
vorce; inmperfect and vicious systems of edu- that this honourable House and
pa.iliamcnt,
cation: the tenidenc-ç' of womn
ta
more like men and less womanly, and iecam e when they have given the question full
a lack
c-f appre-ciation and revereice for the ra
and mature consideration, will coincide with
tieasures of lufe. When I speak of polygamy
1 do net men that cf Utah alone. I refer the views of the Ministerial Association,
ta, the polygarny of divorce that exista in representing a large part of the Protestant
every state and etrikes at the root of churches of this country, and will cointhe famili- and society.
Any di vorced man or woman who is mar- cide with the view-s presented by bis Lordried the second time while having a wife or ship the Anglican Bishop of Ottawa, and a
husband living, but ' legally ' separated by marn like Cardinal Gibbons, and need 1
the decree of some court, is a polygamist.
According to the Unaited States official. re- say with the views of the Roman Catholie
ports, in the twenty years between 1867-4886 church, which is at one with a large section
tl-ere were 328,716 divorces in the UJnited of their Protestant fellow citizens.
I feel
States.
that, after fair and due consideration, they
In twenty years. Did it decrease?
We will corne ta that conclusion, and that they
will eee. He proceeds:
will not find it in their hearts ta further
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

APRIL 21, 1909

343

sanction a practice which will bring dis- thiose people would turn their attention
honour, disgrace and.hardship into another c]Icsely to the 24th chapter of the Book of
farnily 'when they will not aliow it to beDeuteronorny, they would find there where
done in their own homes. I feel that inem- divorce is sanctioned, and inot only that,
ber o! the Senate and the flouse of Gom- but that the man is ailowed to marry again
mons wouid, knowing- the details of cacdi aiter divôrce. Wh1at are you going to do with
divorce case, refuse the hand of one of their the innocent man or the innocent womain
children to a man or wornan against whom ini either of those cases? Here is a inan
a divorce was grantcd, and that tliey wiil betrayed by a faithless wife, or a wiie by
not, by their vote, ailow these peopie to go a dishonourable or disgraceful husband.
abroad and accomplish elsewhere what Thiey are both pure and innocent, and what
senators and members of parliament woul-d are you going to do wvith those people?
flot -allow thern te accomplish in oui own WVill you allow theni to marry again? If
homes. Under the circumstances, and in vou do not, then you are act.ing contrary to
view of the fact that parliarnent lias aircady the seripture. If my hon. friend îvould
during the present session passed a large turn to the chapter I have mentioned, as
number of these divorce cases, aginist somoe itA is translated in his own chiurch, hoe wou]d
of 'which I protested, and flot wishing to 1find that after a man is divorccd hie cal]
have on the statutes cont.radictory declara- inarry again.
tions during the sarne session, I asic the
Ho.M.CORNWa
bottedc
r LRN Whtaotted'
Hn
honourabie flouse to aliow nie to withdra
the t ihas
isnowthcfag n(lof
trine o! Christ? Does Christ flot counit at
session, when, prohably, it wouid he anion,
the siaughtered innocents in the low'cr
Hen. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-Christ rofors
flouse, and when there wvouid not be suffi- to the haw of Moses granting a divorce.
cient tirne to discuss it properiy. I promise,
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-He upset the iaw of
however, that on the first 'day of next session, if God .-ives me strength and lîfe, Moses.
this Bill shahl be introduced before ans'
Hon. Mr. BOSS <Halifax)-I amn not going
divorce Bis can be granted %vithout this to discuss the question of church, but I
previso being placed in them. Net saying think if my hon. friend Nviii look closeiv
whether I arn for or agaînst such bis, at that chapter he wvi1h find it is as I have
but that when the commrittee reports it statcd.
divorce Bill they shahl report that the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That haw was abroguiity party in or eut o! Canada shall have
gated by Christ. The hon, gentleman eught
ne right to remarry.
to know that.
Hon. Mr. BOSS (Halifax)-Thore is conHon. Mr. BOSS-I know vhat the law of
siderable force in the £tatement made by
Moses is, pretty well; at heast I should
my hon. friend from Victeria division. We
punish mnen for theft, we hang thern for know. Ail we ehd Presbyterians do.' I rnay
murder; what are we going to do with have an opportunîty of again referring to
those who commit adultery? That part o! tJais matter, and if so I will quote what
the ten commaudments ia just as binding Moses states in the chapter referred to.
upon us as the other comrnandrnents. I
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-We do net deny that.
amrn ot going to discuss this question. I but that law was abregated.
arn not favourabie to divorce, anid I arn
The Bill was withdrawn.
very rnuch against the tribunal of ,divorce
which we have in this Chamber. I intend
to discus the question at Borne future day,
SECOND READING.
but with ail respect to rny friends of the
Bill (00) An Act for the relief of John
Presbyterian church in the province o!
Denison Srnith.-<Hon. Mr. Mitchell).
Quebec, to the high authority of Cardinal
Gibbons, whom we mnuet ail respect for the
The Senate adjourned uritil three o'clock
high position that he occupies, I think if te-rnorrow.

SENATE

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA, Thursday April 22, 19'09.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.,

Prayers and routine proceedings.
THIRD READING.

and we find that in the other branch o!
parliament they are endeavouring to restrict legisiation so as to have companies
which should corne under provisional jurisdiction- chartered by the province, and
where undertakings are for the general advantage of Canada they are to obtain their
charters hiere.

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I, fear the
question is one which it is difficuit to answer. 1 inoved the second reading of the
Bill out of courtesy to the hion. member
SECOND IREADINGS.
frorn Wellingtton, but I do flot like to asBill (No. 75) An Act respecting the Can-:, sumne any responsibility for it. Perhiaps if
dian Noithern Ontario Railway Company.i the hon.- gentleman were here lie could ex-(Hon. Mr. Jones).
plain why the Bill is before this House
Bill (No. 78) An Act to incorporate the and not before the provincial legisiature.
Superior and Western Ontario Railway If we allow the Bill to take this stage toCornpany.-(Hon. Mr. Young).
day, the question could be raised before
Bill (No. 81) An Act respecting the Man- the Railw,,ay Committee, and by that tiine
itoba and Northwestern Railway Company the hon. member frorn WVellington wiIl be
here.
o! Canada.-(Hon. Mr. Watson).
Bill (No. 85) An Act respecting the BritHon. Mr. CAMlPBELL-The Bill lassed
ish Columbia Southern Railway Company. the House o! Commons.
-(Hon. Mr. Bostock).
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-Thie House
Bill (No. 86) An Act respecting the Coof Commons sets itself up as an authorbalt Range Railway Cornpany.-Hon. Mr.
ity on provincial righits, yet that chamber
Belcourt).
has pased the Bill and declared this road
Bill (No. 96) An Act respecting the Ket- to be a work for the general
advantage of
tie River Valley 'Railway Company.-(I-on.
Canada.
It would therefore seern to bo
Mr. BRoss, Middlesex).
within our jurisdiction.
Bill (00) An Act for the relief of Johin
Denison Smith.-(Hon. Mr. Mitchell).

LONDON AND NORTHWESTERN
WAY COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.

RAIL-

Hon. Mr. WILSON-I do flot thinlz the
statement of the hon. anember can convince any o! us that this Bill cornes under
the jurisdiction o! the Dominion.

Hon. Mr. BOSS (Middlesex)-(In the abHon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I did not
sence o! Mr. MeMullen) moved the second
reading o! Bill (No. 102) An Act to incor- try to convince3 anybody.
porate the London and Northwestern RailHon. Mr. WILSON-The Bill providesway Company.
8. The company may lay out construct and
Hon. Mr. WILSON-This Bill should be cperate a railway of the gauge of four feet
tight and one-half inches (a) from a point in
explained. If there is such a thing as pro- or near the city of London, dla the county o!
vincial rights, this Bill would corne under Middlesex, to a point in or near the town of
that classification. It provides for the con- Sarnia, in the county of Lambton, and (b)
from a point in or near the said city of Lonstruction o! a road from London to sornd don to a point on Lake Huron, in the county
point on the St. Clair river, and also fromn o! Huron, passing through or near the towns
the city o! London north, s.nd the hon. of Ailsa Cradg and Parkhill, or either of thein.
gentleman who is making this motion
If the hon. gentleman can show me that
should explain why it is that this measure such work cornes under the jurisdiction of
is introduced in the federal parliament in- this Huse, I should like to hear the exstead of the Ontario legislature at Toronto. planation. It is time that we eitlier asThe project is wholly within the province, sume the full control o! ail railways in the
Hon. Mr. CLOIRÂN.

APRIL 22, 1909
Dominion, or cail a hait and ]et the provincial legisiatures charter their own local
companies. If the hon, gentleman is flot
prepartid to, show why this Bi-I should be
passed here to-day, hie should be giveil
time to try'and bring it within the jurisdiction of the Dominion. I do not apprehend that the road wifl be ,constructed.
Any number of railways of this nature
have been chartered, and very few of theni
have been built. Let this Bill rest for ainother year until it can be shown that it is
within our jurisdiction.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do flot tliink the
position is exactly as the hon. inember
from St. Thomas puts it. It is flot a local
road. It is a road which begins at the
city of London, one branch running to Sarnia, and another to a port on Lake
Huron. Naturally the traffic will flot stop
at Sarnia or at a port on Lake Huron. It
must necessarily go beyond the province of
Ontario. I notice that the last clause of
the Bill provides for the making of arrangements between this company and the
Grand Trunk Railway, the Canadian Pacific Railway, the Père Marquette, the Michigan Central Railway, and the Wabaah,
80, that clearly it is flot intended to be a
purely local road, but a road which is to
do business outside of the province of Ontario,. and I think the balance of convenience is altogether in favour of having the
incorporation take place here.
Hon. Mx. LANDRY-I suppose the rnoney
paid will be Canadian money and not provincial?
Hon. Mr. POWER-If money is paid on
freight going west it will be Canadian; if
on freight going east it will be United
States money.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Will the hon. gentleman explain where this road is te connect with the Père Marquette? The Père
Marquette Railway runs about 16 miles
south. The hon. gentleman is drawing
very largely on his imagination.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
would be interesting te know how connection is to be made with the Michigan Central Railway. I do not know that there
is any provision in the Bill for the estab-

lishing of a ferry across Lake Huron or
the Detroit river. No one knows hetter
than the hion. senator from Middlesex that
this is a purely local road. That the traffic to be "carried te these ports is not te,
remain there is quite possible. In ail probability it will go by steamer to the United
States or to some port in another part of
Canada. Would the hion, gentleman from
Middlesex explain the second clause,
which provides that the work is for the
general advantaga of Canada? Upon what
ground is it justifiable to put that clause
in this Buil If it is not a local road, then
thiere is no necessity for this clause, and
that is the best answer that can be given
te the position taken by the hion. member
fromn Halifax. If the hion. member fromn
Middlesex can explain why this second
clause appeaxs in the Bill, there may be
some reason for giving it the second reading. Othierwise we kshould hesitate before proceeding further with it. I amn glad
to see that the other House, from the premier down, is taking a decided stand
against encroaching on the exclusive rights
of the provinces.
We ail know the fight we had a year or
two ago in the committee, and also in this
House, upon Bis that were introduced affecting hydro-electrical power development
which certain private parties were endeavourîng te procure thirough Dominion
legisiation. And we also remember the
strong ground taken by the province of
Quebec when the government of that p>rovince sent a legal gentleman from Montreal
to the committee te protest against encroachments upon their rights, and they
wvere also sustained by a gentleman front
Ontario, and by telegrams from the western
provinces as far as British Columbia, yet
we are -still pursuing a course which, I
think the House will admit-and the country must admit., if we will only take trouble
to consider-is diametrically opposed to
the provisions of the constitutional Act, as
the courts of law have already declared
that the adopting of this second clause in
local Bis is a mere subterfuge through
,whioh, te secure by Dominion legialation
powers the local governments will not grant.
For that reason I think we should be very
careful how we lend our aid and support
te, Bills of this kind.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I xnoved ticipate doing anything which would dethis resolution mereiy as a matter of cour- feat in any *way the dlaimns of these credittesy to my lion. friend from Wellington, ors; but with reg-ard Vo the parties ,who, I
and, in view of what has been stated, with understand, are now taking- up Vhis enterpermission of the Ibuse, 1 wili withdrav prise, it is their desire that they should
the motion and move that the order of the corne before the committee and explain
day be discharged and piaced on the orders why the insertion of these amendments in
the Bill would destroy, in a large measure,
of the day for W%ýednesdav next.
the prospect of their project going ahead.
Thc motion was withdrawm.
For that reason 1 should like to sc it refcrred back. If the committec, after the
CENTRAL RAILWAY B3ILL.
explanation, desires that the aunîndpnt
t~iw:i u~w'r OMM'T;
as made shall stl1 reinain in the Bill, thenl
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE rnoved concurrence iii
îlthe cennxiittee lias the poýwer to
tl.- amndrnents made by the Standing
si and diat disp o,s of the question.
1
Cux~:iteeon Railways, 1le]egrap]îis ani 'flire is no further explanation thaI 1 can
Hdxbeicurs to (Bill Y) An Act ruspccting thb îeah,2. 1 have mnade the staternent whichi
Cen:,rai Raiiway of Canada.
lias been Livenf te me. Furtlher than Vhis.
1 do net know azvhn~about il.
H ni. )fr. EDWARDS-W'itiî the permission cd the F1ouse, I iieve thiat the arnexîdHoli. M.r. L \NIt'"Y I'l
the question
ie-S be net now coiicurred(: in, bu th-t at this stage cf the Bili .
lie are those
ti- Bill be referred back te the cornnmiittew arnielomeiits, the concurronce in - hich we
w
for furtlier consideration. Sinice the iu- are a tedte dopt, cx
iu
the notices
sure v-as deait witlh before the cormiitte-e, "iven by tlie cma
rn~~~of sorne importanîce hiave cornu uI
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-The aniendments iii
withi reg-ard to it whichi make it desirabie
question are amendrnents whichi were ithat i, shouid be referred back, and I hope
Vroduced noV by the cornpany but at the
tiiere wi]1 be no objection to my motion.
request of creditors for the protection of
Hon. Mr. LOIJGHEED-Can the hion. their own rights; se tbat the question of
gentlemran say wliat bis purpose is ini hav- notice dees not arise.
in.- i, referred bac]: Vo the committee? I
Honi. Mr. LANDRY-I de net know whie
have liad communications from some of the
timer it arises or net.
partLies respecting this Bill. IV wvould appear that they are reiying upon these
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-No, the question et
amendrnents bcing emhodied in the Bill, notice dues nut arise.
particuiariy the amendment with reference
Hon. Mr. LANDRY -Ve11
I do noV know
to the payment of dlaims outstandingagainst th, company. If the object of my about that. It is a debatable question.
hion. iriend be to strike out that clause, or
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I will explain why
to prejudice the rights of the creditors,
the question of notice cannot arise-. The
then it is very desirable they should be
cornpany introduced a Bill for the purpose
notified so that they could be present. I
of ohtaining an extension of time for the
have no personal knowledge upon the suhbuilding- of the work, and thpir notices
ject except the communications which 1
m-ere publislied in the usual way. When
have received.
thie Bill came before the cornittee, the
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-With regard to creditors of the cornpany appeared and
that matter, I arn interested myself that clairned that they had certain rîghts, that
the dlaims against this railway cornpany a deposit had been made with the governshall be paid. The parties to whorn these ment, of $25,000, and that they had the
accounts axe due, live in the district whichi right Vo be paid out of that deposit, and if
I have the honour Vo represent for a long the delay was granted, then it might detime in parliament, and are people in lay the payment of their dlaims for five
whom I arn interested. I would noV an- years and fer the protection of those
Hon. Sir MAÂCKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIL 2-2, 1909
creditors an amendment was introduced
to this effect: that is, if the dlaims referred
to in the clause were flot discharg-ed. by
the company within six months, that such
dlaims would then be paid out of the deposit macle with the goverrnment.
The
hion, gentleman will see that the question
of notice cannot arise.
Hon. Air. LANDRY-If I undcrstand my
hion. friend, the people who appeared before the cemmittee came there just because
the notice liad been given desiring to protect their own rights.

withl the object .of striking out the amendment, but they expect to be in a position
to pay off these dlaims, and start with a
dlean sheet. That is the object; it is flot te
avoid the payment.
The amendment was adopted.
SENATE IREFORM.
DEBÂTE RESUMuED.
The order of the day being called:
Resuining the adjourned debate on the mnotion of the ionourable Mr. Scott, that it be

i esolved:
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I would lilze 10 do
1. Tihat iii the opinion of the Sexiate the lime
anyt ning- I could to oblige my hion. friend has arrived foir so amniding the constitution
('t tis brailch of parliamnîct as to bring the
from Russell, but I reallv do îiot see wvhat moîdes of selection of senators more into harmreasonable objection can bc taken to this c.ny îvitlu public opinion.
2. That the introduction of ain elected
amendnîcnt, that if within six months froin
element, api>lying it appro-unuatel *' to twothe passinig ofi this Act the dlains iiow cx- tiuirds of the lnunbem' of seljators w,,uld bring
istincr ngsinst the company for engineering, tho Senlate nmore int harnîony witii the prinboard, labour and material sul)plied, have ciples ofofpopular government than Oie present
bystein
apriointimîg the entire bzly of senflot bes-n paid in full with intcrest and ators by the Crowln for life.
3. That the terni foi' which a sepator inay
costs, such claimis shall be paid out of
bo elecled or appointed, be limnited le seven
the deposit made withi the zovernincnt. .ycars.
It seemns 10 me that this deposit of $25,000
4. That the provinces of Ontar'io and Quebec
is intended to cover just snch a case as be each divided into sixteen electoral districts
for represeatation in this Chamiber. That
this. The mnalter was fully considered in the provinces nf -Nova Scotia and New Brunsthe committee, and it would be establish- wick bo each divided ixîto seven clectoral dising a rather bad precedent to refer the tricts, and the province of Prîinuce Edward
Island into two electoral disticts for
Bill back for the purpose of having that eloction te tbis Clîainbeî'; andl that for
cliuse reconsidered.
This company pro- the present, and until the four weste-rn provinces have been giveul iuîcreased repose to construct a railwav which is t-. presentation in t)îis Chanîbeî', that 'Manitoba,
'ý-ost some millions of dollars, and if the Saskatchewan and Alberta be each oune divided
mere fact that they may be obliged to part into three electoral districts, muid that the
province of Britisli Columbia be divided int
withi somelhing less than $25,0OO is going tîvo eloctoruil distr'icts, all for the olection cf
to stop them, they cannot be very much in candidates foi' representation in the Senate.
In defining the said electormil districts, due
earnest.
regard being had, net only tb approximately
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-As I understand equalizing the population ia each district, but
to convenience, local interests and county
it, these gentlemen do flot take that pos- boundaries.
5. That immediately aftor the said electeral
ition at ail, and do flot wish to avoid the
shaîl have been defined
payment of any dlaim; but the position is districts membeî' cf the existing and agreed
upen, a
Senate shall
this: They were not here, and they re- b. allotted te eachi of the said districts, havgarded the clause as being a blot upon the ing due regard, as far as practicable, te re-.
sidonce, local iîîtem'ests or cther reasons.
Bill which would affect the position of
6. Tîsat as vacancies arise in the representatheir finances, and they desire te corne be- tion of the said electoral districts the vacancy
shall b. filled bv the electors cf that district
fore the committee and make their explanentitled te vote for members of the House of
ation. There can be' no harmi in permit- Cernmens.
7. That in order te diminish the expenses
ting them to do so. They cannet appear
before parliament. The co'mxittee is the attending elections over wide areas, and te
secure a larger and freer expression of indeonly place they can be heard, and they ask pendent opinion, the system cf compulsory
veting shall apply te ail elections of senators;
for that privilege.
every voter being required te ezercise his
Hon. Mr. OWENS-I understand the pro- right te the franchise, and by ballot, under a
ten
te be
moters of the Bil wish it referred back, not penalty cf officerdollars,applied collected by the
returning
and
in reduction of

SENATE
election expenses. Provided that anY elector
May be excused front ioting on producing a
nmedicai certificate that bis state of health did
flot admit of bis atteîidance at the poils, or
a certificate from the local judge that importanît business or other reasoniable excuse
preveîited-his exercising the franchise.
8. That the* remaining eight senators iii
each of the provinces of Ontario aîîd Quebec;
the remainuiig three senators iii Nova Scotiai
and iii New Brunswick, and the two remaining senators in Prince Edward Island, an([
the reniaining senator iii eachi of the provinces

repent, my reinarks will be very short.
There is no daubt that the resolutions proposed by the hon, gentleman from Ottawa

are worthy of consideration, and tise hon.
gentleman has supported those resolutions
by a speech which does honour ta his intellect and ability. His remarks contain
valuable information and material for the
consideration of public men who may de-

of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta and Bri- sire Inter on ta reonganize the Senate. I
tish Columbia, who had flot been allotted to any concur in the preamble of those resolutians.
constitiîeîiy, shial ha classed as benators for
1 think, with the

the particular province at large, and as a
vacaîîcy avises i n that class, it slial be filled
by al)poiiitnent, as at piesent by the Crown.
9. 'That iii order to more nearly equnli7e
the standing of political parties in thie Sonate,
cn th e occasion of a change in the goveranient, the principle laid don-n in sections 26
aîîd 27 of the British North America Act shall
apply; thiat is to say, the incoming administration Miay appoint an additional number
of seîa tors, not exceediîig fine if in the
opinion of tihe Governor GenerIi, acting independently of the Privy Council, the request
is a resoîiable one, but not more than one of
the senators to be appointed, shahl ha talien
froîn any ana province; and that fno more
arîseil; tlius ravertîing to the original number
of Fenators allotted to the said province.
10. That the senators reprasenting the severai diflerent provinces be requested to meet and
suggast the best mode of dividing the province
into Senate electoral districts and aiso the
name of the senator who wili represeat each
particular district.
11. That the Housa of Gommons be asked
to cancur in the proposed changes in the constitution of the Sonate.
12. That the Senate and House of Commons
adopt a joint address to His Gracious Mfajesty
the King praying that the British North
America Act, and the Acts under which British Columbia and Prince Edward Island entered the Union. be so amended as to conform
to the foregoing resolutions.
Hon. Mr.
DAVID-I beg to move an

amendment:

That ail the words after the word 'That
in the first lino ha struck out to the end of
said resolutions and the following words subEtituted in lieu thareof: 'in th.eavant of a
change in the present constitution of the
Senate being deemad necessary and asked for;
by, among others, ail those provinces who
were a party ta its original constitution under
the British North America Act, 1867, the most
practical and satisfactory way of doing 80,
would be, as new seats would be created, or
vacaîscies occurred, to have fit and qualified
pensons summoned for lifa to 611l tha same as
now, under the said Act; but leaving the seIcetion of one haif of said pensons to the provincial governments of the respective provinces
entitied to said seats. The right of saiecting
such persons beginning always with the provincial governments and alternating thereafter.
H1e said: Having already spoken on this
subject many times, and not desining ta
Hlon. Mnr. OWENS.

tawa,

that

it

is

hon, gentleman from Otproper ta discuss the

question of the reorganization of the Senate, althoughi the lion. member for Middle-

sex was rîght when he said that no mnodification ai the organîzation ar the constitution of the Senate could be made without
the consent and approbation of ail the
provinces, and, lie ivent so far as ta oay,
on the initiative af the provinces. Neyertheless,

I think

the

House

of Commons

and the Senate have ta do with that question. A politicai agitation takes place in
the country and althoughi the agitation so
far bas flot been very important, lion.
members must flot forget that little clouds

arising in the sky are sufficient ta induce
a good sailor ta take precautians ta protect
bis vessel against the storm that may came.

In the same way, littIe clouds anising in
the political horizon should induce thoughtfui public men ta pay attention ta them.
I think aomething should ho donc ta give

satisfaction ta reasonable people.

When

I

epeak af people 1 do nat allude ta those who,

are unable to foresee the needs o! the future.

1 do not allude ta the hion. member in another place wvbase intellectual level seems
ta have been disturbed by the famous question ai the level railway crassings. I do
not ailude ta those who are always lin-

clined ta think that wve must be satisfied
with the present condition ai things. But
we must not forget tlîat very good institutions have perished hecause refonms which
were asked for were flot made, or came tocs

late, and I am with the hon. member fxrm

Ottawa in the opinion that if we do flot
act now, some day the agitation will be-

corne s0 powerful that it will not merely
rnodify, but will sweep the Senate out ai
existence. I am alluding ta thase reasonable people

-wbo, although

favouring the

maintenance of the Senate, thinl, also that

APRIL 22, 1909
it should be more popular anid more in
touch with public opinion, and who think
it necessary, in the interest of maintaining
the Upper House, ta rernove certain grievances. The principal grievance expressed
by those who have discussed the question
is that when the government is Liberal the
Senate is likely to become entirely Liberal,
and when the government is Conservative
to become entirely Conservative, as rnay
happen before snany years. It cannot be denied that this is a serious grievance, and
an imperfection which lessens the usefulness and the stability of the Senate and
that we ought ta adopt sorne plan to remnove that grievance. I must admit that
the resolutions of the hon, gentleman frorn
Ottawa would have that effect ta a certain
extent, but in some other respects, 1
humbly submit, they are defective because
they are not in accord with the spirit of
the constitution and the abject which the
fathers of confederation had in view when
they established the Senate. What was that
object? It was to give the Senate the permanency and independence required to control the legisiation of the country, to protect the rights of minorities and provincial
rights, and ta act as a court of arbitration
ini cases of conflict between the federal government and the provinces, or between the
provinces tbemselves. The Senate, if reorganized as proposed by the hion. member
from Ottawa, would flot have the independence necessary to fulfil its mission. It is
proposed that the Governor in Council shall
appoint one-third of the Senate for a term
of seven years. A Senate so appointed cannot be independent of the governffnent, for
this reasan: in the later years of their
terra, those who wish to be reappointedand we know the weakness of humanitywi*ll necessarily be induced to please the
government that may appoint or dropthem.
The resolutions of the hon, gentleman propose that two-thirds of the Senate shall be
elected by the people. Would senators so
elected be independent of the electors? It
is impossible to suppose that they would.
Necessarily they would try to please thae
ta whom they would have to appeal for reelection. They will do what people do generally-try to reconoile their principles
with popular clamour.
For these rea-sons, and others which I have not time

to mention, I think the resolutions before
the House should flot be accepted as they
appear, If the Senate were prepared to accept the amendment which I arn about to
submit, I would be disposed to vote for
the resolutions so amended. If one-haif
of the senatars were appointed by the Governor in Council for life, and the other ha-If
by the provincial governments, for lle, it
would give reasonable people àli the satisfaction that is deýsired, because that system.
would give the federal government the protection which. they require. They would
have one-haîf of the senators upon whom
they could rely in cases of emergency, and
at the same time the provinces would have
the protection which they require, and
which the fathers -of confederation had in
view when they established the Senate.
They would be also more in accordance
with the views which have been expressed
many times in this House, and resolutions
adopted once or twice in the House of
Commons. In 1874, the Hon. Mr. Milla
moved the following resolution:
That the present mode of constituting the
Senate is inconsistent with the federal principle in our systein of government; makes
the Senate alike independent of the people
and the Crown; is in other niaterial respects
defective; and that our constitution ought to
be aniended sa as ta canfer upon each province the power of appointing its own senators,
and to define the mode of their appointment.
This resolution was sustained by Mr.
Milîs in a powerful speech. It was carried
by a vote of 77 ta 74, and in the imajority I
find the names of the following gentlemen:
Cartwright, Fournier, Gibson, Rosa (Middlesex), McKay (Colchester), Landerkin,
McKenzie <Lambton), McKenzie (Montreal), Paterson, Oliver, Mass, and about
60 others. Sa that you see I arn in very'
good company, and have a right ta say that
the project which I arn advocating is not
new.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Did the motion cal
for the appaintment of hai the senators
by the government and haîf by the pravincesp
Hon. Mir. DAVID-No. The proposition
was that ail the "members should be elected
by the legislatures. That does flot oonstitute ïa great difference, but I think it is
preferable ta have them appointed by

SENATE
the Provincial governinents.
Their appointmnent by the local governinents would
offer a better guarantee, because those government. are responsible f0 the people and
to the leg-isiatures. Since the hion. member
has put a question, I may remind thîe
House that in 1892 or 1893
hie moved resolutions in thaf direction himself with a
view of having senafors appointed hy the
provincial legislatures, and lie made a
very good speech, as good as the speech lie
made the other day for another project.
Hon. 'Mr. POIRIER-The speech of the
other day ivas not for aîîother project; it
simpx- went into details. The principle is
the saine, the appointinent by the provinces
or the leg-islatures. There is no change in
the principle I advocated, exccpt tlîat tlîe
other dayv I tookz the liberty of giving tlie
programme in extenso; tlic principie was
the saie; it w-as not a Senate appoînted
haîf 1w- the provinces and lialf by the federai zox-ernment.

ought to be adopted. He thought some
change should be made, but was flot prepared to say whiat it should be.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-The hion, gentleman
cannot, deny that the resolution I have just
read was adopted by the H:ouse of Coinnions at the time.
Hon. Mr. SC011-I explained before
that the principle only ivas adopted, and
not the mode of selection. They qualified
their votes;. They said -%e vote for the
principle only.

Hon. Mr. DAVID-The resolution says:
And that our constitution ought f0 be
amended so as to confer upon each province the power of appointing its own senat-ors.' ThieY -vent a littie fui ther thau the
hon. member says, and consequentx' accepted the principle that the inombers of
tue Senate should be appoinfod by the
provinces. If means that or it means notlîing uat aIl. Mr. Power, the father of our
Hon. _Mr. BEIQUEhe lion. gentleman distinzuished colleague. also votcd Sor that
resolution; 1 do not blame hiîn. We are
must have grown \viser sixîce 1893.
proud to say that we are building a nation
Hon. '-\r. DAVID-Perhiaps tlîe priricipie which will be great in the future, and n-e
is the saie, but the application is very should be very particular in our leg-isiadifferent, and I think the plan
tion to establisli that nation on a strong
of the
member is a littie too complicated. hon.' foundation. The Senate should be tlîe
If I
were one of those called on to take part in corner stono of that structure, and xe
the reorzanization of tlîe Senate, I wouid ought t0 miake it a national andi social
give a great deal of attention f0 tlic plan buliark. The best way to accoiplishi that
propounded by the hion. gentleman. If hiaif object is to put it under the care and prothe memnbers of flic Sonate were appointed tection of the provincial governînients. That
by the federal governinent, and the other is the reason why those w-ho are in favour
haif by the provincial governinent, you of maintaining the Senate, who believe it
would have a systein which would induce is necessarv and will in the future become
thein fa make the best possible choice. The more and more necessary, oughi to vote
provincial governments would have no- for my amendment. 1 know there is a disbody to blame but theinselves if they were position in this House f0 avoid a vote being
not properly represented in the Senate and taken, but after having discussed this questheir righlts w-ere not protected as tliey tion so many fimes, we shouid express our
opinions definiteiy. It is flot nececssary to
would have them.
vote for my amendmnu, or the resolutions
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-I quoted the resolu- of the hion. member from Ottawa.,
Othier
tion, and at the samie time the speeches de- amendments may he proposed.
If my
livered on that occasion. Some, while sup- amendment should be defeated, and
an
porting flic proposition that there should hion. member thinks proper to propose that
ha a change, declined to commit themn- one-haif of the members of the
Senate
selves to fhe mode of selection. Mr. %Mc- be appointed by the governxent
and the
Kenzie in particular was exceedingly care- othier haîf elecfed by the people, I shall
fui in fhat direction. He said it wouid be vote for that amendaient.
Shiouid that
for tflie zoverninent to consider what plan :amendment be defeated and another prol1ia. MIr. DAiVID.

APRIL 22, 1909
posed by which hall the senators will be
appointed by the government and the other
haif by t.he legislative assemblies, I shal
vote ior that amendment. If that amendment should be defeated and it were proposed that one-third of the senatars should
be appointed for life by the government,
and two-thîrds elected by the people, as
the hion. gentleman proposes, I would be
willing to accept that.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I should like to
have the debate adjourned for a week.
Some hion. GENTLEMEN-Go on.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I am n ot prepared
to proceed now, and I move that the debate be adjourned.

351

but hie neyer opened his mouth 'on the
subject.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I was a member of the
government at that tiine.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It was discussed at
length last aession, and the hon, gentleman
not only did not speak on the subjeot, but
hie objected to the time of the Senate being
wasted ini discussing academic questions.
Naturally I was surprised when I found
the hon. gentleman was taking so much intez-est in the conBstitution of the Senate this
session. With respect to the fact that the
hion. member was a member of the government lest session, I notice that the present
leader of the governrnent ini this Hlouse made
quite a vigorous and effective speech on the
subjeet. He did not seem to think he as
prevented from expressing his views from
the fact that lie was a member of the government.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not see what
objection there can be to granting the adjournment. I know there are some gentleHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTmen w-ho are not here to-day who wish to
I spoke for myself alone.
take part in the debate.

The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I should like to
oblige the lion. gentleman frorn Rideau,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-When is the debate to
but w-e discussed this subject at great be resumed? I think it should be fixed
length during the session of 1906, and at for Wednesday next.
very great lenzth last session, and really 1
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-My suggestion was
think that the agitation with respect to
the Senate is now confined almost to the that it should be adjourned for a week.
Senate itself. It is desirable to get this
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
notice off the paper. It lias been there now are getting into an exceedingly irregular
for two months, and the impression created mode of conducting the business of the
amongst people who happen to sc our House. The motion was simply to adnotice paper will be that the Senate is journ the debate. That was carried. It
really doing nothing this session but dis- is now auggested that it should be amendcussing its own constitution. 'I do not ed by adding something. I frankly admit
think anything« can be more unfortunate something of the kind hias been done in the
for the Senate. The hon. gentleman from past, but the sooner we put a stop to such
Ottawa smiles at mv suggestion. Some- irregularities the better. Wihen the mothing occurred to me which I shall not tion is declared carried, there is an end to
mention.
it until the question cornes up ag-ain. Let
Hon. Mr. zýCOTT-The hion. gentleman it go on the order paper in its regular
has not been readîng the press. I have place.
seen articles on the subject which would
The SPEAKER-I put the motion twice
surprise hirn.
that the debate be adjourned, and no one
suggested that a time should be fixed for
Hon. Mr. POWlER-They cannot surprise taking up the subject ag-ain.
me more thani the fact that the hion, genHon. Mr. POWER-The natural way is
tleman has brought this subject before the
Senate. It w-as discussed at great length when the matter cornes up to-snorrow to
in 1906. The lion, gentleman was hiere then, postpone the debate to a ]ater date.

SENATE
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (94) An Act respecting the Cedars
Bi <No. 82) An Act respecting the MonRapids Manufacturing and Power Company.
arch Fire Insurance Company.-(Hon Mr.
-(Hon. Mr. Belcourt).
Coffey).
B ill (Z) An Act respecting the Bank of
Bil1 (No. 95) An Act to incorporate the
Winnipeg.-(Hon. Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
Royal Guardians.-(Hon. Mr. Casgrs.in).
BILLS INTRODUCED.

A CORRECTION IN THE JOURNALS.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the Iluse
adjourns, I wish to eall attention to a petition presented yesterday of which no
mention is made in the «Journals.' Senator DeVeber moved the suspension of the
rules and introduced a petition. If somothing happens in this House should it not
be recorded? Who is going to correct the
doings of this House? When a motion is
passed should it not be entered in the
'Journals,' or is the clerk or bis assistante authorized Vo make necessary corrections? That is the question.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I quite con cur with
the hon. gentleman.
The SPEAKER-I think we are ail agreed
about that, but I suppose, from the way
the motion was made, at the last moment,
by an lion. gentleman who obtained a suspension of the rules for the purpose, that
ft was not noticed, and that it was a mere
slip. I quite agree -that it would be advisable to tunderstand exactly what bas
been done, whether it was regular or irregular.
The Senate adjourned until tliree o'ciock
to-morrow.

1PRAIRIE PROVINCE TRUST COM-NPANY
BILL.
AMENDMENT CONCURRED IN.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON, from the Cominittee on Banking and Commerce, reported
Bill (AA) An Act respecting the Prairie
Province Trust Company, with amendments,
and moved that the rules be suspended and
that the amendments be now concurred in.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do flot want Vo
make an objection Vo this motion, but according Vo rule 30, my hion. friend should
state the object of the suspension of the
rules. What rules are we Vo suspend? Here
is a report made by a committee recoinmending a number of amendinents, and
we are asked Vo suspend rules in order
that we may concur in those amendments.
We do not know wbat tbey are -or wbat
their effect on the Bill will be. We bave
not had time Vo study thein. I do flot see
why we are in sucb a hurry Vo adopt the
amendments before knowing what they are.
The lion. gentleman should give a littie
more explanation than merely reading the
amendments at the table of the House. We
have not the Bill in band when the amendments are read. We do noV know what the
effect is.

Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-I have exactly
the samie explanation Vo make as was made
in regard to another Bil1 reported by the
lion. gentleman from Middlesex. This Bill
originated in the Senate, and will be reTHE SENATE.
ferred Vo the bouse of Gommons. I do not
OTTAWA, Friday. April 23, 1909.
think the amendments made in the Bill
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three were of any great importance; at ail events,
they do not affect the principle of the Bfi.
o'clock.
They were technical in a large deg-ree, and
Prayers and routine proceedings.
met with the general approval of the coinmiittee. It was thought better Vo improve
BILL INTRODUCED.
the Bill by making them. I have no parthe Brock- ticular object in vie-w other than the reaBill (RR) An Act respectîng
ville, Westport and Nortliwestern Railway sons which were accepted by the Senate in
a similar motion on a previous fill-that
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Derbyshire).
Hon. Mr. POWER

APRIL 23, 1909

the session was coming to a close, and as
this Bill had to be referred to the House
of Gommons we could expedite the measure
by concu.rring in the amendments and allowing it to go to the House of Commons.
As far as I arn personally concerned, if rny
hon. friend persists in his objection I will
bave to move that the amendments be taken
into consideration on Tuesday next.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).-I arn not
in charge of the Bill. I vas present on the
committee 'when the Bill was discussed.
The amendments were made, speaking from
memory, in the first place that two provisional directors were added in clause 1.
Speaking again from memory, -the amount
of money to be paid before the company
could commence business, :was increased
from two hundred thousand to four hundred
thousand dollars, and that was agreed to by
the representative of the government, the
inspector -of insuranoe, who vas present,
The final amendment was that this Bilh
should expire unless vithin two years they
commenced actual operations. That vas a
clause added to the Bill. The amendments
were purely formai, strengthening the Bill
conuiderably as compared with the original
clauses, and they were accepted by the
committee without any protest whatever.
0f course we must expedite the passing of
our Bis, or we shall be blocked elsewhexe:
I arn speaking in the interests of the Bill
purely as a member of the Senate.
The motion vas agreed to.

3M3

Commerce some two weekis ago. I drew attention te the fact that the Bihl should be
amended in some respects, and the promoter of the Bihl consented to having it
reconsidered by the Committee on Banking
and Commerce. Nov, the promoters of the
Bill have been here for several days. They
are anxious te see the Bill through as soon
as possible as they may be required in connection vith these amendnxents when they
go before the Hlouse of Commons. It is
only fair te -suspend the rule and let the
Bill go through. 1 can explain the amendments te the House if neoessarv.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Are the amendments
in accordance with the suggestion made by
the hon. gentleman the other day when he
spoke on the subject of this Bill?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
The motion was agreed to.
The Bill vas then read the third time and
passed.
EQUITY FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY
0F CANADA BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON, from the Coinmittee on Banking and Commerce, reported
Bill (II) An Act to incorporate the Equity
Fire Insurance Company of Canada, with
amendraents.

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) moved that
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON moved conourrence
1the rules b.e suspended so far as they relate
in the amendments.
to thia Bill. He said: This Bill was careThe motion was agreed to.
fully considered by the Finance Department.
and the few amendments that were madeGREAT WEST PERMANENT LOAN COMvery insignificant themsehves really-were
PANY'S BILL.
made with the approval of the inspector
of insurance, except the amendment to
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON, from the Com- clause 6, which seemed te be somewhat inmittee on Banking and Commerce, reported consistent with the jqrisdiction of the province in such matters.
The clause vas
Bill (No. 40) An Act to incorporate the
amended to leave the adjustment of the
Great West Permanent Loan Company, with
matter to the province. Lt vas proposed
amendments.
to transfer the company's property te the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved the suspension new company te be forxned. It vas held
of the rules so far as they relate te the Bill. that the Dominion had ne power to make a
He aaid: This Bill was reported te the transfer of property; that vas a provincial
House by the Committee on Banking and right, and the Bill vas adjusted te that
23
REVYUED) ]CIT!ON

SENATE

3.54

view ci the situation. Then the sehedule There is no such aifence under the Criminal
Code, and we are changing it ta indictable
'which related ta clause 6 was struck out.
offence. Then at the end there is a penalty
The motion was agreed ta.
attached for any delinquency on the part
The Bill was then read the third time and of the saciety in not sending its oeports ta
tee minister. These amendments are purely
passed.
formal.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
The motion was agreed ta.
Bill (SS) An Act respecting the Quebec
The Bill was then read tee third time and
and New Brunswick Railway Company.passed.
(Hon. Mr. Costigan).
Bill (TT) An Act respecting the Montreal COMMITTEE ON MINERAL RESOURCES
Bridge and Terminal Company.-(Hon. Mr.
0F CANADA.
Choquette).
MOTION.
Bill (UU> An Act respecting the Pruden.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE moved:
tial Life Insu-rance Company of Canada.(Hon. Mr. Derbyshire).
That the evidence given before the Select
Comrnittee on the Mineral Resources of Canada be printed from time ta time for the use
CANADIAN RED CROSS SOCIETY BILL. of senators.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. McHUGH, irom the Committee
an Miscellaneous Private Bis, reported
Bill (HH) An Act ta incorporate the Canadian Red Cross Society, with amendments,
and moved that the rules be suspended so
far as they relate ta the Bill.

The motion was agreed ta.
ROYAL VICTORIA LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY BILL.

SECOND READING POSTPONED.
The order ai the day being called:
Second reading (Bill PP) an Act respecting
the Royal Victoria Life Insurance Company,
The motion was agreed ta.
and ta change its name ta Royal Lufe InsurDavid.)
Han. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) nioved that ance Company oi Canada.-(Hon. Mr.
the amendments be naw concurred in. He
Hon. Mr. MeSWEENEY-I have been
said: Although there are several amend- asked to abject to this Bill an the ground
ments, they are not by any ineans import- that it has not been printed either in Engant. Far in-stance, in clause 1, -a number hish or French, and there is another objecai gentlemen who are promoters of this tion ta itSome are
Bill are wrongly designated.
The SPEAKER-The first objection is sufcalled lieutenant-colonels, who are really
ficient.
colonels, so we dropped the lieutenant in
that case. Lady Tilley is designated Alice
Han. Mr. POWER-I move that the order
Tilley, and the Bill is amended to properly ai the day be discharged, and that it ha
describe her tithe. The society was allowed placed on the orders ai the day for Tuesday
ta hald as much praperty as it might con- next.
sider advieable; tlhat was corrected by
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
limiting the amount of property that the
society might ho]d, which is the usual the motion is put, I should like ta inquire
clause in Bills af this character. Then the if teis is a second Bill in reference ta
Bill was snpposed to be within the juris- changing the name ai the Royal Victoria
diction af the Dominion af Canada, but t.he Lufe ns urance Company ta tee Royal Lufe
law clerk thoug.ht the word 'Dominion' Company ai Canada? The Banking and
was incorrect, iso we substituted ' the par- Commerce Committee considered a Bill in
liament ai Canada.' Then the society might connection with this campany teis marning
be supposed ta suifer injury by tee unlaw- somewhat ai a similar character. I do not
fnl use ai the saciety's title, and the aifence know haw this carder appears upan to-day's
was described in the Bill as a misdemeanou-r. paper. I arn under the impression teat that
Hon. Mr. ROSS (,Middlesex).

APR1L, 23, 1909
7. That
the
was considered this morning and a report attending in order to diminish areas, expenses
and to
elections over wide
was made.
secure a larger and freer expression cf independent opinion. the system

cf compulsory

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no; it is another voting shal agly to aIl elections cf senators;
every voter bing required ta exercise hie
Bill altogether.
riglit ta the franchise, and by ballot, under a
penalty of ten dollars, ta be coilected by the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In returning officer and applied in reduction of
election expenses. Provided that any elector
connection with the same coinpanyP
mam be excused frein voting on producingta

Hon. Mr. SOOTT-There were two Bills medîcal certificate that his &tate of health
did not admit cf hie attendance at the pelse,
this morning, but this was not one of them. or a -iertificate from the local judge that important business or other reasonable excuse
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then prevented hie exerciaing the franchise.
8. That the remaining eight senators in
the same objection will be raised to this
each of the provinces of Ontario and Quebec;
as to the other?
the remaining three senators in Nova Scotia
The motion was agreed to.
SENÂTE REFORM.
RESOLUTION POSTPONED.
The order of the day being called:

Resuming

the adjourned

and in New Brunswick, and the two remaining senators in Prince Edward Island, and
the remaining eenator in each of the pro-

vinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta
and Britishi Columbia, who haed not been allotted ta any constituency, shahl be classed
as senators for the particular province nt
large, and as a vacancy arises in that class, it
shall be filled by appointment, as at present,

debate on the by the Crown.
motion of the Honourable Mfr. Scott, that it
9. That in order ta more nearly equalize the
be resolvedstanding of political parties in the Sonate,
1. That in the opinion of the senate the on the occasion of a change in the government,
time lias arrived for rio amending the con- the principle laid down in sections 26 and 27
stitution of this brandi of parliament as to

cf the British North Âmerica. Act shall ap-

ators by the Crown for life.
3. That the terni for which a senator may
be elected or appointed. be limited to seven

thus reverting. ta the original number of
senators allotted to the said province.
10. That the senators representing the sev-

bring the modes of selection of senators more ply; that is ta say, the incoming administr-into harmony with publie opinion.
tion may appoint an additional number of
2. That the introduction of an elected ele- senators, not exceeding nine if in the opinion
ment, applyîng it approximately to two-thirds cf the Governor General, acting independentof the number of senators would bring the ly of the Privy Council, the reqnest is a
senate more into harmony with the principles reasonable one, b ut uot more than ans of the
of popular government than the present senators te be appointed, shall b. taken from
systemn of appointing, the entire body of sen- any one province; and that no more arisen;
years.

eral ditferent provinces be requested te meet

4. That the provinces of Ontario and Que- and suggest the best mode of dviding the probec b. each divided into sixteen electoral dis- vince into senate electoral districts, and also

tricts for representation in this Chamber.

That the provinces of Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick be each divided into seven electoral districts, and the province of Prince
Edward Island into two electoral districts for
election to this Chamber; and that for the
present, and until the four western provinces
have been given increased, representation in
this Chamber, that Manitoba ,Saskatchewan
and Alberta be each one divided into three
electoral districts, and that the province of
British Columbia be divided into two electoral districts, ail for the election of candidates for repreeentation in the senate.
In defining the said electoral districts, due
regard being had, not only to approximately
aepopulation in each district, but
equalizing
to convenience, local intereste and county
boundaries.
5. That immediately after the eaid electorai
districts shall have been deâ,ned and agreed
upan, a member of the existing senate shall
be allotted ta each of the said districts,
having due regard, as far as practicable, t
residence, local interests or other reasons.
6. That as vacancies hereafter arise in the
irepresentation of the eaid electoral districts,
the vacancy shall be filled by the electora of
that district entitled ta vote for members of
the Hous of Commons.
23J

the name of the senator who will represent
each particular district.
il. That the Hlouse cf Commons be asked ta
concur in the proposed changes in the constitution of the Senate.
12. That the Senate and House cf Commons
adopt a joint address ta Hie Gracious Majes-

that the
tythei K&ig praying .the Âcth Britishi North
undor which
*merica Act, -and
British Columbia and Prince Edward Island
entered the Union, be 60 amended as to conform to the foregoing resolutions.-<Hon. Mfr.

Edwards.)

Hon. iMr.

McKEEN-I

move

that

thi3

order of the day be discharged, and that it
b. placed on t.he orders
Wednesday neirt.

cf the day for

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-1
should like ta say, in connection with this
motion, that I hope this is the last of it,

and that it will flot be delayed any longer.
1, for one, am fully in accord with the hon.
gentleman aitting on the left of the hon.
ex-Secretary of State, that this motion has

SENATE

356

been standing upon the Order Paper altogether too long, and that it should be disposed of. I would respectfully suggest to
the hon. meinber that after the debate,
whatever it maay be, on Tuesday next, he
should withdraw this resolution or permit
Otherwise, some hon.
it to be dropped.
m-mber will have to test the question of the
propriety of paasing a xesolution of this
kind. When the matter cornes up on Wednesday next, I shail flot hesitate to give iny
opinion on the whole proceedings in connection with resolutions of this characterat least this is my present intention.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I suggested Wednesday because I thought the debate perhaps
might continue until Thursday. I can give
no undertaking, however. It ehould be disposed of on Wednesday and Thursday.
The motion was ag-reed to.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday next
at three o'clock.

get together. His Excellency the G-overnor
General is the head of the association, and
the lieutenant governora o! tbe several provinces are the directors o! the board. It
bas been found impossible to get them. together, and applications have to be considered fromtime to time with regard to the
widows and orphans of those who were killed
ini South Africa, and the full board decided
that it was better to name a body o! directors who would be at hand near the seat of
government in order that, when an ernergency case arose, a meeting could be
promptly held, and tbey are known as ' the
executive committee.' The -board consists of
Sir Ferederick Borden, Sir William Mulock,
Sir John Carling, Hon. Mr. Foster, Hon.
Sir Louis Davies, Hon. Justice Girourard,
Sir Sandford Fleming, Hon. George A. Cox,
and otibers.
The motion was agreed to.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (WW) An Act to incorporate the St.
Maurice and Eastern Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. Tessier).

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA, Tuesdlay, April '27, 1909.

TH.IRD READING.

Bill (AA) An Act to incorporate the
Prairie Provinces Trust Cosnpany.-(Hon.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
Mr. Chevrier).
o'clock.
DEPARTMENT 0F EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
Prayers and routine proceedings.
BILL.
CANADIAN PATRIOTIC FUND ASSOCIASECOND READING.
TION BILL.
CARTWRIGHT
Hon. Sir RICHARD
FIRST READING.
moved the second reading of Bill (No. 90)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT- introduoed Bill <BB) An Act to create a Department of External
An Act to amend chapter 96 of 7-8 Edward Affairs. He saîd. The object of this Bill,
VII., respecting the Canadian Patrîotic as hon. gentlemen will perceive on reading
it, is to assign to a branch of the office
Fund Association.
now presided over by tbe Secretary of State
The Bill was read a first time.
the duty of collaborating and keeping note
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved t4hat tihe Bill be of ail communications which the Canadian
government may require to have officially
read a second time on Thursday next.
Bill lias been treated in with foreign governments. At the present
He said: This
the past as a public Bill. Last session we moment, or tili lately, these have been
made some changes in it, and it passed the conducted with the department to rwhich
various readinga and went te the House the particular subject in hand seemed mnore
of Commons. The difficulty, as was ex- especiafly to belong, and the resait has
plained last year-and it bas not altogether been that at times there has been considbeen overcome-is that this iund is admin- erable confusion, and a good deal of delay,
istered by gentlemen who were very bard to .in dealing with tbe questions wbicb were
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIL 27, 1909

357

taken up. Under the circumastances, the wide in its ramifications te perforrn the
governiment have thought it would conduce publie business already pointed out. In
to the~ speedy dispatch of business if a the United States, under their goveîrnent,
branch cf the Secretsry of State's office they have a Department of State which is
were especially charged with the ffling and practic.ally a f oreign'office ini itself, which
recording and dealing with despatches fromin transacts ail business with foreign governail foreign governments, and keeping a fienta, the sanie as might be done within
muoh more perfect record than has been our own Department of State. If the Act
hitherto kept. 1 need net say te my respecting the Depsrtment of State were
hon. frienda that Canada is now growing . considered flot sufficiently wide to permit
se fast and extending itself in so many of this class of work being done, it waa the
directions, and is assuming, I may say, a duty cf the government, in my judgment.
semi-independent position with respect te te have brought down legisiation enlarging
oui connection wth foreign powers, that it the duties cf that department, and not to
is desirable we should have a more perfect place upon the statutes what must appar.
record cf ail communications passing by ently be to every hon, gentleman in the
and between the government cf Canada and Chàmber t.he ground werk for the building
my
ail other countries, although, as a matter up of anether departrnent. This, in
have
cf course, they will still corne under the judgrnent, is utterly indefensible. We
of
purview and supervision of the home gev- already befere us this present session
ernient. Foi these reasons, the government parliasuent a Bill toe create another depaxtpropose, as declared in this Bill, te create ment in addition to this. 0ur attention
the
what is called a Department cf External was directed te a Bill introduced by
Prime Minister last week te establish a
Affaira, which shall be a branch cf the
Secretaiy cf State's Depaîtment, and over Departrnent of Labour. That, of course.
necessarily
which the Secretaiy cf State shahl preside. will involve all the expenditure
incident to any departrnent cf the public
There is ne considerable expense attendant
I have already said, in
upon it. The chie! expenditure will con- service. This, as
my judgmrent, is simply a prelude to the
sist in the appeintment cf an Under Seciecf the same thing. My right hon.
tary of State, anid sorne three or four cheiks doing
friend has already îeferred te its being
te file and take charge cf the varieus
by an Under Secretary cf
despatches and other matters that corne presided over
State. 0f course there 'will be an Under
under that department. I presume rny bon.
There 'will be a chief
friands will not object te the principle cf Secretary of State.
clark or chief cleîks, and all the other clerkthe Bill, and if there aie any questions
are attached to any other dethat rnay require te be discussed in connec- ships which
pa'rtment in the public service. Se far as
tien -with its details, we can deal with them
I can ascertain, there is no constitutionally
'when it is referred te the Committee cf the
governed country with as many cabinet
Whele.
positions as we have in the Dominion of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I must confasa Canada. I think under the United States
that I arn somewhat at a loas te understand government they have eight departments.
the necessity for this legishatien. This locks
Hon. Mi. POWER-Nine.
te me te be a prebude te estslblishing
service
another portfolie ef departmentab
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Certainly leas
in our civil govaîrnent, which, I have ne than the Dominion cf Canada. The nuindoubt, in the near future -wilh blossom into ber of caibinet positions up te recently ini
that cf a cabinet portfolio and the appoint- the imperial government is, I think, les
ment cf an additional minister. There is ne than we have in Canada.
good reason whby ahi the machinery ef a
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-No.
department should ba incorporatad inte
the purpese cf part oimthis lagisabtion for
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It alternates. It
ing the duties outlined by my right hon.
cf State. is largely in the hands cf each goveinfriend. We have a Departrnent
cabinet representation which
uwhich presumably shou]d ba sufficiently ment as te the

SENATE
would be established, but if my right hon. establishing this particular departmentP It
friend will make an investigation into the cannot be for the few communications
number of cabinet portfolios of constitution- which. we must necessarily have with foreign
ally governed countries, few of them will governments or with the imperial governI ment. That certainly could be undertaken
equal Canada in nunierical strength.
have some hesitation in harking back t,) and very satisfactorily assurned by the prewhat may be termed ancient history, and sent Departrnent of State. The establishparticularly the attitude taken by my hon. ment of such a departmnent would suggest,
friends on the opposite aide of the House, it seems to me, the assumption of power
of whorn my right hon. friend was the chief which, up to the present time, Canada is
exponent, as to the desirability of economy scarcely assumed to have. At any rate, the
in the departmental service of civil govern- powers which the governnient of Canada
ment. I can recali the opposition which tho could exercise under this departmnent canilate Conservative government met when the not be any larger than those that have -been
two portfolios of Inland Revenue a.nd Cus- assumed and exercised in the past. Cantoms were inaug-urated by the late govern- ada is not arrogating te itself or assuming
ment to be presided over by under secre- any greater national powers than we have
taries.
M-Ny
hon. friends of the Liberal under our constitution. No legisiation has
party condemned the extravagance incident been passed of an imperial character which
to the inauguration of that system, owing would look to the enlargement of this field
to its being absolutely unnecessary at that of civil g-overnment. Under the circumparticular time, but we find during the stances, the government, on the ground of
present session of parliarnent, as I have economy as well as on the ground of utility.
before said, legisiation looking forward might have performed the duties which have
to the establishmnent of two additional port- been outlined by my right hon. friend and
folios. It seems to me that the present de- embodied in this Bill quite as satisfactery
partments of the public service are not over- under the present machinery as under that
whelmed with work. Certainly t-he work sug-gested.
involved in this particular branch of the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
public service could have been tTansacted
by the Departrnent of State, hy the 'Depart- teok occasion to turn up the English minment of the Privy Council, by the new De- istry, and I see they have twenty-one mempartment of Labour which is to be formed, bers of the cabinet, îndependently of a large
or by two or three other of the minor de- number of gentlemen who are under secrepartmnents of the public service, that -we taries, &c., who though not in the cabinet
know are not ovterwhelmed with work. Even are directly coninected with it.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They have not an
the departmnent .so ably presided over by
my right hon. f-riend the leader of this arbitrary nuimber.
House might very well have assumed the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTduties of this particular office of civil They are able to enlarge t.he number from
government. Another consideration which time te time.
presents itself to my mmnd in connection
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do not think
with this Bill is as to the possible extent
of its interference with the Colonial Office the question of enlarging portfolio positions
and with the Foreign Office in Great Bni- cornes up properly for discussion under this
tain. Arn I to understand that the Domin- Bill. It would corne up under the Bill to
ion of Canada is to establish what will be, create a portfolio of Labour. As I understand
practically, tantarnount to a foreign officeP the Bill before us, and thse observations of
Will there be attached to this particular the right hon, gentleman in introducDepartmnent of External Aif airs high ambas- ing it, it will not interfere in the slightest
sadorial officers of state, plenipotentiaries degree with the oonduct of negotiations beand attaches and ail that kind of thing, to tween Canada and the imperial government.
transact the business of Canada, the sarne That remains with thse Secretary of State
as if it were a distinct power, or a separate and thse Under Secretary of State, as
national entity, or what is the objeet of already provided by law. Nor will it have
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

359

APRIL 27, 1909

enything to do with the correspondence
conducted between the government of Canada and any of the provinces of Ca.nada.
That will stili remain 'with the Department of the Secretary of State as at
present constîtuted. It will deal 'îth matVers arising between the government o!
Canada and foreign counitries. By the third
clause of the Bill it would seern that the
correspondence with other colonies is also
included-' or to the conduct and management of international or intercolonial niegoInternational would -be 'with
tiations.'
foreign countries and intercolonial with any
colonies of Great Britain apart from those
embraced in the Dominion o! Canada. That
ia the way I understand It.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My
hon. friand is correct in biis interpretation.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That being so, I
can scarcely agree with xny hon. friend to
the rig-ht (Hon. Mr. Lougheed) that there
is very strong objection to thîs Bill, 'because
it provides for a rather better subdivision
of the Nvork than bas heretofore obtained.
I understand my hon. friend bo say-and in
fact I know frorn my rather limited experience-that when questions arose between Canada and an external country it
has been custornary for the particular department connected 'with the subject to
deal -%ith it. It la now considered to be
better that that should be done under the
Departrnent of the Secretary o! State, and
that aIl sncb correspondence should ernanate
from the one department. 0f course, that
departrnent would consuit the particular
For Instance, if it
departrnent affected.
was a question of agriculture, while the
Departinent of State and the Under Sacretary of State for External Affaira wouild
conduct the correspondance, it would, I
Vhink, be always underatood that the department wbich had charge of this particular mattar would be consu.lted and its
viaws 'would be earried out. Neceasarily
this should not increase very materially the
number of officers. There la one practical
difficuity that I sea in the way 'which may
arise !rom political exigencies, which we
know are very strong in thia country and
eapecially wvith the present adminitration.
It may be. with the keen eye bo political
advantage that my right hon. friend and bis

coUleagues have, that some politician they
want to reward may be appointed to this
new position. If it should happen that this
particul-ar friend of theirs is a well-qualified man, there is no complaint to be made.
Hon. Mr.
Preston.

LANDRY-It

miglit

be

a

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It might. My
right hon. friend will not deny my proposition, that when political exigencies
corne in, the publie interest does not always
obtain the uttermost consideration with his
governrnent or with any other. The difficulty that I foresee arises rather from
this fact of creating a new official. I
know sornething of the present Under SecEvery member of this
retary of State.
Flouse knows the experience lie has had,
in what we migaht cali a diplomatie sphere.
Under the Conservative government and
present governiment we know that Mr. Pope
has been the right hand of the governiment
in tranactingc matters of this kind. If this
Bill would neceaaarily-and I arn afraid it
would-take the supervision of that worok
out of Lis hands and place it in the hands
of a new and raw man 'who may be appointed simply because lie is a supporter 'cf
my hon. friend's administration, injury to
the public interest may arise. Everybody
knows that Mr. Pope's experience is very
proloiged, and that lie lias qualifications
for -that position as the resuit of that experience as 'well as from has own ability,
which render him very capable; and if the
effect of the passage of thia Bill would be
the appointment of some person who lias
had no experience in conducting these
affaira, which may be very delicate in themselves, and who lias no qualification fox
the position, it would certainly be inirnical
to the public interest. I shall not say anytbing here on the larger question of the increase in the number of portfolios. This
Bill should not lead to increaaing portfolios. If it should, it ia altogether wrong.
The Secretary of State for Canada ahould
be the head of any department that conducts negotiations, whether with the British
zoverrnent, with the provinces of Canada
or with outside countries. If we are going
to have sucli, they should be under the Secretazy of Strate. And if the effect of Vhis
Bill would be that a man brouglit in now

360

SENATE

under political exigencies, and made an
under secretary would, in a year or two, to
help to carry some oonstituency, be given
f ull rank with thie Secretary of State, it will
certainly be injurious to the public interest.
I hope not.hing of the kind is in contempla'ton, and that political exigencies will neyer
again make it necessary to do what has been
doue with regard to the creation of a -Department of Labour, which. I consider ta be
wholly unjustifiable and not in the publie
interest.

ROYAL GUARDIANS BILL.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
The aider of the day being called:
Second reading of Bill (No. 95) An Act
ta incoipo'rate the Royal Guardians-(Hon.
Mr. Casgrain).
Hon. Mr. DAVID moved the second oeading of the Bill.
Hon. Mi. LOUGHEED-Is this an insurIL
suce Bill, or what is its character?
seema to býe a very unique measuwe.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Perhaps my right
Hon. Mif. LANDRY-Guardians of what?
hon. friend miglit give us the assurance that
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Perhaps it would. he
it is flot the intention ta create a new portas well ta let the Bill stand until to-morrow.
folio under this Bill.
I have only moved it in the absence of Mi.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-AlI Casgrain.
I can say is the intention af the govern-ment
Hon. Mi. LOUGHEED-This appears ta
is as defined in the Bill. We do not proThe
,bc peculiarly a provincial maLter.
pose ta create any new Department of
society la intended ta operate only in the
State.
province of Quebec.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Fer the time being.c Han. Mi. LANDRY-Surely it cannot be
af that character, because my hon. -friend
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My right hon.
would never have moved the second readingfriend will remember there is a place paved
ai such a Bill.
%Nith good intentions.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I dîd not kuow anyHon. Nir. LANDRY-When my lion. friend thing about it.
speaks of the capacity of Mr. Pope, is it
Hon. Mr. POWER-The third clause o!
not possible that Miý. Pope rnight be giveu
that position and his place filled by ahother the Bill says:
man? Is there any intention of that kind?
3. The abjects of the association shahl be te
pramaote the welfare, social and fraternal, af
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I its members ta proteet those dependent upan
8uch mernbers, ta aid them during sickness
cannot say as to that.
or other disability, ta care for the living, and
buîy the. dead. ta pay annuities to members
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Do I undeîstand or a stipulated sum ta such beneficiary as a
is
my xight hon. fîiend ta say that the gov- deceased. member has, accordintahe
of the association, designated w e living, to
erninent does flot look foîward ta the ap- secure for its members such other advautages
pointment of a Minister of External Affairs, as are designated by the constitution and
association, and generally ta act
because I cannot forget that the Department laws of the
as a fraternal charitable, beneficial nd beneof Labour started precisely in this way?
volent association.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-l
do not undertake ta predict wbat may occur ini the future. Canada is a growing
countrv, and no one can tell ta what dimensions it may attaîn in a few years; but it
cert.ainlv is not oui intention ta create a
new cabinet minister.

There does not seem ta be any objection
ta those abjects, and I suppose the intention
is that the society shaîl operate over the
who]e country.
Hou. Mr. DAVID-I think it will be better ta let the Bill stand until Mi. Casgrain
is here.

The item was discharged and placed on
The motion vas agreed to, and the Bill
the orders foS to-moorrow.
was read a second time.
Bon. Mr. FERGUSON.

361

APRIL 27, 1909
ROYAL VICTORIA LIFE INSURANCE
BILL.

OANADIAN SEAMANSHIP AND NAVIGATION.

SECOND READING.
Hon. M r. DAVID xaoved the second reading of Bill (PP) An Act respectiag the
Royal Victoria Lif e Insurance Company,
and te change its -name to Royal Life Iasurance Company cf Canada.

-MOTION.
Hon.. Mr. ROSS moved that:

In the opinion of the.Senate, liberal prov ision ehould b. made at once for the instruction of Canadian marinera in »eamanship and navigation, with a view to the development of the shipping interests of Canada,
and, if need be, the protection of Canadian
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-This Bill is met co>mmerce in costal waters and on the high
printed-in French.
He said: My object in giving notice of
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS-If it is xiot priated in this motion and in inviting the attention of
French, I object te the second reading.
the Senate to what is comprised in it, ia te
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-There fa another objec- eall attention to what appears to be the
tion te the Bill passing, and that is using inadequate education now provided, as far
as I can ascertain, for marinera and seamen.
the word 'Royal ' ia the title.
I have no intention of opening the large
Hon. Mr. DAVID-The intention ia to question of naval defence. I suppose it
drop that word. The prornoters will consent would be a sort of anti-cliTnax to do it at
te drop the name wvhen the Bill ia before this stage in any case. It has been fufly
discuassed in another place. Public opinion
the cornmittee.
bas been very largely aToused in regard te
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The notice dees net it, and I arn delighted to know that both
say that the object of the Bill is te change parties *have agreed te a line of action in
the name of the cempany. The notice says regard te that very important matter. Thera
it is merely te gîve additional powers. If appeared te be for some time an excited
there is another company 'with a siinilar state of public opinion which it 'was »omne.
name, nobody has been notified that this what difficuit te control, and the whole
Bill is before the House.
question of naval defence, se far as Canada
was concerned, seemed to be in sucli an
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS-In view of the exuncertain position that it was aoanewhat
planation of the hon. inember, I withdraw
hard te arrive at a conclusion as to what
my objection.
was best te be done. Happily in tihis case.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose it is under- as I hope will always occur when the naztood that the preseat title of the company. tional honour is at stake and when the defence of the whole country is involved, both
'Royal Victoria,' will be retained?
parties have agreed as te the policy that
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I amn instructed te is te be pursued, and for the present at al]
events the public mind is quieted and pubr-tate that it will.
lic attention 'will later on be directed te
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill such mens as may be çonsidered prudent
was read the second time.
te take in order to meet what, I suppose,
we must meet and ought to meet, as soon
as a proper scheme can be evolved. It is
BILLS INTIRODUCED.
very gratifying te notice from the English
Bill (No. 77) An Act respecting a patent press that the position taken by Canada
of the Submarine Company.-<Hon. Mr. on this qu estion ia very satisfactory. My
Wilson).
attention was called by His Honour the
Bill (No. 87) An Act to incorporate the Speaker the other day to a very intereating
Arnprior and Pontiac Railway Company.- communication sent by Lord Wineton
(Hon. Mr. Wat.son).
Churchill, President of the Board cf Trade,
incorporate the te tlie London 'Times,' in whidh was iaBill (No. 122.) An Act to
dicated perbapa more clearly than from
Cabano Rai]way Company.

362

SENATE

any other source the attitude of the British
government and its possibilities and capabilities for its own defence and the defence
of the empire against aggression from~ any
quarter. .The House will permit me to
quote two or thTee sentences from this
letter. Referring to the defensive position
of Great Britain, he says:

1 read. the fig-ures for the assurance they
give to us Canadians that the old sea-dogs
of England are quite as capable t, anake the

defence o! the empire as ever they were,
and that we, perhaps, have nothing te fear
in the interval that may arise between
the time that the colonial governiments and
the imperial government may arrive at some

conclusion as

te what the colonies should
We have to-day, and we shall have in 1912,
besides officers, more than one hundred and do in order te strengthen the naval'supretwenty thousand seaman in regular service, macy of the empire and maintain her sovail chosen volunteers trained upon a twelve ereignty
at sea as of yore.
year system, that is to
say, more than double
the number which any other power, and more
than equal to the nmbers which any other
two powers will possess of niaval conscripts
trained only for three years at sea.

Now, 1 come te discuss the question that

more particularly pertains to the notice 1

have given, and that is, what are Canadians
doing te educate the seamen, not only for
I mnake this quotation in order that it efficiency as seamen, but -with the subsidimay go to the country, if possible, as the ary object o! fitting them
later for puropinion of a r-ising- statesman and member poses o! naval defence?
For the foundation
of the present government, and one who, no0 of all success,
eithier on land or at sea,
doubt, fully recognizes the importance of education is indispensable.
It may be true
piottîngc the empire in a defensive position. that Providence às stili on
the side o! the
I may supplemient his remarks by saying bigg.est battalions, but no matter
what the

that in the Spanish -war the Americans hadl size of the battalions may be, efficiency and

only twenty thousand seamen engag-ed, al- expert
knowledge wiii add to their streng-th
thou.-h thev were actively prosecuting a and
their power.
Then how are we to
naval attack on both oceans. Britaîn has get anything- in the
shape of naval educamore than five timnes as many active seamen tien?
I have looked carefully through the

for the defence of the empire as the United reports o! the Minister
of Marine and FishStates people had during the Spanish war.
eries, and I find very little to meet that
I may be permitted to make another quotainquiry. For instance, I find on page 192
tien, which is perhaps more technical, but
of the report of last year a statement te the
is also reassuring-. Hie save:
effeet that at a few places in Canada there
Apart from the slips of the ' Dreadnought' is a course o! lectures delivered under the
class, we have to-day. and shall still have in Department of Marine
and Fisheries. wvhich
1912, forty 6rst-elass' battleships under twenty
go, in my judgment, but a small way te
of age
yearsflrst-classto Germany's twenty, and thirty.
five
armoured cruisers te eight. The meet the requirements ef the case. I find
aggregate dispiacement of the 'British battleships is fb-e hundred and eighty-flve thon- there were in ail receiving inýstructions
sa,ýnd tons to the two hundred and forty-one under the Department of Marine 208 marinthousand tons of the German battleships . ers; that that instruction was given at eight
The British battleships carry six hundred
Pýnd flfty guns te Germany's three hundred points in the Domiinion o! Canada, namely,
and eightv-four. The aggregate dispiacement Victoria, Vancouver, Lunenburcr
Collingof the Bri'tish armeured cruisers ja four hun- wood, North Sydney,
Toronto, Quebec and
died and sixteen thousand tons te -the seventyf ve theusands tons of the German armoured Yarmouth; that the maximum attendance.
cruisers. The British cruisers carry four as I have stated, wvas 208, the minimumi
kundred and seventy guns to a hundred and
twelve. Our superiority is most marked in being about haif of that number. When we
the heaviest type of guns. The British battie- consider that we have over seventy-one
sbips carry one hundred and fifty-two twelve- thousand seamen, it will
be seen at a glance
:nch guns against fortv German eleveni-inch
guns; and the British crusiers, sixty-eight how meagre is the education provided. The
nine two-inch guns, against six German nine course o! instruction reported by the Minfour-inch guns. Surveying these figures and
others more detailed, which might be quoted, ister of Marine and Fisheries refers te the
r beIieve it ne exaggeration to say that the rule of the road. The errors of the compass
British navy at this moment is more nearlY have aise occupied the attention o! the
thrice than twice as strong as the navy of
lecturers, and more time has been devoted
G ermany.
Hon. Mr. RIOSS (Middlesex).

APRIL 27, 1909
of our land forces-it is surely
ta those two subjects than ta any other. t] re educationto consider what may be done
ime for us
ti
The report says:
nd doue use!ully for the education of aur
the attendancea
Though in sorne lacalities,
es forces. While we are spending seven
bas been rather discouraging, stili. on the s jillion on military education of our people,
ai the goyerninent m
whole, I think the efforts
ta inorease the efflciency af our seamen, have re are not spendiug a thousand dollars, so
been duly appreciated.
ar as I can ascertain, on naval matters.
No lectures were given ini Halifax St. Johnf t may be more, but I have no figures, and
and Kingston, owing to the fact that exarnin-I
ers were not appointed for these three places. an find no figures in the reports of the
The college authoritiea at Canso have, lastC epartment tbat really indicate how much
,rinter, made an atternpt ta teach the rudi- d
ments cf navigation, which proved sa satis- ve do spend. Surely when we consider the
factory that it ia the intention for this cern- rnmense importance of our Canadian comlectures deseries
ta
ing winter that have a on the of
ame basis asr nerce, it wouid be well for us ta sit down.
place
Iivered at
followed ia other schools and under contrai Lnd consider what can be done. It 'will
of bis department.
>e noticed that while we are spending so
its
consider that we have a mer- nuch on military education ini ail
When we
that the provinces are also spendchant marine, and have had one ever since )ranches,
every deCanada had an existence, and perhaps ai .ng generously on education in
We have schools of engineering.
merchant marine before we had any farm ýartment.
we have
of military organization, it seems deplor- we have schools of suxvey, and
and household
able that sa little should be done to pro- schools of domestic science
agriculmote the efficiency of thet marine. I arnm economy. Sehools of architecture,
theological
awaxe that there is an examination for bure and technical science,
and legal
masters and mates, and that certificatesr schools, schools for the medical
by the Departiment of Marine professions, in fact you can swing round
are issued
in Canand Fisheries testiiying toý their ability. the circle and find every profession
very well, but where la the edu- ada that has uny pretense ta be a profesThat is ail
ta the industrial or
cation provided on which that exainination sion, or ta contribute
is provided ex- the intellectual outlook o! the country, has
le basedP I find that none
regularly by
cept in the instances 1 have named. Now, its regular school supported
on our military education the state. W7e are spending about hall a
we are spending
of Toronto.
at the rate of about seven million dollars million a year on the University
If I would The provinces of New Brunswick, Nova
a year. That is a large sum.
their universibe permitted ta enter a mild protest against Scotia and Quebec ail have
say ties, and it is anc of the encouraging feathat very large expenditure, I would
sisters ta the
we have reached a point in military ex- tures of our generaus young
west that while they are laying the foundape'nditure at which, if possible, we should
institutions, they
pause et least and consider, if not, perhaps, *ion of their parliamentary
are 'contemporaneously with that laying
caîl a hait. I believe we must maintain
In the foundation ai universities, which, no
some fari of military organization.
ta thein in the future.
tact we have had saine such farin ai organ- douibt, wvill be a credit
and it Let us see what is involved in zny thesis.
ization for over a hundred years,
place, we have 7,528 registered
has îendered us valuable services during In the first
I vessels, ýCanadian tonnage. It is to be tethe war of 1812. The Duke o! Wellingutan,
the number af ships bult in
believe, admitted that Canada was preserved gretted that
Canada la fewer now than it was thixty
ta the empire by the heroism and loyalty
In my time, when I had the
of the Canadian volunteers. It rendered us years ago.
honour of a seat in the Commons, Canada
a service in the rebellion of 1837, and it
about fifth in the naval nations of
rendered service in 1867 and 1870 during ranked
the world. She is 110w down ta tenth. Our
the Riel trouble in the west, and iatterly
Canadian vessels is nat as
in 1885, during the seconid rebellion, and registration af
great as it wvas, but nevertheless 7,528 vesit showed its efficiency was illustrated
corps of naval officers
by these views presented at the tercen- sels require a large
and seamen af various grades in order ta
tenary ut Quebec last year. Having done
and in order ta carry ont the
so muoh for military education-that is for man them

SENATE
purpose for which they are bult. The value
of these is put at twenty million dollars,
and 'when you add to that the value of the
cargo they carry, and the value -of the lives
of the passengers they carry, and when you
consider the importance of oui coast and
lake trade and the lives and money involved, one cari see that so much property
should flot be left at haphazard, and that
the lives of so many people should not hc
imperilled, if imperilled they are, for the
vant of education of our Canadian seamen.
The crews of the vessels represent inwards
48,887. The crews of the British vessels
calling at Canadian ports represent 133,022
seamen, and the foreign vessels 86,389. Last
year we shipped 18,013 seamen. No'w, how
many of these were qualified we do not
know. They have to be taken fromn such
supply as may be offered. True the masters
and mates have certifloates. True sorne
captains and other officers may have received such instructions as have 'been given
at the places I have named, but therp.
seems to be, so far as the record goes, no
evidence of that training in seamanship
and navigation which an outsider, a landsman like myself, would consider a great
want in the naval education of our seamen.
Then I notice that
st year thirty-five
vessels were wrecked within Canadian
waters. Since 1870 there were 11,118 wrecks
in Canadian waters; lives lost, 5,630; property lost, M6,521,623. One is naturally disposed to ask, were any of these wrecks
avoidable? We complain, and rightly teo,
of the lives lost on cur rail-ways, and we
have legisîstion this year which is intended
to prevent that constant loss of life which
is so appafling and so distressing. Ilere we
have 5,630 lives lost and sixty-five million
dollars destroyed in that period. Are we
doing anvthing to inquire whet.her these
wrecks are preventable or to ascertain why
those wvrecks occur? 0f course there la a
report upon them in the departmfent. Thst
report may or may flot indicate whether the
officers in charge were efficient; but there
la the appalling fact of great loss cf life
and property without anything being done
fo provide that education which, in many
cases, might have prevented soine of that
boss. There is the difficubty in the right
of wav some times of vessels. Officers some
trnes misunderstand the signaIs given by
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

a vessel going in the opposite direction, or
from, the shore. There are variations of the
compasa which skilled officers shoiuld understand. There is so much te leaxin about
seamanship tliat I feel we owe it as a firast
duty te those 'who travel by sea. and those
who go out into the deep sea fisheries, to
those who coast along our lakes and sal
up oui rivers, or to those who go iurther
journeys afield, to say that their livea are
reasonably eecure and that the officers in
charge of ships shall possess certain qualifications. Thut is one side of the question.
Then the mateirials te be operated upon is
most e.ncouraging. WVith the exception of
Great Britain we have the greatest fleet of
fishermen of any country in the wox'ld. Thc
nuinher of fishermen reported last year wa,.
71,254, about one-haif the numbee of men
requured te man the British service, and
nearly three tirnes as many as were required
to man the whole United States fleet during the Spanish war. Besides those fishermen, we have engaged in canneries 11,442,
and in the salmon fisherles on the Pacific
coast 13,000 men, a total of 95,696. We have
this number engaged in perilous pursuits,
perilous ail the more if they have not the
proper qualifications, if they possess no
kno-wledge of seamanship and do not understand with some degree of professional knowledge the duties which pertain to their occupation. We have engaged in fishing 1,390
vessels and 38,711 boats, with a capital lnvest-ed of $ 14,826,952. Now, if there is any
great industry in this country like agricul
ture or great enterprises like railroads, or
if there is any poiessional pursuit requlring
skill like surveying or engineering,, we provide colleges to prepare men te enter those
professions, but here we have an army of
nearly one hundred thousand men for whom
adequate educational facilities are not provided. Let it net be supposed that I arn
cens.uring the Department of Marine and
Fisheries. Far from it. That department
has shown most commendsble energy in
what iAhas donc to improve our navigation.
The St. Lawrence bas been deepened and
lighted until it bas been said -by the Montreal board of trade that it is quite as safe
te navigate the St. Lawrence and the gulf
as it is to navi-gate the coast -of Nova
Scotia, New Brunswick or Newfoundiland.
Then our lakes have been light-ed very much

APRIL 27, 1909

365

better than they were ten or filteen years flot sec in any report which has come before
âge. We are apending $6,000,000 in that me the slighteat evidence that oui pilota
department for the improvement of our are being properly educated. It mnay tbe said
navigation and developing our commerce. here that seamen and fishermen, and those
and giving between two and three millions engaged li kindred 'employmenta, would
in subsidies to improve uur brade in foreigu consider that any education of an academic
countries, while the very meni who are to characteir would be infra dig-would scarcely
carry on that trade, the mnen who are to meet the condition. I undcrstand the prinavigate t.he St. Lawrence and our lakes feasion of a seaman la exceedingly practical
and to carTry us and our friends from, point in its nature, and la better learned on the~
to point, and the immense commerce which deck of a vescsel than in any school. Tha:t
is pouring down oui lakes and the St. is true of any profession. The medical
Lawrence seema not to be provided with man, 'a! ter getting ail the degrees t.hat the
an education suited to their occupation. collegea of Canada -or Great Britain can
What the Marine and Fisheries Department confer upon Mim, learna everywhere after
bas donc with such commendable enter- he entera upon his practice. and ne matter
prise in improving our commercial facidi- what his college training may have been,
tics and li developing the brade and com- it la when he is brought face to face with
muerce of Canada-and theire la yet much contagious diseases and ail sort of ailments
more te be done-might be extended to the bis education helps him and gives him
aeamen on whom that commerce so much statua as a medical mnan. I rememnber some
We have those eighty or 30 years ago, when we estahlished the Agnidepcnds.
ninety thousand seamen and those con- cultural College of Ontario, the old farmers
nected with them to educate, and be- looked upon acicntific agriculture as an imaides we have a smali ficet of our position. Thcy said a man could not learn
own, flot a very ambitious one, but anything of agriculture in that way, and
it may be the mustard aeed which wilT that the only result of establiahîng auch an
grow te much greater significance. We are institution would be te raise a number of
said to own a fleet of 28 steamers of our gentlemen farmers. In their opinion the
own, 12 cruisers for patrol and 20 tugs. man with the hoe was the only one who
Those in charge of these cruisers Tequire was qualified to cultivate the soil, and he
training and experience in navigation. Our could not learn anything about agriculture
vessels sometîmes run ashore, and somne- except with the plough or the hue in his
times get into trouble while making arrests hand. Ail that is dispelled new. Our agriof poachers from the United States, though cultural college, 'which waa attended in the
perhapa they do flot do enough of that. In firat place by a bare dozen or so, is nuw
any event, those in charge of our p(rotec- filled te the doors and other collegea are
1 beinq. estaiblished. The other provinces are
tive cruisers should be well qualified.
am mot reflecting on their qualifications, following the example cf Ontario, and in
because I do not know anything about it, the old land and New Zealand and Austrabut the facilities are flot provided for a lia agricultural schools have been estabthooeough education, and it is possibae that liahed.
My hon. friend from. Brockville know'a the
some of these vessels may be in charge of
men who are not as competent as they might progreas that has been made in dairying,
be. We paid in pilotage fees last year and yct twenty-five yeara ag people thought
$360,011. That is one of the most critical the best way te inake butter and cheese
and responsible duties that a sailor can be was the mode which had obtained in the
engaged to undertake. He goes on hoard past. We have grown out cf that, and are
a valuable steamer and is supposed to pilot now sendixig thirty million dollars worth
her safely. avoiding shoals and rocks and o! our cheese te outaide markets. We have
Irring two or three thousand passengers outgrown primitive method. We ace the
safely te their destined harbour and to see value of expert knowledge and acientifie
that the valuable freight she cardes is pro- investigation, and although there might be
perly landed, and yct, although we receive for some time indifference on the part of
In fees for pilotage that large sum, I do our seamen and others te methods cf edu-

SENATE
cation such as I will suggest a littJe later
on, it would require only a few years to
80 impress thern with the advantages of
these methods of education that they would
readily accept the improvement, and we
would be greatly benefited theraby.
T¶hen my proposition is that there should
be achools at ail our leadin-g seaports,
schools of soene sort or another. Our fiahermen are practically idie during the winter
monflis. There you have an excellent opportunity to bring thena under educational
influences. It rnay be, *as was the case in
our Normal schools in early times, that a
bonus rnight have to be given to bring those
people under that education. It would be
money well spent, as well spent as in subsidizing steamxships, but however brought
about, there' should be at every seaport of
any importance where fishermen spend the
vinter months some school that thev might
attend. The justification for such an exIt
penditure need not be dilated upon.
would add dignity to their profession; it
'would add to their independence; it would
develope the latent talent of our young men
engaged in naval pursuits and give them
They
greater pride in their profession.
'would be more trustworthy when put on
board ship, more companionaible to each
other, and their whole horizon would be
brightened. Instead of having a race of
fishermen and seamen whose educational
advantages are limited, and whose horizon
is narrow, we would have a better educated
clas-I arn not reflecting on thena at ailjust as we have a better class of dairymen
and fanmers now than we had some years
ago.
That leads to the next su-bject. TIhe
first, as I stated, was that there should
be some school, night school or day
schools, equipped by the government, and
teachers provided by the government.
The course of education should be onq
which would comnmend itself to practical
men, and there should be a school in neaTly
every seaport where fishermen congregate,
so that the fishemen on the upper lakes, on
the Pa.ciflc cyast, and aIl down the Gulf
of St. Lawrence and the Atlantic coast to
the barxks of Newfoundland, could fit thieanselves better for their professional engageinetrts, and in that way add ïmaterially to
their vaïlue as citizens and as seamen. Let
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

me give as a concrete case an example from
the mi'litary side of our education which has
proved of incalculable advantage to the
province of Ontaro-that is the establishiment of the Royal Military College at Kingston. I had the adventage o! being a member of the House when that college was
estaiblished.
Hon. Mr. ]ROSS (Halifax)-I introduced
the Bill.
Hon. Mr. BOSS (Middlesex)-It has cost
us considerable money. Now, some people
will say, if you are going to propose anyVhing in the direction of education for our
seamen, you might follow on the hunes of
the Military college. To a certain exteut
we rnight very well do so, but the Military
college is flot necessarily a school of miiitarism, ln which aggressive and blood-thirsty
character is developed. The Royal Military
College is a school of citizens. They have
no intention of pursuing a military career,
but they receive the znilitary training and
education in engineering, ]and surveying,
good English, penmauship plus a deg-ree o!
physical dill which is in itself a most
valuable education to any young man, and
you will flnd in almost every profession in
Ontario to-day graduates of the Royal Military College who have received their training and in the event of an emergency will
be a most valuable adjunct to the volunteer
service of the Dominion of Canada. They
are, perhaps, a reserve force in a certain
sense. Their education does not interfere
with their citizenship. They may be no
more aggressive in mmnd and character than
the ordinary citizen, but they have the
kno'wledge necessary, if battalions have ta
be formed, to be of service in case of auy
emergency. I amrnuow leading to the samc!
provision being made in some form or other
for our âeamen. I think we should have
a naval militia. Sorne provision should be
made for training our seamen, not only in
seama.nship, as yon would cail it, on a
physical basis, but seamauship with a view
to their employment in naval service ln
case o! euch service being required. Thev
have such services in the TUited States.
They have euhisted about four or five thonsand men in 'what is called the naval inilitia
o! the United States, and in the Spanish
war it was found tihat those who had ire-

APRIL 27, 1909
ceived soxue training in the naval militia enrolled by the United States, they have
were the most valuable nen they were able what they cali a -naval reserve and merto put their handa upon for equipping their chant marine. That naval reserve is ornavy, and the report 'whichi 1 have beside ganized for two purposes. One purpose is
me here from a commission appointed by to qualify the seamen'for the ordinary comthe United States government to consider mercial pursuits of the United States. Here
the -whole question of naval educatton, de- is the preambie of a Bill adopted *by the
cided that the Gloucester fishermen fur- United States Senate on February 14, 1906,
nished the best -men they were sabie to find which says:
in the whoie of the United States for a
There shall 4e enrolled, in sach manne:
naval service in that war. We could, at end under snob requirements as the Secrevery littie expense, organize a naval mîlitia. tary of the Navy may prescribe, from the
hereafter employed
The drill miglit be on naval. lnes com- oflicers and men now and and 6sheries of thie
in the merchant marine
bined with such rnilitary drill as might be United States, including the coastwise trade
necessary in order to promote their physi- of the Atlantic and Paci-fic and the Grea.t
Lakes. suai officers, petty officers, and men as
cal deveiopment, and otherwise qualify the may ibo capable of rendering service as memfishermen for naval service. Training ships bers of sa naval reserve, for duty in time qi
ajre willing to undertake such
could be found for this purpose quite easily. %rar,and who classified in grades and ratings
service, to be
In the United States they have flot only the aocording to their capacity as shown at time
naval mùilitia, but they have a naval reserve of enrolment. Nu man shall be thus entitled
citizen of the
and the United States government places at who is not a naturalization. United States either
by birth or
These mernbers of
the disposai of the states 20 ships whe-r3 the naval reserve shail be enroiled for a
those who enlist in the service for two years priod of four years, during which period
ishail be subjeet to render service on cal
tbey
receive training and instruction in naviga- d, the President in time of war. They shall
ton on ail sorts of vesseis sailing and steam. also possess sncb qualifications, receive sncb
That is another line where, by the expendi- instruction, and ýbe subject to such regulations
as the Secretary of the Navy may prescrîbe.
ture of a very smail arnount of nioney, conThat is the foundation of the naval reserve
siderabie efficiency could be given and a
foundation laid for a naval force which, if of the United States, and what is easy
we are going to do anything for the defence for thexu to do is quite easy for us to do.
of Canada, mnust corne sooner or later. Last We have more fishermen than they have.
year there were enrolled in the United We may not have as xnany ships afloat,
States in the naval militia 4,280 persons. and yet we could, from our fishermen and
The enrolment came froxu seventeen states. our merchant marine, established a naval
The United States government supplies reserve who would receive training in seathern with uniforms and the state govern- manship and who by that training would
ment with training ships, and the other lie available and useful in time of war. I
local expenses. The cost to the United am not so rnuch asking the attention of
States govemrnent for the naval militia iast the Senate to the naval necessity of this
year 'was oniy $60,000. Twenty shipa are training or the miiitary necessity of this
used, of smaàller or larger tonnage, as the training as I arn to the educational necescase may -require. Suppose we organize a sities of it. If we had a naval reserve ennaval militia in Canada, there is no doubt rolled as they are in the United States,
the British Admiraity wouid iend us train- the limait being 10,000 men, then when we
ing ships. The oid ' Victory,' on whose get our own cruisers, as we are going to
deck Nelson fought over one hundred years have by and by, and when we are going to
ago, is stili used as a training ship and one have our own Dreadnoughts, as I suppose
can imagine what an inspiration her pre- we shahl, and when we bave a fleet as
sence in Canadian waters would be to oui formidable as our wealth and population
people. But we have vesseis of our own will warrant, we shall have~ the mnen to
which are tied up at the ports during the man them. As Winston Churchui points
winter months. They could Ïbe used for out in that admirable letter, Engiand lias
training ships. There would be no difflulty the men-2,000 men-she bas the ships,
finding training ships nor wouid the ex- and 1 suppose, foiiowing the refrain of
pense be great. Besides the naval militia the old song of 30 or 40 years ago, she lias

SENATE

the money too. We have the men but -they
are untrained. We may have the shipswe have for they are afloat now some 7,000 of them, and we have money -enough to
put our naval forces on such a footing as
would render them efficient in any emergency. Some ten years ago, a commission
was appointed by the United States gaverument to consider the 'whole question of
the naval forces of the United States. Out
of that commission, to a certain extent,
grew the present navy of the United States.
That -commission made its report, which
I have here. As the resuit of that report,
they secured the passing of that Bill of
the United States Congress fromn the preamble of whîch 1 quoted. The commission reported:
This consideration of thle serious threekoId
disadvantages which -American shipowners
and seamen must now meet brin gs us ta the
deOinite imperative question, what remedy
dces the Mlerchant Marine Commission propC se to Congress?~ Our answer is embodied
as the result of eight months of inquiry and
reffeotion in the acoompanying Bill to promote the national defence, to create a force

of naval volunteers to establish Âmerican
ocean mail lines to foreigu markets, to promate commerce, and to provide revenue fi-oi
tonnage.

These four different purposes were embodied practically in a Bill from which I
have read, and it was to carry out these
purposes that the commission made their
report. Now, we want ahl of them. But
as that is not my line of thought now, we
will skip over the national defence, and I
will emphasize the establishment of the
Canadien ocean mail lines to foreign markets, whichi we subsidize to the extent of
over two millions, the promotion of commerce, and to provide revenue from our
tonnage. We ought to have more ships
afloat, Canadien bottoms, than we have.
There should not be so much o! the coasting trade of Canada donc lu foreigu vessels as there is. The seas should be dotted with our sals. That cannot be donc
unless you are prepared when the ships are
bullt to man them with trained men, and
that service is maintaiued to protect the
property in this way provided. Then again,
in the report from which I have quoted,
they refer to the policy of other nations.
Imitation is the sincerest iormi of flattery.
They say:
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

France and Japan bath pay whnlt isla
effect a naval bounty ba their de sea ishermen. Canada gives ta her vesseLs and men
ennually $160,000, American money, the proceeds af the Halifax award.

They'do not seem to have got over their
regrets yet that in the only arbitration
we had with them we had fair-play. They
continue:
Great Britain includes the hardy fishermen
qf Newfoundland lu her naval reserve, paying retainers and furnishing instruction. The
British reserve altogether, merchant, seamen
and fishermen censists exclusive of afficers,
uf upwards af 30,000 men, wha each receive
annuel retainers of from $15 ta $50. The
method adopted in the proposed Bill is, therefore, nat; anly in harmony with Americen
tradition, and indeed founded ou authoritative
precedent, but is iu accord with the practice
of the chief maritime powers o! the %vorld.
Sa that what I am suggesting is not iny
own invention and discovery, for I have
no expert knowledge on the subject, but
what I am suggestiug is lu harmony with
the policy of the United States, and the
policy a! almost every other country in
the world. Again, they make another observation as te the purpose of this naval
reserve. They say:
The proposed Bill will especially aid and
iercial vesinsure the construction of comm
sels that cen most easily be buit, owned and
rnanaged by men of moderate mean<s-vesseladapted ta, the present requirements of Americen acean commerce.
Iu establishing a naval reserve, it will be
sccu that two objects lu view were: One
that of defence, and the other the development of American commerce. \Ve ouguht to
be as ready to make an effort te develop
Canadian commierce as the Americans are
te develop their commerce, and if we are
te do our duty to the empire, we will see
that our seamen are as well educated as
the seamen o! the United States. Engaland
pays for her naval defenýce the sum of
fifteen shilling-s aud a penny per head.
whereas ber colonies ahl told only pay
four pence per head, and of that four
pence not a farthing is contributed
So
of Canada.
the Dominion
by
the ohd land, knowiug the importance
o! hier commerce and of maiutaining- the
sovereignty of the sea, knowing the importance of being supplied with better commerciail material than any other country,
taxes herself to that extent, while -%ve are

APRIL 27, 1909
flot contributing for naval education. as far land will send to us her best scholars in
seaananship; that she will send ta us those
as I can see, even the widow's mite.
There is one other step, a higher step stili; who are accustomed ta training boys on
every army requires officers, marshalis, gen- boa.rd training ships, and tha.t we, later on,
erals, men of the greatest fâme, men of wide will be able ta exchange fishermen. and seaknowledge' and experience to be gained per- men with her in order that the eduos>tion
haps later on. The United States has used of aur people may receive that advantage
West Point for the defence and the preser- which could not be obtained anywhere eIse
vation of the automony of the nation. Grant but on board a training ship.
My whole purpose in calling the attenwas a student at West Point, and so I
*What ýGeneral tion cf the Senate ta this question is that
believe was General Lee.
Grant's education cost was a trifie coin- at an early day a forward step should ha
pared witb what he did for the maintenance taken. A vote of one hundred thousand dolNo mian would lars this session would net frighten me, nor
of the American union.
think of grudg-ing for a moment the paltry perhaps double that amoun-t, in the way of
expense to the United States ci the few providing education for our seamen, in Iay
years Grant spent at West Point, compared ing the foundati-on, it may be, of a college
with the safety of the nation and the in- for the education of those who might juin
tegrity of the Arnerîcan Repuiblic. And that the naval reserve forces, or if something
leads to this thought, that while we provide more advanced is required, in laying the
for naval and military drill in its lowest foundation of a naval academy where specistages, and provide for naval reserves in al instructions could be given. Its effect
two years' training- on ships and such know- upan aur Canadian seamen would be inspirledge as men would get in instruction on ing. Lt is flot enough to show th-at *we can
board ship, and the management of a ship defend ourselves on land; we have proved
in ail its detaîls, there must be provided that time and again.
We have shown to the world on the veldt
some higher department, a naval univerêity,
st which education could be given in the o! South Afrîca that we can, jointly with
higher branches of the naval services, not the imperial government, defend the autofor purposes of war simply, but for pur- nomy cf the empire. Why nat take a step
poses o! peace as weld. In 1847 the United ta show that jointly with the imperial gevStates established the Naval Academy ai ernment, or separately if necessary, we can
Annapolis for the training of ber seamen, defend the sovereignty o! the British navy
and have spent on that the suin of tweleve wherever the British fiag flies. That canmillion dollars. Eng-land has had ber naval not be done without an effort, nor without
schools for many years, and in 1905 there the exepnditure of some money and let me
was opened at Dartmouth a school whi1h eay for myself that I coniese xny own de-.
cost £1.500,000 sterling. It was opened hi reliction in the matter that at an earlier
His Majesty the King as a school for th< estage I did not bring the matter before the
training of English boys in naval practice people of Canada in sanie sort of official
preliininary to their going on board train -form,
but it is neyer too late ta mend. Lt
ing ship for the practical part of their edu *is now before this august body in the
cation. I hope our govern'ment will be able feeble way in which I have presented it.
and our people will support them, if the y' I am sure it will receive the attention o!
znal<e the attemapt ta estaiblish same sor t the government, for 1 believe we have a
of naval acaderny out of which to graduat eprogressive government, and I am sure
men -who shall be the admirais of our flee tthe Minister of Marine and Fisheries, judgon the high ses, men who shahl take cbarg e ing by his record in other respects, will
cf the largest vessels on the ocean, 3.nd me, Slook upon this as one wsy by whieh le can
with the ability and training ta fill the mos tadd ta the importance cf hie office and
Tesponsiible positione in the service cf th .e greatly benefit the people of Canada. It i.s
empire. 1 have no doubt that in the coi «in this spirit and ini this purpose that I
ference with the imperial authorities an humbly submit this motion te the considinterchange will be agreed upon.* that En 9- eration of the Senate.
1REVISEDI EDIIO5<

SENATE
the lakes, but in the maritime provinces
aur masters and mates have ta pass exam!nations aimilar to those passed by the
masters and mates of the old country.
The Marine and Fisheries Department ai
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If Canada, as a mile, has followed I think
any hon. gentleman wishes ta speak, he can at not too great a distance, the exa.mple of
do so now, if not I will say a word or sa.
the mother country ini the matter of reHon. M. POWER-I am not prepared ta qui-ring certain qualifications fram the men
speak. I do not, however, think that the ta whose came the lives and property -of
speech ai the hon. gentleman fron Middle- ather people are entrusted, and I have not
sex should be allowed ta go unnoticed. This heard-I have miever understoad that the
Hause is under obligation ta the hion. gentle- captains and mates in the maritime provman for a great many very valuable and in- inces have mat been properly trained, and
forining speeches which hie has made on the thet they have mot dane their duty fairly
floor of the Senate, and I think that, ai- well. An hon. friend suggests that certithough this is the last speech up ta date, ficates are issued. 0f course they pase exit is certainly not the least. I think it is aminatians substantially the same as those
a very important speech, and contains a which are passed for the samne office in the
great deai of valuabie information and val- aid country. The impression that any one
uable sug-gestions. At the same time, I would get tram the opening of the hon. genhope that the hon. gentleman will not press tleman's resolution is that aur maisters and
his motion ta a division. It is not really, mates and aur seamen were mare ignorant
just at the present moment, a vital or what than those af ather countries, and that
we may cail a palitical question, a.nd I there was not proper provision made for
think it is not ivise that the Senate should their training. That statement is incorat present commit itself ta such a braad rect; and 1 do not think it is desirable, in
resolution as this. The suggestion 'which the interests af the reputation of Canada
I venture ta make ta the hion. gentleman and ai the eputations ai aur mercantile
tram Middlesex is this: He is the Chair- marine, that any such impression ehould
man ai the Senate Cammitt-ee on Commerce go abroad. My hion. friend suggests that a
and the Trade relations af Canada. This good many af aur men have entered the
resolutdon ai his, and the information which United States navy. When the hon, genhe haa given ta the House, and the expres- tleman called attention ta a report made
sions ai opinion whichi he has given, I by a United States commission as ta their
think, would torm very proper material ta navy, that the Gloucester fishermen were
go before that cammittee and be reported up- the best subjects they had in the United
on whether favourahly or atherwise by the States navy. I could nat forget the tact
committee ta the Senate, alter due consid- that there are -hardly any native United
eration. I am not coing into any extended States citizens fishing out of Gloucester.
criticism af the han. gentleman's speech.' The men who fish out ai Gloucester are, ta
I just look et the notice w-hich the hion. a certain extent, Norwegians, Swedes, Partuguese-perhaps nat s0 many Swedes, but
gentleman bas civen, which says:
Norwegians and a good many Portuguese
In the opinion of the Senate liberal provi- and a great many Newfoundlanders, Nova
sion shauld be mlade at once for the instruction ai Canadian inariners ini seamianship and Scotians and Prince Edward Isianders..
navIgatinHon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-And Cape BreThe natural conclusion which any one tonians.
would draw from reading- the introductory
Hon. Mr. POWER-Does Cape Breton not
portion af this notice is that the seamen
It did not when
af Canada at the present time have not form part af Nova Scotia?
the hion. gentleman was born, but it does
been properly instructed in seamanship
now.
and navigation. I do not think that that
Hon. Mr. ROSS--It did not when I was
statenient is borne out by the tacts. 0f
course I cannot speak, af what is done on born.
Hlon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think this is a matter irr which we should have an expression
tram the hon. member representing the
gavernment in this Chamber.

APRIL 27, 1909

Hon. Mr. POWER-That is what I say. gentleman's views will certainly have very
'While the information which we have re- great weight indeed I -wish te caîl atIf you stipulate
teived is very valuable, and while the views tention to this fact:
'which the bon, gentleman has expressed that every master and mate et a coastwith respect te what may be done at some ing vessel ia te have a certain eider of
future time, are of great value, as I said training, masters and mates of coasting
when 1 began, I do net think the Sepate vessels will not go into naval academies or
would be wise just now to commit itself un- schools of seamanship uniesa they are b
reservedly to this resolution. The resolu- liged te go. If you oblige tbem to go, and
tien proceeds:
make that kind of education compulsory, I
- with a view to the development of the shm-> am afraid you wiil interfere very seriously
ping interests of Canada, and, if need b., the with the ceaating trade and with the fisherprotection of Canadian commerce in coastal ies of the country, without pîeducing, to
waters and on the high seas.
my mind, any resuit sufficientiy desirable
The 'hon. gentleman apparently thinks te caîl for such drastic action. The hon.
that ail that is necessary for the purpose of gentleman spoke about the wîecks which
increasing our mercantile marine is that we teok place, and about the large number of
should give sailors a training that they have lives which are lost, and he seemed to think
not to-day. But the hon. gentleman himself that if we had better training and better
stated that Canada did not occupy the posi- education of oui Cariadian seamen, that loss
tion now that she eccupied say 40 years age of life would be very much less. I think
in the matter of mercantile marine. The there is eomething in that, but there la net
fact that we have dropped back is due in no so much in it as the hon. gentleman would
respect whatever to the want of men who suppose. In the fiast place, hon. gentlemen
are qualified to man and command these wiii bear in mmnd that of the wrecks that
ships. Our losing ground is due to alto- have taken place in Canadian waters, the
gether different - circumstances. It is due .m.ajerity -have net been 'wrecks of Canadi-an
largely to the tact that steam bas supplant- vessels, they have net been wrecks of vesed sails, and that iren and steel ships have sels manned and offlceied by Canadians.
supplanted wooden ships, and it is due also As a mile the more serieus wrecks have been
to a certain extent to the change in the taîiff wrecks of vesseis which are net registeîed
in oui country. Whether iAis desirable that in Canada. The hon. gentleman bas refeîCanada should go into the 'business of creat- red te the very serious bass of lie which bas
ing a navy is a question as to which I do accompanied wrecks that have takzen place
flot suppose we are called upon te pronounce in Canada during a certain number ef years.
just new, and, consequently, I do net sym- A comparatively smaîl number et those who
pathize -with the hon. gentleman's proposai lest their lives have been Canadians. One
that we should create a navy new and estab- steamer, the «Atlantic,' was lest a few miles
lish a naval academy for the purpose of from Halitax in 1873, and there, were over
training admirais for a navy which. dos net 500 lives lest in that ene wreck. I dare say
exist. At the present time we have, speak- that in 20 years there have net been that
ing of the maritime provinces, enough quali- number of lîves lost in Canadian vessela in
fied officers for our requirements. It is de- Canadian waters, and we sheuld bear that
sirable, no doubt, that the education of any in mind. Oui seamen and efficers, while
cîass of our people should he improved. I they .may net have the high technical edudo net think that the educatien of eur cation which the hon. gentleman thinks
master and mates bas been neglect- they sheuld have, as a generai thing have
ed; but it might be desirable that more been very well able te take cars of the livea
shouid be done, and the modus operandi and property cemmitted te their care. The
and the limitations under which these hon. gentleman said aomethîng about the
ehould be undertaken are matters that pilota. I knew that the pilots about Halimight very properly be considered by the fax have te undergo examinatiens, and, as
comxnittee to which I have referred, of a rule, are quite up te their wverk.
I do net propose te say anything fuither.
which the hon. gentleman is himseif the
chairman. Bet oie that committee, the hon. I do net think the House should pass this
24à

SENATE
resolution in its present unqualified form, -a year, and nobody would'feel it. We would
although I feel that we are alI under a very then have a fund for this purpose commengreat obligation to the hon. gentleman for surate with -what we should have. I do
having laid this very important inatter before think the hon. gentleman from Halifax
us. When reading the notice which the hon. wshoîuld flot have criticised that 8peech. Fergentleman gave, I did not think he proposed haps 'the hon. gentleman may -feel that we
to dwell as much upon the navy feature of have 'been over-topped in Ne-w Blrunswick.
the subject as he has actually done; but I We have given the country one of the sea
arn satisfied now, in fact I should have been lords of the admiralty, whose name I forget.
prepaTed to take that view in any case, that, We have given the country Admirai Scott,
as this question of a future Canadian navy, who commanded a fleet, and we have Ador the future action of this country with re- mirai Kingsmill who commanded the 'Canspect to naval defence is to be considered ada,' s.nd Admirais Drury and Douglas.
very shortly, as I understand, by representa- This resolution is a decided step in the
tives of the government in Canada in con- right direction. Why should we trown down
ference with the imperial admiralty authori- the effort of the hon. gentleman to continue
ties, the government would make no that good work? We are flot to care anymistake whatever in securing the services thing &bout trade and commerce. My hon.
of thre hon. gentleman from Midd.lesex to friend froin Halifax says the hon. gentleaccompany the Minister of Militia and the man ahiould go beore the committee. There
Minister of Marine and Fisheries to that they will discuss the fish question £rom
conference. While I -do not believe in spend- Nova Sootia or any other question from New
ing money, 1 should be fully prepared to Brunswick; but let this question of marine
say that any reasonable sum which the gov- education and training stand on its own
ernment might devote for the purpose of merits and on its own -bottom, as a great
sending the hon. gentleman over with the imperial iesue which we must deal with. 1
other two hon. gentlemen, would be well do think that no better move could ibe made
spent and would have the hearty approval by my hon. frien-d than to show 'that the
of parliament.
Senate proposes to be a little more indepenHon. MiIr. DOMVILLE-I cannot say that dent, being outside the reach -of the taxI arn overwhehned with the speech made payer, that they may lay down a doctrine
býy the hon. gentleman fromn Halifax. It to be acted upon which the public generseems t-o me that the criticism has been ally would commend, and we could supmade ibecause the subject %vas brought up port the hand of the government in
by the hon. gentleman fron Middlesex. voting the money, or passing a measure
That hon. gentleman made a speech which, which would accomplish our object. EngI venture to say, will ring- through the land is looking to Canada to-day. She has
press of England to-morrow. I predict that not now the same opinion of Canada as
there is flot a newspaper or a magazine she had twenty years ago when we were a
published in the old country that wîll not struggling community; to-day her people
speak of the great work emanating from are coming here to make a British home.
the Senate to-day, and is there any less This is going to be a British country. The
force in it because it emanates from the wealth follows the people who corne here,
Senate? We are told now and then that and, imperceptibly, without any effort of
the Senate does nothinga. We hear outside our own, we will become a very importwould scarcely care to repeat the ant part of the empire, and the imperial
-I
epithets which people apply to us. But destiny. It must be so, and 1 congratulate
here is an hon. gentleman whio tneets the my bon. hiend from Middlesex and I
necessities of the hour, and points out what hope the House will excuse the hon. memwe may do and what we may be called ber from Halifax for treating such an imupon to contribute. He points out the duty portant question as this in such an ordino! the hour in Canada, looking to the future. ary way.
There are several million people in Canada
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do not sympato-day. If they contributed one dollar per
seven million dollars thize with the view put forward by the hon.
capita, it would be
Hon. Mr. POWFR.

APRIL 27, 1909
gentleman from Halifax, that the passing motion covered. I tbought the resolution
of the resolution wvould ibe a reflection referred solely te educating navigaters on
on our seamen. If so, we have beeîî and along the coaste te do their duty; but
s]ighting and depreciating our farmers the hon. gentleman brought inte it an irnverv much, and nearly every clase of peo- perialistic idea, with regard te war, &c.,
pie ini this country, by tihe legisiative which the resolution does not on the face
action which we have taken froin time to of it, cover. I agree generilly with what
time to improve their methods. At tht my bon. friend on my right said, that
smre time, I an quite prepared to admit sinoe con! ederation was fornied the govthat although 1 was born near the sea, ernment of Canada, without regard te pol.
and have lived there ail my life, I amn far itical intereats, bas done a great deal to
from having* much nautical knowledge, develop good and capable seamanship; and
and I question very much whether this he properly, I consider, pointed out that
House has the information before it at there were schools of navigation in the
this moment which would justify the pass- provinces. The hon. gentleman wbo proing of the resolution in the form in which posed the motion in bis speech, seemed to
my hon. friend has presented it to the imply that the government of Canada had
House. But I do think that we would be been neglectful entirely of thre educationa]
performing a very useful duty if at an interests of navigators. I thînk that is not
earlier day of the next session my hon. the fact. I think we have as good navigafriend, from the excellent start he bas tors as can be found anywhere. One of tha
made, would move for a committee to in- great troubles we have is that, as soon as
vestigate the position of ou.r searnen, you bave thoroughiy and properly trained
and the necessity for instruction and edu- a navigater, he will be picked up on the
cation. If a committee of investigation other side o! the boundary, and, if he -beshould be appointed by the Senate, and cornes a -citizen o! that country, be wiii be
we had some of the best experts before us suire te obtain a good situation. Therefore
to give us their views on it, the parliament it is reasonable to infer that tihe work of
o! Canada could not undertake a better work instructing the navigator in Canada is very
than to endeavour to make our good sea- well done. If the question is to becomq
men better sailors, if we could possibly do a national question, and to 'be discuseed
it. With that object i vîew I wc>uld sug- altegether, or almost entireiy, with a view
gest to the hon. gentleman from Middlesex te a military or naval. future, it had better
flot to divide the House -on the motion at be postponed and be brought down by the
t.he present time, that he might allow it to governxnent and deait with as a national
drop for the present, and if he approves p0licy.
of my suggestion, at an early date next
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTsession be would move for a committee of
inquiry into the whole subject matter, The House will agree with me that my
which comxnittee would be able to report hon. friend bas made, as be always does
to thre House some tangible system by make, a very interesting and informing
wbich we might improve the skill and sea- speech in many respects on the subject he
bas seen fit te 'bring up. At the saine tirne
manshîp o! our sailors.
he will remember that this is a question
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-As the motion appears which is at this very moment under the
on the order paper it declares that pro- consideration o! the government o! Canada.
vision should be made at once for the in- who are about to depute several of tbeir
struction of Canadian inariners in sea- number te confer witb the imperial authorman.ship and navigation, witb a view te ities on a question to which, tbough not
thre development of the shipping interests specifically mentio-ned in this -motion, he
of Canada, and, if need be, the protection bas devoted a good deal of attention-the
of Canadian commerce in coastal waters best mode of siding and assisting in the
naval defence of Canada. Under the cirand on the high seas.
Tbe speech thût the bon. gentleman bas cumatances. wbile be ecau bave no objection
delivered went much .beyond What the in the world t0 having the benefit of the

SENATE
hion. gentleman's views on this subject, as or ten miles off the coast to fish. The crew
this is a question which of necessity ini- that are quaiified to man th-at boat are aiso
volves a large expendituxe of public money, qualified te man and sal a schooner of
the Senate is aware, it is not exavotly at the 100 tons. Every soul on the hu'ndred of
disposai of this Chamber, and as it is under vessels, now on the banks, lrom the county
the consideration of the government at this of Lunenburg was *a fisherman. They are
present time, wàthout in the ieast de- ail fishermen te-day and are capable of
gree wishing to dissent from or disparage manning these vessels. They buiid, rig
the view my hion. friend lias been taking, and sail them, a.nd do it very suocessfully.
it would hardly be politic for us as a Senate I know o! two captains of the fast steamers
to pass a resolution cailing on the govern- that frequented Halifax iast winter; one
ment to make a considerable expenditure balonigt te Pictoyu and the other te Sydney,
of money for a purpose that tliey are ai- C.B., in his younger days. They advanced.
ready engaged in considering. Therefore step by step until tliey reached their preI do not think
my hion. friend, having made his speech, sent prominent 'position.
which no doulit will attract a very con- that we ahall have any trouble, after the
siderable amount of attention both here Minister of Marine and Fisheries and the
and elsewhere-having brought this question Minister of Militia come back, to find the
before the House and country, could afford men that wili be required to man a Canato aflow the matter to drop for the moment dian navy from our own people. The schools
If at a later o! navigation are not as far advanced as
and witlidraw his motion.
a succeeding session hie deema it I should like them te be. As my hion. friend
period in
wise, after the government had brought has said, while the deck of the vessel is
down any scheme that they may succeed in the best school for training-, the sailor lias
devising for the purpose of promoting the te learn navigation ashore. Hle has te learn
very important object that hie has in view- lunar observation and dead reckonin.
if hie thinks it is desirable then to revive Then he puts them in practice on board a
It
it lie wili have the opportunity no doubt, vessel and goes forward step by step.
flot in the ieast degree wish lias been remarked that in the days when
and while I do
to interfere with the views of the House, 1 we had saiiing ships frGm Pictou, Arichat
Yarmnouth going te ail parts of the
think that my hion. friend would be wel and
advised, under the circonstances, having world, our people were fully as capable in
the transacting everything in connection with
to withdraw
speech,
made his
ships as those who came fromn Eng.-and or
motion.
Scotland. Those wlio came from the oid
Hon. Mr. ROSS (H-alifax)-I listened with country put their slips in the hands of
a great deal of pleasure and attention to the their agents, and did not look into anything
very able address that bas been given to untiltheywere-ready tosalagain, while our
us by my lion. friend and naRnesake from o-wn men, being more enlighitened and trainMiddlesex. I wrote some letters stating e>d to business, are capable o! looking a! ter
that whule ive hiad coileges and experimental the interests o! their own vessels very closefarms for farniers and everything of that ly. In that respect, they have been more~
kind, that we liad nothing in the world to successful and of more advantage te their
show we *were doing anything to educate owners. I am not so sure but we are spendour fishermien. They are allo;ed to grope ing teo mucli money on our present rnilit.ary
a]ong- and foliow the systern that was in system, and that if we reduced the numvogue perhaps one hundred years ago, when ber o! men trained and train them better
they should lie taught the proper size of at sudh places as HTalifax, St. John, Quepackages, the proper method o! curing, sait- bec, Montreal, Toronte, Hasmilton, the prining and drying- and preparing fish of the cipal tewns, it would be a better foundabest qualiýty for the markets. But nothingc tion. You cannc>t make soldiers o! men
of t.hat kind has ever been done. No-w, as in a short time. It requires çayear in Great
te our sailors, they are taken from our Britain to train a eoldier as lie should be
fishermen. A fishierman takes his sons out trained. It la 3ifferent with our seamen.
with him in largue boats, and they go nine beoause they commence as fishermen, and
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

APRIL 27, 1909
g-o up step by step. It is not likely, as the
leader of the government has observed, that
we can bring this matter te a pra.ctioal
issue this -session, because we cannot initi&te any grants of money ini thie body; but
the subjeet is one of importance, and I
think my hon. friend deserves a large
amount of credit for the study and research
he has given to it, as he dees ail subjects
to whieh his attention is drawn. If we
should be spered for another session, we
might take up this question and deal with
it intelligently, and we would be doing
better service than discussing hc>w the
Senate should -be refornied in the future.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not desire
to discuss the merits of the resolution, but
te say that I appreciate the difflculty under
which my hon. frîend from Middlesex laboured when introducing, a subject of this
kind without striking a'martial note. He
consequently lied to introduce it so te speak
under a fiag of truce so as not to excite the
martial instincts nlot only o! the House
but o! the public. His resolution is subject to this comment, that it is too general
in its ternis. One branch of it I should be
very glad te support indeed, and that is as
te the establishment of a naval academy te
train our men for naval defence and the
protection of our coasts. I amn net prepared
witheut hearing further discussion on the
subject to say that the governinent o! Canada should enter upon the training of seamen for commercial shipping. In the early days of England's supremacy on the sea
academnic training was neyer resorted te by
the British governiment. It has neyer been
done by the government of any great maritime nation so far as I know. Such establishments have been mainteined for the
protection of the national interests of those
governments from a naval rather than a
commercial standpoint. If my hion. frienda'
resolution had been o! a concrete character
in this direction I should be very glad te
support it. I was about te say before the
leader o! the House made lis observations
in view o! the f act that both sides in the
Gommons have given a unanimous support
to the resolution adopted by the government
on this very important question - a question 'which is agitating the empire at this
very critical time and on which opinion is

375

accute-I think it desirable that this policy
should be further matured and submitted te parliament before generally discussing it. I congratulate my hon. friend on
his very eloquent and interestmng speech.
It will attract attention 'net only ini Canada but throughout the empire, and will be
received I am satisfied with the greatest
degree o! gratification in England. They
wiil be pleased to know that there ia a respense in the colonies at this critical time to
the feelings of apprehiension which have
been expressed in the imperial parliament.
I ceincide with everything my hon. !riend
has said as te the neccssity of Canada giving a hearty response te the imperial authorities on the su-bjeet. At the sanie tume
I concur in the views expressed by the
leader o! the House as te the prepriety o!
letting this matter remain in abeyance until the policy of the gevernment has been
elaborated and submitted te parliament.
It can then be discussed in a more intelligent form than in the way it is embodied in
the resolution.
Hou. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I have te
thank hon. inembers for the kind manner
in which my motionhlas been received, snd
the very kind references te the feeble
attempt I have made te present it edequately te the House. I want te disabuse the
mind of my hion. friend from Hel!fex as to
ene view ha toek of my ýspeech, that was
that I refiected on oui seamen, or upon
their education. If I did se it must have
been an inadvertence on my part. 01 course
I had -to predicate nmy speech on semething.
and if I were sure that the education was
adequate my speech would -have -been unnecessary. I was net sure, 'but I did net
intend sny uncertainty on that point should
be a reflection on these connected with our
marchant marine. I have te say aise tliat
in view o! aIl the circuanstances-, perhaps
the main purpose I lied in mind has been
sarved, by calling attention te what appears
te be the inadequate mes.ns of educating
oui merchant marine, and elso the impor'tance ef iaying a foundation. for a naval
force later on. That foundation must be
laid, and it can only be laid by training
our seamen in the art o! navigation, and
ail that pertains thereto. Another observation of -the hon. member from Calgary inight

SENATE
require notice. He madle the remark tliat
the Merchant Marine of England was
equipped not from naval acadeanie-s, 'but
huom anuther source. The fact is, however,
that those in command of the mercantile
marine were trained in the naval aoademy,
but not beîng required in the regular service
were employed in the commercial service,
and the commercial service got the ibenefit
of their training-. It does iiot follow that
because a man goes bo a military school
he mnust be a soldier. The benefit of that
training may be got in some other way, and
it 'would flot follow that because a man has
taken a course of training in a naval academy hie must go as a fighting searnan. His
education wvould be quite as useful in time
of peace, and times of peace have to lie provided for as well as times of war, and the
more peace -%e have the ýbetter -%e are for
il. In view of what the rig-ht hon, leader of
the House says as to what is on hand, and
is to be undertaken by the gove.rnment, I
need flot press my motion on the attention
of the House. I am quite confident that
something will result from this conference,
and perhaps the observations 1 have made
may help to strengthen public opinion s0
that the governiment may approach this
matter with e-reater determination, and that
Fi compTehiensive scheme may bie submitted
to parliament. With the consent of the
House, I -%ithdraw the motion.
The motion was withdrawn.
The Senate adjourned until to-morrow at
three o'clock.

THE SENÂTE.
OTTAWA,

Wednesday, April 28, 1909.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (XX) An Act to incorporate the
Fundy Power Company.-(Hon. Mr. McSweeney).
NEGOTIATIONS WITH NEWFOUNDLAND.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the orders
of the day are proceeded with, may 1 direct
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax).

the attention of the govern.ment to certain
reports which have appeared in the press
yesterday and to-day respecting negotiations between Sir Frederick Borden, Minister of Militia, and an intermediary on
behaif of Sir Robert Bond, representing the
government of Newfoundland, touching the
question of t.he inclusion of Newfoundland
in the federation of Canada, and as bo the
termis alleged to be ag-reed upon betweein
the negotiating parties, and may 1 ask
my right hon. friend if there is any truth
in the reports that have just been pubiIished? Apparently the Minister of Miiitia has been, according to bis own statement, acting as negotiator. I should like
to know whether he has been authorized
by the government of Canada to so act?
1 might say that this is another illustration
of the press and the public securing information on very important state matters
before it is communicated to parliarnent.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWIJGHT-As
regards the last part of my hon. friend's
remarks, I can entîrely relieve bis mmnd.
This is flot a case of the press havin_,
earlier information, but this is a case, sucli
as frequently occurs, of the press iinventin- information for the benefit of lion. gentlemnen who desire bo make some remarks
in parlia.ment.
If my hion. friend had
looked a littie dloser at the newspaper report he would have seen, probably, that
there 'was no foundation whatever for the
statements madle. and I believe Sir Frederick Borden bas expressly denied thein.
In any case, no such negotiation is c-oingon.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I did not understand that Sir Frederick Borden denied that
there wvas correspondence.
He admitted
there was.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
have flot seen him since.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED- I would direct
attention to an interview with Sir Frederick
Borden, published in to-day's 'Citizen.' in
which lie apparently discussed the wholc
subject and assumes responsibility for the
insertion of the report.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTXVRIGHT- la
any case, I may say that these newspaper
reports are not only previous, 'but utterly
unfound.1p.

APRIL 28, 1909
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In THE COMMISSIONERS 0F THE INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY.
view of the statements made *by the hion.
leader of the House, and the declaration
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Belore the oiders of
of the Minister of Militia and Defence that the day are ýproceeded -with, I would ask
hie would like to have ail the correspondence the riglit hon. leader of this House if it
published or laid before the House, with the is bis intention to lay on the table of th3
permission of the Heuse I give noticeý House that order in council naming the
that on Friday next I will mnove that an commissioners of the Intercolonial Railway'
order of the Senate do issue that ail cor- I see it bas been laid before the House of
respondence between Sir Frederick Borden Commons, and I do net see why this bouse
and others relating te the admission of New- should not be treated in the saine way.
foundland as a province of the Dominion
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
be laid on the table of the Senate. I
should not have given this notice were it will take a note of it, and see that the
not for the fact that it lias been reported matter is laid on the table.
either in the officiai debates or in the newspapers-I ar n ot at this moment prepared LONDON AND NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
te say 'which-as a declaration by the minlie -%ould like the *whole
ister himself that
SECOND READING.
of the correspondence to be published. I
Hon. Mr. COFFEY (in the absence of
should like very much to see it, because Hon. Mr. McMullen) moved the second
if bis statements be correct it verifies what reading of Bill (No. 102) An Act to incorI took the opportunity te explain the other porate the London and Northwestern Railday at a meeting.
way Company.
He raid: I would not make this motion
Hou. '.Ir. FERGUSON-I would suggest were it net that I have acquaintance with
the motion should
to my hion. friend that
some of the men connected with the enterbe made a littie miore direct, that it sbould prise, and I am sure they are responsible
certainly include others beside the governor men wbo meati business and want te 'build
Mr. Crowe, who apof Newfoundland.
this road. If it were for the purpose of dealpears te be a very influential -man in New- ing in charters simply I would flot have
foundland and hias very valuable and im- anything te do with it. This road will start
portant interests there, is the person withi at London, Ont., crossing the Grand Trunk
whom it is afleged this -correspondencE Railway at Parkhill, and go on te Grand
took place, and if my bon. friend's motioni Bend on Lake Huron. and then to Sarnia
did net include correspondence with Mr, on the River St. Clair. I hope this Bill
Crowe there might possibly be no satis. will be allowed te go to the committee,
factory reply.
because I arn sure if any objection should
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I in be raised, those interested in the measure
tended to put it that way, and wîth thi will be able to give satisfactory explanaconsent of the House I will put it ' wit]: Stions.
Mr. Crowe and others.'
bon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL- The
Hon. M~r. POWVER-It occurs to me tha t hon. gentleman hias not touched t.he objectien te this Bill, which is simply thîs:
inasmucb as the correspondence betweei It rbeing an exclusively local read in the
Mr. Crowe and Sir Frederick Borden i
of Ontario it sbould be chartered
private, it is possible that it may flot be province provincial ]egislature. The objecby the
brougbt down.
tien takien is to the second clause of the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We do net know yel Bill, in wbich it is declared to be a work
for the general advantage of Canada, and
Hýon. Bir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- I that is a question that we have been net
will inform my bion. friends that any officie LI only debating, but fighting ever for a numcorrespondence wîll be brought down, an d ber of years. The cbartering of these local
lines bias been carried tn sucb an extent
nothing else.

SENATE

that short roads exclusively withmn a province and which, under the Confederation
Act, should be within the jurisdiction of the
province, -are declared Vo be 'works for the
general advantage of Canada. That is a
direct and palpable evasion of our constitution. Personally, I repeat here what I
have frequently stated in committee, I
believe it would be in the public interest
that all rail-ways should be under one jurisdiction, and that jurisdiction the Dominion.
I would cheerfully support an amendment
te the Confederation Act to that effect; but
so long as the provisions ef the Constitutional Act place the granting of charters
and the contrai cf railways which are exclusively within the province under the
jurisdiction cf the provincial authorities.
we are exceeding our power and evading
the provisions of the Constitutional Act
by constantly putting these words in local
Bis in order ta bring them under the jurisdiction of this parliament. We have had
inany illustrations of this, and these words
are frequently used for the purpose cf obtainîng pow-ers vhich would flot be granted for
local reasons by the provincial legislature.
It 'will not be denied that the road contemplated by the Bill before us would be
better understood in the Ontario legislature than here, because the great xnajority
of senat-ors are flot from the province îmimediat-ely interested in the wýork. Having
ta.ken a stronz stand ýon this question in
the past, I deem it my duty te express my
dissent from adding this second clause ta
the Bill. The line will have no connection
with any province outside Ontario or with
a foreizn country. It coes te the lake, I
admit, but hat is in Canada just as
London is. It is no more a Dominion work
than a road tram Ottawva to Brockville
would be.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-When this Bill was
before the Senate a few days ago, I offerei
my -objection ta the company being- incorporated by the Dominion parliament. T
felt then, as I feel nowv, that wve should cal]
a hait and cease te take control of matters
which are under the jurisdiction of the
provincial legisiature. I fully agree with
ahl thst bas been se ably stated by the hon.
gentleman from Hastings. I cannot see why
the adding of a few words to the second
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

clause, declaring this work to be for t.he
general advantage of Canada, should change
the ju.risdiction of the local legisiature. It
is nothing more or less than a deception
and a fraud. I shall fot further oppose this
Bill, and I should be delighted il the people
of London could construct the road. But
the local legisiature bas prorogued, and
as those who are interested in this road
may wish to proceed immediately with the
work of construction, having so much capitai and energy, it would b«e hardly fair
to delay the passage of this Bill any longer.
We should, however, be more careful about
interiering with the ju.risdiction of the local
legisiatures. Some day -we may get into
difficulty over it. There is a Railway Board
for the Dominion, and aise an Ontario Railway Board, and rny hon. friend from Mi-dlesex knows fully well that the Ontario
legislature is capable of looking after the
interests of Ontario as well as the Dominion parliament can look after the interests
of the Dominion. I withdraw%my opposition to the Bill, but I hope we inay soon
arrive at a conclusion either to carefully
scrutinize everything that interferes 'with
the jurisdiction af the legisiature or give
the Dominion the sole jurisdiction.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I am glad the
hon. member from St. Thomas has withdrawn his opposition to this Bill, and that
he will allow it to go -before the Railway
Committee -where both sides can ibe heard
and objections to the Bill can 'be threshed
out. For myself, I quite agree with the
position taken by the hon. ýmember from
Hastings, that aIl railways in Canada
should be chartered by the Dominion parliament. A charter granted by the local
legislature is very littie good ta the promoters, and it is not in the interest of the
Supposing this c.harter wvere
shippers.
granted by the provincial government it
would corne under the control of the Provincial Railway Board. If I were a shipper
on that road, sending my goods a thousand miles by Dominion roads, what control has the Railway Board of the province
af Ontario over those rates? I would be
under the jurisdiction of two boards. 1
have to go to the Railway Board of the
province of Ontario for the control of my
rates for 40 or 50 miles, and then to come

APRIL 28, 1909
to, the Dominion Railway Board for the
control of the -rates over the ot.her roads,
and there is confusion and conflict between
the two, and I say it is neither in the interests of" the public nor of the country
that these charters should te granted by
provincial authority. I care not il it is
entirely in the hands of the provincial
government, this road cannot be -built under
provincial charter without coming before
the Railway Commission.
They cannot
cross the Grand Trunk Railway. I have
no authority for the statement, but 1
rather thînk this is a road promoted either
by the Grand Trunk or the Canadian
Pacifie Railway as an addition to their own
exh-tiing line, and 'they cannot get power
to build that road from the provincial legislature and must come to the Dominion
parliamnent. W-hat difference does it make
who charters the road?
If it is better to
have it chartered by the Dominion, as
every one will admit, better in the interests
of the public and in the interesta of the
shipper, and if no injury is done te anybody elsze, why should we not charter every
road that is ready to comply with our miles
and regulations? If we do that, I venture
to say that any company that is ready to
invest a few millions in a road in Ontario
or Quebec or any other province -will undoubtedly come to parliament for the right
to, build that road, because when they have
a Dominion charter they have only one
railway board to deal with. That board has
power for thousands of miles over ahl the
roads in the country, whereas the provincial
board has only local jurisdiction. Therefore, I thînk -%e should encourag-e Dominion charters, and if an agreement should
be come to with the provincial governiment,
it would be highly desirable that ahl these
charters should be granted by one authority, and that is the parliament of the
Dominion. I have gone over this Bill, and
I think it is in the interest of the public
and for the general advantage of Canada,
that this road should be built; therefore, I
do flot see there is any fraud in declaring
that it is a work, for the general advantage
of Canada, and it should go to the Railwsy Committee where, if there are any
other objections to it, they can he answered.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do not agree
with the hion, gentleman from St. Thomas
when he says the insertion of these words
in the section will have no effect.
They
will have every effect that is desired.
There can be no question in the 'world about
that. The British North America Act saya
that any work that is declared by the parhiament of Canada to be -for the general
advantage of Canada ivili, of course, corne
under 'federal jurisdiction, and the inserting of these words effects the object completely. 1 may say that at the time we
passed the Railway Act, and to some extent atili, I have had a feeling that it
would be preferable that all the railways
of Canada should -be broug-ht under the
operation of the one board. 1 mean the
steam railways any way. I would flot ga
so far as to say that street railways and
tram railways should be so brought in.
Since the passing- of the Railway Act and
the constitution of a Board of Railway Coinmissioners by the parliament of Canada,
the legisiature of the province of Ontari-j
has created a board for the management
of railways within the province, and I am
told that the board is a very effective
organization and is doîng its work well,
and although it is a later creation than
the Dominion Railway Board, as far
as its reports at ail events are concernied, it
would seem to me it is doing its 'work a.
least as well as the Dominion Railway
Board. I feel that we are7 almost trifling
in discussing this question, for we find
that year after year, ever since I have
been a member of the House, ît cornes
up just as it does to-day on some Bil,
and we find that hon, gentlemen -%,.ho take
pretty strong ground ag-ainst declaring
works, situate entirely within one province, as being for the general advantage
of Canada, and oppose very strongly that
declaration, but, proba*bly, -when they are
interested in a Bill from their own part of
the country they are quite anxious that
it should go through. It shows that
there should be some general principle -applied to sncb legisiation. I do not know
exactly how it ought to be done, but it
ought to be brought about in some other
way than by outbursts of this kind upon
some particular Bill. I would gather from

3$0

EENATE

the Bill before us that this is going to be themselves to that effect, that ahl applications foi railway legislation ehould corne to
an electric railway.
the federal parliament. Section 92 of the
Hon. Mr. COFFEY-Either steam or elec- British North America Act, subsection 10,
trie.
reads"
Local works and uudertakings other thau
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Well, it may be
an electric railway. It is possible that the such as are of the following classes:Subsection (c) reads as follows:
ubject in seeking for legislation for a railway with an option that it shall be either
(c.> Such works, as, although whoily situate
a steam or electrie railway is for the pur- within the province, are before or after their
execution declared by. the parliarnent of Canpose of getting away from sorne wholesome ada to be for the general advantage of Canada
regulation within the province for the gov- or for the advantage of two or more of the
ernment of electric railways. If that is provinces.
It seems to me that it is entirely within
so, it shows the danger of dealing with this
question in the piecemneal way we are doing. the jurisdiction of this parliament to say
There should certainly be a line drawn what is a work for the general advantage
somewhere.
In a province like Ontario, of Canada, even if it is situated wholiy
with an efficient organization provided for within the province.
the supervision of local railways, its action
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON No doubt we
should not be interiered with by declaring
have that power.
local railways to be works for the general
advantage of Canada, and in that way takHon. Mr. WATSON-I know this matter
in," out of the jîn-isdiction of the pro- has ibeen argued very often, but I do flot
'rince that has the right to deal with them.
think that anybody would have any reWith regard te other provinces, it rnight be morse of conscience or feel that we are
desirable that railway charters shouid be violating the constitution by passing such
got direct from this parliament, because a Bill. It is simply a matter cf opinion,
there does not appear to be any provision
and a matter cf good judgment of this
made, perhaps in Ontario, for dealing effec- parliament. We have on many occasions
lively wvith such roads. In the province of during this session and other sessions deOntario such utilities are very carefuliy clared works to be for the general advantleooked into, and if this is nierelv an electric age cf Canada. It seems to me that unrailway n'e should take \'ery g reat care to dertakings such as this company propose
hear from the province and those represent- te enter into, can be declared by parliaing the' province hefore w-e pass this Bill ment to be for the general advantage of
into law.
Canada under section 92 cf our constitution.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-The local rail- I amn in hopes that such an understanding
ways will ail be running by electricity in will be arrived at, that we will net have this
question of provincial rights raised when
five years.
Bills are presented te us for adoption for the
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The hon. gentlemen construction cf railways in any province in
will observe that clause 10 of this Bill Canada. Se far as the exception might
reads as fellows:
be taken te electrical railways, I fuliy
agree with Senator CJampbell that a very
10. The company rnay, for the purpose of great many cf our railways operated by
its undertaking, - censtruct, acquire and
navigate steam aud other vessels for the con- steam now will in the near future be operveyance of passengers, goods and merchandise, ated by electricity.
There is ne denbt
and construct, acquire. lease and dispose of
wharfs, dock-s, elevators. warehouses, offices about that at ali. Roads are being sucand other structures to be used to facilitate cessfuiiy operated in some parts cf the
the carryîng on of business iu connection United States by electricity, and I believe
therewith.
in the near future they wiil be operated
1 fully agree, and 1 have expressed my- by e]ectricity in Canada. From the nature
self in the Railway Committee and in this of this work, whiie it is who]ly within the
House, with gentlemen who have expressed province, the cempany contemplates buiidHon. Mr. FERGUSON.

APRIL 28, 1909
ing steamships connecting with foreign
countries, and the local legîsiature could
not possibly give the powers this company
requires for the construction o! the road.
I hope that this Bill wîll not only pass
the committee, ébut that it -will be reportel
and become law, because I arn satisfied.
lcnowing something of the country througb
'which they propose running this road, that
the people through tha.t section are very
anxious it should be built.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I wish to make a
few remarks on this question. Seeing that
we have heard irom dîfferent parts o! the
province, from the people who are directly
affected and others who will be more or
less affected in connection with this Bill.,
I am a little surprised te hear some o!
our respected members advance the views
and arguments which they do. If we are
te have a thorough system of railway legislation that will secure the confidence af
our people throughout Canada, let us have
it. Let us have one law for the Dominion
and we will understand it. But when wc
have the provincial and Dominion governments at conflict in connection with jurisdiction of this kin-d, it is not prudent that
the Dominion should make itsel! proîminent and force its view upon the province,
when a large body of the people in that
province are not in favour of it. I have
no hesitation in saying that there is a
goodly number o! people in that district
who are very much opposed to this legislation on the ground that the reasons behind and underneath it are not such as te
commend it to the province at large. I
arn surprised that we should be asked ta
cast aur votes in favour o! a principle
advocated merely because it might effect
an individual shipper. We have te consider in this case not the individuai, but
the people o! the province, and until the
people o! the province -are decidedly in
favour of it, and the company find that they
cannot meet the wishes o! the province
without further legislation, it is time
enough for this banourable House te take
action. I feel that I cannot support this
Bill; that it is interfering with the rights
o! the people on a matter which the
constitution has settled, and as; long
as the provinces have the right te control

381

the building of roads for themselves, then
we ought to ailow them to do so, and this
subterfuge-for it is nothing more or les
than ,a subterfuge-adding these words, canflot -blind the mind or warp the judgment
of gentlemen who have had any great experience in the work of the Railway Committee or in the work of the Dominion government in connection. with railway building. I feel that we are called upon to
exercise our judgment in the case peremptorily. Let the company go to their own
province, and only te the province to which
they belong, and within whose bounds they
wish to operate, and if they find that they
are crippled or hampered for 'want o!
further power, let the company, tbrough the
province, corne to the Dominion authority,
and I arn sure the gentlemen of this honoura-ble House will be ready to meet their
wishes and assist them in their work; but
as it now stands before us, I ar n ot prepared to vote 'in favour o! the Bill.
Hon. Mr. RATZ-As I live in that section through *which the road is proposed
to be constructed, I should like to say a
few words. My hon. friend bas stated that
the people in that section o! the country
were opposed ta the building of thîs road.
I live in a part where it is proposed to
cross the Grand Trunk, and I have yet k)
hear the first man offer the least opposition
I
â?gainst the construction o! this road.
understand there is a difference of opinion
here as to 'who should have the authority
to grant this charter. My opinion really
is that both the provincial and Dominion
authority should grant the charter. I do
not see that the provincial authority is injured in any 'way if this parliament does
grant the charter. I know that the people
of Ontario, and particularly that section of
Ontario, will welcome such roads as this.
In that district we have the Grand Trunk
Railway and no other. I know that it
would ibe a great advantage if we had
another road that would compete with the
Grand Trunk. I bave zeen soine o! the
promnoters o! the Bill, and I understand
that they propose to run their road up to
Sarnia and down te Windsor, and in .both
those places I understand they are to operate ferries which cross the international
boundary from Sarnia to Port Huron and

SENATE
from Windsor to Detroit. I do not know
whether that would constitute the road a
work for the general advantage of -Canada.
I understand that if there is a street railway, such. as the Ottawa Electric, which
crosses the Ottawa river, simply running
over the bridge to the city of Hull, that
it cpn be terme a work for the general advantage of Canada.

Bill (UU) An Act respecting the
Prude-ntial Lif e Insurance Comnpany of Canada.(Hon. Mr. Derbyshire).:
Bil1 (No. 95) An Act te incorporate the
Royal Guardians.-(Hon. Mr. Casgrain).
QUINZE AND BLANCHE RIVER RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.

COMMONS AMENDMENT CONCURRED IN.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Oh, no. It is because it crosses from one province into Hon. Mr. POWER (in t.he absence of
Hon. Mr. Belcourt) moved concurrence in
another.
the amendments made hy the House of
Hon. Mr. RATZ-It simply crosses the Conimons te Bill (Q) An Act respecting the
international boundary. The point I wish Quinze and Blanche River Railway Comto make is that it makes no difference pany.
whether the boundary line is crossed by a
He said: I suppose that the House will
street railway over a bridge -or by a ferry take my word that the amendments, alor st.eamboat over a river. One of the pro.- though looking rather large in the message
moters, who is a provisional director of which brought them up here, really do not
the company, as I understand, told me that alter the meaning of the Act, so far as I
the intention was to operate *a ferry be- can see, in the slightest degree.
tween the two countries, and I wish to
The motion was agreed to.
tnake the statement that, as far as the
people are concerned, flot one out of one
MONARCH FIRE INSURANCE COMhundred is opposed to the building of
PANY BILL.
this electrie railway in that section of the
country.
SECOND READING.
Hoxx Sir MvACKENZIE
BOWELL-I
Hon. Mr. COFFEY moved the second
wish to put the hon, gentleman right. I reading of Bill (No. 82) An Act respecting
do flot think that any hon. member who the Monarch Fire Insurance Company. He
has spoken upon this question objecta to said: The headquarters of this company
the construction of the road.
are in London, Ont. It has been in exThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill istence for a number of years and bas done
a large business. It is quite a reputable
was read a second time on a division.
company. It is a cash mutual and stock
company.
They ask for power to ta.ke
SECOND IIEADINGS.
over the assets and business of thepresent
Bill (No. 84) An Act respecting the Atha- company on the proposed transfer being
baska Northern Railway Company.-(Hon. agreed to ýby the shareholders of the Monarch Company at a meeting called specially
Mr. De Veber).
Bill (RR) An Act respecting the Brock- for that purpose.
ville, Westport and Northwestern Railway
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do
Companiy.-(Blon. Mr. Derbyshire).
t.hey propose te carry on both branches of
Bill (SS) An Act respecting the Quebec business-mutual and stock?
and New Brunswick Railway CompanyHon. Mr. COFFEY-Yes, mutual and
(Hon. Mr. Costi.-an).
stock.
SECOND IIEADINGS.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Bill (TT) An Act respecting the Montreal was read the second time.
Bridge and Terminal Company.-(Hon. Mr.
The Senate adjourned until te-morrow at
Choquette).
three o'clock.
Hon. Mr. RATZ.

APRIL 29, 19
trict in which the office is situated is alse
served by letter carriers, ibut a. limited
0rrÂàwÂ, Thursday, April 29, 1909.
quantity of mail matter is delivered from
The SPEAKER teck the Chair at Three Candiac sub-office to persons living out
side e.! the territory in 'which a free deo 'dock..
livery service exists. It has neyer beeri
Prayers and routine proceedings.
the practice of the department to have
and
LAINE such sub-offices kept open on Sundays,
EXPROPRIATION 0F CARRIER,
there appears to be no sufficient reason
& CO'S FOUNDRY.
of a publie nature why exceptional treatINQUIRY.
ment should be extended to the office nt
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired ci the gev- Candiac.
ernment:
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I desire to point out
Did the government acquire the foundry the ineonvenience of this arrangement, so
cf Carrier, Lainé & Company at Lévis, that the department may be aware of it.
Quebec?
A letter coming from Ottawa or from MonWhen, from whom, and for what price?
Did it subsequently lease the said foundry F treal reaches Quebeýc, say by the 3.30 train
When, te whom, for how long a time, and on Satu-rday. We only receive it on Monday
what were the conditions cf payment?
morning. Before we had the 'benefit of
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The that rural district post office, we would
answers to the hon. gentleman's questions receive our letters on Sunday, but since
are as follows:
that benefit has been extended to us, we
1. Yes.
are entirely shut out froin civîlization
2. (a) l2th February, 1909. (b) The Bank until Monday noon. That is what I cal
of Montreal. (c) The whole property was a retrograde movement.
expropriated and the department expects te
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
pay $380,000.
shall cail the attention of the Postmaster
3. Yes.
4. (a) Order in council passed 2nd Apri]. General to the observations of my hion.
1909. (b) The Canadian Shoe Machinery friend.
Company, Limited. (c) Thirty years, lease
FEDERATION 0F NEWFOUNDLAND.
te be computed frein lst May, 1909. (d)
Renta], $4,000, payable semi-annually, for
MOTION.
the first ten years of the lease; for the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL moved:
balance of the lease, $6,000, payable semiThat an Order cf the Senate do issue reannually.
questing aIl correspondence between the HIon.
Sir Frederick Borden, Minister of Militia and
CANDIAC POST OFFICE.
Defence, Mr. Crowe and others, relating to
the admission of Newfoundland into the DoINQUIRY.
minion as a province of tlu samne, be laid
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired of the gev- upon the table of the Senate.
erument:
He said: This muotion is somnewhat out
Why is the post office at Candiac, in the of the usual mode of procedure in asking
town of Montcalm not open te the public at for correspondence.
I should not have
noon on Sunday, in order at lest te permit
those concerned te receive the mail, which adopted this course in reference to the subarrives f rom Quebec after three o'clock in ject inatter of the motion had it not )beeni
the afternoon cf the day previcus, and is only for the statement made iby Sir Frederick
distributed on Monday merning?
Does the geverninent intexnd te take the Borden, Minister of Militia. when his atmeasures necessary for that end?
tention was called to the subject. I notice
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The in the report of an interview which he had
answer te the hon. g-entleman's question with the newspapers hie stated as follows:
is: The post office at Candiac is nlot a regu- 'As a matter of fact,' said the Minister
lar post office, but is what is known as a of Militia in closing the interview, 'I
sub-office, being under the control of tha should ibe pleased indeed to have the entire
Quebec post office. A large part cf the dis- correspondence between '.%r. Crowe and
THE SENATE.

SENATE
myself given the fullest publicity.' It is would not have called my attention to it
unusual to ask for what might be when I was in the island a few years ago,
considered private correspondance of that and expressed his deep regret that s0 smaîl
nature, but as the minister has expressed a a sum should have caused a split -between
wish that the whole correspondence between the representatives of the island and the
Mr. Crowe and himself on the sub- Dominion governinent. The statement was
ject should be published, there can also repeated in Toronto a short time ago
be no objection to the -motion. The ques- by Mr. Morine before the Canadian Club.
tion of the union of Newfoundland anti I took the trouble to write to that gentleCanada has 'been a vexed question for some man, calling bis attention to the inaccuracy
time, especially with the inhabitants of of the statement ha had made, and intimatthe island, and what purports to ibe the ing te, him that the next time he discussed
letter of Mr. Crowe is of great importance the question if he would substitute millions
to the people of Canada, owing to the fact for hundreds of thousands he would be
that he says he is acting in conjunction nearer right. The fact is, we refused to
with the late premier of the island, Sir acquiese ini demands which involved some
Robert Bond. I ste by the press reports efve or six million dollars, the acceptance
that Sir Robert Bond denies any connection of which, and the taris on which it was to
with this correspondence. The present elec- be accepted, would have entailed on Cantien in the island is bringaing forth some ada an additional hurden of milflions of
strange charges. The premier lias entered dollars. When that was reported to the
an action against a newspaper, claiming Senate, the late Secretary of State (Hon.
damages to the extent of $50,000, for the Mr. Scott) approx-ed of the course whvihel
publication of a statement that hie had re- we had taken. I caîl attention to this fart
ceived a bribe from the Ca nadian -overn- ag-ain, in order that the people of Canada
ment of a large arnounit of money to in- who are desirous of roundîng off this Doduce him to advocate the annexation of minion by the annexation of Newfoundland
that colony to Canada. On the other hand. may nlot be led astray -by an incorrect stiteSir Robert Bond is charged with acting iii ment. I have always been anxious to se.ý
collusion with Mr. Crowe with the same Newfoundland attached to the confederaobject in view. If Sir Robert Bond is ini tien, and while I was at the head of the
any way responsible for the correspondence government I should have 'been very mucbi
between Sir Frederick Borden and Mr. gratified had I succeeded in accomplishCrowe, hie must have changed his mind in.- that objact, which I consider te be more
on the federation question, for in mv inter- of practical than sentimental importance.
views and negotiations with Sir Robert, one But I did flot feel justified, in considerain Halifax and the other here, he neyer tien of what we were to receive, in fasten1
intimated a desire in any way to have New- inga on the Dominion se large a deht.
trust Sir Frederick Borden will consent to
fouindland join the Dominion. On the contrary, bis demands were so excessive at place the correspondence on the tahl" of
the time, the committee of Council feit that tlie Senata.
they were only doing their duty to Canada
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT--It
to resist the demands hie wvas makinge.
1 strikes me that mnv hon. friand should hav,
took the opportunity a few nights ago. aske1 for an address and not for an order
at the banquet given to the surviving mem- of the Sanate, as a matter of form.
bers of the first parliament of Canada, to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
eall attention to charges made ag-ainst the
hon. friand is quita right.
Had hie net
late governinent, that they had refusel
stated to the Senata when this question
to accept the offers made by the delegates
was under discussion that there was no
from Newfoundland on account of a difofficial cerrespondence, that would have
ference of soe $150,000 or $200,000 between
been the propar course.
US.
The governor of Newfoundland antertained that idea, and I presumne the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
premier at that time, Sir Robert Bond, doubt vary much whether the Senate ham
must have so informed him. Otherwise hae any power te demand from Sir Frederick
BOWTLL,.
Honi. "Zir MCEZ

APRIL 29, 1909
Borden or any one else the production of
private letters.
What my hon. friend
should do is ask for an address. If Sir
Frederick Borden, of his own pleasure,
comniunicates private letters of bis own, I
have nothing to say to it; but 1 doubt
the expediency o! the Senate putting itself
in the position of passing an order for the
production of private correspondence.
1
amn not aware what the practice bas been
in this House, but 1 think no such order
has ever been passed in the House of GomMons, and I doubt whether my hon. friend
will find a precedent for it here. I cannot
undertake-no government could undertake
-to require the production of private correspondence in compliance with an order
of the Senate or o! any other body.
0f
course, a.nything officia] I shal -be glad to
bring down; but the hion. gentleman must
surely see that wve have no riglit, either
constitutional or legal, to order the production of private correspondence.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIEi BOWELL-If
the rîghttlion. gentleman heard tbe remarks
I made when I introduced the motion, he
would remember that I admitted ail that
he bas said.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Yes,
I beard ail the lion. gentleman said.
Hon. Six MACKENZIE BOWELL-I admitted ail that the hon, gentleman bas
said. I said it was a request that, so
f ax as I knew, was unprecedented, but it
was a request based upon the statement
made by Sir Frederick himself. However,
I bave no objection to change the motion.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGH[T-Put
it as an address, and any correspondence
that can profitably be brought down will
be forthicomning.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Ini
changing the motion into an address instead of an order, does t.he hon. gentleman
intimate that I should make it an addreas
to His Excellency asking hini t do thisP
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
think that would be the more correct form.

before the cabinet, 'but rnerely an order
to produce certain departmental documents,
it is not an address that la moved. However, I have no objection to meet tbe hon.
gentlemans wishes. -I do not thinc I will
get anything in an address.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My
hon. frlend will understand that we will
produce what is usually produced in sucb
cases.
Hon. Mx. FERGUSON I would flot expect that my right hon. !riend or his colleagues are disposed to seek advtce from
this side of the House as to what course
is to -be pursued with regard to this correspondence. If I thouglit the suggestion
would be received kindly-and perhaps it
will-I would say that the better course
to pursue is that this correspondence from
beginning to end should as soon as possible
be made public. It will ail have to corne
out some day. It is a very important matter. Bo far as Newfoundland is concernied,
it may oniy have been a political intrigue
in that province to try to ivin over this
man Downey from one party to another. I
have not seen a f ull account of the matter,
merely newspaper references, but it appears that Mr. Downey was shown this
correspondence, and lie was lead to believe
that so.mething very important was to corne
out o! it, and, that hbeing so, Sir Frederick,
Borden's name being mixed up in it, I
think it is better for ail concerned that
the wbole thing should bie made publie
as soon as possible.
Hon. Bir MACKENZIE BOWELL--On
thinking the matter over, I amn still under
the impression that the wording o! the
motion is correct. This is a request made
on the bead o! a department, in whîchi
the inference from what lie lias stated is
that there was no officiai correspondence.
An address would have to be to the Governor General and not to Sir Frederick,
l3orden as an individual; but as the bead
of a department hie miglit be requested to
furnish it. If the lion. gentleman thinks
it -would be better, I would leave out the
word «order.'

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hion. gentleman is aware that in the lower
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
House, Nvhen a motion is moved that does think that the House sbould pass it as I
not effeet correspondence that would gro suggested. An address is better.
25
Iuvlsn IEDTON

SENATF',

386
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
right; I will so amend it.

BOWELL-A1

The motion was amended and adopted.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (YY) An Act to incorporate the
Catholic Church Extension Society of Canada.-(Hon. Mr. Bostock).
Bil (ZZ) An Act te incorporate the Coinmerce Insurance Company-(Hon. Mr.
Belcourt).
FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before the orders
of the day are called, I desire to cali the
attention of the right hon. gentleman who
leads this House te an item wvhich I see
in this niorning's -Ottawa paper, that the
foot and mouth disease has broken out near
London, Ont., and il is supposed that il
has been brought over from the state of
Michigan. We know that this is avery serbousmiatter. The mere fact that this disease
has got into the country at ail is going to
prove very serious, not only because cf
the impression it will create abroad, (but
the danger of its lurking and persisting as
it does in other countries. A few years ago
it broke out in New York, and nearly ail
the states of the American union becamne
effected in one way or another with it, and
we know with what horror it is regarded
by the agricullurisîs of Great Britain.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
may say that I have here the Ottawa 'Free
Press,' published this aflernoon, in which
there is a statement from Dr. Rutherford,
veterinary direclor, formally and emphatically denying the -report. He says there is
no t the slightest indication of the existence
of any such disease any where in Canada.
THIRD READING.
Bill (No. 86) An Act ýrespecting the Cobalt Range Railway -Company.-<Hon. Mr.
Belcourt).
MANITOBA AND NORTHWESTERN
RAILWAY BILL.
THIRD READING.
H:on. Mr. WATSON .moved the third reading cf Bill (No. 81) An Act respecting the
Rom. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

Canada.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I beg- to move:
ihat the Bill lie so arnended as te provide
that the company shall build ten miles in a
northerly direction from Sheho before the end
of the year 1939, and that if such ten miles
- re not so buit, then the powers granted to
the company for the construction of any further portion of the extension from Yorkton
to Prince Albert by paragraph (a) of subsection 1 of section 9, of chapter 52, of the
statutes of 1893 shall cesse.
Re said. 1 suppuse it wihi be necessary
for mie to give soine explanation of why 1
have made this motion, particularhy as the
majority of the mnembers of the House are
flot mem.hers cf the commitlee where thle
information was given respecting- this Bill
the other day. I might say that this Act
is rallier old. This Manitoba and Northwestern Railway charter extends back to
the year 1880. It was incorporated by the
legisiature of Manitoba in the year 1880,
and by a Dominion Act in 1883, which confirmed the Act cf the province of Manitoba and changed the naine of the coxnpany,
which. was formerly the Portage and Western to the Manitoba and Northwestern, aI
that time an independent company, not
under the control of the Canadiani Pacific
Railway. The Act provides that fifty miles
of that road shall le built vearly. I desire
Io draw attention to this fact: That whuhe
it was one cf the first railway charters
granted in that -western country from the
province of Manitoba running- west, andi
settiers going into what is now the provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta wanteiJ
te -et on a line of railway, or where theY
expected te have a line of railwav in the
near future, seeing that this charter
had Ïbeen granted by the parliament cf
Canada, in which il was provided that
fiftv miles a vear should be built, they tool,
il in good faith that when parliament
inserled the clause that fifty miles of
the road should be built annuallv,
that parliament meant that that should
be done. They know the district from
Portage la Prairie to Prince Albert,
the terminus of this road, and they figured
the number of years it would take the
railway te get t0 a certain localitv, and
on the slrenglh cf this promise they settled
along the proposed line of railway. We

APRIL 29, 1909
1 befind that this company came .back to par-h iad undertaken to build that road.
ieve that if the Manitoba and Northwestern
lisament in 1894 and obtaiued an extension j
of time, but parliament stili provided that hiad beeu allowed to keep contrai of the
they should go on and build that fiftyr oad iL would have been -built into the
miles a yeur and keep faith with the people t own of Prince Albert, and the settiera
who had settled in the country on the vho had located along the line expecting
got
strength of that clause being inserted in t he fifty miles to be built would have
ffhe charter. In 1885 they were back again t hie- relief they were expecting when thejr
to arrange for a bond issue, aud in 1886 vere aaked to go into that country. But
they came again ta procure a bond issue t he Canadian Pacific Railway, using the
on brauch lines. Instead of building the i nfluence and .money that Canada had givexi
main liue, which the people were waitingt hiem. for the construction of the main line,
for, which they should have bult accord- rot too be 8uch a powerful factor iu the west
out ail oping to contract, they were building brauch bat they wanted to squeeze
?osition, aud they gobbled up this railway
lines. In 1887 they came here again, askone, and
ing for power to build branch lines, and as a big fish gobbles up a littie
Had it not
in 1888 they came once more, asking to be I:orced. themn out of business.
Manitoba interrelieved of the obligation ta construct fiftyi been that the people of
up the
miles each year, and I suppose on account vened, they would have swallowed
Canadian Northern interest, because they
of the finaucial stringency, parliament retheir mouth
lieved them cf that obligation and insertedI had the tail pretty well in
when the Manitoba goverument drove them
a clause providing that .they should conRailway
struct twenty miles a year until the road off. Since the Canadian Pacifie
put these people out of business, when they
was completed. In 1890 they came again,
4,uild the road, they are in
and parliament then gave themn an exten- were ready to
duty bound ta carry out the obligations
sion of time ta coustruct the seventeen
company. When
miles west of Saltcoats, which had beeu entered into by the aid
fought it in the
partiy constrxicted, and they again agreezl this charter came up, I
Railway Cominittee of t.he Gommons. The
to build twentv miles each sud every-year.
Railway kept on building
or else the charter would be forfeited. Iu Canadian Pacifie
this road until it got past Yorkton, and
1892 they had not fulfilled their obligations.
it suited their owu convenience they
and had bult none of the road worth speak- when
changed the route and ran off towards
ing about, sud they came back and obtaiued
in the other House at the
relief. In 1893 they made a consolidation Saskatoon. 1 was
time, and dîd nat object. The people to
vith the Saskatchewan and Western and
had -been eighteen years lu the
still agreed to build twenty miles a year the north
country waiting for a railway, aud I supou the main hune ruuning to Prince Albert.
-new corners in the direction of
In 1894 they came back and obtaiued a pose the
Saskatoon were entitled ta a railway also.
special Act giving themn nine years ta comproposition that the company
plete the road, and they vere still ta build 1 made the
should be cumpelled to build mile for mile
tweuty miles each year. I wish ta cail ataccommodation of the setlers in
tention ta the fact that every time they for the
If parliament allowed
both directions.
came here they had flot built the tweuty
them ta divert their line aud run ta Sasmiles a year and had failed ta comply with
is the least that should have
the conditions of the charter, but parlia- katoon, that
been required of them. I had ta fight that
ruent released them. Iu 1895 they were back
Commons, and the
again, and in 1897 they came again iu order Bill in the House of
1902 compauy withdrew it rather than underIn
ta obtain an amalgzamation.
I lef t the
they asked for an extension af time, take to buil4d both ways. After
House, they got the charter renewed, aud
and in 1904 they came again asking power
People
ta build brancli hues, aud also for an ex- they have it at the present time.
power were asked ta go into the country and
tension. Iu 1%08 they again asked
I desire ta say with settie on the strength of a char-ter haviug
ta build branches.
grauted under which the company
refereuce ta this Bill, that as a private been
a year.
'Manitoba sud Northwestern were obliged ta build fiteen miles
company the
254

888

SENATE

I have
and something should be done to force the other road into Prince Albert.
Canadian Pacific Railway to provide facili- heard the statement made, and no doubt
ties for those settiers. There are large settie- it wiil be repeated to-day, that charters
ments in that part of the country this aide are as free as the air-that anybody cati
of Prince .Abert; some settiers have 'been get a charter. If that is true, why does
there twenty-five years trying to raise grain the <Janadian Pacific Raiiway corne here
and market it, and have found it impossible year alter year asking for extensions o!
without a railway to carry on their opera- time on railroad charters coverîng the
tions at a profit. They are looking to the greater portion of the Dominion? If they
government to see t.hat a railway is bujit are no good, why spend money getting these
there in the near future. 1 have here a Bis through? Why spend money in lobbypetition signed by a great number of set- irig, 4because they do spend money in the
tiers protesting ag-ainst a-ny further exten- lobby to get Bills through? Simpiy because
sion of time. Since they settled there ini they know that these charters amount to
1883 there has been nothing done 'but ex- something. If an independent company
tensions. No road has been built, and they wanted te get a charter te buiid a road
cannot take their grain to market. When alongside this projected railway, there wouid
they saw that this conlpany was asking be great difficuity getting the Bill through
for another extension o! time, they sent this House.
'word to their representatives, protesting
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No, no.
agaînst renewing the charter at ail. That
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-My hon. friend says
is the purport of these petitions and telegrains. Now, I do flot want to go so far no, no.' Our experience shows the difas thst, but 1 do want the company to ficulty. But even if they did get a charshow their bona fides by doing something ter, and went to the money mnarkets o!
this year. My own impression is that they Europe to -get capital to build their line.
have no more intention of building that what wouid happen? The capitalists, after
road than the man in the rnoon has. They looking into the motter, wouid say, 'Yes-.
have another line into Prince Al'bert for this is a good tract of country and it would
which we granted a charter this year.
Itý pay te buîld a line to Prince Albert, but
extends from. Lannagin to Prince Albert,' there will not be sufficient traffie to susand covers the oniy available route, because tain two roads. The Canadian Pacifie
there is a narrow pass through the Birch Railway has a charter there now, and wve
Hiils and Crooked lake. Does any reason- cannot lend money for a ]ine to compete
able man believe they are going- to build with such a powerfui corporation.' The%
two lines into Prince Albert? Our people have us tied hand and foot. I have notlî
do not, and I do Rnot think the company îng against the Canadian Pacific Raiiway,
has any such intention. I hold here the but they ehould be made to live up to
immigration pamphlet that the Oanadian their obligations. If they were a poor
Pacifie Raiiway Company is circulating, not companty, lacking financiai strength, 1
oniy through this country, but all over wouid àay ail right; but we have granted
Europe. It is called ' Western Canada.' the Canadian Pacifie Railway this ycar
It contains a map showing- thieir lines of the right te issue $50,00,000 stock. That
railway existing and projected. If any- has been sold to their own shareholders
body will show me on that mnap any indica- at par, and the people o! this country will
tion that thev intend te build the line for have te pay dividends upon it. Where is
which thev are now asking an extension, that money being used? The whole proI arn willing to <'ontribute sornething to- gramme of the Canadian Pacifie Raiiway
wards any hospital. They show the pro- for this year for ail purposes east and
jected line froin LannaLlin to Prince Al- west is $18,0O0,00O. Where is the balance
bert, 'but there is nothinz to indicate that going? It is easy to find out. The Canthey ever intend to bui]d the line now adian Pacifie Railway is very active south
under discussion. They have secured the o! the boundary line. I have here a paraonly available pass through the Birch his. graph taken fromn a Winnipeg paper o!
and their object is clearly to hiead off anv recent date which is as follows:
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

APRIL 29, 1909

Canadian Pacifie Railway Extensions-Campag for Commanding Position in United
s=*t)e-f
Winnipeg, April 14.-The Canadien PEacific
Rýailway is.evidently planning a most aggressive campaign cf extension south of the border
which will give it a commanding position in
regard ta railway affairs there. The latest
project is a lins te Duluth which will virtuelly conneet this city with Chicago, giving the
most direct route at present availeble. This
will mun west front Duluth te Thief River
Fells and join the main line cf the Soc there.
The work cf construction started yesterdey.
Milwaukee, April 14.-The shareholders cf
the Wisconsin Central Railway yesterday
retified the leese of the road te the Canadien
Pacifie Reilwey. This city will ultimetely be
oe of the big terminal points of the Canadian Pacifie Railroad. The Wiseonein Central Railroad now losee ail its identity except its corporete naine in legal affairs. Within a short time there will be ensidered plans
for building te, or through, the cityc M
eta
yankee. The headquarters cf the
in Chicago wiul be moved to Minneapolis.
AU good men will be reteined in their present
positions or prornoted.
New if the Canadian Pacifie Railway Cernpany can spend this amnount of money
building roads in the United States, surely
they should be compelled to carry out
some cf their undertakings in this country. Should parliament grant these extensions of time year atter year while the
Canadien Pacifie Railway is building roads
te settle and develop a foreign country?
They should be compelled te do something
at home. Ail I ask is that they shahl show
their bona fides by building ten -miles this
year, in defauht of which their charter
Ehall lapse. If they do flot build, it will
leave the ground clear for seme other company te furnish the reilway accommodation that these people so urgenthy require.
I understand that the Grand Trunk Pacifie
is willing te build from Melville. There
is room for one roed, but net for two roads.
I have petitions here signed by ever one
thousand actuel settes ini that country
Here je
who deserve some consideration
a telegram from the Prince Albert Board
cf Trade:
Prince Albert, Saskatchewan,
12th February, 1909.
Senator Davis,
Senete, Ottawa.
This board strongly opposes extension cf
time being granted Canadien Pacific Reîlway
Company te build their lins into city.
MOOREHOUSE,
Secretary Board of Trede.

And I have also a telegram from the
fown council of Prince Albert, which is
as fellows:
The council of city of Prince Albert protest strongly against extension of time being
granted Cana<han Pacifie Railway Company
to build thsir line inte, this city, and request
you to give vigorous opposition.
CHAS. McDONÂLD,
Mayor.
to help the
We have done a good deal
Canadian Pacifie Railwsiy. Canada has
given them money and lands, and it is
only right that they should be compelled
to earry out their obligations. The majority of the settlers in the district of
which I have been speaking are from the
proJvince of Quebec. One settiement there.
St 1isadore De Bellevue, has -been there 25
years, and there are other colonies cf settiers producing quantities of grain and
cattie. There is also Hoodoo Plains
settied by Germans who went there years
ago expecting to have the country opened
up by the railroad. I ask the House te
have some consideration for these people.
It is flot a great matter for the Canadian
Pacifie Railway te build ten miles cf road
this year. If they had made a promise
that they would do se. I would have accepted their promise. The solicitor was
not present in the Senate Committee yesterday, but hie did attend the meetings of
the committee in the lieuse of Comimons,
and hie refused te make any such promise.
I saw the management and they would
net promise te build this year or next
year.
THIE SPEAKER-The hion. gentleman's
motion»je net, in point of form. in order.
This, if carried, would be a declaratien
that the Bill is te 'be amended, but that
dees net make an amendruent. It must be
There are
done in some definite form.
three courses open, either te meve that the
Bill be referred back with instructions te
ainend in the menner proposed, or te give
a notice cf motion te amend in some other
form, or by the leave of t.he lieuse tn
amend the motion new on the Order Paper.
If the House censents the mnotion might
be amended.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-With the consent of
the lieuse, I would amend the motion on
the lines suggested by the Speaker.

390

SENATE

Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I have noV looked line ciovered .by -their charter towards Prince
into this imatter laVely, and arn not pre- Albert, there was great disappointment.
pared Vo, say that everything stated by the Now, 1 do flot wish to dictate or to say that
hon. gentleman fromn Prince Albert is ac- my judgment ought to have any influence
cording to tact, but I believe the facts of on a great railway company like the Canathe case are as atated. It so happened that dian Pacific Railway. They have their own
when I was in the House cf Commonis, as policy and their own reasons for naking
member for East Assiniboia, that the same angles in their roads and changing their
line of railway ran Vhrough my constitu- routes, and they will naturally attend tu
ency, and I had something Vo do with the what is most important in their great sysextension of this x-oad previously. The same tern. Stili, it is the duty of this honourable
company came up asking for liberty Vo House to do as much as in thern lies to
switch irnmediately, like your elbow in the go to the aid of these people who have been
direction of Saskatoon instead of going on, toiling so many years, and with comparaas the charter called for, towards Prince tively littie success. I want to, cail your
Albert. The statements made with refer- attention to a fact known to me personally,
ence to these settiements are correct. They that the district of Sheho was settled
have been struggling with the difficulties largely by people from the United States
descri-bed, for eighteen years. I da.re say who went in with high hopes and flot a
rnany lion. gentlemen who 'will vote on this littie money and eettled there. They wvaited
Bill have no conception of the liardships for this Manitoba and Northwestern Railto which theae peoýple are put by such re- way to be extended and corne te their
peated delays. Along the same line, further relief, but one after another becarne diseast, personally 1 settled and waited, and heartened at the delay and lef t, until out
the people in that now well-settled country of the 'whole number that settled in that
waited eighteen years for the building of colony there were only three left Vo
this road. I am here Vo bear testimony Vo tell its history. They got discourag-ed, and
the fact that aince the Canadian Pacifie naturally moved away to parts uýnknown.
Railway kept faith with us in that district, so f ar as I arn concerned. That was in the
it lias added ten cents per bushel Vo the constîtuency that I represented. The same
price of our grain. Think of settling in a arguments that we urged for the extension
country and spending eighteen years of the of this road are still forcible, and the statebest of one's life waiting for raîlway corn- ments mnade by the hion. mniber from
panies Vo keep faith with the people who Prince Albert are in the best înterests of
were induced Vo go in with 'the hope that the people. They have dlaims upon our
railwav facilities essential Vo there success sympathies and support when a railway
would be provided. My personal experi- company suc.h as the Canadian Pacifie
ence la the basis on which I speak, on Railway seeks a further extension of time.
behaif of the settlements on the line of this Supposing any individual in this Housuý
road. The case seems very clear that the had esta>blished his business on the line of
company ouglit not to get an extension of a projected railway, investing ahl his means
time, but should build at least ten miles and giving the best of his years and had
this year. That is a very emaîl request; raised his farnily there, with the assurance
it is like throwing a ten cent piece to a boy. that the road would be built, and stili wag
The company can easily keep faith with handicapped to the tune of ten cents a
the people and do what is just and right, 'bushel on every bushel hie raised, would
so I have great pleasure in raising my voice he not rise up against a policy of dillyVo support anything that will give those dallying with the construction of a short
settiements relief. 1 rerneraiber that in the piece of road by a cgreat cornpany like the
I have no
Rai]way Oommittee of the House of Com- Canadian Pacific Railway?
nons 1 spoke at great lengath on this ques- patience wjth it whatever. I stand for the
tion, and there was a great deal of feeling people's interest first and the company's
over it at the tirne. When the comrpanv interest secornd. Thpv can well afford, from
diverged frorn their original plan and what they have made in that -country, to
tured towards Saskatoon, dropping- the build this bit of line and keep faith with
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

APRIL 29, 1909

U

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That has lapsed.
the people, and I sincereiy hope that hon.
gentlemen wîll give the subject their
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No.
earnest attention, and that something will
be done to corne to the relief of those setHon. Mr. DÂVIS-Well, it has not been
tiers.
buit.
Hon. Mr. WA'1SON-I was rather disappointed with the motion o-f my hon. friend
from Prince Albert in connection 'with this
matter. He presented telegrams and petitions against the extension of this charter unless the company would at once build
the Toad. He sees fit apparently to ignore
the requests of the petitioners, by saying
that he is prepared to support the extension on the condition that the company
,build ten miles of the road this year.
Now, that surely will flot .-ive relief to
the suffering people. I know the locality
in which the t.en miles would be buiît.
The Canadian Pacific Raiiway is operating
its Manitoba and Northvestern line to
Saskatoon, and the Canadian Northern is
only il or 12 miles north of this line. The
ten miles north of Sheho 'wvould run in
that direction, and this is the great relief
that has been suggested. If the lion. gentleman had moved that this extension be
flot granted at ail, he would be carrying
out the wishes of those who have petitioned. This road is not built particularly
for the purpose of reaching, Prince Albert.
It will not be a main line of the Canadian
Pacifie Railway. The other road spoken
of going from Lannigan in the direction
of Prince Albert runs through. the part of
the country represented by the hon, gentleman who has just spoken. That extension meets the main line coing west, and
runs almost straight in a northerly direction to Prince Albert. The line under discussion staits at a point on that line somne
40 miles further east. This grand country
which bas been descrîbed, where settiers
are pouring ini and are in need of a roadHon. Mr. DAVIS-They want a road but
wiii mlot get it.
Hon Mr. WVATSON-The hon. gentleman
knows that at, the present time the Grand
Trunk Pacific have power to buiid into
that country. The hon. gentleman also
promoted a charter three or four years ago
f or a company known as the Battieford
and Lake Lenore Railway.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-That company bas
stili another year to build, under its charter. I arn so informed by the law clerk of
this House. The hon, gentleman should
not have promoted that charter. The ideL
that the pass through the Birch his is monopolized is most absurd. The Railway Commission control, that situation. Practicaily
every week, certainiy every month, they
.-ive coanpanies power to ýbuild in such
places. The Canadian Pacifie Railway running west from Saskatoon practically parallels the Canadian Northern on the same
riglit of way. No company canblock another
company from building a road. I remember weil when the original Manitoba and
Northwestern Railway was chartered. It
was known by another name then. I happened to take a littie part in assisting that
road to start its operations. I was in the
town council et Portage la Prairie when
we granted tbem a bonus of $50,000 to build
in a northeriy direction. What has been
stated by the hon. member from Prince
Albert is true with regard to the old ManThey were in
itoba and Northwestern.
financiai difficulties; they could not get
money te build the road. The territory
through which the route lay was supposed
to be of no particular value and, consequently, the road was not buiit. Later.
others becs-me interested in the road and
the interesta were divided. Unfortunateiy,
one interest owned the eastern portion, and
another interest the western, and they
were in difficulties ail aiong the line. Untii the Canadien Pacific Reilwey secured
control of tee Manitoba and Northwestern
Raiiway charter in 1900 or 1901, they were
in finenciel difficulties ail the time. They
were under obligations to the Menitobit
government, who had gueranteed their
bonds, and the government had te take
land thet had been given as a subsidy in
payment for those bonds. When that difficulty was etraightened up, tee Canadien
Pacific Reiiwey took over teat line. The
terminus of the road was at Yorkton for
about 15 years, until the Canadian Pacific

SENATE
possession of the charter in 1901. I know
the territory, and my hion. friend knowa
quite well that at that time there 'wcre
only a few settlers southwest of Prince
Albert. . That country was uninhabited.
The settiers have since gone in, and railroad-s have been hauit, and I say that country demands the road running from Lannigan to the north. I arn not speaking particularly for Prince Albert, but for the
whole district. They want the road from
Sheho. The company that is in there now
cannot build the xoad without the charter,
and when you object to the powers granted
in this Bill to give the Canadian Pacific
Hon. Mr. WVATSON-When the Canadian Railway the right to extend the road from
Pacifie Railway secured that charter iii Sheho to Prince Albert, and to ask a com1900, there were not two dozen settlers be- pany of the strength of the Canadian Pacific
tween a point 40 miles west of Yorktoii Railway to give an evidence of theix bona
and Saskatoon.
fides by building nine miles of road where
to say it is no use, because it is between two
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I venture
apart, is
that is not correct. 1 represented the con- lines of road ýonly twelve miles
hardly reasonable. When the hion. gentlestituency, and I can mention several setshould not grant
tlements, large settlexnents. There was a man contends that we
the right of extension to the company hol«dsettiement at Sheho, and the Beaver hiiling that charth, lie is carrying out the
the whole country was settled.
wishes of the people who have ad4ressed
Hon. Mr. W'ATSON-The settîcra at Shelio him apparently, but it is trifling with their
best interests to say that we should wipe
had left t.here in 1900.
out the charter, because the road cannot
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-Because they could be built if the charter is wiped out. We
not get the road.
know that the Railway Commission wil
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Exactly what I say. give any company the right to construet
When this original charter was in the.hands a branch through any narrow pass where it
of the North-testern they could no't extend may be required. We als-o know that the
the road, and the settiers in the vicinity filing of the plans does not conclude the
of Little Quail lake abandoned that counitry matter. The Railway Commission cancel
because they could not get the raîlway. plans that have been filed. It has been done
ln 1900-and whiat I arn stating is absolutely during this present session. We, have evi
correct, because I have travelled the couii- dence of it at Stratford, where the Canadian
try and knowv what I arn spea.king of- Pa.cific Railway had filed a plan and
there was not a settler through that country thought they had dlaims on the ri-ght of
lrom Quail lake to Lake Lenore for fty way, and that plan has been caneelled.
miles-not one hoinesteader. Those people The .Canadîan Pacific Railway filed some
have not been waiting there since the Cana. plans ut Edmonton four years ago, and
dian Pacifie Railway got control of the expected to acquire the right of way and
power te do certain works on accounit of
road.
the filîng of plans, and also expected to
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Does the lion. gentle- acquire the land at the price it was selling
man tell me that there are no people in at the time of the filing of the plan, but
Belleview, Hoodoo, Bonne Madone, Dom- that was cancelled, so there is no monopoly
remy, St. Louis, St. Laurent and those in routes, and the Railway Commission
places for more than three or four years?
Therefore, my hion.
has absolute power.
I
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I arn speaking of friend's a.rgument falîs to the ground.
the time the Canadian Pacifie Railway got sulbmît that if you cancel this charter you

got hold of the charter eight or nine years
ago. They could flot get money to extend
it, but the Canadian Pacifie Railway had'
extended it, and it is almost completed
now to Saskatoon.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-When tlie Canadian Pacific Railway diverted that road
westward te Saskatoon, was there a settler
or settlement between that elbow at Lannigan and Saskatoon? There was nobody
aaking for the road to Saskatoon; but here.
in the north, all these settlements were
crying out for railway facilities, 80 that
all that talk amounts to nothing.

Hon. Mr. WATSON.

APRIL 29, 1909

will deprive the coospany of the right to Railway that my hion. friend, who seems
build. The people in that country want Wobe a apecial pleader for them, has.
the road, and the Canadian Pacifie Railway
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Oh, no, I arn not a
are able and willing to construct it. There pleader for them.
is no question about their being able. It i8
a question of where they shall build it. Wu~ Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The Canadian Pacifie
know that the Grand Trunk Pacifie have Railway has had a nuxnber of years to
the right Webuild it. We k-now that the build that road, and my hion. friend says
charter passed in this House in 1905, pro- that there are no people .up at Lake Lenrnoted .by the hion, gentleman who rnoved; ore. There were not many people there
this amendment, the Battieford and Lake when hie was hunting rabbits in that disLenore charter, follows exactly t.he line of trict, but the rabbit tracks have gone.
this road from the south end of Lake
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I know that.
That is the zoute
Lenore to Yorkton.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I know more about
descrihed. We also know that the Canadiaii
Pacifie Railway -have the power to build the Hoodoo Plains and other settiements
under this charter. Three companies have in that country than my hion. friend. I
power to construct this line, and I amn say that some people have been there 25
in hopes that some -one of themn will do it. years and I will stick to that staternent.
The country is settling up,-and we know They are expecting that road. My hon.
know why I did not move
the roads will corne wherever the people go friend wanted Wo
ahead of them and produce the freight; Wostrike it out. If I might be allowed Wo
for that reason I arn in favour of extending reier to what la done in the Gominons, the
the tirne for this branch and other branches representatives of the northern Part of
Saskatchewan, rnoved Wo have it struck
mentioned in the Bill.
out and the House felt that it should not
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-With the consent o! be struck out, and they carne Wothe conthe House. I will substitute for the motion clusion that if they had moved a resoluwhich I have given notice the following tion of this kind it might have carried.
almendaient:
So that I amn tryîng Wodo what I can in
Provided, however, that if ten miles of the the best interests.
Personally, I should
uncompleted portion of the lins mentioned like to see it struck out. But if the Canin subsection A, of clause 8, of chapter 52, of
the statutes of 1893, is not buit within twelve adi-in Pacifie Railway want to build that
months from the passing o! thie Act, the line, it will flot be a great undertaking Wo
powers o! construction conferred upon the construet ten miles a year on common
company to build the line last above referr:d
to shall cease as regards such portion as shal prairie. The salary of the president of
then remain uncompleted.
the Canadian Pacific Railway for one year
The SPEAKER-I understand the hion. would be sufficient to psy for it. If it la
gentleman is asking permission o! the not done, the settlers wvilI move out of the
House to substitute for the motion set country. My hon. friend talked about
forth in the notice the one which hie has charters. Charters will not carry grain
r.jal? The motion wifl be, with the leave Wo market. We have more than thirtyof the House, that the said Bill be not now seven hundred miles of railway cha.rtered
read the third tirne, but that it be amend- since 1900, and out of that amount only
ed by adding to clause 1 the previso hie has 400 miles have been built. If the Canadian Pacifie Railway want to hold the
read.
let them build the ten miles; if
is the ten charter,
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Where
they do not, let them drop it and soe
miles to be built?
other company will take it up. The Grand
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I would leave that to Trunk has a charter to go in from Water.
the good judgment of the Canadian Pacifie house, but it dos not cover this territory
Railway. I must say that the settiers that at ail. It may cover a smaîl portion, but
I represent, or suppose to represent,hand not the whole of it. I ask the House Wo
I mnyseif, have not the abounding faith in do something in the interests of the setthe bons fides of the Canadian Pacifie tIers who have been there 25 years and

394

SENATE

show the Canadian Pacifie Railway
they must do something for them.
themn do it or drop the charter.

that
Let

(In the Committee.)
On clause 1:

The House divided on the amendmnent,
which was carried on the following division:

There shahI be a department of the government of Canada to be calhed the Department
of External Affairs, over which the Secretary

CONTENTS:
The Honourables Messieurs.
Beith,
NieLaren,
Bostock,
?McSweeney,
Camipbell,
LFoirier,
Power,
Cofey,1
Comeaýu,
RIley,
Dandurand
Icoas <Moosejaw),
Ross (Halifax).
Djavis,
Domnville,
Ross (Middlesex),
Gibs'on,
Roy,
Godbout,
Talbot,
Jaffray,
Tessier,
Legris,
Wlo-6
McHugh,
isn-6
NON-CONTENTS:
The Honourable Messieurs.
Baird,
Ellis,
B3olduc,
Ferguson,
]3oweUl,
Gillinor,
(Sir Mackenzie),
King,
Cartwright
Landry,
(Sir Richard),
Lougheed,
Cagrain,
Montplaisir,
Choquette,
Perley,
David,
Thompson,
Derbyshire,
Watson,
Dessaullee,
Yeo,
DeVeber,
'Youing.-22.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Un.
fortunately I was flot present when this

Contents 26, non-contents 22.

The Bi
third

as amended was then rend a

time.
THIRD READINGS.

Bill (No. 75) An Act respecting the Canadian Northern Ontario Railway Company.
-<Hon. Mr. Jones).
Bill (No. 96) An Act respection the Kettie
River Valley Raiiway
Company.-(Hon.

Mr. Ross ('Middlesex).
Bill (No. 78) An Act to incorporate the
Superior and Western Ontario Railway
Couipanv.-(Hon. Mr. Young).
Bill (No. 80) An Act respecting
the
Kootenav and Arrowhead Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Bostock).
DEPARTMENT 0F EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
-BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.

The House resoived itself into Cornmittee
of the Whoie on Bill (No. 90) An Act Vo
create a Department of Externat Affairs.
Hon. !dfr.

DAVIS.

of State for the time being shali preside.

Bill was

introduced,

and

explanations

given bv the lion, leader of the House;
therefore, adhering strictly Vo the rule, 1
would have no right Vo, discuss the prin-

ciphes of the Bill, which is for the creation
of another department or a branch of another department. If, however, it was understood at the time, or the House consents at the present tirne, I might offer
some remarks on what I consider Vo be
the objectionabie feature of the Bill.
If
I arn restricted by the ruies of the House
I do not suppose I wouhd have that privilege, but as the Bill is Vo estabiish a Department of Externat Affairs I would be
in order in discussing the propriety of
this course.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
shahl not objeet.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
been thinking, over this ýmatter since the
Bill was introduced, and have been unabte
to see the necessity for establishing any
sucli branch of the Department of the Secretary of State. That department, in the
past, hias had Vo perforrn Vhe duties which
it is proposed by the third clause of this
Bill to impose upon a new officer.
Thp
correspondence upon any question affecting the interest of this country in its relations wvith foreigan countries, hias, in the
pas't, been xelegated Vto 'the depaxftment
affected thereby. As a rule iV wouid pass
through the Department of the Secretary
of State, being the officiai department recognîzed by the home government, and aiso
by foreign governments. Questions affecting trade and commerce, customs, inland
revenue, &c., which might arise in relation Vo other countries, wouid ibe referred
at once -by the cabinet to the particular
departiment con.cerned, and that department wouid deal with the question and
send a report to Gouncil. If approved, 1V
wouid then be forwarded Vo the imperial

APRIL 29, 1909
government or the foreign governrnent interested. Now, suppoaing this Under Secretary for External Affaira is appointed,
and a question affecting the seizure of a
steamer for contravention of the Fisheries
Act should arise, to whom will that be referred? It cornes to the counicil for consideration. Then it is referred to the Department of Marine and Fisheries toi investigate the whole question. The department wouid send the result of their investigation te the Under Secretary of State for
External Affaira, who wouid have te copy
the report and eend it through the Secretary of State to the Council for approval
or it might be sent direct to Council and
if approved, the despatch would be forwarded; if objected te or amended, it
would have to go back for further information. So that reaiiy the work to be done
by this under secretary, which is now done
by the department, wouid be an unnecessary and cumbrous addition to the department. Why it 6hould be estaiblished I arn
at a loas to know. Under the late administration under secretaries were appointed
by law and placed un-der the heads of sorne
of the departinents, the customs officers
under the DepartRnent of Trade and Commerce. The present goverrnent repealed
the Act, and made each of these under secretaries <adopting the policy that exista in
England) ministers, giving them the full
powers that existed prior to the change of
the iaw, so that the Controlier of Inland
Revenue was rnade head of a departmnent and
became a full fledged miniater. The same
couxrse was puraued in connection with the
Customs DepaSrtrent, and when the question came before the Senate it was aolernly
declare-d by the then Secretary of State and
leader of the House that aithough they
were making these under secretaries heads
of departznents, the salaries were not to
be raised. When the estimates carne down,
we found that that pledge was not carried
-out. D)uring t.he present administration
we have had a departrnent sirnilar to this
attached to the Post Office Departrnentthe Department of Labour. That has been
in existence for a few years, and now there
ia to be as hend cf that departinent another
full fiedeed minister. It has -been stated
that it ia net intended te ruake this Under
Secretary cf State for External Affairq a

395

Minister of the Crown. What guarantee
have we of that? The leader of the House,
answering a similar question to the one I
arn now putting, gave_ no pledge that that
would nlot he donc, and even il hie did give
a pledge lie might personally try to carry
it out, but the opinions of an individual
rneiber of couneil are very often overruled by his coileagues, and he lias to su-binit or leave the government. On a -minor
matter of this kind, it is ijot likely that a
minist-er would take the responsibiity of
leaving the cabinet. I have a distinct recollection, and 1 have no doubt the right
hon. Minister of Trade and Commerce will
re>member it also, time was when the leaders of the Liberal party denounced the
government of that day for havîng, so many
heads of departments. Mr. Blake, who was
then a prominent memiber of the Liberai
party, in iact the head of it in the House
of Cornmons, laid down the principle flot
oniy that there shouid be fewer heads of
departments, but that the heads should
be paid proportionateiy to the labour
they had to perforni in connection with
their departments, and the Departmrent
of Secretary of State was one that
was to be classed arnong the inferior
departmnents, so far as saiary was concerned. But we find the Lilberal party are
not satisfied with fourteen heads of
departments, but propose now to add
another minister, and the creation of this
new office of Under Secretary of Btate for
External Affairs is but the beginninga of the
esta'blishment of a sixteenth department.
which is utterly unnecessary. The departments as' they are to-day. and particuiarly
the Departrnent o! Secretary of State. are
quite sufficient to deal with ail the quesI
tions which may corne before thern.
could understand some reason for estabishing this departrnent if we were an independent country dealing with outaside nations, but as a part o! the British empire
we must aet in ail matters affecting ont
relations with foreign countries tbrough the
imperiai authorities. If it be necessary to
have an additional officer to deai excluon external
sively with correspondence
affairs, then an officiai with the necessary
talent and education wouid answer ail the
purposes without creating a branch departrnent with power to add a numnber of

SENATE
clerks ta do what has been dane in the
past by the cierks of the department and
the minister himself. I see no reason for
it ether than ta make a place for somelbody
who will ultimately be made a minister
of the Crown with ail the expenses atThe Commons
tached ta that position.
having affirmed it, and the 8enate having
approved o! it at the second reading, I
presume aIl that is ]eft for us is to accept
or reject the Bill. If xny vote wouid rejeat it, I would vote against it for the
reasons I bave given. The office is unnecessary and adds neediess expense ta the
carrying on of the government af this country. I notice in the remarks mnade by the
hon, gentleman fram Marshfieid that he
thought this was not the tirne to discuss
the question of adding an additional head
of a department. I think otherwise. I
regard this as initiating the creation of
another department, and it is, therefore, a
question that can fairly and legitimately be
considered in discussing this Bill. The explanations of the right hon. leader ofi the
House at the second reading of the Bill
were clear enough, as fa.r as they went.
He said: ' the Bill erplains what the duties
of the office are.' My own belief is there
are no duties ta be performed by this
officiai which have not been performed in
the past and cannot be continued ta be
performed by the heads of the depaxtments
without putting the country ta this expense. The name af a gentleman has been
mentioned who is ta receive the position
if this Bill is passed. I do not know anybody who is better fitted for the position
than the one named, that is Mr. Pope, but
he can discharge ail the duties in hfr present position, as Under Seoretary ai State,
just as weli and efiectively as if he were
appointed Under Secretary of State for External Affaira. If a new man shouid be
appointed, he will be occupied some years
in reoeiving instructions from mren like
Mr. Pope before he is fit ta discharge the
duties af the office. If an outsider is to be
brought in, it will be like what we axre
doing now in connection with a report
WIIU.L

eAt&Ub

At

P)LV

f
Lý

very short time-bringing men in who have
ta ]earn the duties which. it is proposeà
tbey shall perform and who are now acting
as apprentices. If the department is ta be
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

established, I predict that it wiil flot be
many years before we have sixteen heada
of departmnents instead of thirteen, the nurnber which the Liberai party appa5ed sa
strenuously in the past.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
do not know that I have much ta add
ta the remarks I made on introducimg this
Bill and on the second reading. We are
not discussing the creation of a new minister, but simply the assigning oi certain
specific duties ta an inferior afficer ta be
known as the Under Secretary ai State
for Externai Aif airs. The xneasure has ibeen
recomnaended on the graund of the incanvenience which. has been found in practice ta
arise fromn the references made by the imperial government and other parties ta the
several departmnents, such references having increased enarmausiy within the last
few years. There is scarcely a meeting ai
conil-and the meetings are pretty numerous-at which a number ai references
are nat made from the Secretary ai State
for Foreign Aff airs in England to the several departments, and it has been found
in practice that these are not at present,
as regularly tabulated, nar are the records
as carefully kept as they would be if
they were put under the charge ai a subdepartment ai the Secretary ai State.
That really is the only expianatian I
can give ta my hion. friend. Speaking individually, and not for the government, I
amn myseli-and 1 have stated it aften
enough in the other Chamber, and in this
Hause toc-aif the opinion that it would be
a very considerabie improvement on aur
present practice if we had fewer Ministers
ai State, and a very considerabie number
of under secretarys, as in England. That
is iny individuai opinion, and I give it for
what it is warth. The more I see-and
my experience is pretty large-af the workîng ai our constitutionai system, and the
more I see ai the needs ai this country,
the mare I arn canvinced that the English
system is a very great improvement on
ours in the way af providing for the educatian ai a number ai younger members ai
parliament, and enabling fram themn ta be
selected men wha will in time be fit ta

APRIL 29, 1909
become ministers. If my hion. friend remembers, when Sir John Macdonald inýroduced the proposition hie alluded to, I
pointed that out, and I quite agreed with
him. While I arn fully prepared to take
the responsibility for everything the government has done, I say that as a matter
of opinion, and I think it will be found as
a matter of practice. the appointment of
under Secretaries of State chosen from
among the younger members of the party
wou]d be of great advantage to Canada,
both now and in the future. In -a federal
constitution like ours, covering haîf a continent, with nine or ten provinces, there
is no doubt whatever that it is highly desirable we should train and bring forward younger men. However, that is not
exactly cog-nate to the matter in hand. I
do not think my hion. friend will be called
upon to discuss the question that hie fears,
the appointment of a new minister under
this Bill, for a very considerable time to
corne at ail events, and in the meantime
it will be found in practice to be a great
convenience that some officer of good
standing and experience should be specially charged with looking after the very
nurnerous communications that arise bietween ourselves and the English foreign office and the offices of other countries. Day
by day and hour by hour, Canada, although
flot at the moment an independent country,
is becoming recognized as a practically
self-governing- nation. My lion. friend
knows that, and hie knows also that the
English government, in a great rnany cases
now, will neyer proceed to take any action
which affects the interests of Canada without first formally consulting the government of Canada. To ail intents and purposes, we are becoming- intrusted with the
conduct of our own relations with foreign
powers, and the larger Canada becomes,
and the larger our population, the more
clear it is that we will need to keep a very
careful eye on the various communications
that take place between the imperial authorities and any other countries with which
we are likely to have relations. The Bill
was passed without much opposition in the
other Chamber, and I think on the whole,

397

the hion, gentleman will find that it will
work well and tend to the convenience of
the public service.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS--Does Canada ever receive communications frorn foreign countries direct?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-No.
That we could flot do. 'We must receive
any communications through the rnedium
of British Ambassadors or the British Foreign Office, as the case may be. When I
say that, my hion. friend knows that informai communications are made to us not
unfrequently from the consular office of
foreign countries.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
fully in accord with most of the statements
made by the right hion. gentleman. I remem.bered distinctly the position he took
in the Commons at the tirne to ivhich lie
refers; but what I contend is, that aIl the
duties which the hon, gentleman hias
pointed out to be perforrned by the second
Under Secretary of State, could be donp
just as well, as properly and as effectively by a first-class additional clerk,
appointed, if such be necessary, in the
Department of the Secretary of State, and
if it were necessary to have an additional
clerk whose talents would best fit him for
the position, that he should have a larger
salary than $2,800.
He might be given
$3,000, if it were necessary; hence it would
be totally unnecessary to establîsh an additional branch which may lead, as 1
firmly believe it will, to the end I have
indicated. The hion, gentleman is quite
correct when hie says that the British governrnent in dealing with the self-governing colonies, and Canada in particular,
scarcely takes any step which rnay affect
the colonies in any treaties into which
they lnay enter with foreign countries,
without first consulting the colonial authorities and asking whether they will becorne a party to such a treaty or not.
Wihen a despatch of that kind is sent to
the Canadian government-I arn speaking
now of what took place when I was in the
Cabinet-the Cabinet refers it to the department affected by it. Having had a good
deal of experience, having been at the
head, for some years, of the Department

SENATE
of Customs, and also the Department of
Trade and Commerce-and most of these
treaties affecting trade were sent to that
departmenv-if the report of the Minister
of Trade and Commerce was against beeoming a party to the treaty, England
struck out the clause affecting Canada's
interest. I may say without violating any
secrecy, that as a rule-I might say iiivariably-the report made by myseif to
council was against becoming a party te
any of these treaties, because -%e neyer
knew what moment a question might arise
with a foreign country that would affect
our trade in some way, direct or indirect.
We would be placed in the position that
my hon. friend knows new they are placed
in with reference te the treaty with Japan.
The former governinent refused to become
a paitv to the treaty for the reason that it
restricted their rigahts. Whether that wvas
overloeked by my hon. friend in his department or not, I do flot know, but the
moment Canada became a party to the
whole of that treaty she was placed in the
position in which she finds herseif to-day
in connection with the immigration of
Japanese. The pelicy of this country came
in conflict with the policy of England and
is therefore, indirectly a violation of the
ternis of the treaty existing between Eng]and and Japan. I firmly believe that what
is aimed at by this Bill could be accoinplished without going to the expense and
trouble of making another head of a department.
lion. Mr. FERGUSON-From the Semarks
I made yesterday at the second reading cf
this Bill, it might be inferred that 1 had
a confexence witb Mr. Pope, the IJnder
Secretary of State, on the subjeet, and that
1 was te some extent expressing his views.
I may say that I have not exchanged one
word with Mr. Pope with regard te this
xnatter. Ail that 1 know about it is wbat
I learned froni the evidence which was
given before the commission, consisting of
Mr. Couitney, Mr. Fysche and Mir. Bazin,
who investigated the Civil Service. In the
course of bis evidence befere that body, Mr.
Pope outlined a proposition somewhât like
the one centained in this Bill. 1 have not
referred te this evidence since this Bill carne
up te ascertain if it is entirely in accord
-with it. 1 rather think it is net, but se far
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

as the principle is concerned, as te having
ail the business of any cf the departîments
foreign countries-wbich wiil cf course
%with
be thîough the British goveSimnent or with
other colonies cf the empire-'transactcd
througb ene department cf the government,
I arn thoroughly in accord. 1 think that
is a correct principle, and that it is in the
Department cf State that it should be done.
I expressed my satisfaction at the second
reading ef the Bill that it did no-t propose
the creation cf another portfolio. At the
sanie 'tue, I expressed my fears that possibly, at seme tume, polîtical exigencies
might induce the government te take the
fuirtheî step, as they are preposing now te
do wit.h reference to the Department cf
Labour, whicb I think is less justifiable
than te double the Department cf the Secretary of -State; but I do noV think that,
in eider te effeet the object which Mr.
Pope suggested te the Civil Service Comnmission, it is necessaîy te have twe, under
secretaries. We tried the systeni of dual
deputies in the Department of Marine
and Fisheries under a fermer administratien. It was tried foi a tume. There was
a Deputy Minîster of Marine and a Deputy
Minister cf Fis-heries, but it was not found
Vo work satisfactery, and it was abandoned.
I have seen a statemnent, however, that it
is the intention of the present goveixument
te go back te sorne ýsuch systern as
that in Marine and Fisheries. It was
oniy in the newspapers, howevei, and
there may be ne foundatien for it. In
my view, ail that is necessary to be doue in
order te bring the handling cf cur business
with fereign ceuntries, and with other
colonies cf the empire inte the hands cf
one department, and that the Department
of the Secretary cf State, would be te extend the duties cf the Secretary cf State
Vo External Affairs, and te make the piesent Under Secîetaîy cf Sta-te the deputy
head cf the Department cf External Affairs.
If that weîe done, all that wouid be necessary then would *be te establish a staffand I 'think that step bas already been
paîtially taken, if 1 arn cerrectly inferrned;
my fîiend Mr, William Mackenzie, of the
' Free Press,' a very cempetent man, bas
been appeinted te a clerkship in anticipation
of the legislatien wbich is now before us-aIl
of which can be donc quite regularly with-

APRIL 29, 1909
out creating another officiai in the position
of an under secretary, whicli I thînk la
wholly unneceasary, and the appointment
of a second man may create some difficuity
in the line to which I referred on Tuesday.
Ail that wôuld be necessary would be to
nmend this Bill. The first section rends:
Thero shall be a department of the goverfiment of Canada to be called the Department
of Externai Affairs, over which the Secretary
for the tinie being shai! preside.
I would ndd: 'and of which the Under
Secretary o! State shahl be deputy head,
and %lio shall le called Under Secretary
of State for External Affaira.'
And o! which the under-secretary shall be
the deputy-head.
Then 1 %vould strike out in the firat line
o! section two ail the words after the word
Sappoint ' in the first line of section 2 up
to the Nvord ' such 'in the fourth uine of
the said section. And then section 2 would
read this wav:

It is scarcely iikely hie would be turned
over to that, and in that way the duties we
are creating would fail certainly into inexperienced and possibly incapable hands.
whereas if you retain one Under Secretary
of State in the person of Mr. Pope, you will
have an eminently competent man, and
with such a man as named, whom I believe*is appointed as chie! clerk, and suitable men under him, we wouid be abie to
carry out the entire object of the goverfiment according to the suggestion made by
Mr. Pope to the Civil Service Commission,
and we would not be creating this dual condition in the departmnent, and we would
flot be expending the $5,000 which I arn
sure will be rather worse than wasted if
the appointment is made. I suppose the
government is flot prepared to accept any
amendment offered by the opposition with
regard to a measure *o! this kind, particula-rly as the question o! patronage is involved, which wouid seemi like tnking the
prey fromn the mighty. Patronage is
the lawful prey o! the government, and it
wouid be an awful thing to deprive them
of it, but I think they would do weii to
listen to our humble advice and Wo
amend the Bill in the way I have
suggested. Ail the objects-and they are
very good ones-which appear to be in view
in turning over ail these negotiations with
regard to our externai affairs Wo one department, and that departmnent the Secreta.ry of State, wouid be carried out without
creating a dual head-ship in the department, and without incurring the unnecessary expense o! $5,000 a year.

The officer who shall be cailed under-secretary for externai affairs, and shall be deputyhead of the department.
And then the section wouid rend thîs
way:
And the Governor in Council may appoint
snch other oficers and clerks as are necessiary for the due administration of the department, ail of which are to hoid office during
pleasni'e.
and the rest of the Bill wouid stand. By
that we Nvouid get rid of the appointiment
of dual heads whichi are necessary. No one
who knows anything- about the affaira o!
Canada wvili venture Wocontradict me, that
Mr. Pope lias lad n very extensive experience in questions o! diplomacy, if 1 may
Hon. Mr,. DANDURAND-The necessity
use that word. If any man in Canada lias
had experience in diplomacy it is Mi. Pope. for creating a second deputy head has, Wo
Rie accompnnied Sir John Macdonald Wo my mind, become apparent by the tact
Washington during the early negotiations that this work of gathering into one departHe was with ment tihe external affairs and communicawith the United States.
Sir John Thompson in Paris and with Sir tions from the outside was ndded to the
Wilfrid Laurier in England on more than duties of the Secretary cf State. The present
one occasion, and lie was with Mr. Lem- deputy hend, I wouid think, from xny own
jeux in Japan. He bas lad great exper- experience, had his hands full with the work
ience in diplomatic matters. He is coin- that was already thrown o'n that departmnent.
pnratively a young man, and lis experience The late Secretnry of State, if lie were in his
is valuable. It is not likely that Mr. Pope place, could describe the heavy work which
wouid be turned over to this new appoint- fails upon the deputy minister through havment whidli wouid, in point of seniority, ing to auperviee the granting of letters
'lie inferior to the deputyship of the patent, which lie mnust examine closely.
department as it is at present constituted. There is a second object, an important

SENATE
objeet in the creation of a special branch
in that department. It is to centre in that
branch the whole of the communications
constantiy going on between the representatives of foreign countries in Canada, 'who
are always corresponding, either with the
Secretaxy of State or the department ta which.
the matter directiy*refers. If it happens ta
bca question affecting trade and commerce,
it goes ta the department of the right hion.
gentleman on my leit. If it is a question
appertaining to customs, it goes ta the Department of Customs. But there ie a nuinber of sixbjects tihat cannot be easily
classified by the representatives of those
foreign nations, and I know that very often
I have been approached by soene of them
ta know to whom they shouid addrese thernselves, and in most cases, when not exactiy
au fait, they have addressed themseive6 to
the Prime Minister. I think this country
is growing fast enough, and is getting ta
have outside communications
of s.uch
volume and importance that it is absoluteiy necessary there shouid be a branch of
the Department of State arganized with a
special name, which wili heraid ta the
worid vwho is the officiai with mhom the oufsider shouid correspond; and that the rep'resentative of the government in this work
ehouid be ciothed with the p)ower of a
deput.v head, it seems to me desirabie.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I point out
to the lion, gentleman what in my judgment is a very suspiciaus statement in
this first clause, namely the words ' for
the time being should preside'. I should
like to know from my hion. fricnd the abject of inserting these four words-over
-which the Secretary of State 'for the time
being' should preside. In the foilowing section it is quite apparent that the Secretary
of State, until further legisiation is obtained, is to transact the business of this
new departmnent. The elimination of those
four words might possibiy quiet the doubt
that this is simpiy seed being sown for the
purpose of germinating into the creation of
a new Minister of State. I do not think
that it requires a very acute sense of future
action to conclude that this is the intention
of the Bil. In this connection may I point
out that under ehapter 76 of the Revised
Hfon. Mr. DANDURAND.

Statutes of Canada we have the legisiation
which creates the present Department of
State. Would my han. friend look at sect.ion 4 of the old Act and hie will find that
it is the duty of the Secretary of State
ta practically perform ail the duties set out
in section three of this Bill. Section four
of the aid Act provides that the Secretary of
State shall have charge of the state carrespondence, shall keep ail state records and
papers not transferred ta the other departments and shall perfarm ail such other duties and sa on as may be assigned ta him.
The duties enumerated ini section three of
the Bill, while a lîttie mare elaborate ini
language are certainiy no different in substance than those apecified in section four
of chapter 76 of the Revised Statutes. The
contention which I have been trying ta advance in connection with this Bill is this:
That the duty of the government was, if it
be desîrabie ta appoint another Under Secretary of State ta amend the present Act,
namely chapter 76, enlarging the duties of
the Secretary of State if necessary, but I
do submit that the language in the present
Act is sufficientiy large ta carry out ahi the
duties cantemplated by this Bill.
Han. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
may just say ta my hion. friend that I arn
not at liberty ta accept his suggestion at
present, but if lie wiil -ive notice of that
amendment for the third reading, elirninatîng the words whichi seem ta stick in his
throat ' for the time being,' I wiii let him
know, at the third reading. whet.her the
goverument attach any special importance
ta them or flot. For myseif I must say I
do not think it matters miuch one way or
the other. I think the words are to a certain extent surpiusage.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I think they are
myseif.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-But
if my hion. friend's mind wouid be relieved
by them being out and hie gives notice of
such an amendment, I wiih have it considered.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I may tell my
hion. friend that I amn not Iosing any sieep
over this Bill but it certainiy in my judgment shows the trend of the mind of the

APRIL 29, 1909

government at the time the
ed and that this legislation
tative. It is verv much like
intreduced establishing- the
Labour.

Bill was fram- sure. The foreign consuls have communiis simply ten- cated rather indiscriniinately.
the legislation
The clause was adopted.
Departmnent of

SUBWAY MARINE COMPANY BILL.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
amn inclined to think that the gentleman
who drafted this Bill-and the hion. genHon. Mr. WATSON moved the second
tleman is aw'are that governments do not
reading of Bill (No. 77) An Act respecting
draft these Bills as a rule-inserted those
a patent of the Sub-Marine Company.
words without any particular meaning or
implication whatever.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would suggest
tilI to-morrew.
Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-It is quite usual te that this Bill should stand
kind for the pur- It is a controversial Bill. The patent exintroduce words of that
there should be
pose merely of stating that the person who pired four years ago, and
the posi- some reason given for this measure.
shall for the tirne bein.- occupy
tionshai hav
autorit.
1Hon. Mr. WATSON-I do net know if
I
any further information.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-I dtesire we eau get owledge of it. I do not know
ok
te call attention to a remark of the hou. gen- hv
patent is for. I thought the
fron 'Marshfield, which rnight prob- what the s Cemniittee would deal with
tleman
Bill
ably leave an impressionl upon the minds of
the people that correspondence has not been it.
carried on in the past through the Secretary
Hn
r LOUGHEED-I certainly would
i to it unless some satisfactory
of State to any other country. 1 arn not IHn
speaking- of what takes place nowv, but Ilj be opposed is given.
know that under the old government, when information
a report ýwas made frem any department and
WATSON-I meve that the
Hon. Mr
adopted by council, it was through the
day be discharged and that it
the
Secretarv of State's Department the commu- order of
on the orders of the day for
w-as sen", either te the Colonial be placed Xt.
nication'
ne
Office or to the Foreign Office. Whether Tuesday
that system lias been changed and each deTemt on was agreed to and the order
partment acts upon its owvn responsibility ofthe moth was discharged.
or not I arn no- prepared to say. The old
practice %vasjust as indicated by the hon.
~ECOND READINGS.
i
gentleman from M-Narshfield.
Bill (No. 87) An Act to incerporate the
The clause w-as adopted.
Arnprior an id Pontiac Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. Watson).
On clause 4,
Bill (VV) An Act respecting the Canadian
The admninistration of all miatters relating
F und.-(Hon. Mr. Scott).
te the foreîgn consular service je Canada iPatriotic
shaîl be transferred to the Departirent of ExBill (WNN !) An Act te incerporate the St.
ternal Affairs.
id Eastern Railway Company.Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I ask in Maurice anTessier).
whiat department the consular service js (Hon. Mr.
Bill (No. 122) An Act te incorporate the
now P
Mr.
Cabane R~ailway Company.-(Hen.
McSweeney
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTPractically speaking At has been with haîf
The Sena te adjourned until three o'clock
a dozen departmients. That is one reason,
the introduction of this mes- te-niorrow.
perhaps, for
26

IPrivate

REVISED rTD1T1ON

SENATE
clause of this Bill has been struck out?
1 understood in the committee that clause
OTTAWA, Friday, April 30, 1909.
4 had been struck out, ibut I do nat see
The SPEAKER took the Chair at 1Three that the Bill has been reported in that
wvay.
o'clock.

THE SENÂTE.

Prayers and routine proceedings.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-When the Bill was
brought hefore the committee the promoTHIRD READINGS.
ters asked that the word 'Victoria' be
Bill (No. 85) An Act respecting the Briti-sh dropped, and the committee moved and
CoIu.xnbia Southern Railway Company.- carried the motion that the words ' Royal
Victoria' should remain, and that the word
(Hon. Mr. Bostock).
Bill (SS) An Act respecting the Quebe, 'Royal' alone should be taken from, the
and New Brunswick Railway Company.- Bill as it confiicted with another company
doing business in Canada.
(Hlon. Mr. Costigan).
Bill (RR) An Act respecting the Brockville, Westport and Northwestern Railway
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Derbyshire).
Bill (No. 102) An Act to incorparate the
London. and Northwestern Railway Coinpany.-(Hon. Mr. McMullen).
Bill (Y) An Act respecting the Central
Railway of Canada.-(Hon. Mr. Edwards).
Bill (No. 51) An Act to incorporate the
Commercial Casualty and Surety Company
of Canada.-(Hon. Mr. Ellis).
Bill <JJ) An Act respectîng the Mexican
Transportation Company, Limited, and to
change its naine to ' Mexico Northwestern
Railway Company.'-(Hon. Mr. Riley).
Bil] (NN) An Act respecting the Patent
of Washington R. McCloy.-(Hon. Mr. McH ugh).
Bill (BB) An Act to incorporate the
Board of Eiders of the Canadian District
of the Northern Province of the Moravian
Church in Ainerica.-(Hon. Mr. De Veber).

Hon. Mr. LANDRY--Clause 4 reads:
The name of the company is hereby changed
ta ' Royal Victoria.'
It is not changed. The Royal Victoria
came here under the name of the Royal
Victoria Lif e Insurance Company and askel
to change its name into the Royal Insurance Company. The fourth clause states
that-the name of the company is hereby
changed. That fourth clause was struck
out in coxnmittee, and that should be stated
in the report.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was struck out in
the committee.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And it was changed
aecordingly. The change in this Bill goes
to the title, because clause four had been
struck out.
I would ask that this be
aTnended Sa that clause four be struck out,
as the committee decided. We might strike
it out here.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-With the permission
of the House, I will make that change at
the table. My hion. frîend is quite right.
COMPANY BILL.
The promoters wanted to have the word
THIRD READING.
' Royal ' ahane, and the committee did not
Hon. '-%r. GIBSON, from the Committee see fit ta agree to that. We changed the
on Banking and Commerce, reported Bi'£ tithe back agcain ta the aid name.
(PP) An Act respecting the Royal Victoria
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, the committee
Insurance Company, and to change its
name to the Royal Victoria Life Insurance refused ta change the name.
Company of Canada.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-We refused it in one
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I niove that rules 24 way.
(a), (b) and (h) be suspended, so far as
Hon. MINI.LANDRY-The effect is the
they relate to this Bill.
saine.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Bef ore the motion is
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-They simply wanted
put, I sbouhd like to know if the fourth the word 'Royal, and that was their apHon. Mr. WATSON.
ROYAL

VICTORIA

LIFE

INSURANCE

APRIL 30, 1909

4iU

plication. The committee refused that and Royal Victoria Life Insurance Company.'
That has been changed to 'The Royal Vicchanged it back to their old name.
toria Life Insurance Comnpany of Canada.'
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-At ail events, w~e Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I suggest
corne back to the sanie point if we strike that the report be taken into consideration
on Tuesday next, and the report can be
out clause four.
made amended accordingly.
Hon. 'Mr. GIBSON-With the consent of
the House, I will have this change made in 1 I1c. Mr. LANDRY-I amn assured there
has been a change as the hon. anember says,
the report.
but not the change asked fox. The words
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It would be more .of Canada ' have been added to the title,
regular to move that we strike out clause 4. and, therefore, the report is correct. What
occurred to me was that 'the committee
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I move that clause struck out clause 4 altogether.
4 be struck out.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON moved that t.he report
Hon. Mr. POWER-I second the miotion. be takzen into consideration on Tuesday
that the report be amended by inserting next.
a provision that clause 4 ibe struck out.
The motion was agreed te.
The SPEAKER-I caîl attention to the
fact that there is no motion for the con- FRENCH VERSION 0F RULES 0F THE
sideration of the Bill before the House.
SENATE.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I amn trying to make
a motion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have no objection
te suspend the rules and let it go through
immediately. No delay will occur. We
will suspend the rules and make a correction.

Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY moved:
That an order of this House b. given to
the Clerk of the Senate for the immediate
publication, in the French langualge. and for
the distribution thereof to those entitled
thereto, of the volume containing (1) the
Rules of the Sonate; (2) the form Of Proceeding of the Senate of- Canada; (3) the
Constitutional Acts; together with the index
ta each of those parts.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Is this volume prepa.red and ready?

The SPEAKER-lt is moved by the Hon.
Mr. Landry, seconded by the Hon. Mr.
Gibson that ruIes 24 (a), (b) and (h) be
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The volume is presuspended in so far as they relate te this
pared in Englîsh and has been for two
Bill.
years.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-As the
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-How can the clerk
report is not in accordance with the deci- have it printed in French if it is not transsion o! the committee, it should be referred lated?
back te the comrnittee for correction. We do
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Some one must ee
no~t know how farx the intenqtion and actions
of the committee have been cornplied with. to the translation.
Aýver-:- important clause still remaining in
The motion -was agreed ta.
I
the Bill ha-s reall3' been struck out.
object to the rule being suspended. That DEPARTMENT 0F EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
will -ive the clerk -of the committee and
BILL.
the chairman an opportunity of presenting
THIIRD READING.
a correct report te the Senate.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHI
Hon. '.%I. GIBSON-There vere sorne moved the third reading of Bill (No. 90)
doubts cast on our not changing the name An Act to create a Department of Extemnal
of the company, but the name of the com- Affaira.
pany Niças changed. Originally it was 'The

SENATE

an extreineiy difficuit task ta obtain a coinltte record of any international question
with which Canada bas been concerned during tise lest fifty years; for instance, we
would not knaow to-day in what denartment
we coutd obtain information as ta the ownership of tise isiand of San Juan; vrouid suggest that ail despatelses reiating ta externat
nifairs be referred te ans departîsient wleose
officiais woutd lie in close touch with other
departments whcn ta draw the rasv materiai
for their work; but tise digesting of thîs informations and its presentatian in diplomatie
farmi shouid reat with them, througs, of
course, tlîe sanie channeis ns at present: no
wieh ta change in tliot regard; every effort
Hie said :Before the motion for thse shouid be muade ta coiteet fram the be ginning
ail papers
third reading is put, I wish to say a frami offices bsariîsg on tise questions iîîdicated
of Governor Genierai, Privy CouniM-\y views with regard to cil, the various departnsents, sud frein forword or two.
this Bill have been already stated at con- eign sud colonial offices; if nat begun niow it
will lie too late; thse few bnen thoroughly considerable length on thse second reading and versant with these questieons are growing old,
when in committee. I had not tise advant- and se far as I know wiii leave no successars:
much information will thus be iost; wauid
age on these occasions of having thse meeno. recommend that a staff of Younîg ien, wel
subnîitted to thse Civil Service Commis- sducated and select be nttacied ta the dein the
sioniers by Mr. Pope under my hand. partment aîîd specially trainedsubjects; knowicdge and treatîsent of these
such
I had glanced over the report at tise time. departmeîît couid lie under superv ision of
and there were s0 many thing-s in it te Secretary of State, w-hase departiuent could
be divided ino twa branches, oue for Canainterest one that I only gave it casual con- dieu and one for external affaire.
sideration; stili I recollect fairly weli what
That is exceedingly clear, sud it estabit contained. I have that mema. here. It
lished beyond nny question thc need of
is vers' short, and I propose to read it 50
something being done. There is ne suggesas to place it on record. After giving bis
tion here,' no isought evidently that such a
evidence M-Nr.
Pope handed in this memo.:
thing as tise crention of a new department
Would refer to desirableness of estabieh- was necessary. I may say that on tise spur
ing a more systemnatie mode of dealing with
externat affairs of Dominion;, it is a misap- of tise moment yesterday I thought that
prehendion to suppo5'e that such matters ara tise defects which I see in this Bill could
deait withi by this department; Secretary of be mnitig-ated
by amending it in the way iii
State is rrimarilv and principally thse officiai
mouthipiece of the Governor General in re- wisich I gave notice.
Having looked into
spect to Caniadinn affairs; is thse channiel of it, I flnd that ail that would be scamicommunication between Dominion goverament aîîd the provinces, as colonial eecrettsry plished would bie tise preventing of the dual
is of the colonies: alt communications hie re- under secretaryship in the State Departceives for transmission ta Engiand or a fereignl country are forwarded by him to the ment, and the throwing away of $5,00O;
Goveruor Generai, requesting .him to trans- but tise Bill is cumbersome and unmit saie to destination, &c., 6ucis commun]- necessary.
There la no need of a second
cations relate to demestia matters; mucis.
however, bears upon externat affaire, such as departmnent at ail. Ail that is required is
aur relations with foreigis cauntries, Behring a branch, a number cf capable youn- men
sea ýseal question, tise Alaska boundary. the
Atlantic fishieries, &c., or questions, thougs te *be appointed, who, under the direction
within the empire which extend beyond the of the Secretary of ýState and the under
bounds of tihe Dominion, as the difference with
Newfoundtand over the boundary of Labra- secretsry, -would mnke these collections,
dor, iii such case thse colonial minister ad- and would centrelize then in tise Departdresses a despatch ta Governor Generat. and ment of tise Secretary of State. Th-if (-~~
by hini sent ta Privy Coiincit or Cabinet.
who sends it to minister interested, who re- so I do nlot propose ta submit my motion
plies in formn of a report ta Privy Council; to the bouse, becaiise I feel it is orulv a
who if they approve adrise that a copy of thse
minute be sent ta the Secretar'r of State for haîf remedv for tise 'faults which I observe
Colonies for information af His Majesty's in the Bill. Let tise government take the
gaveroment ;thus far ne uniformitv of responsibility, if they are se, determined, and
eystemn or cantinuity of plan; practical resuit of systemn in vogue is that in ne depart- pasa it througs. I see ne necessitv whstment je tisere to-day any complete recard af ever for tise creatien of a second departsuch correspondence; it witl saon be too late
ta change the syetem; even now it would ise ment.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON moved:

That the said Bill1 be not now read a
third time, but that it be referred back te
a Comxnjttee of the Whole House for thse purpose of adding the following words to section
1 thereof :and of which thse Under Secretary of State
shall be deputy head, and who shall be caiied
Under Secretary of State for External Affairs.'
And to strike out ail thse words after the
word 'appoint' in thse tirst line of section 2
up to the word ' sucli ' in the fourth line of
the said section.

APRIL 30, 1909
BOWELL-1
Hon'. Sir MACKENZIE
should like to ask the right hon. leader of
the House whether a gentleman was flot
appointed some -months ago to perform
duties of! a somewhat similar characteri?
1 rend in the newspapers that Mr. Wm.
Mackenzie, formerly of the newspaper étaff
of this city, had been appointed for the
purpose o! considering and drafting answers
to despatches from the Colonial Secretary,
and to prepare answers to, despatches affecting what are termed foieign relations, which
my hon. friend referred to just now, and
i! that gentleman is stili in the service of
the government, what are really bis duties
and 'what work is he performing?

CANADIAN PATRIOTIC FUND ASSOCIATION BILL.
THIRD READING.
The House resolved itself into a Committee o! the Whole on Bill (VV) An Act respecting the Canadian Patriotie Fund Association.
(In the Committee.>

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This association has
for its president His Excellency the Governor General, and the vice-presidents are
the lieutenant governors of the several
provinces. Under the by-laws of the coinpany there is an executive committee. It
has been found impossible to carry on the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I business on account of the number o!
really cannot say off-hand how far my -hon. absentees. 1 am told that on no occasion
friend's information is correct. The gentle-. has any of the lieutenant governors ever atman he naines was appointed for certain tended a meeting o! the commlttee.
duties in that departinent, but I have not
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Did we not
before me, although I can obtain it if my
amend the Act last session in the direction
hon. friend desires, I suppose, any special
information as to the duties particularly suggestedP
assigned to hum. If my 'memory serves
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We did; the meniber.%
me, 'the Prime Minister, who was dealing of the commîttee were invîted to give
with this Bill in the House o! Commons, answers by letters, but they neglected.
xnentioned that Mvr. Pope would takr- charge Now they are to volte by proxy-they must
of this branch particularly.
either attend personally or vote by proxy.
The executive committee is composed o!
BOW«FT-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
the following gentlemen: Hon. Sir F. W.
think that is correct, but what I was desirBorden, K.C.M.G., Hon. Sir William Muous of ascertaining was what duties is Mr.
lock, K.C.M.G., Hon. John Costîg-an, Hon.
Mackenizie performing?
George E. Foster, M.P., Hon. Six L. H.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I Davies,
K.C.M.G., .Hon. iMr. Justice
have flot the -details o! it myseif at the Girouard, Six Sandford Fleming, K.C.M.G.,
moment, ibut I can obtain thern.
His Hon. Judge D. B. McTavish, Sir Geo.
A. Drrnmond, K.C.M.G., Hon. Geo. A.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I had the good Cox, Mr. J. M. Courtney, C.M.G., I.S.O.;
fortune to meet Mr. Mackenzie on the street Colonel J. Hanbury-Williams,
C.V.O.;
this morning, and having thrown a bouquet C.M.G.; Lt.-Colonel D. T. Irwin, C.M.G.;
bis way yesterday, I naturally called at- Lt.-Colonel Fred. White. C.M.G.; Dr. F.
tention to the subject, when he told me that Montizambert, 1.S.0.; Mr. George Buxn.
bis appointinent had nothing whatever to Mr. Hugh Graham, Hon. J. Jaffray.
do with this eubject; that it -was in conHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-W-hV is there
nection with the Privy Council.
such an ornamental commit tee appointed?
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill It looks to me like a social rather than a
-mas read a third time and passed.
business conunittee.
SECOND READING.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There are no fees attached to the office.

Bill (ZZ) An Act to incorporate the ComHon. Mr. LOU GHEED-It is certainly
merce Insurance Company.-(Hon. Mr.
not a business committee in the ordinsry
Bèique).

SENATE
sense of the term. 1 have the highest re- Bill should refer to the Act that it is
gard for the individuality of those gentie- amending in some way.
ment, but I would not cali that committee
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The original Act waa
a business conmittee. In what way is t.he
passed in 1901.
difficulty being remedied by this legisiationP
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The titie of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It will render it pos- Bill should be amended to meet the objection raised by the hion. member from Marshsible to get a quorum at Ottawa.
field. The Bill of hast session mentioned
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-How many con- the Act it was amending, and this Bill
stitute a quorum?
should read: 'An Act to arnend chapter
92 of the Statutes of 1901 i-especting the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A majority. There are
Canadian Patriotie Fund Association.'
eighteen members of the committee, and
we can get ten of them here.
The titie of the Bill was amended as suggested.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What is the
amount of the fund to be administered?
Hjpn. Mr. SCOTT-The amount was $300,000 eriginally. Alter the distribution that
has taken place to widows and orphans
there axemains $88,000.
Claims are con6tantly coming in that have to ibe considered.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is it a continuing trust, or does the committee look to a
final distribution at an early date?

On clause 2,
2. Whenever it is necessAry or desirable to
take a vote of the members of the executive
committee of the association upon any
motion, proposition or question affecting the
association, any rnember may vote personally
or by proxy.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Does that mean that
the question itself shahl be sent to the member?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is like any other
vote by proxy. The directors will be notiHon. Mr. SCOTT-To a final distribution. fied of a meeting and invited to attend, and
if he does not attend hie must send a proxy.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What is the
The clause was adopted.
origin of the fund?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will my hion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was after the South
friend point out wherein the difficulty will
African war. Contributions were mnade from
various parts of the Dominion to a fund be remedied by this legisiation? I do not
for the purpose of giving pensions to widows find anything here by which a majority,
and orphans of men who served in South for instance, of the directoxs residing in
Africa and to *aid those who are in iii- Ottawa may dispose of business before the
health in consequence of hardships en- committee.
dtrred in the Boer war.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Under 'the law as it
stood, all the lieutenant goveinors woul1
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There should be
a recital in the Bill detailing the ohigin have to attend the meeting. They are not
on the executive committee under this Bihl.
of the fund.
The association have passed a by-law namHon. Mr. SCOTT-This is simply an ing a committee for expeditiously doing- the
amendment to an Act of parliament.
business.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But it is repealHon. Mr. BOSTOCK, from the committee,
ing another Act.
reported the Bill with an amendment, which
was concurred in.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Only the amending Act
The Bill was then read the third time and
of last session, allowing the parties to vote
passed.
by ieg-istered letter.
The Senate adjourned
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But we are enacting a numiber of other things, and this on Tuesday next.
Bon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

until

three p.m

MAY 4, 1909

407

ing electric power. It also has reference
tW a great many rivers flowing into the
Bay of Fundy and other bays, and the Bill
OrrÂwÀ, Tuesdlay, May 4, 1909.
gives the company power to expropriate
The SPE'AKER took the Chaix at Thiee the shores of the rivers. Hon. gentlemen
c'chock.
who are interested in this question had
better read the measure and consider it.
proceedings.
P:rayers and routine
THE SENÂTE.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTDoes my hon. friend desire Wa have the
Bill (AA) An Act respecting the Fidelity second reading taken now?
Life Insurance Company of Canada.-(Hon.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I think we might just
Mr. Jaffray).
as wefl permit the second reading now.
BILL INTRODUCED.

THIRD READING.
Bill (No. 84) An Act respecting the Athabaska Northern Railway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. De Veber).
ST. MAURICE AND EASTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. TESSIER moved the third
reading o! Bill (WW) An Act Wa incorporate
the St. Mauxice and Eastern Railway Company.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I move in amendment, that this Bill be not now read a third
time, but that it be read a third time this
day six months, seconded by the Hon. Mr.
David.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-No, I will not second
it. We allowed another Bill ta pase which
was exactly similar Wathis measure.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis Bill will require, I think, a good deal
of consideration at the hands of the committee to whom it may be referred, and
if we permit the measure tW go tW the Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and Harbours, I 'want it te be distinctly undexstood that we are not Wa be regarded as
accepting the principle of the Bill without
My impression is
further consideration.
that it will be found to interfere materially
with the rights of the province of New
Brunswick in various ways, and a.ltogether
it is a Bill which I oommend Wa the very
serious considexation o! the committee ta
whomn it is referred. I do flot think it is
necessary at this stage Wa take any further
ground with regard to it, but I desire to
have it understWod that we are not Wabe
regarded as committing ourselves to the
principle involved in the Bill by giving it a
second reading now.

Hon. Mx. LOUGHEED-I think iny right
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Oh, this Bill will hon. friend should go fuxther than that.
pass. My motion will be seconded by the. This is a Bill the principle of which should
Hon. Mr. DeBoucherville.
not be acceded to by this House for a
moment. It seems Wa me that it is not
The amendment wvas lost on division.
a Bill that should go tW the committee in
The Bill was then read a third time and any aense, owing to the extraordinary
powers which are asked. Great objection
passed.
has been taken Wathe Michigan Power Bill
FUNDY TIDAL POWER COMPANY BILL. which has been discussed in the Hous
of Commons for, I might say, some weeks.
SECOND READING.
Proba.bly no such controversial Bill has hbeen
Hon. Mr. ELLIS (in absence of Hon. before the Coinmons this session; but this
Mr. MeSweeney) moved the second reading measuxe unfortunately is worse than the
of Bill (XX) An Act to incorporate the Conmee Bill. It has none of the redeemFundy Tidal Power Company.
ing fMatures o! the Conmee Bill.
He said: This is a measuie to empower
a company te use the tidal waters of the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
Bay of Fundy for the purpose o! produe- have not read the Bul.

SENATE
waters in the
would corn- and fail and flow of the tidal
purpose of generating
hon. friend's consid-J Bay of Fundy for the
mend it to my îight
electric power. If that can be successeration.
fu.lly accomplished, it is very desirable that
Hon. Sir. RICHARD .CARTWRIGHT-But it should be done. It is a question which
from the statement made I saw that it has been under discussion for a long time.
was one which would require a great deal and a great many suggestions and proof consideration. With that understandir'g positions have been made with a view to
on both aides of the House, no great harm adopting some means of accomplishing that
can arise from sending it to the committee. end. None of these schemes, however,
have been so far developed as to Iead te
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Ifl answer. I an application te parliament for the organmight say that where the principle is so ization of a company to construct works
manifestly objectionable as the principle %,iththat object in view. I wish to emembodied in this Bill, the comanittee can- phasize what bas already been said by the
not ve&-y wefl deal with it. The committee leader of the House, and the leader of the
only represents a comparatively small por- opposition as well; this is a Bill which
tion of this House, and cannot very well fiom its character should receive very carediscuss the principle.
fui consideration on other grounds besides
the mere question of the jurisdiction of
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTto give the cernPerhaps, under those cîrcumstances, my parliament. It proposes
pany power te erect dams and other works
hon. friend will withhold the Bill tiil toacross ahl the rivers at the head of the Bay
morrow.
of Fundy. Some of those streams are navig.Hon. Mr. LOUGH-EED-The Prime Min- able, and are used by vessels visiting the
ister himseif has condemned the principle city of Moncton and Sackville, and other
of the Michigan Power Bill, which is ini- points on these rivers, to discharge and retensified in thiis Bill many times.
ceive cargo. It is proposed to dam these
rivers in most cases near their outiets, and
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I there is a provision that such works shalh
have flot read the Bill, and I was merely be subject to the Navigable Waters Protecspeaking from the statement made 'by the tion Act, which, so far as I understand,
ho-r. gentleman who moved the second read- really mahes the plans of these dams subing in the absence cf the hon. gentleman ject to the approval of the Governor in
in charge of it.
Council. That may possibly protect the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My right hon. navigation of the rivers, but should the
friend might let it stand until he can look flow of these rivers be interfered with
to any material extent, it must affect the
at it.
sewage systems of such tewns as Moncton,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I Sackville and other places in that locality.
was going to ask that it be postponed tilI But what, te my mi, is a more important
to-Tnorrow.
matter of consideration than ail others, is
would like te say a the effect it may have upon the extensive
Hon. Mr. WOOD-I
marsh lands in that section of the
word or two with regard to this Bill, as tracts of
These lands have ibeen built
will country.
thé works proposed te be const-ructed
up from the flow of the tidal waters at the
be located in a section of the country from
Bay of Fundy. and are amongst
which. I corne, and wiil affect some very head of the
lands in that part of
interests there. I do net intend the most productive
important
Waste lands are co-ntinually
Canada.
te express any opinion with regard to the
bein,_ built up anid made fit for cultivation
jurisdiction cf parliament to pass this meaof flo>oding«, as it is called
sure; that is, whether it is a measure that by this process
any of
with by the provincial there. I can 'hardlv conceive how
shouid be dealt
those rivers and -treams could be dammed
legisiature or by this parliament. The prothis process of floodin,
poition which the Bill contains is an en- without rendering
on now practically imtlrely novel one; that is. to utilize the Tise as it is carried
Hon.

Mr.

LOUGHEED-I

ITon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MAY 4, 190)9

possible, and 1 cannot conceive either how
any .possible provision coul-d be made by
which this process could be continued if
the rivers should be damrned. The area of
these lands in the neighbourhoud of Sackville alone mnust be Borne 25,000 acres. They
are arnong the rnost valuable lands in that
section and are held at from $100 to $200
per acre. To interfere with the flooding of
these lands and maintaining their fertility
is a serions matter. The question of drainmaintain
age aiso cornes in. These lands, Wo
fertilîty and produce crops, require good
depend on the rivers and
drains, 'and
streams which it is here proposed Wodam
I think, as the
for drainage purposes.
leader of the opposition did, that tis Bill
should hardly receive its second reading
without careful consideration, or at all
events without sorne clear explanation as
to how the promoters propose to meet these
very obvious objections. On the other
hand, if the company have any proposition
which is feasible to carry out the object
of the Bill, I do net wish Wo
offer any opposition to that. I should be glad Wosee
these water-powvers developed, and I think
the suggestion te send the Bill to the cornrnittee where the promoters inay appear and
give fu]l explanations is a 'wise one. I
should be ini favour of that course myseif.
At this stage of the session, it appears to
me hardly possible that the Bill can become
law this year. As it is a very important
measure. and one 'which may corne up at
some future time, if the parties interested
could appear before the cornmittee this session, and fully explain what they propose
te do--hat structures they intend to ereet
and hoiv thev propose te meet the many di!ficulties 'which are obvious on the face oi
have them do
the Bili-it would be wise Wo
6o before the session closes.

409

if 1
chester, 8ackville and Amnherst.
could see anything improper in tis Bill I
should be the last one to say a word in
favour of it. The prornoters are only asking leave te incorporate. I suppose the
governrnent can tie thern down with al
sorts of restrictions if necessary. There are
a great rnany people interested in developing the tides cf the Bay cf Fundy, which.
rise in sorne places to a heiglit of 78 feet.
If they can utilize the rise and fali of the
tide Wogenerate power which will set industries geing or sustain industries, I do
net ses 'where there can be any impropriety in allowing these gentlemen te get
t.heir Bill and make a trial of it.

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Men have for generatien after generation looked upon the tides
of the Bay of Fundy, and since the production cf hydro-electrie power hy other
means have hoped that the high tides of
the Bay of Fundy could be utilized for
power purposes by sorne process or othier.
The hon. rnerber for Westrnoreland is quite
right, however, in cahing attention to the
injury that rnight be inflicted upon private
property by damming the rivers. If the
House would accept the suggestion of my
hon. friend, who is perhaps as rnuch concerned as anybody else in the matter, with
the f ull understanding that nothing is assented to, either principle or detail, and
allow the measure te go before a committee
se that these men may be heard, we may
get somne clear idea ef what is proposed.
The Bill cannot go through this session.
If the leader o! the House really desires
that the Bill should stand until to-morrew,
I suppose it would be better te postpone
the order. I do net know how long Hon.
Mr. McSweeney wiIl be away. I amn net
sufficiently favourable to ail the provisiens ef the Bill te desire te have it gene
on 'with until it is fully and thoroughly
rnust be
Hon. Mr. DOMNVILLE-There
We cxplained.
some misconception about this Bill.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The possibilities
in the lower provinces think we have as
good a right to develop power as any other Wo arise from utilizing the tidal power
citizens cf Canada. There may be quite e! the Bay of Fundy is no doubt a magniI do net know whether
a difference of opinion as te wvhether this ficent question.
project is feasible or useful. but there can it is practicable or net. I have often heard
be ne harm in allowing the proinoters of the subject discussed. If it is possible and
the Bill te make an effort te bring capital practicable, there are wonderful possibiliinto the country te develop power which ties connected with it; but in addition te
mav ho eofimmpnse value in Moncton, Dor- the objection taken by the right hon, leader

SEN AIE

of the House as to the rig-hts of the provinces with regard to this subject, and in
addition to the very strong point made
by the hon. member from Westmoreland
as to the possibility of the destruction of
these sple ndid inarsh lands, perhaps the
most valuable agriculturai lands in Canada, there arises the broad question 'whether
this House should for one moment entertain a proposition to give a blanket charter
to any company to enable themn to get control of aIl the water-powers of the provinces
of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia connected with the Bay of Fundy. I think
practically this Bill would do that.

one company in coming to parliament
and asking that they should be given al
this power. If this scheme is going to be
tested, it should be test-ed in a reasonable
way. The provinces of Nova Scotia and
New Brunswick have not the samne need
of water.power as Ontario has, because Ontario has no0 coal, but if it should be found
possible to utilize the water-power of the
Bay of Fundy, it will some day be an immense asset of those provinces and should
flot be given away to any company. At
ail events, a blanket charter such as is
proposed here should not be given.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If it is the desire
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-It does not include the of the government that this Bill should
St. John river.
be sent to a committee, let me suggest that
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is my ignor- they should recog-nize the extraordinary
ance of ,lhe g-eography o! New Brunswick character of the legisiation asked for, and
I suppose that makes me regard the St. notify the governiments of New Brunswick
John as not being part o! the Bay of and Nova Seotia in order that they may be
Fundy. I arn not se well acquainted with represented before that committee. It is
the coast of New Brunswick, which is pro- proposed to take possession of no less than
posed to be given away te this company, fifteen rivers in those two provinces, and
but I have a very f air knowledge of the Nova tributaries and streams of those rivers. The
Sctia coast, and I will just read the de- fore shores belong to the local government.
scription of what is to be given away so
fax as that province is concerned:
Across the Tantrarnar, Aulac and 'Missiquash rivera, in the said province, at or
near their entrance into Cumberland basin;
acroas the La Planche, IMaccan, Nappan and
Hebert rivers, in the province of- Nova
gectia, and across certain portions of thse
head of Cumiberland basin and thse tributaries thereof, and across the creeks and
streanis leading into said tributaries; across
the Avon river, in the said province of Nova
1
Scotia, and -the various small streanis, creekas

and tributaries thereof; across the Shubena-

cadie and Stewiacke rivera, in the raid province. and their tributaries; -and across thse
head waters of the Basin of Minas and the
tributaries thereof.
It is really a blanket charter, and if there
are possibilities in this power at ail, it
would give this company control of an
empire in %vater-power. The most that
should be given any one company is the
right te use the powers of one particular
locality. To allow them to go up the Basin
of Minas and take possession of aIl the
tributaries and the rivera there in addition
te ail tnie waters at the head of the
bay, is a proposition which I hardly
know how to characterize. 1 hardly know
how te characterize the cheek of any
Iton. M1r. FEIIGUSON.

Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Some are navigable rivers.
Hon. MLýr.
LOUGHEED-I would further
point out a suspicious circumstance; the
capital stock of the company is $250,000
and they may issue the whole of it as paid
up non-assessable stock. They ask for bonding powers amounting to $5,O0,0OO a.nd
wholesale rights of expropriation, so that
they can go into any part of those two provinces along the coast of the Bay of Fundy
i4hd expropriate the private property of
p~arties having vested rights therein. True,
ffhey make a provision, in their generosity,
that those parties whose rights are affected
niay appear before some government tribanal and assert what their rights are.
That shows a spirit of generosity that we
are not going to question, but the Bill is
one of the most extraordinary I have seen
sulimitted to this Chamber.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If the suggestion
of my hion. friend is carried out, and the
governmentof Nova Scotia and New Brunswick are notified, we may have the Hon.
Benjamin F. Pearson, appearing beforo

MAY 4, 1909

411

patent. I notice by the Bill that it was
patented on the I2th November, 1900; consequentiy the six years would have expired
in 1906. The information given is certainly
not adequate te accounit for the deiay or
negligence since that date to the present
The motion was agreed to, and the order time.
was postponed until to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The information I
have is that the machine is a very expenSECOND READING.
sive one, and there lias been a lot of exBill (YY) An Act to incorporate the perimenting on it, and the parties did not
Catholic Church Extension Society.-(Hon. at the time think it worth whule te keep it
Mr. Bostock).
alive. They have been working on it ever
since, and have corne to the conclusion
PATENT 0F SUBMARINE COMPANY
that it is worth renewing.
BILL.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They had better
SECOND READING.
take out a new patent.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the second
Hon. Mr. WATSON-That miglit be done.
reading of Bill (No. 77) An Act respecting
Further explanations can be made before
a patent of the Submarine Company.
the committee, if there is no objection te
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I passing the Bill nov.
notice that this company was incorporated
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is
first in the state of New Jersey. Would
the hion. gentleman give us some explana- a question whether this patent will not cover
the crushing of rock as weli as submarine
tion as to the character of this patent?
blasting. At the present 'time, there is a
Hon. Mr. WATSON-My information is large amount of work of that ciass, and it
that this is a machine for breaking rock is increasing every year in t.his country.
in deep water, and that the machine itself, We kuew that in the construction oi canais
il completed and put in operation, would re- and the deepening of our wate-r-vays, subpresent a cost of over $100,000. The people marine blasting is required ail the time.
who have been working on the patent for It is being done nov by somte kind of
a number of years think they have a ma- machinery. This patent expired some four
chine which is pretty nearly perfect. It years aga. but the owners have evidentiy
is one of the cases we have repeatedly be- disoovered the fact that there is a large
fore us, where the payaient of fees haq amount of vork of t-his character being
been neglected and the patent hias flot been done and they want to extend their patent
kept alive. I understand that at the pre- s0 as to secure a market for their machine
sent time the machine is flot fuily de- in this country at a price mucli higher
veloped. A~ number of United States gentle- than it couid be manufactured in Canada.
men, who have been working an it for Hon. gentlemen will notioe that the exseveral years, are the patentees. 1 made emption to those who have b>een using it
It
inquiries of the solicitor and received that in the past is a very lame previsa.
information. It is one of the cases where, reads as follows:
1 suppose, no one wili suifer by the exten*Provided that the exemption shall not exsion of the patent. Any one nov using the tend ta any persan wha lias commenced the
construction or manufacture-of the raid ininvention is protected under the Bill. It is
before the expiry of the patent,
simpiy one of those cases where the parties vention the consent of the holdei~of the s'iid
without
wish to revive the patent because they ex- patent.
pect to make a useful machine out of it.
In other words, if it seemed to be of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon. member sufficient value to justify the commencebas mnot explained the long delay which hias ment of the maufacture of this article betaken place since the expiration of the fore the expiring of the tixne secured by
t.he committee representing Nova Scotia as
a meniber of the local governiment. He wili
appear ini the dual capacity of a provisional
director in the company and a member of
the Nova Scotia government.

SENATE
the patentee, and that manufacturer is not
to be exempt from the operation of this law,
that he must lose ail that he has invested
iu the enterprise, provided, as it is pointed
out, that the work had been conimenced
bei oe the patent expired. Why should
we be continuaiiy extending these patents?
The crushing and the excavation of rock in
this country at present are carried on to an
enormous extent. We are building dykes,
building cribs in the construction of oui
railways and harbours. Our concrete works
require the crushing of atone, and the building and macadamizing of -our roads require it to a large extent. 1 know that on
the Bay of Quinté a Toronto firm is at the
present moment constructing works which
are costing a lot of money for the purpose of
procuring the material necessary for completing works which are being constructed
in the harbour of the city of Toronto, and
I might point out scores of enterprises that
are proceeding at the present day, -which
these gentlemen evidently desire to control for the full term of the, patent in the
future. As I pointed out, when a similar
Bill was before the Senate for the extension
of another patent, in England this practice
of extending patents has been so serious
and so much abused that the imperial parliament passed an Act declaring that al
patents granted, and under which the
patentees have failed te commence the
work of manufacture in the United Kingdom, shall be forfeited. The resuit is it
has brought into the Uinited Kingdom
huridreds of thousands of pounds by foreigners who desire to maintain their patents
in that country, yet we are day after day
throwing open our mnarket for ail kinds
of inventions supposed to be o! valueand some are o! value-to the people of
the UTnited States. Whv should we continue such a practice? It was pointed
out very forcibly by the hon. gentleman
from Toronto when he n'as discussingc this
matter that when a patent expires in
the United States, by no possibilitv wil
the governnment o! that country revive it.
We are, however. plavinc into the hands of
foreijeners to the detriment o! our own peopie. We require this machinery at the present moment. whether it is suhinarine machinery or the machinery for the crushimc cf rec, for the purposes 1 have inHon. Sir M.%CKUNZIE BOWELL.

dicated, and it is time we should put a
stop te ievîving lapsed patents unless it
can be shown that there is no possibility
of the articles being manufactured in t.he
country -and that it is absolutely necessary
siich articles shouid be imported. The very
fact that the provisions of this Bill should
not appiy te persons who commenced te
manufacture the machine bel oie the patent
lapsed and they are to be cut out and compelled te lose whatever investements they
may have made, shows conclusively that
some manufacturer had cominenced the
manufacture of the article, otherwise this
proviso would not be here. WVhy should we
for the benefit of a foreigner in the Unirted
States deprive oui own people o! investments
that they have made for the manufacture
of an article that must be valuabie now?
These people would net come back four
years after their rights have iapsed, asking
for an extension if the patent were not
valuable. I arn surprised that the gevernment bas not taken up the question in the
intereat of oui own people and not allow
every Tom, Dick and Harry who has
secured, either by fair means or foui,
rights to patents a monopoly in this
I have not examined this Bill
country.
closely enough to know much about it;
but the other Bills of a like character
which we have passed were not in
I
the interests of the original patentee.
would go a long way to protect the man of
geniua, but this is a Bill of some epeculator 'who bought the patent and expects to
malie money out o! it. My hon. friend
seems to be, if I might so term it, the defender 'of ahl these 2Bills, ibecause they
are put in his name, and I would suggest
to the hon. leader of this House the propriety of caliing the attention o! his colheague, the minister *ho deals with these
questions, to the importance o! putting a
stop to this practice o! rencwing patents.
I am totaliy opposed to the -revival of
lapsed patents owned by foreigners, and
my own impression is that Il the Senate
wili do its duty it wiih reject all suc.h Bills
unless we have ample reason te justify
us in pasisi-ng them.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
may say te my hon. friend opposite that
I have calIed the attention o! -the Minister

MAY 4, 1909
of Agriculture to this very question, and
I understand from him that in the House
of Commons, and I presume in the Senate
also, it is now the practice for the Deputy
Miniater of Agriculture, Mr. O'Halloran,
who is chiefly concerned in patents, to appear in eveîy case and advise the committee as to whether there is reasonale
ground for allowing the application for an
extension. I do flot know whether tht
is the case in oui cornmittee.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes, it is. 1 was
just going to remark that clause 2, which
has been referied to, is a clause which is
placed in ail Bills, I think.
Hon. Sir
n0, no.

MACKENZIE

BOWELL-Oh,

413

1 he Deputy Minister of Agriculture, w-ho has
charge of patent matters, can appear tand
testify, and if a.ny protection can be given
to the people of Canada iii extending the
patent, let it be providéd for. I arn entirc]y
in sympathy with the principie of protecing" the people of Canada, but I think the
gentlemen who are -applying- for an extensien of time should have an opportunity
to be heard, and the only place they can l>e
If the
heard is before the committee.
House has ne objection, I should like to
sce the Bill go before the committee where
t.he matter may be investigated, anà whexi
;the commàttec report to the House it wil
be for us then to adopt or îeject the
measure.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I am n ot a rnemof the committee, but i shouid like
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Extending the time ber
te direct the attention of the members of
of the patent. I think we do that for any
of some
person who has undertaken the manufac- the committee te the iecessitv
I
modification of clause 2 of the Bill.
ture. If that is net clear, it should be -made
undeîstand this is a standard or model
clear; but I can quite understand the obbut I wvould point out that the ofliy
jections taken by the hon. gentleman in re- clause,
peopie likely to manufacture expired patference to rock-crushers and stone-breakers
enta of that sort would be a license holder,
-machines for the purpose of breaking atone
or a person -who possibly inay have enteîed
This invention
foi concrete and ernent.
upon the manufacture before the expirahas nothing to do with thaît. I arn intion of the patent. Now, both the licensee
formed that the patentee has been working
and the manufacturer before the expiration
yea.rs endeavouring
machine for
on tis
ef the patent. hivin, their ev-e upon the
to invent a better machine for submarine
îenewai of the patent. and aseprt-iinimz that
work in deep xvater. I do flot know -what
it had flot been ieneved. -'hould cortainlv
the pîocess is, but I suppose that ivili be
be at liberty to procecd with the manufully expiained before the comxnittee. It
facture of the article.
is only by encou.raging men of genius, or
Hon. Mr. WATSON-H1car, hear.
men who will put money in, if you wi]l,
as a speculatien, that you can perfect such
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-This Bill wouid
machines, by which we get the benefit of
preclude them from so doinz; consequently
their money and their invention. .I amn
it seerns te me that the clause shoulrl be
assured there is no such machine in opera- modified to the extent of permitting al
If
tion at the present time -in Canada.
parties who have entered upon the manuthose people are willing to go on experifacture of any of those articles to continue
menting and by thei genius and expendi- the manufacture, not.witist andin- the fact
ture of moriey invent soniething which will
of their beinoe licensees or having enteîed
be for the benefit of the people of Canada
upon the manufacture before the expiration
as a whole, we should encourage them and
of the patent.
give them pîoetction. On general phinHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
ciples, I do not believe in protecting patentees foi a great number of years in regard standard clause in aIl those patent Bis
to an invention which is useful for the is of this character: It sprotects any one
public and allowing the public te be heid who has commenceil the manufacture of
up in that way. But I do think il these the article which is patent-ed, but there is
gentlemen have a good case, we should a provision in this mneasure exciuding from
refer tihe inatter to the committee *where the exemption any person who commenced

SENATE
the manufacture of the article before the when that patent may have been disposed
expiring of the -term, and that is certainly of te a certain extent te some individual
tû commence manufacturing, and later that
an unusual proviso.
proviso prevents hin frean continuing, and
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Then correct it.
ultimately he loses every-thing tihat he bas
Hon. Mr. WILSON-It la not only an put into it? Sncb an agreemnent as that is
unusual provise, but it is possible that a easily entered inte, and why la this clause
bargain may -have been made by the paten- inserted in the Bill?
tee with some individuals 'who 'commenced
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I have ne objection
manufacturing under that agreement, and -and I do net thînk 5L1y peirson ini
this
later on the parties owning the patent.may Heuse bas any objection-te protect every
refuse or decline to let them. proceed. person who may be engaged in t.bis
in-Under this clause, if they have commenced dustry. Nobody is oontending
that we
before the expiring of the patent, under sbould net protect thern.
an agreement with the patentee, the manufacturers may be deprived of the uight to
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Tben will the hon.
continue, and lose the benefit of ail their gentleman explain the reason wby that
industry. I agree with the bon, gentleman clause was inserted in the Bill? There
fromn Hastings when he asks, why should must have been an object in deing it,
we grant to the United States people a and wben it gees te the committee I think
right te compete with an industry estab- it sheuld be struck eut.
If that clause
lished in Canada under a lapsed patent?
were expunged from the Bill, it would
be Idss objectionable. Are we going te
Hon. Mtr. EDWARDS-There is ne such
give the people in the United States the
industry in Canada. There is no patent
right to enter into an agreement with
for this operation in Canada at all. 8ubcitizens of Canada and later on, when our
marine blasting la carried on to-day with
great dilfficulty and at great expense, and citizene have invested a large ameunt oi
rnoney and bave com.menced manufacturif there is any introduction of 'improved
ing before the expiration cf the patent, that
machines for the purpese, so much the
tbey are te loise aIl tbey bave invested by
hetter for Canada.
this -revival of it? If that patent is as imHon. Mr. WILSON-My bon. friend is portant es these gentlemen tbink it ia,
sware that it does compete with the in- why did tbey allow it te lapse? Have they
dustries of Canada. Have we not fac- sbewn a sufficient degree of industry and
tories in Canada for the manufacture cf a desire te keep faitb 'with Canada by
keeping the patent alive and manufacturcernent?
ing under it? I say no. I sav that we
Hon. Mr. WATSON-This bas nothing to sbould
nlot pretect tbe citizens of United
de with cernent.
States against our own citizens. I sin net
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I understand that in favour cf tbe renewal of the patent under
near Belleville there is a f actory where they such conditions.
crush stone and manufacture cernent.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I do net know
Hon. Mif. WATSON-This has nothing to the particular object of this patent, but I
do with crusbing stone at ail. It is aimply have taken sorne interest i patent Billa
in the other House and also in this House.
submarine blasting.
Frequently, througb inadvertence or overHon. Mr. WILSON-Are there no indus- slght, parties bave neglected te pay the
tries cf that nature at ail in CanadaP
fees fer renewal cf their patents and they
cerne before us asking the right te pay
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-No.
these fees.
In case anybody bas cernHon. Mr. WILSON-I do not think I arn menced the manufacture of this particular
in errer yet in regard te this. Cari any article, wben the patent had lapsed, if we
hon, gentleman E3how me why it is right did net make proviso for tbemn wbec the
that we ahould extend a patent cf this kind, patent is renewed, they could be proceeded
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MAY 4. 1909

against for inifringing the patent ; therefore, the parliament rightly puts in a clause
that if anybody has cammenced the manufacture of tii particular industry after
the time bas lapsed, then their rights are
I think the depaxrt.ient bas
pratected.
alwvays insisted on a clause of that kind
being inserted in these Bills. The laws
of the United States are very muoh more
liberal in regard te patents than aur laws
are. In Canada, a rnan taking out a patent
has, altogether, eigbteen years. Re may
pay a fee for six years, and t.hen another
for six years more, and then a third for
another six years. But lie must commence
the manufacture of that particular article.
I tihink, within two years after the patent
has been taken out, or else bis riglit cosses.
In the United States they do net have te
manufacture at alI. A Canadian can go
over there and get the patent and keep it
for -the whale terni and is not ohliged ta
manufacture the article. In England, until
lately, a patentee was not cornpehled te
manufacture bis goods. He could take
out bf s patent theme and imnport the article
frorn otber cciuntries. Recenthy an Act was
passed compelling patentees te manufacture in England. Our Patent kct is mucbi
more strinzent tban the Act of the Ulnited
States. I do nlot know anytbing af tbe
merits of this Bill, but I presume it is
a case where the patentee neglected thmough
bis solicitor or clerk ta pay the fees, and
be sirnplyç a.sks the igbt now ta pay t)hose
fees, nlot ta extend the time of the -patent
at aIl, but simply te resteme him to the
position hie would be in bad the clerk or
solicitor or wba ever it wa.s paid the fees
as bie intended to do. I thinc ve shauld,
themefome. read the Bihl a second tinie and
refPr it ta the comrnittee. The departrnent
will be represented and full expla.nations
can be made-.

Royal Victoria Life Insurance Company. and
to change its naine to Royal Life Insurance
Company of Canada.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON rnoved tihat the amendments be concurred ini.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. DAVID moved 4,hat tihe ies
be suspended so far as they relate ta this
Bill.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that the Bill we
discussed on Friday hast and the consideration of which has been postponed until
to-day. What conclusion has been arrived
at?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The conclusion is,
that the clerk in drawing up the report
forgot to strike out clause 4. It was contended by the House that there has been
no change in the Bill, but .my hon. friend
opposite <Hon. Mr. Landry), with his usual
magnanimity, when hie discovered that hie
was in errai and that the namne had been
changed, adrnitted hie was mistaken. The
change hied been made in the report, and
the -report has been adopted, and ail my
hon. friend ask-s now is that the rules be
suspended in order that the Bill may be
read the third time to-day.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I shall certainly oppose the suspension of the rules if we d
-not corne to an understanding on flhnt
point.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-What is the point?

flan. Mr. LANDRY-The hast time I
spoke on this subject, the hon. gentleman
said I recognized my error. There was no
error on rny part. Clause 4 was struck out
in the comnmittee; but I was informed by
the clerk that although the clause had been
struck out, it had been decided tihat the
The motion was a2emeed ta, and the Bill
words «of Canada' shboul be added te
was read a second time.
the name of the campany. 0f that I had
I accepted tLhe .clerk's
no cognizance.
ROYAL VICTORIA LIFE INSURANCE
word, -but I leave it te hon. gentlemen wbo
COM.%PANY'S BILL.
'were in the comxnittee to state if I arn
AMEXFNDM-%ENTS CONCURRED IN.
incorrect in saying that clause 4 had beemr
stricken out?
The order of the day being called:
Cansideration of the arnendments made by 1 Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Heam,
the Standing Cammittee on Banking and Com-j
merce ta Bihl <PP> An Act respecting the 1struck aut.

hear.

It wae

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have no objection
to the Bill passing. I have no objection to
the titie retaining the word 'Victoria.'
In
the adding 'of Canada ' I understand clause
4 sbould remain, but it remains, not by
the decision of the comrnittee, but as a
matter of common sense. I wa.nt it understood that the clerk of a comrnittee bas no
rig-ht to chiang-e thie decision of a cornrittee,
and arrange a Bill te satisfy the convenience of parties, retaining a clause
that had been struck out, and arranging it
to suit the views of 'Mr. So and Se. 1 have
no objection t0 let the Bill pass, but I
want f0 call attention to the facts.
Hon. Mr. GL3SON-I amn quite aatisfied
witih ny hion. friend's contention, but I
do not thiink there was any desire on the
part of the clerk who made the report to
do anythin.- but to meet the views of the
committee. My lion. frieiîd will reinember
that the Housa feit that thera had been
no change in the naine, but there was a
chan.-e in the naine, and that was the reason the consideration of the report was
deferred until te-day. The naine was changed frorn 'The Royal Victoria Insurance Cernpany ' to ' The Royal Victoria Insurance
Company of Canada.' 'My hion. friand admitted thaf on Friday, if I remember well.
With the leave of the House, t.he report was
amended accordingly, and it was to be
taken into consideration to-day, and now
rny hion. friand (Hon. Mr. David) asks for
a suspension. of the rule in order that the
Bill rnav go through.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON I have been looking over the report and -have failed to find
any authoritv for inserting tha words 'Df
Canada.' If is not in the original Buil
but it bas bean axplained te u5 that in
soea way tha titie bas been changad by
the addition of the words ' of Canada.' The,
pra 'ver of the petition was fo drop the word
.Victoria.' but nof, so far as I -knew, Ù)
insert the words ' of Canada.' The report
o! the corniittea, which wvill be found on
page 541 of the ' Minutes of Proceedings,'
shows that the word ' Victoria ' was restered in the titie of the Bill after the
word ' Royal.' but it dees not show any
authorit.v for the words 'of Canada ' appearing in the titie. How did it .-et there?
Hon. MNr. SCOTT.

The SPEAKER The report is this: 'Section 4, the naine o! the company is hereby
changed to Royal Victoria Insurance Cornpany of Canada.'
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I rise te a point of
order. If the Speaker wishes te discuss
the question he should corne down frorn
tihe Chair.
The SPEAKER-The lion. gentleman is
quite right, but I do not wish to discuss
it. I have the report baside me and 1 was
calling attention te it.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Hew do the words
of Cnada ' corne?
The SPEAKER-They are in the original
Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There is no doubt af
ahI t.hat section 4 was struck ouf in coinmittee. Afterwa;rds it apoeared to have
been replaced with the addition of a word
wben it carne here, but I st.ated. distinctly
and pesitively that the whole clause was
struck eut.
lon. Mr. POWER-It is because the cernrnittee made a rnistake in striking eut
clause 4 that the elhairman asked te hiave
the clause reinstated. The naine of the
company was changed by the addition o!
the words ' o! Canada,' and, therefore,
clause 4 was necessary, because it provides that the change o! naine shiail nef
affect any right or oblig-ation of -the coinpany, se the arnendment wvos real riecesSaiy.
Hon. SuT MACKENZIE BOWELL-When
was that change made? Not in comrnittee.
MIy recollection distinctly confirnis that of
the ex-Secretary o! State. The commiittea
decided that they would not permit the
company te use the word ' Royal ' as if appeared in the Bill as originally introduced,
and the fourth clause was struck, out. But
it was agreed, as I undersfood at tho time.
that the titie o! the company should rernain
as it originally was. I objected aven fa
that, but I was overruled. I wanted te
alirninata the word ' Roval ' altegether.
How are wa te know -what letrisiation we
ara adopting if, after a committee decides
positively te take a certain course, whather
right or wrong, any oe bas a right after-

MAY 4, 1909
wa.rds to change that decision? The Bill
should corne to us exactly as it was reported by the committee, and if it is found
flot to be riglit, it shou.ld be referred back.
If any one is permitted to add a word or
letter to the dfcia ion of the cornmittee,
there is no safety whatever for our legisl-atien.

be Vaken up to-day. I call iV the advice
and orders the Flouse gave.

Hon. Moer.LOUGHEED-llhe difflculty
lies in the fact, that we had a new clerk of
tbac committee. My recollection is t.hat I
moved to strike out clause 4, and it was
certainly stricken out; but the words 'of
4Caniala ' -came into the Biill when the
chairman of the comsrnittee moved the titie
of L.he Bill. The amendment was made in
the titie of the Bill; that is to say, instead of reading it as printed it. read with
the addition «of Canada,' and there was
no enacting clause in the Bill for the
amen dment.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The report as piesented was asked Vo be changed, but somebody objected Vo the. change.

Hon. Mr. POWER-When the report of
the committee was under consideration
before, the ohairman said that the striking
out of the fourth clause was a mistake,
and he movèd to reinstate it. The House
concuTred with him, and then, on account
of this ameudment h*aving been made at
that tiine the further consideration of the
report was deferred until to-day.'

Hon. Mr.
change?

LAINDRY-What

was

the

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The change was in
the report whi.ch lias been read and adopted
now.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The House ordered
it Vo be changed.
Hon.. Mr. LANDRY-We were willing
that it should be ohanged, but somebody
objected, and said that the regular way
was Vo send iV baek Vo the committee, so
nothing was done. The hon. member himself moved that the report be Vaken into
consideration on Tuesday.
The SPEAKER-I understand ail are
agreed. The whole discussion is entirely
irregular, but it was because I thouglit the
Flouse wanted Vo get îid of a possible misunderatemidinge that I did not intervene Vo
stop it.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There
be-fore the Chair.

is a motion

Hon. '-Ir. LANDRY-If the hon. gentleThe SPEAKER-Yes, to suspend the
man will read the debates of the last meet- orders.
ing he will sec that he 'is enitirely wrong.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I -could continue the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn only giving my discussion on that.
remembrance of it.
The SPEAKER-Yes, but not Vo speak
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-At ail evexvts we more than once.
ail agree in the end.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I followed the exlion. Mr. POWER-What I wish to know ample of His Honour the Speaker.
now from the Speaker is whether the fourth
The SPEAKER-I do noV want Vo make
clause remains in the Bill, or lias At been
any difficulty about it. As I understand
stricken out?
the ânatter now, the motion is for the susHon. Mr. FERGUSON-The verdict of the pension of the rules.
House should be not guilty, but don't do
it again.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
noV necessa.rily.
Hon. _Mr. GIBSON-I do not want my
hon. friend to thi.nk that I was discourteThe SPEAKER-Those who are in favour
ous. It was left in the hands of the Flouse o! suspending the rules say content.
tand the Flouse approved of the change
Hon. Mr. LANflRY-The hon. Speaker
being made by the chairman of the comnmittee, and the report, as changed, was Vo j las no right Vo put iV that way; there la
REVISED EDITION

SENATE

no motion to make. If any one objects,
the motion cannot be put.

BILLS INTRODUCED.

Bill (No. 98) An Act to a.mend the ExHon. Mr. DAVID-Then I move the thirà chequer Court Act.-(Hon. Sir Richard
Cartwright).
reading for to-morrow.
Bill (No. 110) An Acet respecting AgriculThe motion was agreed to.
tur-ai Fertilizers.-(Hon. Sir Richard Ca.rtFIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS. wright).
Bill (No. 127) An Act respecting GomumerBill (BBB) An Act for the relief of John
cial Feeding Stuffs.-(Hon. Sir Richard
WVake.-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Cartwright).
FIRST AND SECOND READINGS.
Bill (No. 131) An Act to amend the Canada Shipping Act.-(Hon. Sir Richard CartBill (No. 122) An Act to incorporate the
wrigh t).
Cabano Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. McBill (No. 146) An Act to amond the Act
Sweeney).
relating to Ocean Steamship Subsîdies.PROMOTION 0F SENATE OFFICIALS. (Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright).
Bill (No. 149) An Act to amend the ExThe SPEAKER suhmitted a memoranthe promotion o! Mr. tradition Treaty.-(Hon. Sir Richard Ca.rtdumn recommending
Lelievre to fil] the vacancy caused by the wright).
Bill (No. 153) An Act respecting the
death of Mr. Evanturel, and the promotion
of other officiais in the translatioiý depart- National Transcontinental Railway<.-(Hon.
Sir Richard Cartwright).
ment.
Bill (No. 156) An Act to amend the YuHon. Mx. LANDRY-Is there any orie who
kon Act.-(Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright).
replaces Mr. Trudel?
Bill (No. 152Y An Act to amend the CusThe SPEAKER-There is no vacancy
toms Tariff, 1907-(Hon. Sir Richard Cartuntil this report is approved by the Senate. wright).
Hon. Mr. POWER-I inove that the certiThe Senate adjourned until three o'clock
ficates and communications bo referred to to-morrow.
the Committee on Internai Economy and
Contingent Accounts.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BO WELL-Before
that motion is put, might I asic what disposition has heen made of a report madle hy
His Honour the Speaker some time ago?
Has it evor been adopted?

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Wednesday, May 5, 1909.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
SPEAKER-No, it is before the Com- o'ciock.
The
mitteo on Internai Economy now.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I shah1 MONTREAL BRIDGE AND TERMINAL
take the samne objection to this report that
COMPANY BILL.
I tool, when Mr. Evantiirei was appointed..
REPORTED FROM COMEMITTEE.
I say that there is not and neyer was a
necessity for the appointment, and there is
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE, from the Committee
no work for the assistant cieric at the table. on Railways, Teiographs and Harbours, reIf the House of Commons, with over 200 ported Bill (TT) An Act respecting the Monmembers, can manage with one assistant treal Bridge and Termina] Company, witli
cierk, it soems to me that with what littie amendments.
w-ork -e~ have in the Sonate no assistant
Ho said: If it is the desire of the House,
clerk is roquired. It is a pioce of extra- owing to the lateness of the session, that
vagance which is not justifiable.
we suspend the rules and condur in these
amendments now, I will make the motion.
was agreed Vo.
The motion
lion. Mr'. LANDRY.

419

MAY 5, 1909
The first amendment is in clause 2 o! the
Bill, which makes the construction cf the
tunnel subi ect te the approval and consent
of the Gevernor in Council and of the ceuncil ef the city of Montreal, as provided by
the statute. The second amendment is
te clause 3, and provides that after 15
per cent ef the cost has been expended the cempany may issue securities for the ameunt of six million
dollars to construct the tunnel at Lachine.
The next amendment is te section 4 of the
Bill, and provides that no park or place of
amusement shahl be constructed in Montreal
eithout the consent cf the said city. There
are a few other amendments. With the
consent cf the House, I move the suspensien cf rules 24 (a) and (b).
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is there any particular reason for this? Members of the
House who were net at the committee cannet possibly decide intelligently what these
amendments mean. I will certainhy have
te take a leap in the dark il I vote for the
suspension cf the rules. Is ithere any reason
why it should net be laid over until we have
time te lock at the amendments?

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The
answers are as follows:
1. $49,852.17.
2. $4,308.70 (included in No. 1).
PARLIAMENTARY DIVORCES.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax) moved:
That the present tribunal for grantinV divorces is contrary to the practice in Gxreat
Britain, France, as well as in the provinces of
That it
New Brunswick and Nova Scotia.
is a tribunal for the rich and cannot be used
by the poor. Therefore, resolved that it
should be discontinued and that sucli trials
should be before judges of the Supreme Court
duly appointed for tilat purpose.
He said: I might include Prince Edward
Island and British Columubia as well as the
two provinces 1 have mentioned in the resolution as exempt from the practice we have
here. Before going into this question, permit me to quote from the Roman Cathelie
Bible te show that divorces were sanctioned
under the Mosaic law, se that this resolution may be considered more favourably
by a certain number of senators.
I amn queting from the Roman Catholie
Bible, Deuteronomy, chapter 24. verses 1, 2,
3, 4, read as follows:

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It is a Senate Bill,
and it bas te go te the Commons. It is
If man takes a wrife and have hier and she
very hate in the session, and if we post- finds axiot favour in his eyes for somne uncleanpone the consideration of the amendments ness, he shall write a bill of divorce and shahl
give it in hier hand and send her out of the
it miay have the effect cf killing the Bill.
bouse, and when she is departed and marrythe former husband canHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think my hon. eth another husband, to wife, because she is
nlot take lier agai
ne defihed and become abominable belfore the
friend knowvs quite wehl there wilh be
the
cause the man to
but
danger of that. It is a Montreal Bihl, and Lord, whichthen Lord tby God shallsin in thee
give
the
land
great importance wilh be attached te it in to possess.
the House of Commons. There wihh be ne
In the fifth verse:
danger o! it being switched. I do net leel
When a man has lately taken a wife lie
like pressing the objection.
shal neot go out to war, neither shahl any
1M, but lie
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I meve that this re- public bebusiness be engaged on fault that for
free at home without
shahl
port be taken into consideration to-morrow. a year he may rejoice witlî his wife.
The motion wvas agreed te.
How kind and considerate for those who
made a wise selection. It is ail very fine
THE WHARF AT ST. JEAN DES
to say miarriages are made in heaven. We
CHAILLENS.
admît that many are se made, but from the
INQUIRY.
conduct of some hiusbands, and also of
LANDRY inquired cf the gev- some wives, it would be toc much to asHon. MiNl.
sume that ail marriages are se made.
ernment:
The commentator writes, our Savicur
How nxuch has the construction cf the wharf Éludes to it, when hie said divorces were
at St. Jean Des Chailleus cest up te this date"?
How much has been paid by the government permitted, but only for adultery. The Lord
te acquire and put in order thie hill which dees net cemmand divorces, but in case the
hends te thjis wharf?
'271

SENATt

parties corne to such determination, it requires a Bill of divorce to be given to the
woman.
Matthew, fifth chapter, thîrty-second
verse, the Saviour's sermon on the Mount:
But I say unto you that whosoever shall
put away his wife excepting the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery, and
whosoever shall marry her that is put away
commtethadulery.in
On 'this the commentator writes:

While the Act of Confederation confers on
parliament the power of granting divorces,
it does flot ssy anything about the system
by which it may 'be done. The system we
have is, in my opinion, very different fromn
what it should be, and it should not be
continued. 1 do flot think-and 1 arn speaking in the presence of some members of the
Divorce Committee-that there is snything
the evidence which. is placed -before them
that conduces to their -moral or spiritual

Excepting the cause of fornication a divorce welfare.
or separation as to bed and board may be permitted for some weighty causes in Christian
o.M.PIIE-erler
terraes. iebut then even he that msrryti
dismissed commiteth adultery.
her tat
As to this there is no exception.
Hon. Mr. BOSS (Halifax)-When
In chapter 19 of the same Gospel:
The Pharisees say unto Him, why then did
Moses command to give a bill of divorce and
to put her away;' Ie saith to them: Moses
because of the hardness of your hearts permitteth you to put sway your wives, but fromn
the beginning it was not so, snd I say unto
you, that whosoever shall put away bis wife
except it be for fornication and shahl marry
another comnziteth adultery. And he who

cases

are tried before the Supremne Courts in New
Brunswick and Nova ïScotia, there is no
Nothing is
publicity of details given.
1rinted sud nothing is ceeu by the public
of what is stated in these trials. Here we
publish the whole thing 'n pamphlet form.
I put mine in the waste-paper basket, because 1 have full confidence in the honour

and integrity cf the members of the coinmittee; and if I should find any fault with
them-snd I do not intend to do so-it is
Crudens in his wonderful 'Concordance'
that perhaps they grant too msny divorces.
writes:
1 arn not favourable to grauting divorce. 1
The school of Shammeli, who lived a little should like to have divorces confined to
before our Saviour, tauglit that a man could
flot lawfully be driven f rom bis wife unless where a man goes sway and leaves bis
he had found lier guihty of some action which wife, and perhaps goes to some other
nr
aohrwo
admrie
was really infamous and contrary to the rulesconr
mnr
nte
mare
an
of virtue.conr
Josephus and Philo show sufficiently that in where s woman would be guilty of similar
their time the Jcws believed divorces to be
icnut
htIojc
oi
h
to ste
WhtIoec
lawful, even upon trivial causes, but nothingmîcnut
can justify such a procedure whereby the mar- method. I find that unfortunate people.
niage relation is dissolved.
men and women from the provinces of Maniscriptural authority toba, Saskatchewan, Alberta, Ontario and
Hsviug thus given
for divorces, and as the commentator on Quebec must corne to this tribunsl.. Fsncy
the Catholic Bible writes what is permis- s man being obhiged to corne here fromn the
sible in the separstion of Christian marri- extrerne west, and undergo the trouble snd
ages, we msy flot dwell longer on this part expense of bringing his witnesses and feeof the subject. Coming now down to the ing, a lawyer to plead bis case before the
Imperial Act cf Confederation, section 91 comniittee. Do not hon, gentlemen think
explains the power of parliament; para- some change is required in suoh a system?
graph 26 mentions divorce as being under Where rwould the poor man be who would
the suthority of the Dominion parliament. have to bring bis witnesses, say fromn AlIt is ail very welh to say that marriages berta? I remember a case, when 1 was in
are made in heaven. We admit that rnany the Commons, of a man named Martin
of them are, sud we hope that those 'who coming frorn Hamilton. His wife appesred
belougý to the Senste can be included in to be a fast woman. She was a very bandthat list; but it cannot be sdmitted, in some woman, and she crossed over to the
cases where hushauds run swsy from their United States. The Senste passed the Bill
wives, or wives from their hushands, that granting him a divorce, but it appea.red
such marriag-es have been made in theaven. that the womsu had a fniend, s very in
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Hlalifax).
shill marry her that is put away commiteth
adultery.

MAY 5, 1909
fluential xnember from Ontario, and he,
with the vote of the Roman Catholic members, defeated the Bill in the Commons.
Before the following session this member
who had eo much influence died, and the
hugband applied again, and was granted
his divorce. Being a rich man, he took us
down stairs and treated us to champagne
to a very late hour in the morning.
Some hon. MEMBERS-Hear, hear.

That the present tribunal for granting divorces is contrary to the practice in reat
Britain, France, as well as in the provinces
of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. That
it is a tribunal for the rich and cannot be
used by the poor.
That is a preamble, and then the resolution reads:
Therefore, resolved that it should be discontinued and that such trials should be be-

fore judges of the Supreine Court duly appointed for that purpose.

Hon. Mr. ]ROSS-Not only did hie rejoice
in obtaining his divorce, but we rejoiced
wvith hirn.

I do not think the motion is in order.

LANDRY-I wish to raise a
Hon. M-Nr.
point of order. Rule 57 says that no motion
prefixed -by a written preamble is received
by the Senat e. This resolution is simply
a conclusion of a preamble. This resolution reads:

date, and are anxious to know when comnpensation is to be offered for such services.
May I point out 'that the Nova Scotia representation, particularly on this aide of
the House, is very considerably Teduced,
and as my right hon. friend has expressed

The SPEAKER-There is a preamble to
this resolution, and if it cornes within that
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Did the hon. gentle- rule there is no doubt it cannot *be reman vote for or against the Bill?
ceived.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-I voted for it.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I would regret that
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I hope the cham- consideration of my hon. friend's motion
pagne 'was flot prornised before the Bill was should be shut out in this particular way.
voted on?
The -motion was ruled out.
did not know anyHon. Mr. ROSS-We
VDtQ'UT'rC
VAl
A~T
Tt'OTd rTi
thing about the champagne. We gave an
0F NOVA SCOTIA.
honest vote.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Beforc the orders
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-And drank ail his
of the day are called, I should be pleased
champagne.
if the right bon. leader of the House could
Hon. Mr. ROSS-The case was properly gîve us any information as to when the
dealt -- ith. I arn not against -divorce in Nova Scotia senatorial vacancies will be
the cases 1 have mentioned, but I believe flledP It ia to be observed that one of
our system is altogether wrong, and that thein has been vacant for more than a year,
it is unjust to the poor man who wouild and another, that of the late Senator Black,
have to corne to parliament from a distance. between four and five years.
Why should we have a regullation for the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTricli that the poor man cannot avail himself of? Judge Graham had four cases foi Between four and five years?
divorce in the last year, and he said tihat
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, I believe
not one of them would corne here to have 80.
the case tried. The cost in his province
Hon. Sir RICHARD *CARTWRIGHTwvould be from $100 to $150-not in any
case exceeding- $200. In order to do juýstice Not quite so long.
to thie poor man as well as the rich, the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is certainly in
present system should be changed. I have the vicinity of four years. I might point
given a quotation from the highest author- out there are several ex-statesmen in Nova
ity, the large bible, frorn which I copied Scotia who are looking forward with no
in the library, and also the commentator's srnall degree of anxiety to the fllling of
remrnaks on these verses. My hon. friend those vacancies. I understand they have
from St. John ivil1 second rny motion.
rendered services at a comparatively recent

SENATE
some desire to maintain the equilibrium in
the S ,enate, an excellent opportunity would
now be afforded Wo
fill up the ranks whicb
have been decimated on this side by the
appointment of a couple of senators who
would view questions before us from a
rather dîfferent standpoînt to that of the
government.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My
hon. friend's remarks deserve great consideration, and I shall endeavour to see that
they do receive full and sufficient consideration. 0f course hie is aware that in
Nova Scotia difficulties have occurred whioh
do not arise in other provinces, and that
gentlemen have been nominated to th;Senate who could not be induced to, attend.
Possi'bly some sucb difficulty may have
prevented my colleagues from Nova Scotia
from acting in this matter, but I shaîl
cause my bon. friend's remarks, particularly
the latter portion of them, Wo be laid before mv colleagues with ail due despatch.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-While the right bon.
leader of this House is so well disposed,
could hie not, at the same time, take into
consideratipn the fact that it would be very
gratifying to the French element throughout the country if we had a French member of the government in the Senate.
Amongst bis friends I think, there are quite
a number wvho are prepared to accept the
responsibilities of the position.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
sliall miake a careful note of my hon.
friend's remarks.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON I would point out
that the difficulty in Nova Scotia appears
to have been aotten over some years ago.
My hion. friend bas filled two appointments
from Nova Scotia since that incident with
regard to Mr. Curry, and it shows there
bas Ibeen a breaking down of a very formidable wall 'of difficulty in that direction. But
to be serious, it is not just to any province
that vacancies in the Senate should remain
unfilled for so long a period as four years,
which I think, is the correct statement with
regard te the vacancy caused ýby the death
of M.%r.
Black. The principle bas always
been conceded that the Senate is intended
mainly to protect sectional interests. Now,
Nova Scotia bas been scarcely at any time
Hlon. MNr.LOUGIIEED.

during the last eight or ten years representcd by more than. eight senators ini
this House. There bas always been the
same tardiness in filling vacancies. I submit it is a violation of the constitution, and
that the province is being left without the
representation it is entitled to.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
shall take a note of the hion. gentleman's
remarks.
THIRD READING.
Bill (PP) An Act respecting the Royal
Victoria Life Insurance Company, and to
change its name to the Royal Victoria Life
Insurance Company of Canada.-(Hon. Mr.
David).
QUEBEC

ORIENTAL RAILWAY GO-1
PANY BILL.

COMMONS AMENDMLNINTS

CONCURRED

IN.
Hon. Mr. TESSIER nioved that the
amendinents made by the House of Gommons to Bill (I) An Act respecting the
Quebec Oriental Railwav Company be concurred in.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Wil1 the hion. gentleman explain what the amendments are'
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The Bill is now
as it wus when it passed through this
House. In committee, in the other Chamiber, it was amended at the request of the
Speaker of the House of Gommons. When
it was reported to that House, the Speaker
consented to withdraw the amendment, and
the Bill is now as it was originally, except that the date *of the meeting of directors is changed.
The motion was agreed to.
GRAND TRUNK PACIFIC BRANCH
UINES COMPANY BILL.
GOMMONS AMENDMENTS CONCURRlED
IN.

Hon. Mr. WATSON moved concurrence
in the amendments made ýby the House of
Commons to Bill (S)> An Act respecting the
Grand Trunk Pacifie I3ranch Lines Company.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON The hion. -entleman should explain the amendment.

MAY 5, 1909

Hon. Mr. WATSON-When the Bill was
passed originally, there wvas ne limit of
time for thse commencement and the completion o! thse branch hunes. That was the
fori in 'wbich the Bill passed this House,
but the Commons put in thse ordinary clause
requiring that the lines shaîl be commenced
within two years aud completed in five
years.

that tirne the company has done nothing.
Sonxe reason should be given to us why
Lhey have not gone on to build any of these
roads granted in their original charter.

Hon. 'Mr. WATSON-The hon. gentleman surely ought to know that a railway
company cannot start to build branches
until the main line is built. There is only
about 400 miles of the main line in operaHon. Mr. FERGUSON-That is the usual tion.
provision. It shows that we were a little
Hon. Mr. WILSON-There is only one
careless.
o! these branches that is a short one. They
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Does the extension are as follows:
embrace thse whole e! these branches?
19. Fromn a point on the main line of the
Grand Trunk Pacifie Railway west of PemHon. Mr. WATSON-Yes.
bina crossing, in the province of Alberta,
thence running southwesterly to a point at
would not be or near the Embarrass river and thence in a
Hoi. Mie. WILSON-rt
why these southerly direction towarde the heaýdwaters
hiave information
amiss te
of the Little Pembina river, a distance of
branches have net been censtructed.
about one hundred miles.
Hon. Mif. WIATSON-The Grand Trunk
Pacifie Bill as passed originally, contained
the samne pewers that were granted te thse
Canadian Pacific Railway in their original
Bill. They did not have te commence their
brancis unes within a certain time. They
corne here asking for certain amendinents,

and tise House of Cemmens has attacised
the clause which is contained in all private
railway companies Buis. Se far as I amn
concerned, I do net think we should ask
a corporation like the Grand Truuk Pacifie
te be -bound down by such a rule. I do
net know that it inakes much difference
whether you inchude the clause or net.

20. From a point on the main line of the
.acific Railway, thence aloiîg
Grand Trunk
the Embarras river running southwesterlr towards the McLeod river, a distance of about
twenty-five miles.
21. From a point on the company's autlîorized line between Calgary and Coutts and
ruuining southwesterly to McLeod, thence

through or in the vicinity of Pincher Creek
to the western boundary of the province of

Alberta, a distance of about one hundred
miles.
22. From a point on the ýcompany's authorized Uîne at or near Regina, province of
Saskatchewan, thence westerly teMosja
distance of about forty-five miles.
It seems to me w~e ought te know -why
such a thing as this is being doue.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. genFERGUSON-I arn afraid that tleman does net seem to notice at what
Hon. Mr.
This Bill lias
if the hon. gentleman continues te talk that stage of procedure wve are.
induce us te reject his motion. already had thiree reading-s in this House,
way, he will
and has gone threugh commîttee; ail these

Hon. .Mr. WATSON-I will have ne objec- explanations wvere given at the proper time,
tion.
and the Bill was passed and sent to the
House of Commons. It is new back wvitlh
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-Is it net a fact
a sinaîl amendment whieh we are asked to
that recent charters for branch lines of the accept.
Canadian Pacific Railway have been
brougist under the same provisions? The
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I arn aware of al
origin 'al Bihl mig-ht net, but is it not a !act that. It is ne reason why we sheuld be
tisat for sorne years back thîs provision has deprived of information which should have
been inserted in ail their charters?
been given before.
Hon. Mr. WVATSON-Yes.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-If the lion. gentleman will look at the Commons amendment
Hon. Mr. WILSON-If my hou. frieud
mention is made of the
looks at the Bill lie will find that these lie 'will find that
statute of 1906, the original charter of the
charters were g-ranted in 1906 and since

SENATE
Grand Trunk Pacifie. He will find if he
looks up the Act, that that refers to some
twenty-two branch lines. Originally the
time for construction wvas flot limited. The
Commons saw fit to limit the time, and ail
we have to consider now is that amendment
made by the Gommons, an amend'ment
which I think should commend itself te
every inember of the Senate.
The motion was ag-reed to.
FUNDY TIDAL POWER COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS (in the absence of Hon.
Mr. McSweeney) moved the second reading
of Bill (XX) An Act te incerporate the
Fundy Tidal Power Company.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-As
I intimated to my hon. friends opposite, I
communicated with the Minister of Justice on this matter. He, lik-e some other
hon. gentlemen, considers that the Bill
should be very carefully handled, but
-as
undoubtedly the dealing with the
waters of the Bay of Fundy is within our
jurisdiction exclusively, whatever may be
saîd about the others, and as this Bill caio
by no possibility pass into law this session,
I ar nfot prepared te object further to its
going f0 the committee if the House see
fit, but on the distinct understanding that
the government reserves full power to deal
with if in any shape or -%ay it sees fit hereafter.

harness the Bay of Fundy tides, explained his
sciieme in detail. The proposai is to dam the
Petitcodiac and Memramcook rivers dry. The
proposed dam wiII be over a mile long and
forty feet high.
This would leave about
twenty feet of water iW the river at Moncton.
Fifty thousand horse-power ir. te be developed, anid Engineer Weller said he was w-illing
to risk his reputation on the practicability
cf damming the river. The company is capitalized at $10,0O0,0O0, and Mr. Weller wvas prepared te say $7,500,000 would more than coiniplete the gigantic undertaking.
Now, these are two cf the *fifteen rivers
that the Bill gives the cempany control
of, se that we can judge what is the nature
of the control that the passing of the Bill
would give te this private corporation. I
did net look at the Bill myself, 'but the
hon. gentleman from Calgary called attention te the fact that the capital mentioned
was $250,000.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-And
issue that paid Up.

tbey

cati

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I am flot well
enough posted te know that ail these fifteen
rivera are as difficult te dam as the two
preperties they propose te dam. Perhaps
they are net. They might be amali in comnparisen, but I know that some of themi are
very important streama.
The Bill covers
the Basin of Minas and ahi waters flowing inte the Bay of Fundy, except St.
John river and the Basin ef Annapolis.
Altogether it is a gigantic undertaking, and
it proposes te give this company mioat
extraordinary

contrel

of all these

wat-er-

powers if we pass this measure. I suppose
that the there can be ne harmn in giving it a second
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-And
Chamber is in no way committed to the reading, and let it go te the committee, but
we are certainly flot committing ourselves
principle of if.
to such a principle as that.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. BEIQUE-There seema te be
And that the Chamber is in no way coinmitted to the principle of it, but merely some misapprehiension in regard te this Bill.
and in regard te Bills of a similar nature
for information and examination.
whichi occasionally come before this lionHon. Mr. FERGUSON Let me eall at- ourable House.
Apart frorn the provision
tention te a parazraphi iii the Montreal which deals with the right te expropriate,
'Star ' of last evening-. It is a statement there is nothing unusual about this Bill.
made hy F.ineer Weller, explaining the 1 may point eut that the powers which arc
of given 'by this Bill are po'wers which are
gran ted by the Secretary of State by hetters
patent fifteen or twventy times a vear te
4.The 'Developneiit
Moncton, NB.. M-%a.v
of Poiver from BaY of FundY Tides' was dis- manv- companies. The powers given tinder
cussed by J. L. Weller, C.E., superintendent
of the Welland canal, before the Canadianî this Bill cannot bie exercised without the
Club here last night. F.ngineer Weller. w lin plans being submitted te the Goveriior in
is one of th promnoters of the Funîdy Tides'
Bill now before parliameot, asikiing power to Council and being approved *bv the Mn~
details of the
Moncton:

scherne

Honi. Mr. WATSON.

for

the people

MAY 5, 1909
ter of Public Works, as is done in the case
of letters patent. Probabhy what suggests
to the minds of hon. gentlemen that this
is an extraordinary Bill is the fact that a
number of'rivers are enumerated. If instead of enumerating the rivera, the promoters had asked iby this Bill merehy to
develop dams and water-powers generally.
as is donc by rights obtained under letters
patent, hon. gentlemen would not likely
have thought that it was so exorbitant a
demand. Take, for instance, the Mexican
Land and Irrigation Bill, which received
the other day the imprint of this House,
and the Brazilian Electro-Steel and Smelting Company, a Bill to the sanie effect:
the powers given te those companies are
much more extensive than those proposed
to be given to this company. They could
do anything. They could dam every one
o! these rivers, provided they sirbmitted
their plans to the Governor in Council. The
officiai Gazette 'of the month o! April,
page 2849, shows exacthy the sanie thing.
Without naming the rivera, power is given
to a company, under the name of the Bilver
Lake Lurnber Company, to carry on the
business of merchants, saw millers, humbermen, &c., ail branches o! the business,
and a number of other powers to develop,
acquire by lease or purchase or otherwise,
to maintain and operate on the property
of the company, steam, electric, hydraulic
or other power or force.

425

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-They can go on any
river.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-No, no.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I afflrm knowingly
and advisedly that although no river is
mentioned, they can go on any river in
Canada provided their plans are approved
by the Governor ini Council or by the ministeir as required, for such protection as is
required in navigable rivers. 0f course,
they must purchase the right to do so.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-That is another
question.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Here they must
purchase the riparian and other rights. It
is merely the enabling power which is
given them, apart from expropriation, and
it is only because of that, that the Bill
provides for the power to expropriate. 1 say
that this Bill is on a par with a great
nuniber of companies whîch. are incorporated by letters patent, apart from the
expropriation power. I do not know anything abhout this Bill except that I have.
read it. As far as the question of provincial
rights is concerned, it does not arise. It
was stated that it was worse than the
In that Bill the
Michigan Power Bill.
question arises9 because the works are intended to be located in one province only.
Here, on the face of the Bill, the works
are intended to extend te the provinces of
Nova Scntia and New Brunswick, and,
%r. EDWARDS-On the propertyP
Hon. -therefore, the provincial rights question
the does not arise on the face of the Bill.
Mr. BEIQUE-Throughout
Hon.
wvhole of Canada.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-My hon. friend is
the hon. a very eminent lawyer, and 1 arn but a
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Could
arn
gentleman point out any such territorial iayman, and I arn very sorry that 1
rivera and not in sympathy with him on this occasion
powers to enter on particular
is perexpropriate them as ia proposed to be done although 1 generally amn. 1 think it
fectly competent for this parliament to give
by this Bill?
to any number of men who are acting
Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-To carry -on its own tegether the power to go any where and do
business and any business germane to the that which. they can get the right to do
main1 4bject of the cornpany throughout wherever they go, but I dlaim that this
the Dominion of Canada and ehsewhere.
Bill provides specifically that these parties
shahl have the right te erect dams over
Hon. 31r. LOUGHEED-This is a com- streams and creeks in the provinces of
No territorial
mercial business simply.
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.
powers.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Suppose that one of
Hon. '-%r. EDW'ARDS-They do not
1 the properties mentioned was my property,
specif y any rivera.

SENATE
would this company have the power to the Petitcodiac and the IM'emramcook and
go upon it without the power of expropria- the Sackville rivers and some of the other
tion?
rivers in Nova Scotia where tawns and cities
bave grown up, they drain into these rivers,
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I will answer that. and the situation is such that if these
I admit that if an individual owns the rivers are dammed and the waters maintain'water-power that you would have to exed at a uniform high level, their sewage syspropriate, but if an individual does flot tems would be entîrely destroyed. If,
an
own it, but the province, then, under this the ether hand, the proposition, whîch
Bill, the company mentioned in the Bill appears ta be outlined in
the extract read
can go there and dam the water and corne by the hon. gentleman from Marshfield
in direct conflict with the legîsiation of the from the paper to-day as the
statement
province.
made by Engineer Weller before the CanaHon. Mr. BEIQUE-If it is not owned by dian Club in Moncton, is the correct proan individual, it wvill be either by the Dom- position, and the Petitcodiac and the Merni
ramcook rivers are ta be dammed and
inion or the province.
the water kept at Moncton at a twentyHon. 'Mr. EDWARDS-But the Dominion foot level, it would entirely destroy the
These
is here giving authority ta build dams.
1 shipping interests of that part.
quite concede it may have the power to do rivers now are an outlet for the sewage sysit in the Bay af Fundy, but it has not the tem, but when the tide is in the vessels go
xight to build dams across creeks and up, and land and discharge and receive
streams in New Brunswick. I will gîve cargoes at the wharfs. It would destroy
an illustration which occurred recently. the shipping facilities of ahl that section
At this very moment the Dominion govern- of the country if the proposition outlined
ment is proceeding ta impound the head by Mr. Weller were carried out. Then,
maters of the Ottawa river, and before they what, ta my mmnd, is a consideration of
can do so they must get authority fromn equal or even greater importance than this.
Quebec and Ontario. The Dominion gov- is the effeot upon the large areas of marsh
ernment itseli applies and gets that power. lands whieh are ta be found in that neighiBut here is a Bil] which specifically gives bourhood, and which. marsh lands have
ta these parties the right ta go into Nova been built up by flooding. They have been
Scotia and New Brunswick and ibuild dams formed by the action of the tides in those
across streams and creeks. I maintain that very rîvers, and this process of convertingthey have not that right, and it will be waste land and lands of inferior quality into
a direct infringement on provincial right3. land very productive and very valuable
for raising hay crops particularly, iýz
Hon. Mr. WOOD-I desire ta refer ta one being constantly carried on, and throuzlh
or two points that were raised by the hon. ail that section o! the country where there
gentleman from Montreal in the compari- are thousanda and tbousands of acres af
son he made between the provisions of this this land at the present time, the country
Bill and some other Bis wvhich. he referred is dependent upon the uninterrupted flow
ta which have passed this Huse, and I o! the water in aIl these rivers and tribuwould like ta point out that if this Bill taries and streams for the maintenance ai
is ta be considered and sent ta. the com. the fertility o! the lands that already exist
mittee, that there are sp)ecial considera- there and which have been brought ta this
tions regcardingu rivers and streams where state of fertihity at very considerable exthis company proposes ta operate, whicb pense. Then some other very seriaus quesoccur no where else in this Dominion.
I tions must arise, the legal bearing o! which
do flot know that they occur anywhere else I am not prepared ta say, but there are not
on the face of the globe. It is due ta the only patural tributary streams emptyingfact that in the Bay of Fundy we have into these rivera, but there is a system of
extraordinary flood tides, wbere they rise canalliný -which bas been carried on for
and faîl from thirty ta sixty feet each day. years. The ow-ners of the land under proThe effect of that is, that on these rivers, vincial law elect commissioners and build
Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE.

MAY 5, 1909
waterways at the cost of the lands which
are ta be benefited by these canais. Some
are for the purpose of flooding the land and
increasing the fertility in that way, and
others are. for the purpose of draining. It
is possible this engineer may have sanie
way of meeting ail these difficulties; I cannot vouch for that, but it does appear ta
me that it is impossible ta have those
streams and rivers obstructed by any
permanent dams without destroying the
most important agricultural interests of
that whole country, which should not be
entertained for one moment. As I said
yesterday, the theory of attempting to
utilize the tides of the Bay of Fundy for
generating power has been a subjeet of discussicn for a great many years, and a great
many persans have propased plans by
'which they could be utilized; 'but, so far,
I believe none of these plans bave been
considered favourably by practical men. I
am in favour of the Bill, with the understanding which lias been arrived at, that
we do flot adopt the principle, but let it
go ta the committee and hear the pramoters
of the Bill and have this scjeme and their
plans fully explained. I think it is very
desirable that shauld be done bef are the
session closes.
The hon. member wha
moved the second reading of the Bill suggested that it should be referred te the
Railway Committee. I have no abjection
ta that, but it occurred ta me that that
committee had a gaod deal of business.
and the- time of the committee might be
pretty fully occupied. Cansideration of this
Bill night take a full session of the camnlittee, and I îvauld like ta suggest that it
shauld be referred ta the Conimittee. on Miscellaneous Private Bis.
Same hon. ME7MBERS-Na, no.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As I have incorporated
some thousands of companies under the Act,
I may be allawved ta say a word or two in
reply to the hon, gentleman fram De
Salaberrv. It is quite true that the tw,)
companies lie named were given very large
pawers, but it was on the distinct understanding and undertaking that they were
not ta be exercised in Canada. In granting powers ta companiez that -%ere going
ta operate in Mexico and in Central
America, Brazil and the Argentine Repub-

lic, where the government of those counteics
were willing ta eccept aur charters and give
licenses under them, I had no hesitation
in granting very large po-wers to the company, sucli as I neyer would dream of
granting to companies proposing teoaperate
in Canada. I have no recallection in any
single instance having granted po-wers of
expropriation.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I did not say that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Pawers have been
granted ta acquire praperty. They have a
right to do certain things which are unusual, but on property owned by the company. If the company acquired ail the
rigbts, and nobody was incidentafly affected
thereby, nobody could urge objections; but
no measure such as this before the House
has even been granted by the Secretary of
State, at least while I was in office.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I cordially endorse
everything that bas been sad by the hon
gentleman from Sackville. He expresses
my sentiments exactly.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-The hon. member from
De Salaberry having spoken of Jetters
patent which are issued in many cases, giving extraordinary powers to certain conipbnies ta operate in different puits of
Cinada, I want ta remind the House that
last year I made allusion ta that, and expressed surprise that in many cases those
lêtters patent went very far, and I considered in violation of provincial rights.
If the federal parliament has not the jurisdiction ta -ive ta a company the, right ta
utilize water-powers in a province because
it would be a violation of the constitution
and of provincial rights, haw can they
acquire that power by extending the right
ta the 'whale of Canada? If the water-.
powers are what vau think they are, one
of the principal assets of the province, if
they are essentially provincial, and if the
provinces have reasan ta adhere ta their
rights with regard ta these water-powers
and keep contrai af them, I cannot understand haw I could accept the proposition of
the hon. member fromn De Salaberry,
although I agree generally with him an
almost aIl questions. This time I cannat
agree with hlm. and I cannot be]ieve that

SENATE
if the water-powers are provincial assets.
that the federal parliament, because they
give a company the right to utilize those
water-powers throughout the whole of Canada, can *deprive the provinces of their
rights.
1 arn not ready to accept that
proposition, because it would be always
easy in that way to take away from the
provinces their rights as regards anything,
by providing that a company chartered by
parliament shall have a right to operate
in ail the provinces of Canada.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do flot know
much about power questions, but I should
like to know if the passing of this charter
naming Vhese xivers -would preclude even
parliament itself granting a charter to another company to -operate on these same
rivers?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-My understanding
is that I arn at liberty to go and purchas-2
water-powers in the whole of the Dominion
of Canada. I may associate myself with
a dozen or a bundred other people to do
the same thing. If the water-power is the
property of the province, 1 cannot deprive
the province of any of its control or ownership of that wvater-power. If it is the property of the Dominion of *Canada I cannot
deprive the Dominion of any of its powers
over it. AIl that I can do, ail I arn possessed of is the ena'bling power. When we
create a corporation giving it power apart
from the powers of expropriation. that corporation has to do like anv individual in
purchasing a water-power. If it is the
property of the province or of the Dominion,
the company- bas to arrange with either
the -province or the Dominion, and, therefore, this Bill does not dispossess the province of its ri.-hts or the Dominion of its
Tights over such water-powers. It is merely
the enabling power which is always subject to the control either of the province
or of the Dominion.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Parliament lias
always the right even to repeal a charter
whicli has been ahready granted. But this
is a question of expediency. It is a question sirmlar to those very properly raîsed
hy the hon. gentleman from Westmorehand.
I arn glad the hion. member drew the attention of the Senate to the important considerations which lie placed ibefore the
House, so that the committee may bear
them in mind. These are questions for the
House to deal witb. I amn approaching the
question merely from the point of view
'whether it is an extraordinary charter any
more than hundreds of others chartered by
letters patent. I do not wish to -be understood as criticising tlie practice of the "Secretary of State on principle. I do not see
any reason why the enabling power shouhd
not be given to a cornpany to be exercised
as freely as it is by an individual.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I am a littie surprised at the hon. member from De Salaberry, who generally examines measures
carefully. Re does not seemn to bave liai
bis attention directed to the eleventh
clause of the Bill, whicb provides for the
very thing which tbe hon. gentleman said
the company was not to have-that is the
power of exýropriation.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I made the exception. I said apart from tbe power of expropriation, which may or may not be
given.
Hon. Mr. POWER-There is thjs point
which tbe lion. gentleman does not seemi
to bave considered. Supposing that the
company are able to make arrangements
for the purchase, we will eay, of land at
the mouth of one of these rivers, and they
erect their dams there. What about the
landowners further up who will be deprived
of the flow of -water over their lands?
The damages may be almost infinite, but thd
company can purchase the land from the
mnan whose property is situated at the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do not thin1k mouth of the river.
I think the wi4e
my hion. friend appreciated the point I thing to do with this Bill would ho to reraised. If we give this company power to frain from reading it the second time.
dam these rivers-assumin-- this parliaHon. Mr. EDWARDS-There are two
ment has the right to pass the le'-islationcould we aive another company power te further points; there is sucb a thing as
erect a dam at the same place, with this the creation and making of a water-power
where none exists. Then there is anothier
charter in existence?
li.
'Mr. DAVID.

429

MAY 5, 1909
point; there is a provision that nothing i8
to be done without going to the Minister of
Public Works. There is no provision to
go to the province. I thoroughly agrec
with the hion. gentleman, that this Bill
It
should nlot receive its second reading.
la one of the most extraordinary measures
that has ever corne before this Hlouse.

5. That imnmediatehy after the said electoral
districts shall have been defined and agreed

lipon, a ineniber of the existing Senate shall

be allotted ta each of the said districts, having due regard, as far as practicable, ta residence, local interesta or other reasons.
6. That as vacancies hiereafter arise in the
répresentation of the said electoral districts,
the vacancy shahl be filled by the electors of
that district entitled ta vote for members of
the House of Commons.
L.That in order ta diminish the expenses
to
elections
Hon. Mr. WOOD-I entirely agree with attending larger andover wide areas and infreer expression of
secure a
the hion. gentleman from Russell <Hon. Mr. dependent opinion, the system of compulail electiomîs of
Edwards) that the Bill as it stands should sory voting shahl appiy ta required te exersenators; every voter hein g
not become latv. I do not imagine that it cise his right ta the franchise, and by ballot,
can ever pass in its present form. 1 for under a penalty of ten dollars, ta be collectthe returning officer and applied in reone would like to see the Bill go to the ed by of electian expenses. Provided that
duction
and have the promoters explain any elector may be excused froin voting on
committee
a
the scheme which they have in view. The producing did medical certificate that his state
not admit of his attendance at
of health
this session, and it is the poIls, or a certificats fromn the local judge
Bill cannot pass
that important
rather important that we should get al excuse prevented business or ather reasonable
his exercising the franchise.
the information we can.
'rhat the reinaining eiglmt senatars in eachi
The Senate divided on the motion, which of the provinces of Ontario and Quebee; the
re1uaming thýree senators in Nova Scotia and
was rejected. Contents, lb; non-contents, iii N ev B,-nsi.ýick, and the twa remaining

il.

Names not recorded.

SENATE REFORM.
DEBATE CONTINUED.
The order of the day being called:
Resurning the fuîrther adjourned debate on
the motion of the lIon. Mr. Scott, that it be
resolved:
1. That in the opinion of the Senate the
lime has arrived for so amending the conctitution of this b ranch of parliament as to

bring the modes of selection of senators more
into harmony with public opinion.
2. That the introduction of an elected eiement, applying it approximately to two-thirds
of the niumber of senators would bring the
Senate more into harmony withi the principles
of popular governnment than the present systerm of appointing the entire body of senators
by the Crown for life.
3. That the terni for which a senator may
be elected or appointed, be lîmited to seven
year8.
4. That the provinces of Ontario and Que.
bec be eachi divided into sixteen electoral districts for representation in this Ohamber.
That the provinces of Nova Sootia and New
Brunswick be each djvided into seven electarai districts, and the province of Prince
Edward Island into two electoral districts for
election to this Chamber; and that for the
present, and until the four western provinces have been given increasedi representation
in this Chamber, that Manitoba, Saskatchew-an and Aliberta be each one divided into
three electoral districts, and thst the province
of British Columbia be divided into two electorah districts, ail for the election of candidates for representation in the Senate.
In defining the said ehectoral districts, due
regard bein g lied, nat only ta approximately
equalizing.t he population in each district, but
to convemience. local intereests and county

bouudaries.

senators

in

Prince

Edward

Island,

and

the remaining senatar in each of the provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta
and British Columbia, who haed. not been ailotted ta any constituency, shaîl be classed as
senatars for the particular province at large,

and as a vacancy arises in that class, it shahl
be filled by appointaient, as at present, by the
Crown.
9. That iii order ta more îîearly equalize
the standing of pohitical parties ini the Seni-

ate, on the occasion of a change iii the gaverament, the principle laid down mn Sections
26 and 27 of the Britishî Northî Ainerica Act
shalh apply, that is te say, the incoming administration may appoint an additional nuniber of senators, not exceeding aine if
in the opinion of the Governor General, acting independeîîtly of the Privy Council, the
request is a reasanahîs one, but nlot more
than one of the senators ta be appointed, &hall
ho takon fromn any ane province; and that
iâo more arisen; thus reverting ta the original number of senators allotted ta the said
province.
10. That the senators representing the several different provinces be requested ta meet
aînd suggest the best mode of dividîng the
province into Senate electoral districts and
also the ilane of the souatar who will ropresent sacli particular district.
1.1. That the. fouse of Commons b. asked ta
concur in the proposod changes in the constitu-tion of the Senate.
12. Thst the Senate and Hlouse of Commons
adopt a joint addross ta is Gracious iMajesty
the King prayiug that the British North
Amorica .Act, and the Acts undor which
British Columbia and Prince Edward Island
ontored the union, be sa amendod as ta conformn to the forogoing resolutioîîs and the

motion of the Hlon. Mr. David in amendmont
thoreta:

That all the words after the word 'that'

in the first line be struck ont ta the end of
said resolutions and the following words sub-

SENATE
stituted in lieu thereof: 'in the event of a
change in the present constitution of the Senate beiag deemed necessary and asked for;
by, anxong others ail those provinces who
were a party to its original constitution under the British North Âmerica Act, 1867, the
rnost practical and satisfactory way of doixxg
so, would .be, as new seats would be created,
or vacancies occurred, to have fit and qualified persons sumnmoned for life to f11l the
saine as now, under the said Act; but leaving
the selection of one haif of said persons to
the provincial goveraments of the respective
provinces entitied to said seaits. The righit of.
selecting such persons beginning always with
the provincial goveruments and alternating
thereafter.
Hon. Mr. EDWAIRDS-I arn sorry to trou-ble the House for even a short time discussing a subject which 1 think has already
been sufficiently debated ia thia Chamber.
Several rnotions, in the lat two or three
years, have been made by hon. gentlernen
-with a view to reforrning the Senate. Each
gentleman when introducing his resolution
endeavoured to point out that the people
of Canada were very desirous that reform
of the Senate should take place. Upun
each occasion the simple statement was
made, but no evidence was given why the
Senate should be reforrned, so far as public
None o! the proopinion la concerned.
vincial legisîntures have passed resolutions
with that object in view. No board of trade
and no public body representing the people
bas passed resolutions of that nature that I
arn aware of. I have neyer heard in rny
trayais ia the many places I have visited
in Canada, anv expression of desire on the
part of the people for a change in tbe
mode of constituting the Senate.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What about the Liberal convention?
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I will admit at
once, that some of my political friends, if
1 may say I have political frienda, because
1 think when a gentleman cornes into this
Chamber hie should cease to be a politician
entirely, and 1 dlaim to be in that position myseif, have advocated Senate reform. While I, of course, arn a radical,
and my natural tendencies are towards the
Liberal partv, 1 shahl do equal justice to
al! so far as le.-ialation is concerned. It
is quite true that while in opposition the
Liberal party in Canada did on many
occasions sucgest a reformation of the
Hn-i. «%r. WOOD.

Senate. It is also true that at the convention which took place in Ottawa in
.1893 a resolution was passed calhing for
the reformation of the Senate. The Liberal
party at that tirne had but a few rnernbers in this Chamber, and I arn frank
to say that I believe their desire for the
reformation of the Senate criginated from
that and frorn no other cause. It is like
rnany of the principles which a party advocates in opposition, not only in Canada,
but in many other countries. Gentlemen
in opposition have a habit of advocating
that which they are unable to perform
Grover
when they corne into power.
Cleveland was'a free-trader,and hie and his
party were pledged to wide out protection ir,
the United 'States. When they came intr
power they only rnodified the tariff to a
slight extent, and tlieir Act was repealect
when the other party returned to power.
They did not go the lengath they intended or
expected to go. We have another illustration
in Canada. When the party te wvhich I formerly belonged, and to which I still adhere,
m-ere in opposition we preached from one end
of Canada to the other the principle of free
trade, and promised to introduce free trade
when we got into power. Have our friends
introduced it? Not at ail.
They have
modified the tarif! to some exent, but protection stili exista in Canada, very greatly
to the detrirnent of the people. Sorne of
our friends, in the days when they were in
opposition, suggested so many reforma that
if they should ive for a couple of hundred
years they could neyer bring thern al]
about. I arn afraid some of them have
since forgotten the many reforms they then
advocated. Corning more directly to thd
o uestion hefore the House, my hion. friendl
the ex-Secretary of State deals with it in
H1e
a very fair way from his standpoint.
used for an illustration the condition of
affaira in republics on this continent, and
referred also to the agitation going on at
present in Great Britain for the reformation
In dealing with
of the House of Lords.
this question yon cannot make the bali
statement that the Senate is to be reformed,
and use such illustrations. You muxst take
the conditions. Would any member of this
House like to introduce the United States
system for the constitution of this Senate?
The Senate of the neighbouring republic is

MAY 5, 1909
so constituted that only very wealthy men individuals who are not conversant with
can get the position, and because they are our legislative operations that the Senate
only elected for a fev years, the greatesti is fia safeguard in s0 far as the government
study the whoie of their terni is, how they and its legisiation are concernied. I do
are to be re-elected when their terni expires. not hold that ground at ail. My opinion
Our systemi may be defective, but I prefer is that ilhe great use for the Senate to-day
it to any system ta be found to-day in the is in watching private legfislation, and in
republics of America. In so far as the the protection of private rights. But for
House of Lords is concerned, my hon. the Senate, private rights would be trampled
Is there any great
friend suggested that what we should bringj upon continuously.
about is a system more in accord 'with the danger ta government measures sa f ar as
popular wvill. Why use the Hause of Lords the Senate is concerned? Have we had
as an illustration, when the fact is, they as many examples of such? Not at ail. If the
a House, do flot advocate election by the Senate, or any large portion of it, were
people; the people are going to have noth- elected we would have simply a second
ing to say in the matter. The suggested House of Commons, and there is no telling
election is one among the peers themselves,~ where aur legisiatian would land us. There
and flot among the people. In my carlier are Borne who hold that the life terni is
parliamentary experience in anather place, unfortunate, and that short ternis af office
our education was that it -%vas flot proper would be better. This ia my twenty-fourth
to refer directly ta this Chamber, and %%hlen session in parliament, and I have closely
necessary it wvas always clelicately donc. In followed at least some of the events which
the Senate there is greater freedom in this have taken place, especially in the comrespect, and it is not unusual ta discuss mittees. This session certain causes have
the House of Commons. If I refer to hindered me fram daing so, but I hope
the other Chamber I shall simply do it will nat accur ag-ain. The change in s0
it because it seems to be the practice far as legislatian is concernied, is very conIf we siderable. and in an unfavourable direction,
to do so in this Chamber.
should have two elective Chambers, as the largely because, unfortunately, representahon. gentleman suggests for what hie con- tion in the Hause of Commons changes
In each successive elecsiders the improvement of the Senate, toa rapidly.
a large change of the
where would the advantage be? He con- tian we have
is flot in accord with the membership, as a consequence of which
siders this body
popular will, and suggests that some mem- the gentlemen who compose that body
bers of the Senate be elected and others are not long enough in public life ta
appointed. I do not agree with that ides. get the experience necessary to make a
The resuit would be that there would be main a suitable legisIator. The changes
large electoral districts, and only men of have been tao rapid, and they are becoinlarge means would be able ta contest them ing mare rapid. At the last election, I
for seats in this Chamber. That would be think, nearly one-haif of the House of Cama very deplorable resuit. I arn a radical, mons was changed. There are only some
but I admit at once I arn not preaching at five or six gentlemen there ta-day who were
this moment advanced radical views. We in the Commans when I first entered it,
have ta remember that the march of events a.nd there are very few indeed who were
to-day is towards tao liberal conditions, there ten years aga. It is a new%body.
so far as le2islation is concerned, and it is There could be nothing mare undesirable
a happy thing for Canada that we have the and unfartunate than a conditioni which
safeguard of thie Senate. Although I did not would shorten the terni of representation,
approve of it formerly, I think it is a safe- and I favaur in the strangest ternis the
guard for some ai the provinces that there life tenure of office for senators.
is an upper Chamber. Why' There seems
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The Sultan of Turkey
ta -be to-day a leaningZ towards ultra radical was run out the other day.
ideas, sa far as legislation is concerned, a
Hon. Mr. EDWA1IDS-Hle was, but if the
tendency ta trample on individual rights.
There seems ta be an opinion among certain lion. gentleman thinks lite membership la

SENATE

432

not a proper thing hie should withdraw at
once frorn the Chamber and let ail who
think so follow suit. 1 hope that no sucb
condition will arise under British institutions, and no such conditions are likely
to arise so long as British institutions are
'what they are, and none of oui rulers will
be treated as the Sultan of Turkey was
treated the other day. Under British institutions there ia no danger of anything
of that kind.

her should do any such thing. The prnary -business of this Chamber is the revision
of Jegisiation passed by the popular House,
and if less was said in this Chamber
as to the refoîmation of the Senate, there
would be no noise in the country about it.
Some hon. MEMBERS-Hear, hear.

Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-And I would vouch
for this, that if the only gentlemen, apart
frcrn the senators themselves, who are in
teshon. friend a position to judge, should give their refer
ELLIS-My
Hon. Mr.
tirnoy-an nowI arn again going to t
of the life tionythe C onadIrgewod
has declared himself ini favour
testirnony of the vaîjous legal gentletenre.the
Hon. Mi. EDWARDS-I gave mny rea- men who corne before the committees of
sons why 1 favoured the ie tenure as far the two Houses would be everywhere and
as this individual Chamber is conceined. on every occasion, that the Senate commitAn lion. gentleman entera this Chamber, tees are fai more judicial in their consideiaand hie becomes a very valua!ble memrber et tion of measures that are before them and
this body, and under a terni system wnuld corne to sounder conclusions than the CornAnd why is it? It
retire, perhaps, to give place to a gentie- nions committees.
inan who may neyer become a valuable la simply because of their longer experimnember. It ia truc that when a man at- ence. That is one reason; another reason
tains a g-reat age hie Nvi]l not be as usefu] is that this Chamber is not responsible to
as a leg-isiator, but we have had very many political conditions at P.il, but act judiciof our oldest members giving the soundest ally and independently, and Mny opinion is
judgment on questions which arise, and so that every member o! this Chamiber should
fai as I have observed, I have not seen, be a judge, and my observation is that
any defect in reference to the older mem- generally such la the case. That la the reabers of this Chamber. Another very son why, in so f ar as legialation is conerioneous idea that exista in the minds of cerned, this Obamber is fai superior to the
some people in the country, but 1 think Commons. It ia unfoîtunate, in my judgvery few people, is that the Senate does ment, tbat this question ia discussed here.
not do the amount of woik the Commons at all; but if it is discussed, every member
does; that it takes somewhat long adjourn- who bas opinions should express them. To
ments. Well, the Senate does not discusa rny xnind there is one unfortunate condithe budget, the estimates, nor the vaîjous tion. If a political party remains veîy long
wvant of confidence motions which are moved in power, the Senate becomes largely of the
there, and the Senate does flot deal in complexion of that paîty. To my mind
Eveîy one knows that is an unfoîtunate condition. Not that
political controversies.
that when the House of Commons assembles, 1 think it rnakes a particle of difference
if it applied itself to the work of the ses- as fai as legisiation la concernied. If the
sion, the actual business before paria- Conseivative paîty should come into power
ment, and that alone, and that no political to-mrnorow, 1 believe their leg-ialation would
considerations came into play, that Cham- receive the same fair consideration that
ber would neyer ait more than two or tbree the legisiation oi the prescrit aovernmient
months, certainly neyer more than thiee does in this House; while that may be so.
montha; but for reasons w'hich need not and I believe it is so, there la stilI a feel'be explained, it sometimies sits for eight ing, no doubt in the country that it la
inonths. la it reasonable that this Cham- desirable that the parties should be more
ber, which is largelv a rcvising body, lequally balanced. I -need not go fuither
should ait here because the Commons .is than to give my expression of opinion. ani
playing with these questions? I think, it I have expressed it. I believe tbat anv
very ridiclous to gunnose that tbis Cham- chanire from the presenit system would not
Hlon. '.%r. EDWAIIDS.

MAY 5, 1909
be in the interests of the country, and
would be disastrous to the best interests
<'t the legislation of parliament; but I do
think it is highly desirable that the party
in power, whoever that party may be,
should ýbe -very discriminating in ita appointîments to the Senate. No gentleman
should be appointed to a seat in this
House unless it is thoroughly believed ha
cari go there, flot as an advocate, but a3
a judge who will deal fairly between individuals and corporations, and weigh
evenly the balance as between ail the parties who corne here for legfisiation. I thin<
that is the best safeguard. If some system
could be devised whereby there would be
nearer an equilibrium o! parties in this
House, to me it would be most acceptable.
I cannot make a suggestion as to how that
might be brought about, but it is the only
suggestion I can make for the improvement o! the Senate. If by some manner
of means the equilibrium could lie better
maintained, and parties composing the
gre*at body of the people of Canada would
have more equal representation in this
Chamber, I think it would lie better. Dealing for one moment with the amendment
prDposed by the hion. gentleman from Mille
Iles, who, like myseif, is a stickler for
provincial rights, at the same time we must
also lie fair when Dominion riglits are ýconcerned, niy hion. friend knows perfectly
well that the Dominion government is the
centre, and the various provinces are only
branches, having rights only such as are
conferred on them under the British North
America Act, and nothing more. They are
not in the position of the various states
which compose the American union south
of us, who themselves confer on the central
authority only that -which they desire to
confer at the time they made their confederation. But. in our case, the Dominion
government was the centre, conferring on
the varjous provinces such authority as
thev thought well to provide. The provinces agreed. to corne in on those conditions,
but the Dominion after ail, is the great
authority and lias the power to dissolve
the Acts of the provincial legisiatures.
Would it not be a most ridiculous thing
that one of those provinces should have
the right to appoint a member of this
28
REVISED

433

legislative body? 1 do not think that
there would lie any consistency. in it
at ahl, and I cannot approve of it.
True, the various states appoint, and
What
not the governor of. the state.
would lie the position if senators were appointed by the provinces? The Prime Minister of the province would have the nomWould lie be more likely to
ination.
nominate good men than the Prime Minister of the Dominion and his cabinet? If
my lion. friend had thouglit of it for one
nmoment I do not think lie would have made
Finally, radical fthough
that suggestion.
I am-and I am proud to call myself a
radical-believing moat thoroughly in the
goverrument by the peopl-I do not go so
f ar, withi the experience I have hiad, to
say now that I will do away 'with the Senate of Canada, or that I would reforma the
Senate in any of the directions that have
I
been suggested, at the present time.
think this Chamber should be a judicial
body, revising the legislation that comnes
frcm the other House in an independent
marinex. So far as thîs Cliamber is concerned, the most important function it has
to performa is to see that private legialation is properly safeguarded. I think it
has done a great deal in that direction up
le to-day. In !so far as tihe instances
where the dominant body in this Chamber
have interfered with government measures,
and have thwarted the popular wîll, we
have not had a sufficient nuinber of
sucli cases to make tlie question one
for -the people of Canada to consider
I do flot think there
very seriously.
is any agitation in this country for
reformation of the Senate. If the members
of the Senate assiduously attend to the
'work which presents itself to them, and
have nothing to say as to the reformation
o! this Chamber, we would hear nothing
o! the question in the country. Apart from
the agitation brought about by the Liberal
party previous to 1896, I have neyer known
of any agitation for reformation of thxe
Senate. I think it is far safer to leave
tbings as they are, to continue in a way
that up to the present has woirked well,
than to make an experiment which may be
very detrimental to the best interests of
the Dominion.
EDITION

SENATE
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I move that tihe debate be adjourned until to-morrow.

THE SENATE.
OT,&A,

Thursday, May 6, 1909.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I ani
Thc SPEAKER Vook the Chair at Three
noV going Vo oppose this motion. I probo'clock.
ably may. have something to say on the
question altogether on a different line from
Prayers and routine proceedings.
that which the Senate bas been pursuing;
HUDSON BAY EXPEDITION.
but I do think it is necessary that we
should get this resolution and amendment
INQUIRY.
wiped off our notice paper at the earliest
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired of the gov.
possible moment.
ernment:
Some hon. MEMBERS-Hear, hear.
1. Has Captain Bernier made a report of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do his ifirst expedition Vo Hudson Bay and the
Arctic regions?
not propose to discuss the merits of the
2. What is the date of such report?
question at ail when 1 do speak. I shall
3. Ras it been printed and distributed, and
take another uine altogcether, but at this avhen P
4. Ras it been translated?
moment I desire Vo congratulate my hon.
5. lias the French version been printed and
friend from Russell division on the posi- distributed, and when?
tion he has taken on this question, and
Hon. Sir RICHARD -CARTWRIGHT-The
to point out that it is another illustration
answers Vo the hon. gentleman's questions
of bow extreme radicals may become Conare as follows:
servatives when they get into position
1. Yes.
similar to that which we occupy to-day.
2. April, 3, 1908.
I am at a loas myself to know what politi3. 1V has been printed and illustrated
cal parties are to-day. I find that the moat
and wîll be distributed in a few days.
extreme radicals of days -one by are thc,
4 and 5. 1Vhas not yet been translated.
most extreme Conservatives to-day, and
when I look at some ConservaVives with CORRESPONDENCE RE INTERCOLONwhom I have been associated during my
IAL RAILWAY.
long political life and observe that they are
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-May I
now more radical than ConservaVive, I realize how conditions have changýed as the inquire of the leader of the House when I
countr *v grows older. lIn fact, if you look may expect the correspondence which I
at the principles, if I mnay designate them moved for on the l6th March between the
hy that word, advocated by manxr of the board of trade of Montreal and the govConservaVives to-day, the\, are as socialis- ernment in xeference Vo the placing of
tic as they can possibly be, while many the Intercolonial Railway under t.he conradicals. like my hon. friend Vo whozn trol of the Railway Commission?
-we have just listened, are becoming, in
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIG HT-I
the bine that I have been trying to pursue believe the papers were laid on the table
and bebieve myself to be in to-day, a good a day or Vwo ago.
deal more Conservative than I ever waa.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
Should I take the opportunitv Vo speali
on this question. I shahl give mvy ideas as passed nay notice.
tr xvhat I consîder the conduet of membera CORRESPONDENCE
RE FEDERATION
of this House w%-ho are constantly, I do not
0F NEWFOUNDLAND.
desire to say it disreaspectfuillv, discussing
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I also
a question whichi affects their own position
and honour. and the statuts of this particu- moved for the correspondence between the
MLinister of Militia, Sir Frederick Borden,
lar Chamiber.
and Mr. Crowe, of Newfoundland, in refThe motion was agreed to.
erence to the admission of Newlotrndland
The Senate adjourned until to-morrow%at into the confederation. I would ask my
hion. friend if he bas brought that matter
three ocok
Hon. Mr. EDWABDS.

MAY 6, ]909

435

under the notice of the minister, and tion to what I believe is an inconsistency
whether hie is willing to comply with the which was flot contemplated when the rules
request of the Senate to -have that cor- were passed, and I think the interpretation
placed by the House of Commons on the
respondence brought downP
rules relating to Bils originating in the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-No. Senate is rather strained.
I have not received any communication as
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-We have no control
Io that yet.
Gver the rules of the Huse of Cnmmnins.
PENALTIES FOR INFRACTION 0F
They have mnade rules imposing- penalties
RULES.
for petitions and Bils presented after the
time fixed by their rules. We have no such
Hon. '-%r. COSTIGAN-I wish to direct
penalties here. They have also penalties
the -attention of this Chamber, and of the
which. apply to the suspension of any rule
government, to what I think is an inconrelating to a private Bill. We have no
sistency between the ruIes of this Chamber
such penalties here. We give our legisiaand the rules of the House of Commons
tion here at cost. There is no complaint
re]ating to private Bill legislation.
To
to be made, as far as this House is conquote one instance: I had charge of a
cerned, and that is ail that cati be said of
Bill which was regularly introduced in the
it.
Senate. The three petitions required were
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-In view of the action
ahl presented. One to this Chamber, one
to His Excellency and one to the bouse of of the other bouse, %vouldit not be advisComnions. Every rule and regulation of able to retaliate. If they are going to imthe Senate wss complied ivith. The Bll pose a penalty on our Bis, why should
passed the Senate, and was sent to the we not impose a penalty on their Bis?
House of -Commons, where a further deHon. Mr. YOUNG-Who would pay the
mand has been made for a penalty of $200, penalty?
because the petition preceding this Bill
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that free trade
had been presented in the House of Comnions some few days after their mule re- or protection?
quires petitions shahl be presented. I cani Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Retaliation.
well understand why the bouse of ComHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
nions cani make regulations to satisfy itself
should say that is revenue.
.with regard to legisiation originating in
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middlesex)-Would it
.hat Chamber; but front wvhat I cati learn
front hion. gentlemen of sorne experience flot be better to make inquiry and see if
in both Houses, it is a very extremne inter- this is an anomaly? Our Standing Orders
pretation to say that a Bihl regularly in- Committee are very careful to see that due
troduced in the Senate and sent to the notice is given of ail private Bills. If they
Commons for concurrence shouhd cause are satisfied that the notice bas been given
such a penalty to be imposed, because the that clears the way so far as the preliminpetition was not presented there in time. ary consideration is concerned. A person
That is inconsistent, and it discourages introducingc a Bill here may be delayed in
;egislation here. and I have reason to be- getting its early stages taken, and to have
lieye that is the object of it. A good many our Bis penalized in the House of ComNo such penalty
of the older members of this body have mions seems absurd.
taken the -round that the public. and our- shouid be imposed. A person introduces a
selves, would be better satîsfied if more Bill regularly here; it goes to the bouse
private legislation were introduced in the of Commons, because it is another branch
Senate, and recently more Bis have been of our legaisîsture. The regularity of the
introdiuced here than formerly. We would proceedings in one Chamber should not be
ail be glad to see a larger number of the challenged when a Bill goes to the other
Bills introduced in this branch of parlia- branch. It would be in order that somte
ment, because it wvould expedite the 'busi- tinderstanding shou]d be cornte to with the
ness of the country. I simply draw atten- House of Commons in regard to the matter.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The House et
Gommons have nothing ta do with our
iules. They state, for instance, that if nc
petition is presented in their branch a
penalty of $200 shall be imposed on the
delinquent.' Half a dozen Bis this session
were introduced here by petition. When
they reached the other House no petition
had been presented; there had been no deiay and no negligence. Some of the petitioners did not know that the petition
should go to the three branches.
They
are under a penalty of $200 in the flouse
of Gommons, but that hardly concerns us.
It is for the petitioners to acquaint themselves with the rules oi -bath branches of
parliament.
Hon. Mr. COSTIGAN-I can understand
the point taken by the hon. gentleman, but
the petition was presentel in the flouse of
Gommons.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It was presented too
late.
Hon. Mr. GOSTIGAN-Two or three days
too late, and, therefore, the penalty is imposed. My successor in the House of Coinmonts, Mr. Michado, presented a petition.
The petition is there, endorsed. It iÉ a
hardship that the penalty should be imposed upon that Bill originatîng in this
Chamber complying with ail the rules.

Senate, every interest having ibeen heard
in regard ta it, it passed through this
House without a dissenting voice.
It
reaehied the flouse of Gommons and there
was some excuse for delay last year, that
it was then too hate in the session.
This
yeà.r it was again introduced at the earliest
possible date that it could be introduced,
and it passed the Senate without any delay, unanimoushy. It was sent ta the flouse
ai Gommons eanly in the session, and although it has passed the Senate on two
different occasions without a dissenting
voice, it cannot be reached in the House
ai Gommons. There should be some way
by which a Bih, which is greatly in the
public interest, should be reached in the
House of G-ommons. Take the case presented by the Hon. Mr. ÀCostîgan. There
was a Bill introduced in the Senate and
passed in the Senate, and the parties promoting it are fined $200 when it cames ta
the Gommons. 1 think we should encourage the introduction of private Bill legislation in the Senate in the early part ai
the session when the flouse ai Gommons is
discussing matters that more particularhy
affect that branch of parliament.
The
senators could go ta work with this private
legislation, and put it in such condition
that when it gets ta the flouse ai Gommens there will be very little discussion
aver it. There ought ta be some means by
-which Bis that pass the Senate shalh
receive more consideration in the flouse
ai Gommons.

Hon. Mr. POWEll-I think it is rather
ta be regretted that the Senate does not
follow the example of the House of Gommons and eniorce its rules. That is ail MANITOBA NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY
they have done in this case.
COMPANY BILL.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-I think this is
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I desire ta cali the ata case of hardshîp.
tention of the flouse ta the f act that an
errer has crept into the amendinent ta Bihl
DELAY 0F BILLS IN THE HOUSE 0F (No. 81)
that was passed hy the flouse on
GOMMONS.
Thursday last, an Act respecting- the ManiHon. Mr. GAMPBELL-I think we have toba Northwestern Railway Company of
another matter that ought ta be investi- Canada. 1 gave notice ai an amendinent
gated. It doas not seem ta me that Bills ta section 9 of chapter 52 of the statutes
originating in the Senate and passed by of 1893. A motion was drafted by an hon.
the Senate receive that consideration in gentleman in this flouse ta amend that
t.he House af Gommons 'which they shou]d. clause, and I find, on looking aver the pro1 refer particularly ta the Bill re Water ceedings ai the flouse on that day, that
Carriage of Goods. That was a Bill intro- the figure 8 has crept in instead ai the
duced in the Senate hast year, and after figure 9, and that it now reads that ive
a most exhaustive investigation in the Coin. amend section 8 af chapter 52 nf 1893. 1
mittee on Bankîng and Commerce in the do flot know what means we can take to
Hon. Mfr. ROSS (MNfddlesex).

MAY 6, 1909
correct that. I understand that the Bill
has gene te the House cf Commons, but
any person whu looks at the Bull can see
that it weuld have no sense at aIl the way
in which it appears, because the Bill dees
not refer te section 8.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Did the amendment centain the errer?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The amendment contained the errer. It is an errer in the letter, and any persen will observe that it is
an errer, because the Bill says:
The Manitoba' Northwestern Railway Ceompany may commence the construction cf the
railway authorized by chapter 9 ef 52 cf
1893.
I have the Act here, and section 8 of the
Act applies te reads that have already been
built.
Hon. '-%r. DANDURZAND-The
left t.his Chamber.

Bill has

The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman will
see that his observations are entirely eut
of erder. There is nothing before the Senate. We have passed the Bill in a certain
form, and it is either effective or ineffective. It either applies te the Bill or dees
net apply, whatever it may be. We cannot
here consider the matter without a formai
motion.

437

passed here, in place of the figure 9, by
errer the figure 8 was inserted. It was
a clerical error and I think it, can be remedied in the House of -ÇConmons. I do not
think the House of Gommons weuld take it
upon themselves to remedy the error, however, if there is net some kind of expression given here se that they can see that
it was really a clerical error. It is flot
an amendment. It is merely a correction.
They will correct it in the other House if
they find that attention has been called to
it in this Chamber, and that no one bas
protested against it.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I desire te say that
on the spur of the moment I prepared the
motion for the hion, gentleman, because the
motion as it was put was not in order, and
it was only te-day that I heard that a mistake had been made in reference to secI do
tion 8 instead of section 9.
net know whether it was my mistake or the mistake cf -_the hon. gentleman; at any rate it is clearly a clerical
error and there are two courses open
te the hion. gentleman, either to have the
correction made in the House of Comnmens, which is the easiest way, or te
meiie for a message recalling the Bill in
order that the correction may be made by
this honeurable House.

YUKON ORDINANCES.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I merely called attention te the fact that an errer had been made
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I refer my
in the Bill.
right hon. friend te the ordinances cf the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think that it Yukon Territories which have been laid on
should be submitted as a matter cf privi- the table for the approval cf both branches
of parliament. I observe that the ordinlege.
ance referring te the imposition cf a tax
. The SPEAKER-The amendment was
upen aie, porter, beer or lager beer imperte<l
carried as moved.
into the Yuikon territory, is 'based upon a
in
Hon. Mir. DANDURAND-It can be resolution passed by the Commissiener
setthe ether House, but net here. Counicil of the Yukon territory 'without
amended in
Conting forth the resolution at length.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think, the object sequently, the ordinance embodied in the
of the lion. gentleman in calling attention document which I hold here, affords very
It
te it, is te obtain an expression of opin- little information upen the subject.
would seem te be an ordinance impesing a
ion, so that they may avail themselves
cf it in the other House. If we look at his tax of fifty cents per gallen upon ail foreign
motion on page 515 cf our Minutes we find ale, porter, beer, &c., that may be imthat hie gave the notice cf motion in the ported inte the territory. Is this tax in
regular way, and that it should be subsec- lieu cf ail excise duty, or is it a tax in adtien 1 of section 9. but when the Bill was dition?

SENATE
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT - I
will obtain the information for my hion.
friend on that point.

BILL INTRODUCED.

Bill (No. 128) An Act to authorize a boan
to the Grand Trunk Pacifie. Railvay ConiHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-And would the pany.-<Sir Richard Cartwright).
hon. gentleman, at the same time, obtain
THIRD READING.
information as to what the provisions are of
Bill (No. 87) An Act to incorporate the
the ordinance, which practically has been
Arnprior and Pontiac Railway Company.repealed?
(Hon. Mr. Watson).
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Yes.
CABANO RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
TRD READING.
Bill1 (CCC) An Act for the relief of Laura
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-(In the absence o:
McQuoid.-(Hon. Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
Hon. Mr. McSweeney) moved the third
AN IRREGULARITY IN PROCEDURE. reading of Bill (No. 122) An Act to incorporate the Cabano Railway Company.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I should like
to draw the attention of the hion. member
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-As this Bill colnfroin Stadacona, as m-ell as his honour the cerns a road which is entirely in one prov~Speaker, to a notice of motion which ince, I may be allowed to enter my protest
has just been given, which, I think, is and ask that the third reading be dcclared
somewhat irregular. The hon. gentleman carried on a division.
from Stadacona prefaces his question by
Hon. Mr. DAVID-It is the onlv tingi
citing a whole newspaper article. I think
the samne posihie will find that that is against our pro- we caii do now. I take
limit himself tion.
cedure, and that hie should
to mentioning the facts required to justify
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
his question. Instead of doing- that, hie was read the third time and passed on a
cites a whole column of a newspaper art- division.
icle.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-In what way is At
Bill (DDD) An Act for the relief of Fleetirregular? It is calling attention to certain
article quoted.
wood Howard Ward.-(Hon. Mr. Owens).
facts mentioned in the
Bill (EEE) An Act for the relief of Aaron
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.-The hon. gen- William Morley
'-\r.
Campbell.-(Hon.
tleman should extract froin the article the Watson).
facts hie wîshes to present to the House.
Bill (FFF) An Act for the relief of Johin
Christopher Cowan.-(Hon. Mr. Watson).
Hon. Mýr. LANDRY-That is just what
I have done. I took just what was per- FIDELITY LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
tinent to the question. If the bon. gentle0F CANADA BILL.
man will look at it, hie will find his naine
SECOND READING.
was omitted.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. genHon. Mr. JAFFRAY moved the second
tleman canniot substantiate a charge by reading of Bill (AAA) An Act respectincg
citing a newspaper article. He must put the Fidelity Life Insurance Company
his question based on his own knowledge Canada.
of the facts, and put the question whieh
Hon. Mr. POWER-There should be some
will elicit an answer.
explanation of this Bill. It is a very short
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That is what 1 have one, consisting of one clause, whichi is as
follows:
clone.
draw the atHon. Mr. DANDURAND-I
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of se-c
tention of his honour the Speaker to thle tion 69 of the Insurance Act. the tinie lnited thereby for obtaining a license froi the2
fori of the question.
Mr. LOUJGHEEED.
Hlon.

MAY 6. 1909

439

Minister of Finance authorizing the Fidelity 2 of the Bill the government are empowered
Life Insurance Comnpany of Canada Vo carry tco appoint a registrar for the Exehequer
on the. business of if e insurance, is hereby Court, and then, under clause 4, the status
extended for one year f ran the 27th day of
of the present registrar is deait with.
Âpril, 1909.
Inasmuch as the gentlemen who pro.
Han. 'Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
posed Vo organize this company are pre- is flot the intention to appoint two regissumnably well to do men, there should be trars, and if my hion. friend, on f ull consome explanation given why they failed sideration, thinks that words should be
to pay their license fee within the time added to say that the registrar must bt,
limaited. We have a good many lufe insur- one man and noV two men, we can put
ance companies already.
them in.
Hon. Mr. JAFFRAY-If the Bill goes Vo Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In view of the
the committee to-morraw, the parties wll explanation, clause 2 would -be unnecesbe there to explain.
sary; clause 4 would carry out the objeet
The motion was agrTeed Vo, and the Bill in view.
wvas read the second time.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Iii
committee we can investizate that.
EXCHEQUER COURT ACT AMENDMENT
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I wvas under the~
BILL.
impression that it wvas intended Vo, appoint
SECOND READING.
another registrar, and was about ta ask
CARTWRIGHT the hon. mînister what was to be done with
Hýon. Sir RICHARD
moved the second reading of Bill (No. 98) the present reg-istrar.
An Act to amend the Exchequer Court Act.'
Hon. *Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHe said: This Bill is intended Vo bring the Oiîe is enough. The. abject is to give him
registrar of the Exchequer Court under the the right of an annual increase.
classification and jurisdiction of the Civil
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have no objecService Act. By chapter 15 of the Dominion
Acts, 1907, amending the Exchequer Court tion. Mr. Audette is a valuable officer a-id
Act, the salary of the present registrar of deserves it.
the court is fixed at $3,000. This being a
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is this to correct
special enactment is not affected by the
the Civil Service Act?
Civil Service Act of 1908. It was thought,
however. that the registrar of the court
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
was entitled Vo rank in subdivision A of was intended that these Exehequer Court
the first division as a principal technical officers should be covcrpdl bv thle Act, but
administrative or executîve officer, and he the Department of Justice, an examining it,
has been s0 elassified by the Governor in think they are not, and thiis Bill is requiro.]
Council. The salary attached Vo that class ta amend it.
is from $2,800 to $4,000, by $100 annual
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-MV lion. friend
increments. The only object af the present
find that chapter 15 of the statutes of
Bill is ta give Mr. Audette the advantage will
1907 has been reproduced, and that clause
of this classification and ta authorize the
4 has been introduced to bring- the present
increase of bis salary by $100 steps Va
reffistrar under the Act.
The only abject of this Bill is ta
$4,000.
be placed in class A
allow Mr. Audette Vo
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That makes al
and geV the advantage of the increment the difference in the world.
which is given and which will ultimately
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-We
bring his salary in eight or nine years, if
can look into that when wve get into comta $4,000.
hie lives long enough,
mit tee.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-One, upon readHon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The leader of the
ing this Bill, wvould conclude that two perHouse says that many of us know Mr.
sans are t-o act as registrar. Under clause

SENATE

Audette. I have known him for some time.
The position that Mr. Audette occupies in
the Exchequer Court is certainly equal ti
that of any deputy minister in the service.
Hon. Mr. LKNDRY-Nobody objects tr)
the Bill.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Certainly the services he 'renders in the Exchequer Court
are equal to those rendered by any deputy
minister. I see by the Civil Service Act
that some of the deputy ministers get five
and some six thousand dollars a year. Mr.
Audette should rank like a deputy minister.
H& lias been entrusted with most difficul!
and arduous work. In one case alone, that
of the South Shore Railway, Mr. Audett-,
was engaged for months and months on the
He
work and received no remuneration.
worked very nearly two years in Montreal
doing this extra work, which any other
lawyer wotild have charged a very large
iee for, and hie got absolutely not a cent
of increase or extra. Mr. Audette should
be placed in the sanie position as a deputy
Any
head under the Civil Service Act.
number of cases are referred to hlm, more
especially French cases in the Publie
Works, Mr. Audette being proficient in both
languages. The judges of that court have
not been proficient in French for some
years; consequently when the evîdence is
taken in French, Mr. Audette bas, to a
large extent, to appreciate what is taken.
If Mr.
It is not merely translating it.
Audette cannot be made a supplementary
judge o! that court, hie should at least be
paid as much as a deputy minister, and 1
would cheeriully vote for such an increase.

Lanaudière, one struck me as remarkable.
The hon, gentleman referred to it as being
a most serious penalty imposed on this
gentleman that hie had b een obliged at one
time tu live for two years in Montreal.
Instead of regarding that as a penalty, 1
considýer it a great privilege; if the hion.
gntleman had gone to say that during
those two years Mr. Audette's salary had
been suspended I could have understood it.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It is only fair oit
this occasion that I should give my testimony on behaîf of an employee who ha-,
been for a great many years rendering in)portant services, and whose salary is not
coinmensurate with the value of the work
hie bas been doing. I quite agree, from an
intimate knowledge I have o! the work, donhy Mr. Audette, in saying that his salary
should have 'been placed at a hig-her figure
than the one mentioned.

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I wish to add a
word to what lias been said by the hion.
gentleman who bas spoken. 1 have had experience wîth the work of the Exchequer
Court for nearly a quarter o! a century,
during ail -which time the present registrar has been charged with the duties he
now performns. I have neyer heard from
any one having business with the Excli-queýr Court anything but the highest possible praise for the efficiency, the diligence and the courtesy with whicli the occupant of that office bas discharg-ed lis
duties during all that time. 1 have felt
for many years very etrongly that his services were not being properly remunerated,
and I am very glad hion. gentlemen in this
House have taken this opportunity to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would point
the matter to the attention of the
out, from the statements the hon. gentle- bring
governrnent, and if the -word of one who
man bas miade, that the g-overnment 1';
bas had a great deal to do with that court,
very seriously at fault.
who has -watched the work of the regcistrar
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I think so.
almost daily during that time, will count
for anything, I arn very desirous that the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There seems to government should take those words into
have been a serious oversi.-ht in valuing consideration. Mr. Audette is undoubtedly
the services of Mr. Audette, and I would entitled to a very much larger salary than
suggest to my hion. frîend, as one having hie is receiving for his services and the
large influence with the government, that manner in which he performs them.
hie should use that influence in behaîf of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-'s
Mr. Audette.
that not the object of this Bll?
Hon. Mr. POWER-Among the arguments
adduced by the hion. member from &e Hon. Mr. LANDRY-LYes.
non. Mr. CASGRAIN.

MAY 6, 1909

441

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
it a case of 'Oliver Twist'. We are giving
i great deal, but rny hon, friend suggests
that we should give more. Borne of my
hon. frienda rnight say that perhaps being
a gentleman of the legal profession it is always in order to give him more. I might
rernark to the hon, gentleman frorn Ottawa,
that he puts Mr. Audette on an equality, if
I arn not mistaken, with the registrar of
the Supreme Court.

the hon. gentleman persista I wi] I fot preas;
it; but the time is getting a littie short,
and as the discussion will necessarily take
place in cornmittee, perhaps he will allow
the second reading to- go, and before it la
taken up in comrnittee the Frf-nch copy
will be in his hands.

by the publicity that is given to his qualities by my hon. friend; but I suppose the
government
cannot resist that recommendation corning frorn the sarne side of
the House.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I suggest
that before we go into committee, my hon.
friend should make sorne inquiry into section 4. I observe that provision is made
for the appointment of an agent of a foreign
company in Canada, and with that agent
the governrnent will deal. It also makea
provision that ini lieu o! an agent a corporation can be appoînted. I arn at a lass
to understand how the penalties that are
provided for any contravention of the Act
can be enforced successfully agaiTiet a corporation? I would suggest that that provision in section 4, line 23, should be arnended
and the words * or a corporation' be
stricken out. My hon. friend will probably
appreciate the difflculty of enforcing a
penalty by imprisonment against a corporation.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I will certaiuly yield
to the demand o! rny hon. friend.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will the hon.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Oh, no.
The regis- gentleman be good enough to explain wheretrar of the Supreme Court receives $5,000 in this Bill differs substantially from the
Act which we propose to repeal, namely,
salary.
chapter 132 o! the Bevised Statutes?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThen it mnust have been raised very relion. Six RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
cently.
imposes considerably heavier penalties, and
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I hope the govern- extenda the scope of the Act in varionsi
ways. They require more particulars as to
ment wiil take into due consideration al
the encorniums that have been expressed the various fertilizers and they deal with
'with regard to that gentleman and the a special system o! registration in connecdlaimas he has to an increase of salary. I tion wvith it, I arn inforrned. The Act iis
arn not a lawyer. I do not practice at the somewhat cornplicated, as he will note, and
Suprerne Court nor the Exchequer Court. I I can scarcely give any intelligible explanahave nothing to do with the legal attain- tion of it except ini dealing with each parments o! this gentleman.
What I know la ticular clause.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGT-This
House cannot dea] with rnoney matters.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It could deal with
money matters, and we could accept or refuse it, but we would be glad to accept it
in this case.
The motion was agreed to, and -the Bill
was read a second tirne.
AGRICULTURAL FERTILIZERS
SECOND READING.

BILL.

CARTWRIGHT
Hon. Sir RICHIARD
moved the second reading o! Bill (No. 110)
An Act respecting Agricultural Fertilizers.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYes, they have no body Vo be kicked or
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Will the hon. gentle- sou] to be darnned, according to the proman postpone the second reading of this verb. It ia very desirable they should be
brought within the purview o! the Act.
Bill until we receive a French copy?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I see no reason
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe objection is perfectly well taken, and if why it should flot be equally effective to

SENATE

have a foreign company appoint a person
in Canada. That person can be the representative of their corporation, if necessary.
Certainly the government could not deal
with a corporation, but as with an in
dividual.

tioned -with reference to section 4 of the preceding Bill applies equally to this Bull.
CARTWRIGHTHon. Sir RICHARD
Yes, and I propose to cali the attentiona
of my colleague to it.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Could
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
will call the attention of the 'Minister of there flot be some change in the name
Inland Revenue, from whom I received the ~Commercial Feeding Stuffs.
Bill, to the point raised by the hon. ýgentleHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
man, and we will have the discussion, I
suppose, when we have the Bill printed in arn not responsible for the grammar oi the
House of Commons any longer. This is
French.
as I g-ot it from the House of Gommions,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I hope we will have and if my hon. friend thinks that we can
the discussion in French also.
improve upon it, and will suggest what
words he would propose to substitute, we
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
can consider them.
arn afraid that if I. attempted to conduct it
in French sometbîng may be said of me, as
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I must
was said of a certain gentleman in another confe.ss that while we may understand them,
place who attempted to conduct prayers it strikes one as being an extraordinary
in Freneh, which was to the eff ect that the titie, «'Respecting Commercial
Feeding
Almighty might understand him, but no. Stuffs.'
body else could.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This repeals the is a peculiar kind of title.
entire Act, and probably it consolidates, or
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There wilI be
perhaps introduces some ne-% provision;
however, we can go into it in committee I no difficulty over the titie, because subsection (b) of section 2 of the definitions desuppose.
scribes accurately the kind of -stuffs the Bill
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- covers. Commercial feeding atufi s is quoted
Yes, we can discuss it better in commit- in every commercial newspaper
in our
tee.
language, I suppose; bran and such things
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill as that are quoted under that heading. It
ia a term. perfeetly wel] known in comwas read a second tîme.
mercial circles, but in order to get over
COMMERCIAL FEEDING STUFFS BILL. the difficulty, my hon. friend from Belleville bas pointed out, subsection (b) of secSECOND READING.
tion 2 defines exactly what it means and
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT therefore it makes the name feeding stuffs
moved the second reading of Bill (No. 127) a very convenient one. It is flot desirable
An Act respecting Commercial Feeding that the name of the Bill should be any
longuer than necessary.
Stuifs.
He said: This is much in the same relaHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
tion as the one we have just passed, and it
not know that that meets the objection
also is not printed in French. I will rewhat
quest the hon. gentleman from Stadacona which I raised, although it explains
it means, and would meet the difficulty
to extend the same courtesy to this Bill
that miglit arise as to what feeding stuffs
as he did to the previous one.
were; but I think it is a most inelegcant exHon. Mr. LANDRY-Certainly.
pression.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would point
out that the same difficulty whichi I men was read a second time.
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MAY 6, 1909

443

443
MAY 6, 1909
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the speed is iiiCANADA SHIPPING ACT AMENDMENT
creased, the number of voyages may bé
BILL.
diminished.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTSir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
Hon.
Yes.
moved the second reading of Bill (No. 131)
An Act to amend the Canada Shipping
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would point out
Act.
that under the existing Act no provision
He said: The whole object of this Bill is is made as to speed any more than in this
to put in certain words which appear to Act.
have been accidently omitted from the
Hon. Mr. CARTWRIGHT-That is truc.
French version of the Canada Shipping Act.
in one sense, but the hon. gentleman wil
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
The
see that a certain standard is fixed.
was read a second time.
standard per voyage wouid amount, if I
STEAMSHIP SUBSIDIES ACT AMEND- recollect aright, to about $5,000 per voyage
as at present.
MENT BILL.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It makes proviSECOND READING.
sion for eighteen voyages at $200,000 under
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT the existing Act.
moved the second reading of Bill (No. 146)
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTAn Act to amend the Act relating to Ocean
Not exactly. It is eighteen voyages at a
Steamship Subsidies.
He said: This Bill does not propose to standard, I think, of $100,000.
make any alteration or additions to the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, I will read
subsidy granted to the French line, but it to my hon. friend what it is.
does propose to diminish by two or three
exAnd
the numnber of voyages at present required, ceeding may grant therefor a a subsidy not serminimum
$200,000 based upon
and for this reason, that under the present vice of eighteen round voyages, and a subsidy
stipulations a certain number of voyages therefor net exceeding $100,000, and so in proportion for a more frequent service.
were to be performed at an average speed
As I read the Act, it can be increased by
or
of ten knots an hour. It gives power,
xviii -ive power under the contract we are $100,00.
making with the Messrs. AMlan, to give
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT them a slightly increased subsidy per voy- Yes, but we would require to have 36 voyage if they give a service of twelve knots. ages. They could not get $200,000 unless
That is the whole object of the Bill.
they performed 36 voyages. The standard
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Act which previously was 18 for $100,000 and now it
my hon. frîend proposes to repeal makes is 15 for $100,000? Wle do flot give them
provision for the payment of $200,000 for any more money, but we take the power,
eighteen round voyages. While this is not if we require încreased speed, to have les
arbitrarily framed, I suppose it is not neces- voyages.
sary for the government to give $2O0,00C
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This Bill amends
for fifteen voyages, but that would be the the Act which aIso made provision in 1889
inference.
for the payment of subsidies for steamship
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-We service between British Columbia and the
xviii have to do it if we insist on an in. Australian colonies and New Zealand. Are
these subsidies stîhI in force?
creased speed.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is, thal
Some of them-New Zealand and Australi9
each voyage will cost more?
are.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. LOUGHEED - Has the Newv
Yes, provided the speed is increased. Thal
is the intention. It gives power to do that Zealand subsidy been withdrawn?

SENATE

Hon. Sir RICHARD
No.

CARTWRIGHT

-

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Or has the Australian?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT Neither of themn has been dispensed with.
Perhaps what my hon. friend may h4ve had
in mind is sorme discussion with reference
to the Mexican Subsidy on the Pacifie
Cost.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.

minister was an Act of the Australian government but flot one of the Canadian governznent. I 'was flot aware, or if I was I
have forgotten, that there was a separate
subsidy granted for the Australian and New
Zealand lines, for a uine running to New
South Wales snd also to New Zealand. I
understand the original subsidy was from
Canada to Australia, that is to Sydney, in
New South Wales. The questions arose
afterwards of increasing the subsidy providîng the steamers of the same uine would call
at New Zealand. Could my hon. friend tell
me whether there are two distinct Bills
grantîng two distinct subsidies?

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT At present I think they are in existence,
and I arn at the present moment in negoHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTtiation with Sir James Milîs and the owners
There are two -distinct subsidies at present,
of that particular line.
one to Australia of $180,000, the Australian
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED - The Union government contributing somethîng in proportion, although not as much, and anSteamship Company?
other to New Zealand which, speaking from
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT - recollection, is $50,000. If my hon. friend
I think that is the titie of it. At any rate, wants more detailed information I will get
it is the company presided over by Sir it for him.
James Mills. I may remark to my hon.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would point
friend, that possibly what has led to the
paragraph hie referred to, is that, like some out for the information of both my hon.
other people, the Union Company want friends that section 81 of the Act which we
more and they have been requesting an in- are proposing to amend, provides Vhat the
crease of their subsidy, which I am afraid Governor in Council may granit a subsidy
in the present state of finances, looking at flot exceeding £25,000 per annum to establish a steamiship service between British
the volume of trade, we can hardly give.
Columbia and the Australian colonies.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do flot know That was in 1889, and this Act we propose
whether a recent press report is correct or amending by the Bill now before us. We
not, -but it deait with the Aus tralian or New repeal the Act of 1907 and we practically
Zealand snbsidy, and the statement was amend this Act of 1889.
made that the subsidy had been withdrawn,
and that another steamship company was
Hon. 8ir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTabont establishing a line of vessels between This refers exclusively to the French subBritish Columbia and the Australian. col- sidy.
onies.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Act of 1889
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT deals with the varions subsidies between
As far as our subsidy is concerned, that British Columbia, China and Japan, the
We retain subsidies both Australian colonies, New Zealand and also
is not correct.
for Australia and New Zealand. My recol- France. Section 3 of the Act of 1889 made
lection is that there is a vote of $180.000 for provision for a subsidy to be paid for the
Australia, and $50,000 for New Zeal nd French service.
each governiment contribnting in proporHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTtion.
That is the only one affected by the Bill
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It before ns.
strikes me, if my recollection serves me
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
right, the point to which my hion. friend
from Calgary calîs the attention of the confirms my memory. The subsidy is for a
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MAY 6, 1909

steamship line to perform two services-not
twe Uines.i
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI think the hon. gentleman is right a te the
original arrangement. I arn speaking of
what remains no'w.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The Bill we have
before us cannot affect the New Zeaiand
or Australia service.
Hon. Sir RICHARD
No.

CARTWRIGHT-

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think I understand the change that is prepesed te be
macle ini the law, that it subsidizes 15 trips
instead of 18.
Hon.
Yes.

Sir RICHARD

CAPTWRIGHT-

44!

As a rule in any extradition proceedings it
is necessary or convenient; te take evidence
in Canada by way ef depesitiens te be used in
the fereign atate fromn which the fugitive is
te b. extradited. The Extradition Act dees
net, however, authorize this or provide any
means of compelling witnesses te attend and
testify for the purpose of such extradition.
He.retofore, as a ruie, depositiens have been
taken and the witnesses have attended vohuntarily, but it has been poiated out that there
are ne eempulsary pewers, and the abject cf
this amendaient is te suPply defects in the
present Act by prov'din first, that it shonhd
b. lawful ta take these e esitions in Canada
for use abraad, and, secondiy, that the magietrate or . di 'al autherity taking the depositien shoul have power ta compel the attendanc. ef witnesses.
Hon. Mr,. LOUGHEED-I think it is
rather regrettable that this power should
be given te justices o! the peace. I think
it shouhd be given te a higher class of
judicial officer. Those depositions wihl go
into a foreign country. They will, in al
probability, be prepared most irregularly;
onhy a smali percentage of justices of the
peace who act in this capacity are qualified
te take down evidence properly, and when
we corne te present such evidence bef ore
a foreign tribunal, it is very desirable, in
the .interest of judicial proceedings in Canada, that a higher class of judicial officers
should be charged 'with the preparatien of
this evidence.

Hon. Mr. POWER-There is one feature
which I think deserves attention. The Bill
provides that the Governor in Council niay
enter inte a contract or contracts for a
terni or ternis not exceeding ten years. It
occurs te me that as a matter of policyof course there may be reasons on the
other side-that it weuld be wiser net te
make a contract for a longer termi than five
years. Conditions may change very considerably within five years, and I do net
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-As
think it is desirable.
this ia a technical legal matter, I do net
Profess te be in a position te answer my
Hlon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT - hon. friend's objection, but is it net probI mnight remark, as a mattpr of fact, that I able that in ail cases the proceedings taken
have in the present instance agreed te before a justice of the -peace would be merenew that subsidy for one year only. What viewed by a higher court?
may be done subsequently wifl depend a
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The depositiens
good deal on the development of the trade.
would go from the justice of the peace to
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill the officers of the Crown here, andibe sent
was read a se-cond time.
te the foreign country. They would net be
sufiject te any review by a higher court.
EXTRADITION ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Nine cases eut
SECOND READING.
of ten emanate frem towns or cities where
Hon. Sir ]RICHARD CARTWRIGHT - there are magistrates who are in the habit
xnoved the second reading of Bill (No. 149) of taking those depositions. If my hon.
friend wilh look at the records, hie will
An Act te amend the Extradition Act.
He said: I wihl say te my hion. friend find that eigliteen eut of the hast twenty
with respect te this Bill that the resens extradition cases have originated in Towvhich induced the Department of Justice rente and Montreal. It la net a thing te
te bring it forward are contained in this boast of, but it is from those large centres
meme. which I will read and lay on that defaulters are likely te run away.
Generally these depositions are taken bethe tab]'A

SENATE
fore regularly constituted courts, and it
would flot be proper to deprive the public
at large of the right of going before a
justice of the peace. Heretofore, inasmuch
as cases perforce could flot be brought before a magistrate, it was difficuit to get
depositions, and there was no other way of
proceeding than by brînging in a lew depositions before getting- a warrant.
That
was, perhaps, a somewhat questionable
way; but if three or four witnesses were
needed, inasmuch as they could not be
hrought to the magistrate's presence, after
the warrant had heen issued, the practice
has prevailed of getting those witnesses to
fortify the complaint and get the warrant.
0f course this has nothing to do with the
point raised by the hon, gentleman, but
I do not think any harm can ensue from a
justice of the peace acting.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I ar n ot objecting to facilitating the getting of depositions.
In the interest of the Crown here. and of
the fugitive, it seems to me that a more
responsible officer should be charged 'with
this duty. Let me instance a case of where
it might be attempted to obtain fictitious
evidence for the purpose of bringing a
fugitive back to Canada. A justice of the
peace is approached; he knows nothing
about the taking of evidence or analysing
the statements of a witness, and there is
no security whatever. It reflects no credit
on this country to send out irregular depositions. Certainly no clasa of judical officers
less than that of a police magistrate should
be charged with the taking of such depositions.

hon. niember froiti Calgary, with which I
entirely agree, there may possibly be a further danger. Presumably the depositions
will be aIl drawn up by a lawyer. He goes
before a Justice of the Peace, who does not
know much of the rules of evidence, and
there is a strong desire, with strong public
opinion behind it, to get the fugitive extradited, and brought back and put on his
trial. May there flot possibly be another
danger in having loose affidavits of this
kind sent forward to support the extradition? A case might possibly arise in which
some of these depositions would be used in
the trial of the accused when he is brouglit
back. In case any of the witnesses making a
deposition should die, would the court admit
the deposition as evidence? There is danger
in allowing a deposition like that, taken
loosely, perhaps in a moment of excitement,
prepared ex-parte by a iawyer who wanted
to get the prisoner back and allowed to g-o
through loosely by a Justice of the Peace.
In the event of a trial, a situation might
arise under which that deposîtion could be
used and it might work great wrong.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I am disposed to take
the same view as the hon. member front
Calgary. With respect to the point made
by the hon. member from De Lorimier, I
would. cail his attention to the fact that in
Montreal and Toronto there are magistrates
of a special character, and that in almost
ail the cities and incorporated towns there
are stipendiary magistrates who are qualified to take depositions; but there would be
a strong objection to allowing an ordinary
Justice of the Peace to take these depositions, and, probably, if the right hon. genHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- tleman in charge of the Bill submits
I wi1l not put this Bill through committee the point raised by the leader of the oppountil Tuesday, and in the interim I shall sition to the Minister of Justice, that mincall the attention of the Minister of Justice ister will see the force of it.
to my hon. friend's remarks. 0f course it
is a purely tecbnical matter and I off er any
Hon. 'Mr. DANDURAND-I see the diffiopinion on it with the greatest reserve; culty in forcing parties to go to a higher
but, like most of us, I know that justices tribunal. It will be easy in towns and
of the peace administer justice by rule of cities, but cases arise at considerable disthumb. 1 will see that my hon. friend's tances from towns and cities where it
remarks are brought to the attention of would be most important to allow a Justice
the minister.
of the Peace to receive those depositions.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In addition to the
The motion wvas agreed to, and the Bill
argument addressed to the House by the xvas read a second time.
Hgon. Mr. DANDURAND.

MAY 6, 1909
NATIONAL TRANSCONTINENTAL
RAILWAY BILL.
SECOND READING.
lion. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT moved the second reading of Bill (No. 153)
An Act respecting the National Transcontinentai Railway. He said: This Bill has reference to a certain railway bridge about to
be constructed acroas the Red river. The
comàmissioners are desirous of entering into
an agreement with the cities of Winnipeg
and St. Boniface to construct a bridge
across the Red river wide enough to accommodate street cars and vehicular traffic
in addition to the railway. A committee of
the councils of these cities lately waited
on the government and pointed out that
while they had intended to construct a
traffic bridge at the point where the cornmissioners are about to build their railway
bridge, the commissioners were likely to
appropriate the entire site which the
cities had intended to use.
Thereupon
arose a discussion as to whether it
would not be in the public interest that
they should join forces and construct a
bridge similar to that across the Ottawa
here, available as a railway bridge and for
the passage of street cars and ordinary
vehicles.
This empowers the National
Transcontinental Commission to agree with
these corporations, if they can, to ereet a
bridge of that sort. Apparently it would
be in the public interest that they should
have that power, and it would probably save
more or less expense to the government.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I suppose there
will be a distribution of the cost between
the municipalities and the government.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTWe do flot propose to build bridges for the
convenience of St. Boniface and Winnipeg.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Should not the
Bill mention the proportion of cost to be
distributed?
Hon. Sir RICHARD' CARTWRIGHT That will have to be settled by agreement.
I do not think we could define it in a permissive Bill hike this.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There is nothing
in this, to prevent the commissioners froni

447

building the bridge at the expense of the
government.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
is flot the intention of the government to
provide for the convenience of these cities
at the public cost.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There is nothing
to prevent it.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the hon, gentleman will look at the end of the cause, he
wihl see tihat there is a proviso requiring
any agreement to be sanctioned 'by the Governor in Council.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But il this clause
of the Bill warranted the commissioners in
undertaking to defray the whole cost, that
would apply only to the plans and specifications.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
think my hon. friend may trust the Governor in Council to isee that fair-play is
done.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes, if they keep
the power to theniselves.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
YUKON ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD
CARTWRIGHT
moved the second reading of Bill (No. 156)
An Act to amend the Yukon Act. He said:
This is a Bill te enfranchise certain barristers, so te speak. The object of the Bihl
is to qualify barristers practising in the
Yukon for appointment to tihe benchi of
the Yukon Territorial Court.
I ami advised that, as the law now stands, ibarristers
of flot less than ten years' standing at
the bar of any province of Canada or the
Northwest Territories are cligible for appointment. This met the case while the
Yukon Territory %vasa part of the Northwest Territories. Since it has heen separated, it has become necessary to provide
in this way for the eligibility of barristers
who may be practising in the Yukon. The
amendment is made by adding at the end
of section 37 the words 'or of the Yukon
Territory.'

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is this in anticiHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT pation of some immediate judicial appoint- Not at a lower rate-putting them on the
ment in the Yukon Territory?
same footing as to the preferential rate.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Not
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - The
to my knowledge, but I caninot answer for
Act which we are now amending was for
the future.
the purpose of giving an advantage to the
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill sugar manufactured from the cane in the
British West Indies, and it was a conceswas read the second time.
sion made by the Canadian government at
CUSTOMS TARIFF ACT AMENDMENT that time o! which, we ail approved in the
interest of trade with the West Indies. The
BILL.
duty under this Bill is the same, but therie
SECOND READING.
is an increase of the quantity which reHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT finers can import into Canada over that
moved the second reading of Bill <No. 162 ) which they were entitled by the old Act
An Act to amend the Customs Tariff, 1907. to import. The Finance Minister adHe said: The objeet of this Bill is mainly vanced as a reason, when explaining thiis
to extend certain provisions which termin. Bill, making this concession, that the
ate by the efflux of time on the 31st of planters in the West Indies had entered
December of the present year.
It is into a combination by which the price ofi
to extend the privilege of importing a cane sugar was raised to such an extent that
certain proportion of beet root sugar to be the Canadian refiner could not profitably immanufactured in Canada by the beet root port it, and in order to punish the combiners
sugar manufactiirers. The extension is for in the West Indies, he increased the quantity
a termn of three years for the double of beet root sugar which the refluers could
quan'tity, and a term of t-wo years more for bring into the country. In éther words it
an equal quantity. It might be called the is a direct increase of protection to the
Beet Root Bugar Act in place of an amend- refiners of Canada, a principle that I was
ment of the Customs Tariff Act.
If any rather surprised to, find my right hon. friend
further explanation is required I suppose was prepared to adopt. Wheu I saw the
Bill in my hon. friend's name, I thoughit if
we can deal with it in committee.
a ghost of the Cartwright of some 14 years
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It deals with two ago should haunt the present gallant knighit,
conditions, does it not?
he would not sleep comfortably at night,
more particularly when advocating a prinHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT ciple which is to, give a greater protecA certain privilege is granted to refiners, tion to an industry
ini which. he had not
of importing foreign sugar under the preferthe slightest confidence some 13 or 14 years
ential to the extent of one-fifth part of the ago when the granting
of bounties and the
weight of the sugar refined from raw sugar
imposition of duties on sugar *ere based
if they see fit to do so, the contention being
on the principle o! protection.
that at present they are exposed to combinHon. Mr. FERGUSON-He
called it
ations on the part of the West India producers which have affected them deleteri- 'legalized robbery.'
ously. These are the entire provisions of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
the Bill.
no doub;t my hon. friend, who is a student
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The o! political ecouomy and watehes wvhat
explanation given by the right hon. gentle- takes place across the line, bas observed
man for granting this concession to the that cablegrams were sent across the ocean
sugar refineries of Canada is correct. Origa- immediately after that declaration had been
inally it was for the purpose of enabling made by the Finance Minister of Canada,
the refiners to import a certain class of denying in the most positive terms that
beet root sugar at a lower rate of taxation there was any combination among the
than was imposed upon the cane sugar.
growers of cane in the West Indies.' If
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MAY 6, 1909

that be correct-and it bas not been denied
since-there can be no justification foer adopting a policy which, while giving greater
protec'tion to the refiners of Canada, wi.
injure the growers of cane in a Britishi
colony to Which we have given certain concessions in aur tariff to help their industry.
Perhaps my right hon. iriend will be able
ta tell us whether there is any substantial
evidence of that combînation existing? It
may bce hat a smaller production, or au)
increase of wages bas caused the planters
to raise the price of t.heir cane sugar, or
there may he other commercial reasons
such as scarcity in the market ta cause the
increase, as there bas b.een in alrnost every
ather article of comme rce. I amn not find&
ing- fault with any resolution that the government may introduce, or any policy thev
rnay adopt which would give greater protection to the industries ai this country.
Fromn the hion. gentleman's standpoint, I
arn somewhat heterodox an these questions;
but I arn surprised that such ardent admirers of Cobden should be introducing a
measure ta give greater protection to an
industry that they had sa vehernently denounced in the past, at the same time doinginjury to a sister colony whose interests
were favourably considered at the time af
the introduction ai the principle involvekd
in these resalutions. The Finance Minister
at that tirne explained that the principle'
was adapted for the express purpose ai
aiding the West Indies witbout granting
direct assistance. I think my rigbt han.
friend will admit that the inierences I have
drawn fram the Bill are correct, sa that If
no cambination really exista, it is questionconcerned. I have sat in committees ai this
by the gavernment which wauld injure the
interests af the West Indies. I hope the
time is net far distant when the West Indian
colonies shahl iorma part af the Dominion.
The policy ai the government bas been, for
years past, to assist as far as possible, by'
the provisions ai aur tariff, ta relieve the
depression which existed in these islands.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Ai
regards the fact or otherwise ai the existence ai a combination in the West Indies.
the Minister ai Finance, who 'was recently in London, made very special in29
REVISD

quiries into the subject, and became convinced that there was a goad deal of foundatien for the complaints ai the sugar refiners, that they are being held up by
the West India producers. I have nat the
details '01 the evidence which came before
him. Much af it is, ai necessity, of a sort
which couhd not be reduced ta writing or
eubmitted; but that was ahis conviction
alter making examinatian, and it was on
that ground that he introduced this Bill.
As ta the general question of protection. il
my hon. iriend will compare the amount
ai protection granted ta the sugar refiners
under the tariff as it naw exists, modified
or nat, with the amount we found In existence when .we came into office in 1896,
I- think he 'wihl agree with me that the protection they now receive is much below
what they were receiving in 1896. That is
a matter which can be very easily verified
by reference.-ta the tariff ai that date. I
rnight also add tbis-and it is an important point-that the practical result in Canada, whase interests hie desired ta keep in
mind, as well as the interests ai the refiners and the West Indies producers, ai
the policy ai encouraging beet roat sugar
manufacture in Canada, appears ta have
been (I amn su advised by parties intimately
connected with the trade) a material reduetien ini the price ai sugar ta consumera
ail aver Canada. Thanks ta the enterprîse
and energy witb which Mr. Gordon and
athers have been canducting the beet root
enterprise o! late, there has been a reductian oi as much as twenty cents an the
hun-dred paunds at least ta the consumera.
a matter o! no slight significance when you
came ta remember that sugar is an article
ai prime necessity, an article which, I may
rernark, I would desire ta have seen free.
if it could have -been made free, ta every
inhabitant in Canada as it used ta be in
England. Since the war, I tbink, tihere is
The
stili a slight duty on sugar there.
practical result ai aur policy will be that the
Canadian consumer will get bis sugar materially cheaper than it was priar ta the
introduction ai those Acts. As ta the tact
ai the existence ai a combination, that must
rest an the information whicb. the Minister
ai Finance abtained on the subject. In
any case, my hon. iriend will note that
the refiner is only allowed ta import under
EDITION

SENATE
the preferential tariff one-fiftâh of the
simount of sugar that he produces, 'which
will not materialiy affect trade with the
West Indies, I should think. We have undoubtedly, of late, imported an enormaus
quantity of cane sugar from the West Indies,
more than we did before. 1 think our imports in that direction have run up ta five
or six million. I can easily obtain the facts
if my hon. friend wants them.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I quite
concur in that portion of my hon. friend's
remarks, as to the effect of subsidizing and
granting bounties for the growth of beet
root out of which sugar is manufactured
'
and I have to congratulate hlm on having
increased the protection accorded to the
production of that article over that which
was accorded to the manufacturers and producers by the late government. However,
we may discuss that more minutely when
we get into committee.
The motion wvas agreed to, and the Bill
was read a second time.
MANITOBA AND NORTH WESTERN
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-With the consent of
the House I will move:
That a message be sent to the House of
Commons requesting that the Cierk of the
Blouse be perrnitted to correct the clericai
error contained in Bill (81), such correction
to consist in the substitution of the figure 9
in the eighth line of the amendment aaopted
by this Bouse for the figure 8, as intended
by this Bouse.
The motion was agreed ta.
RAILWAY COMPANIES INCORPORATION BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS moved the second reading of Bill (QQ) An Act ta provide for the
incorporation of Railway Companies.
He said: In moving the second reading
of this Bill, I may say that it is rather late
in the session to introduce such an imaportant measure. 1?his Bill introduces a
new principie entireiy in granting railway
charters in this country, and at this late
date of the session 1 doubt if we shail bp'
able ta rgive the measure the amount of
consideration it should receive at the hands
Hon. Sir RIlCHLARD CARTWRIGR1T.

of this House. The first clause of the Bill
introduces the new principle, and if the
House would agree ta that principie, whiie
we might not ail agree on the different
clauses of the Bill as we proceed, it would
be a good thing ta adopt a system of granting railway charters other than by legislation of the two Houses. The remainder
of the Bill would be a matter of detail
which the combined wisdom of this House,
no doubt, would work out ta make a workable measure. I have given this subject
a good deal of thought and consideration,
but I have fia doubt at ail if the Bill were
submitted ta a committee of the House
many amendments would be made which
would make it more satisfactory. I do not
expect at this late stage of the session that
we can get a Bill of this kind through
parliaiment. I -think this is a progressive
step in the right direction. We have been
a littie behind some cauntries in regard
ta the granting of railway charters. We
have the aid system of introducing a
private Bui in the Senate or House of Gommons, and sending it ta a committee, and
I submit, atter twelve years' experience iu
both Houses, that a better systemn could
be found for the granting of charters than
the one we have at the present time.
I
contend that we do flot get the information
in the Railway Committee of this Bouse,
nor do they receive that information in
the Railway Committee in the other Bouse,
which wouid entitie the cammittee ta deai
intelligently with the Bui, as far as the
granting of stock and bonding pawers are
concerned. I have sat in committees of this
House and seen gentlemen corne in with a
map, same times flot a very large map, and
ask for a charter covering between twa and
three thousand miles of railway, place the
map, with a black line running acrosa it
to represent the location against the wall
and you have ta take the word of the promater for the correctness of bis answers.
He would say: ' This is a charter ta go
from here ta here.' If you ask hini about
the topography of the country, or what it
will cost per mile to build the road, he
can give you no idea of it, except when the
bonding powers are pretty high, and he is
asking $40,0OO a mile, although we have
corne ta the conclusion that a prairie road
can be built for $13,000. The promoter will

MAY 6, 1909
then tell you that there are rocks and
things which we have no knowledge of,
and we have to accept lis statement. We
may change the phraseology of the different
Bis slightly in the committee room, but
that is all we do. There is a well known
principle laid down governing the granting of charters. We do not intend to give.
nor do we give to one railway company, or
one set of promo-ters more than we give to
another. They are ailowed te build a railway from one point to another. subject te
the provisions of the Railway Act. We
ailow
them certain
bonding powers,
although we have not a clear knowledge of what bonding powers -we should
give them. I do flot see why tihat should
flot be donc by the Secretary of State and
Board of Railway Commissioners without
coming to this House at ail. That was one
reason for this Bill. Another reason is that
it would have the effect of shutting out
what are generally known as charter
mongers.
Every session we hear about
charter mongers coming to parliainent to
obtain charters to build railways, and 1
may ýstate, in going over the returns with
reference *to those samne charter mongers.
I was surprised to see the number of charters of that character that we have granted
in the last ten years.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon. gentleman
knows how it is.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-It is pretty near time
we should put an end to that practice. This
private Bill legislation keeps parliainent in
session two or three weeks longer than ve
would be detained under ordinary circumstances, and I do flot see why this Hous6
or the other Chamber should be bothered
with private legisiation of that kind, when
it can be handled outside of parliamet
just as wefl. I suppose hon, gentlemen
have neyer given a thought to this phase
of the question: That very often a Bu]i
is brought betore the Senate and referred
to the Railway Committee, and we then
find that six or seven gentlemen of whoe
bona. fides or financial position nobod9
knows anything, have applied for power to
build a railroad for a distance of a hundred
to probâ.bly a thousand miles across the
country, and we grant them that power
and also powers of expropriation which

gives them the rigît te go through the
people's property, break -down. their fences
and destroy their grain an*dwe neyer inquire as te the bona fides of theee people.,
Perhaps the whole seven men whose namnes
appear as the promotere of the Bill, would,
not have money enough to buy a pint of
peas. yet we grant them these powers. This
Bill will put a step te that. I hld in my
hand the return o! the House o! Commonai
which was moved for by an lion. gentleman
this session. giving -the nuinher of that class
of charters granted since the year 1900, up
to date, and in this estimate the Grand
Trunk Bailway, the Canadian Northern
Railway and the Canadian Pacific Railway
are excluded. This refera to railways outside of these great lines. I have reduced it
to a digest. because the report is too long
te read or place in the debates.
1 find that in 1900 we granted eight charters, covering 2,670 miles of road. Out of
that amount of mileage, 84 miles have been
bult. We have granted 21 extensions of
time, and four of these charters have
lapsed.
In 1901 we granted Il churters, covering
2,977 miles of railway, and out of that mileage only 19 miles have been built. We have
given 13 extensions of time, and seven
charters h-ave lapsed. Only four o! them
have been kept alive, and in regard to two
o! them nothing was done.
In 1902 we granted 12 charters coveriiig
6,388 miles of roa!d and there was a mile
o! them built. We have granted 15 extensions o! time. And five of those charters
have lapsed.
They were getting bolder ail the time,
and in 1903 we granted 22 charters, for
8,415 miles-they *were getting a lot, and
they would soon be getting up te the moon.
There were 150 miles of that built, 21 extensions and six charters.
In 1904, 14 charters, 3,803 miles; 50 miles
built; 12 extensions and three lapses.
In 1905, 15 charters, 2,365 miles; 15 miles
have been built and we have granted 9 extensions.
In 1906 we granted 17 charters, covering
2,254 miles.
On one charter they built
one and one-fifth mile, and on another charter, the Quebec, Montreal and Southern,
they did a good deal of work; they bult 144
miles, and we have granted 6 ex-tensions.

SENATE
In 1907 we granted 13 charters, 5,440
miles; nothing built at ail, and we have
granted 2 extensions of time.
In 1908, last year, we granted 4 charters,
covering 3,550 miles, and nothing was bult
at ahl. Thle total mileage granted since
1900 vas 37,862 miles. We have grante-J
the right to charter mongers to build ahl
that mileage. 0f that amouat, 463 miles
have been built, but that has been bult
by 13 companies out of 116 companies which
we chartered; 421 miles of that were built
by 8 companies, and 42 miles of it were
built by 5 companies; 26 charters hapsed
and there were 86 extensions of time given
to 68 companies. That statement speaks
for itsehf.
When we take into consideration the
amount of work done in both Houses in the
last ten years, and the results that have
accrued, 1 think that we shaîl come te the
conclusion that we must put a stop to this
indîscriminate granting o! charters, and
only bons fide people who have somethingte show should be allowed to obtain a railway charter. The time of this Hbuse would
be better occupied in dealing with gret
public questions, which wol be more
beneficial to the people o! the country, than
sitting- every other day in the Railway Ceinmittee passing Bis for extensions o! time,
which could be obtained by the parties
through another channel without coming
here and troubhing us. The Bill is very
simple. It follows the United States system. In the United States, charters are
free as the air; but before parties can obtain
a charter they must show that they have
sonie money and some backing, and they
have Wo go before the Board of Railway
Commissioners with a proposition that they
will understand. They must have a plan
and profile of the road, and also the report
cf a skilful engineer showing what the
road is going to cost, the -character cf the
country, the character o! the excavation
and the amount of bridging that is to be
dons, and ail the information the board
may require in order to deal intelligently
with the question, and when it is submltted the board will say: ' It is geing to
cost se much money to build this road and
we will give you bonding powers to raise se
much money te build it. I have heard it
argued outside e! this Heuse that it dces net
Heu. MNr. DAVIS.

matter how many bonds you allow a railway
to issue on their road. I take issue with
that statement, because in the United
States-and I fancy that in this country it
is the same-the Railway Commissioners
of the different states take into account the
bond issue, the proceeds of whîch build a
road, in arranging ireight rates, se that the
people who invest their money shall ba
paid for what they have put into the road.
They do net take the stock into consideratien. Lots of stock are not worth five cents
on the dollar. I have known, as a matter
of fact, in this country where companies
issued bonds on a railway for $15,000 and
$20,000 a mile, and I do not believe that
the $20,000 vent into the road. There is
always a certain amount of leakage. Pethaps $13,000 will go into the construction
of the road and two or three thousands will
go inte the pockets of the promoters, and
perhaps some of it will filter out into the
pockets of other people for the purpose of
putting in a ioop or something o! that kind.
We know that that is a fact.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do net think the
hon. gentleman has a right to say that.
It is a reflection on the House.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-If my hion. friend
lived in Manitoba, or would take a trip
up there, hie could get some pointers.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the hion. gentleman confines his remarks Wo Manitoba, we
do not mind.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-After a road had been
built in Manitoba, and operated for a
great number of years, the Manitoba governznaýnt allowed the company to issue
$2,000 a mile of new bonds on that road,
and these bonds were sold, and from. my
knowledge of the country and the railway,
I do not think toc money ever went into
the road. If it did, I fail to sec it, and
I have trsvelled up and down it four or
five times a year ever since the bonds were
issued. 'f you alhow, for the sake of argument, say $ 15,000 a mile Wobe issued on a
railroad, the commissioners in dealing with
freig-ht rates have Wotake into consideration that they must a.llow enough ina
freigbt rates to pay înterest on the bonds,
and the people who psy those rates ar.e net

MAY 6, 1909
.only paying the interest on $ 13,000 a mile
of what it cost te build the road, but are
paying additional interest on $2,000 a mile
which has been diverted into somebody's
pocket and has not gone into the road at
ail. I should like to see this matter of
granting railway charters brought under
the Railway Comnmission, because we al
have confidence in that commission, and
if this duty were submitted to them, we
would have no troubie.

453

They have te file that with the registrars
of the different counties through which
the road runs and take the certificate to
the Secretary of State, and get a charter. I
have read the Minnesota Act and the Michigan Act and I find cthey are ail simple,
and have a simple way of granting cha*.ý
ters. This Bill of mine provides in the
first clause:
1. Âny number of persons, not fewer than
seven, of the. full age cf twenty-one years, who
desire to be incorporated for the purpose of
censtructing, maintaining and operating a
railway which is within the legisiative authority of the parliament of Canada, may, by
agreement in writing, form themselves intci
an association for those purposes. and, upon
complying with the provisions o! tuis Act,
may obtain letters-patent creating them and
their successors a corporation with ail the
powers and privileges, and subject to aIl the.
obligations and restrictions, contained in the,~
Raiiwav Act and in any other general Act relating te railways.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The hion, gentleman
states that railway charters are as free as
the air on the other side of the Une. Permit me to say that a fee bas to be deposited when the application is made, just
as they do under the Joint Stock Companies Act, and these fees would amount
te very much the saine as the fees charged
here. My hon. friend has net enlightenad
the House with regard to the amount of
The whole principle of the Bill is con 3
money thîs parliament bas received fromn
tained in that clause that any seven or
the fees for these charters.
more gentlemen up te the number cf 25,
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-When I alluded to the by signing- articles cf association and conf act that charters were as free as air on forming with the provisions cf the Railway
the other side of the line, what I meant Act, go to work and become a chartered
was that any body of men who could company. This is what they have te do :
show that they had something behind them
2. The agreement cf association shall conin order to start building a railroad, could tain the following particulars:
<a>
namne
get a charter; that there was no necessity which the proposed net b. of- the ofcorporation,
name shahl
that
any other
for having the renewals of charters, be- known company, incorporated or unincorporcause anybody could get a charter. I hava~ ated, or any namne likely to be mistaken therefor or otherwise, on grounids cf public policy
the Railway Act of Massachusetts here. or convenience, objectionable, and shahl end
If my hion. friend will read it, hie wili with the words ' Railway Company; '
(b> the.
of
find that any body of men from 7 to 25, way, and, terminal pointsmay the. proposed railas nearly as
be estimated, its
who have signed articles of association and length in miles;
(c> the. proposed route, with the. namne cf
subscribed for a certain amount, of stock, cach county, city, town, village. and municiwhich must be deposited ini a bank, can get p.'lity through, into or near which it is proposed ta build the railway;
a charter.
(d) the gauge o! the raîiway, which shahl be
four feet, eight inches and one-half of an inch;
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-But does it not state
(e) tiie amount of the capital stock o! the
i-hat amount of fees must be paid with the corporation, whicii shal nlot be less than tean
thousand dollars for each mile cf the estiap)plication?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The fees have te be
paid. I have provided for that in my Bill.
I have taken part of thia Bill fromn the
Massachusetts Act, and seime froni the Illinois Act, which is simpler again than the
Ail that promoters
Ia6>sachusetts Act.
hE ve te do there 'when they wish to build
a r8i]way, is to sign articles of agreement
setting forth the proposed namne of the corporation and where they intend te build.

mated length of the. railway, and shahl be
divided into shares of one 'hundred dollars

each,
(f) the number of shares cf capital stock

which each associate agrees te take; but the
total amount o! stock subscribed must bie ten
per cent of the whole issue, but an associate

shall net b. bound by sucii agreement to pay
more than ten per cent upon such shares

unless the corporation ie; duhy created;
(g) the place where the. head office of the.
corporation is to be;
(h) the, namnes, residences, occupations and
post office addresses of at least seven persons
to act as provisional directors. These must

SENATE

be subscribers to the agreement and a ma3ori(b) the propased gradients;
ty of them resident in Canada; they may ill
(c) ail existing railways and highways ta
vacancy occurring among their number;
any shall appoint a secretary and a treasurer be crossed and the made ai crassing in each
and
case;
wha shall hold office until their successore are
(d) ahl rivers and streains ta be crossed or
appointed by the corporation if created; the divertsd, specially distinguishîng such es are
samne persan may be appointed both secretary navigable waters, and giving in each case the
and treasurer;nature and estimated cast ai the proposed
,(i) the naine, residence, occupation and post bridge, tunnel, ferry or ather means, of crossoffice addresq of the secretary and oi the ing, or ai the proposed diversion;
treasurer ai the association.
(e) the kind and amount ai excavation, sin2. The agreemnent shall be signed with the bankinent, masonry and other sorts ai work;
full naine of and be sealed. by each associate,
(f) full information as ta the mianner oi conwho shall, oposite his signature, state his structing the proposed railway and the standresidence, occupation and post office address, a rd ta be adopted therefor bath as ta its conand the place and date of his signature. Each struction and equipinent;signature shall be duly witnessed by one wit(g) everything nece8sary to enabîs the board
ness, whass full namne, residence and occupa- ta determine whether the certificats provided
tion shall be stated.
for by this Act should be granted by the
3. Before proceedine ta examine or survey board.
the route oi the proposed railway the provi6 ' Within twelve months aiter the last pubanal directars shall cause notice of the lication af the notice ai agreement ai associaagreement of association ta be given as tion the pravisianal directors may apply ta
follaws:
the board for a certificate that the public in(1> By 'Publication of a copy of the agree- terest requires that a railway should be conment., at lsast once a week for six consecutive structed as proposed in the agreement ai aswesks,-sociation.
<a) in the 'Canada Gazette,' and
2. With such application there shaîl be sub(b) the official 'Gazette' of any province ini mitted ta the boardwhich the proposed railway or any part there(a) the original1 agreement ai association,
of is ta be constructed; and
(c) in et least one newspaper in each city, and as many copies thereof as the board may
tawn oir village through, into or near which require;
(b) proof.
the propased railway is ta be constructed, and require, that in such fori as the board ma.y
the preceding provisions of this
in which there is a newspaper published.
(2) By sending by registered letter a copy Act have been complied with;persons have in
(c) proof that responsible
of the agreement oi association ta the clerk good faith subscribed the amount ai capital
of each county or district cauncil, and of each stock required by this Act, and that at least
city, town, village or other municipal corpor- twenty-five per cent an the amaunt so subation, which may be 6pecialy affectsd by the scribed has, been actually paid ini cash ino
canstruction or operatian ai the proposed sains chartered bank in Canada to the credit
railway.
2. In the praviîices af Quebec and Manitoba' ai the association ta be used only for the
the
the notice shaîl be given in both the English purposes af that agreement ai association-, been
(d) proaf
the necessary notice has
and French languages.
published and given as required by this Act;
3. A statutory declaration by the secretary
(e) the plan, profile, report and estimate oi
of the association that any provision of this coat rsquired by this Act;
section has been duly complisd with shall be
(f) a statutary declaration, made by at
prima facie proof ai such campliance.
4. Aiter the notice required by section 3 of heast the majority of the provisional directors
this Act has been duly given, the directors and by the secretary ai the association, as ta
ai
requirsd by
may cause an examinatian and survey ai the the truththat ail isessentials faith intended this
it
in good
by
route of the praposed railway ta be made; Act and
and for that purpose they or their agents may the association ta locate, construct, maintain,
enter upon any lands along or adjacent ta equip and aperate the raihway on the proposed
route.
such route.
2. The board may order sucli further in2. In the exercise ai the powers granted by
this section as littîs damage as passible shahl formation or proof ai any alhsged fact ta be
afforded as in its discretian may be requisite.
be dans and full compensation shail be made
3. Âny information or proof required by
ta ahl persans interested far aIl damages by
this Act or by the board in pursuance ai this
the exercise ai such pawers.
5. The provisional. directars &hall cause to Act shall be given in such forin, and shail be
be made by a competent engineer, from verified in such way, by statutory declaration
actual examination and survey, a plan, pro- or otherwise, as the board may prescribe
file, report and estimate ai cast, on such sither by general regulation or by special
scales and containing such information and in aider.
7. If the board is satisfiedsuch detail, as may be requîred by regulathat the requirements ai this Act, and oi
tions in that behaîf ta be made by the Board
ai Railway Commissioners for Canada, or as ail regulations and orders made under this
may be required by,_special order ai theý Act by the board, have been complied with as
regards all matters prshiminary ta the making
board made when necessary.
2. The plan, profile, repart and estimate oi the application and as regards the applica6hall contain generally aIl nscessary informa- tion; andthat the amount mentioned in the next pretion as ta-(a> the character cf the country through csding section ai this Act has besn paid in
which the proposcd railway is ta pass and the good faith as required by that section, or that
such further amount bas been sa paid as in
feasibiltiy ai the proporied route;
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

MAY 6, 1909

the opinion cf the board is necessary to pay
ail damages, immediate or consequential.
caused by the laying out or building cf the
railway or by t he taking cf any lands or
material therefor; andthat sufficient security has been given, by
bond or otherwise, that the said amount shahl
net be withdrawn for any purposes other than
those of the agreement cf association; andthat the construction and operaten of the
proposed railway will b. in the public interest;
the board shahl issue a certificat. setting
forth that the provisions of this Act have
been complied with and recommending that
a corporation b. created under this Act
under such naine, with sucb powers, ana
subject to such provisions, as the board may,
in pursuance cf this Act, determine.
8. If the board is not so satisfied, it shaîl
refuse te issue sucli certificate, but the associates may within one year front such refusaI apply again for a certificat.
9. Before issuing the certificats the board
shahl determine ail such matters relating te
the following subjects as are net provided for
by The Railway Act(a) the persans to b. incorporated.
(b) the corporate naine to be given ta the
corporation..
(c) the provisional directors.
(d) the capital stock.
(e) the head office.
(f) the annual meeting cf the corporation.
(g) the route cf the proposed railway, as
to which the board may impose such conditions and restrictions as the board deemi
advisable in the interest cf the public or c.f
any municipality.
The route fixed by the beard may include
such lines,as branches or spurs within municipahities
May be necesary for carrying
on the corporations business; but no such
line, branch or spur shaîl b. located or censtructed without the consent cf the proper
municipal authority, who in giving such consent May impose such conditions and restrictions as ta the location, construction or
use thereof as are agreed upon between the
provisional directors, or the directors, and
the municipal authority; and the corporation shaîl be hiable to the municipality for
ahl damages or loss caused te the municipality
by such location, construction or use, or by
the negligence or default of the corporation,
its agents or workmen.
(h) the amount cf securities that may b.
issued shahl be fixed at a certain rate per
mile cf the railway, and such issue shaîl b.
authorized to b. made only in proportion
t., the length of railway constructed or
ufider contract ta be constructed, and on the
express condition that ali moneys realized
froni such issue shahl b. used for no other
purpose than the construction, equipment.
maintenance sud operation of the railway.
and that if by any court of competent jurisdiction it is found that this condition has
not been fulfilled, that court shahl order the
corporation te psy an amount equal to the
moneys so diverted froni their proper use,
which amount shaîl b. paid into the consolidated revenue fun& cf Canada.
(i) the other
railway companies with
which, if it se desires, the corporation may,

455

subject ta the provisions of sections 361,
362 and 363 of The Railway Act, enter into
agreements for any of the purposes specified
in section 361 of that Act.
10. When in the opinion of the board it
would b. for the public interest that the
powers hereinafter mentioned, or any of
thein, should be conferred upon the corporation, and that such powers are necessary
for the effectuai carrying on of the business
of the corporation as a common carrier, the
board may also determine whether and te
what extent any or ail of such powers should
b. conferred upon the corporation, that ie
to say, powers formainten<a> the acquisition; chartering
ance and operation cf eteam andother vessels in connection with the undertaking cf
the corporation; and the construction, acquisition and disposai of wharfs, docks,
elevators, warehouses and ail other structures and buildings necessary for such purposes.
(b) the construction, maintenance and operations cf structures and works for the
development cf power cf any kind, and fur
the conversion of power so obtained into any
other form of power, heat, iight or electi4 icity, and for the *utilization cf power,
heat, light or electricity obtained by such
deveiopment or conversion, in and for the
purposes cf the business cf the corporation.
(c) the operation of the telegraph and telephono linos cf the corporation for the transmission cf messages for the public; the collection cf toile for such transmissinsuet
to approvai cf such tolls by the bor, and te
revision thereof from time to time by the
board; and, for the purposes cf such operatien and transmission, the making cf contracts with any companies having telegraph
or telephone powers, and the connection cf
the linos cf the corporation with the lines of
such companies, or their lease te such companies;
(d) the issue by the corporation cf bonds.
debentures or other securities, charged upon
auy property cf the corporation other than
the railway.
i1. If the provisional dîrectors file with the
Secretary cf State the certificate issued by the
Board of Railway Commissioners for Canada.
and if the proper fees as set forth in the
schedule cf this Act have been paid,. the
Secretary of State shail forthwith 'cause te,
be issued under his seal cf office, letters
patent incorporating the association accordinz
ta the tenor cf the certificat.
12. The Railway Act and ahl amendments
thereof, except in so far as modified by this
Act, &hall apply te every corporation created
under this Act.
2. The expressions ' Speciai Act' and 'Act
authorizing the construction of the railway '.
wherever used in the Railway Act and ite
amendments, shall include letters patent issued under this Act.
13. No corporation created under this Act
shahl amalgamate with, or enter_ into any
agreement for making a commen fund or
pooling earnings or receipts with, or leasing
any part of its lins ta any other railway company owning a parallel cr competing lin.
Every such amalgamation or arrangement
shahl be nuil and void.

SENATE
2. The provisions af this section shal nlot
extend to arrangements made under section
364 of the Railway Act, as te interchange the
traffic, running righte and the other purposes
autharized by that section.
14. When any railway company is incorporated by an Act of the parliament of Canada.
or its undertaking is declared ta be a wark
for the general advantage of Canada, any extension ai the railway of such company not
heretofore authorized shall be subject to the
provisions af this Act with respect ta notice
and ta the submission Io the board of its plans,
profiles and reports as pravided in section 5
af this Act.
2. Upon the board being satisfied that al
the requirements ai this Act and the Railway
Act applicable thereto have been complied
with, the board may fix the amount of the
bonding pawers and the securities whieh the
company may issue on the said extension,
and may give sucli other powers provided for
by this Act as it deems necessary, and may
thereupon grant a certificate that public
neoessity demands the construction oi the
railway applied for, and that ail the provisions of this Act and oi the Railway Act and
ail regulations ai the board have been coinplied with.
3. The applicants. may thereupon file the
said certificate with the Secretary ai State,
who shall, upon the payment ai the proper
fees, grant a certificate under lis seal authorizing the construction ai the railway.
4. E cepting as in this section provided
nothing in this Âct shall apply ta any railway company incorporated before the psssing
ai this Act.

ta the Grand Trunk Pacifie.
A number
af papers were placed on the table af the
House of Commons relative ta 'that loan.
They have flot been supplied ta the Senate.
and as they afiard information whici 'will
assist «in the discussion of the Bill I would
suggesft to my right hon. friend that he
should furnish them to-morrow.
Han. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI shall ask ta have those papers placed in
the possession ai the Hause.
The motion w'as agreed. ta, and the Senl
ste adjourned-until to-rnorraw at three p. mn.

THE SENATE.
OTTAwA&, Friday, May 7, 1909.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clack.
Prayers and routine praceedings.
INTERCOLONIAL IRAILWAY COMMISSION.
INQUIRY.

Schedule.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE inquired:
Nate.-It is intended ta add the schedule oi
Is it the intention of the government ta
add to the commisson recently appointed
fees at a future stage ai the Bill.
for the administration of the Intercolonial
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- Railway a fifth member thereto speaking the
and representing the proThe subject is very important, and several French language through which the said railvince of Quebec
gentlemen 'wish ta speak upon it. I would way runs?
theref are suggcst ta the lion. gentleman that
The SPEAKER-This inquiry had better
it would be well ta move the adjaurnment stand till the right hion. minister is
present.
ai tthe debate.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-Perhaps, in the
Hon. Mr. DAVIS moved that the debate absence of the hon, leader, I might answer.
be adjaurned until Tuesday next.
I arn stxongly in favour of the motion, and
wvi1l take it into seriaus consideration.
I
The motion wvas agreed ta.
observe now that we have the French repre.
sentative af the government here. Perhaps
GRAND TRUNK PACIFIC LOAN.
he w'ill answer it himsel.
CARTWRIGHT
Hon. Sir RICHARD
maved the adjournment ai the House.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-If
t.he hion.
gentleman will take my answer instead of
the answer of the Minister of Trade and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would suggest
Commerce I will give it.
ta my right hon. friend that between now
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I arn quite 'willand Tuesday next, when the Grand Trunk
Pacific Bibi is ta be presenited for a second in-, that the hon, gentleman 'who is so near
reading, that the estimates which were laid the government-and I hope soon will be
an the table af the House ai Cammans be in the government-shou]d give me the
brought down, touching the additianal loan answer.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

'MAY 7, 1909

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I was informed
by the right hon. gentleman yesterday. when
the question came up, that the matter had
flot yet been considered by the government.
Hon. Mr."CHOQUETTE-When
expect an answer?

may we

the Governor in Counci], and, therefore, I
fancy the excise tax would -be dispensel1
with and would be replaced by a direct
duty.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT1Does my hon. friend want anything further?

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The lion. genHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Oh, ne; if my
tleman may renew his inquiry niext 'week. hon. friend has ne further information, 1
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETT-I will be away have no o.bjection.
next week.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
keep move that we concur in the order. It has
te be concurred in by the lower House as
well.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I 'will corne
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What je the motion?
back in case thec hon. gentleman does not
remember me.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-To
The motion was allowed to stand.
validate the ordinance of the council cf the
Yukon.
YUKON ORDINANCE.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Thiat je assimilated
MOTiION.
te a tex Bill.
CARTWRIGHT
Hon. Sir RICHARD
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
moved:
's.
Resolved, that the ordînance of the 9th day
of Ma rch, 1908, in'tituled: 'An Ordinance reyHon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose wve muet
pecting the Hearing and Decision of 'Disputes
in relation to Mining Lands in the Yukon receive the information that Uic permission
Territory,' and the ordinance of the l17th day of Hie Excellency the Governor General
0f September last întituled: ,'An Ordinance has been obtained?
respecting the Imposition of a Tax upon aie,
porter, beer and lager beer, isnported into
Hon. -Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
the Yukon Territory,' whièh were passed
upon their respective dates by the Governor do net think that in the case of the erdinin Council under -the authority of section 16 ances of the Yukon it has been customary
of the Yukon Act being chapter 63, R.S.C.
(19W6>, copies of which ordinances, as well as te make that announcement-the necessary order in council in each case,
have been laid bedore the Hlouse, are apHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I think it je
proved by this House, ini accordance with the eimply approval. Under the Yukon Act
provisions of section 17 of said chapter 63.
it je provided that the Governor in CounHe said: The hon, leader of the opposi- cil may make ordinances.
tion wanted some further information about
this.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYes.
I
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yesterday
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This is a resoluasked for some additional information in
regard to the Yukon ordinances. What 1 tien of the Commissioner in Council of the
desired to know was whether the ordinance Yukon, and it has been approved in the
proposed te add a tax on aies and beers shape cf an ordinance by the Governor in
in addition to the excise duties, or 'whether Council.
it was in lieu of the excise duties.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
Hon. Sir RICHARD OARTWRIGHT-It has gene into force.
is in addition, I understand.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-And it requires
doe net rend the approval of the two branches of parliaHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It
that way. 0f course it is an ordinance of ment -before it goes into force.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I will
thinking of the hon. gentleman.

SENATE
THE LOUISE BASIN.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTNot exactly. It expires the day after parthe
Hýon. Mr'. CHOQUETTE-Bef-ore
liament rises unless it is approved.
orders of the day are called, I should like
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There are two to ask the right hion. leader of the House
classes. This cornes under the 'class which if hie could give me the names of those who
requires the appuoval of the Governor in are now in charge of the work at the Louise
Council; in fact, it is the ordinance of the basin, Quebec? The late Mr. Bissot, a most
Goveunor in Council, not the ordinance of reliable contractor, had charge -of the 'work.
to
the commissioner ini council, and if my I should like t-o know if the work is
be continued; if a contract has been
hon. friend will look at the document
which. he bas laid on the table, it will be awarded, and who is going to do the work?
observed it is an oudinance of thé Governor
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
in Council, simply carrying into affect the have not the information here. If the hon.
recommendation ou resolution of the Com- gentleman will put the question on the
missioner in Counicil of the Yukon.
Notice Paper I will get it for him.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
THIRD READING.
have no doubt rny hion. frîend is right. The
clause in the statute to which I was reBill (YY) An Act to incorporate the
ferring renders it necessauy that the ordin- Catholic Churchi Extension Society of Canances should be approved by the two ada.-(Hon. Mr. Bostock).
Houses of parliament. Failing that, it expires in one day after we uise.
EXCHEQUER 'COURT ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I suppose it
would be non-effective.
IN COMMITTEE.
The House resolved itself into a CommitHon. Mr. LANDRY-Is a Bill to be intee of the WVhole on Bill (No. 98) An Act to
troduced?
amend the Exchequer Court Act.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-No.
(In the Committee).
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Nothing at aIl?
On clause 2,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-No.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does the hon.
o. 0 sys:
Hon.Mr.LANRY-ule
1 gentleman consider this clause and clause 4
ANDR-Rue No 70 ay
Hon.Mi.
The Serbate wili flot proceed upon a Bill necessary?
appropriating pu-Vlic money, that shall fot,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The
within the know1edge of the ýSenate ' have
been recommended tby the King's representa- I)uî.aitment of Justice think that as they
tive.
repealed the other Act, they must put this
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is an ordin- through in the shape they have it. I do
ance cf the Governor in Council requir- not think there is the least risk cf two
ing the appuoval of both branches of par- officers being appointed, thoug.h my hion.
liament. It is not a statute of this paria- friend thinks it is possible.
ment. It is passed under section 16 of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is not the poschapter 63 of the Revised Statutes. The enabling power is as follows: ' Without limit- sibility, but there is no necessity for the
ing the generality of the power so conferred two clauses.
the Governor in Coîrncil rnay make ordinHon. Mr. LANDRY-This classification
.ances, &c.,' and it is in pursuance of that
is ordered bv this Bill?
section this is done.
Hon. Su RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Yes.
Hon. -Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYes.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It takes it out of
w\1105' handi;.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. MNr. LOUUGHEED.

MAY 7, 1909
Non. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
brings him under the purview of the Civil
Service Commission, by classifying hirn in
this particular way.

459

fali under the Civil Service Act, if
they did not the classification would be
made, not by us, but by the head o! the
department.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
Hon. Mr. LAýNDRY-The classfication
wilh be« made by the head o! the department
under thi Act of 1908 is leit to the head of
under this clause.
the department.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We anake it ourHcn. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- selves in subsection 2.
This officer was not classified at aIl. He
was appointed by Mtatute, and now they
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Mr.
wish to bring him into the class.
Audette had a sahary by statute, and we
decree that he shall be placed in a certain
The clause was adopted.
subdivision (a).
On clause 3,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-When t.his Bihh beHon. Mr. LANDRY-I understand that comes law we are obliged to do the work the
ail the other officers and servants are at- bead of the department would have done.
tached to the Department of Justice?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-We
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- are, as far as that goes.
They are attached to the inside service,
The clause was adopted.
and that brings them under the control oi
the Civil Service Commission.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I arn surpriaed
nlot to find in the Bill an amendment which
Ho4 *Mr. -LANDRY-But .it doe not
I thouglit would be made in relation to
bring them under the classification that
cases tried in the province o! Quebec. When
should be established -by the head or deputy
the Bill was printed, I spoke to one o! the
head o! a department?
ministers from Quebec. and put to him the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CAETWRIGHT- following facts: Judge Cassels, though an
After this becomes law, then the Minister excellent judge, doeis not understand French
of Justice can classify him. He cannot at well enough to ait in a case where one of
the parties and some o! the witnesses happresent.
pen to be French. I have in mind a parHon. Mr. LANDRY-If this section beticular case in Quebec, when Blais was
cornes law at the same tirne the previous
plaintiff. In that case the judge required
clause of this Act becomes la'w.
The
the services o! two stenographers.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARETWRIGHT- party hirnself could not speak English and
As soon as the Bill receives the Governor sorne o! the witnesses couhd not, and the
lawyers in the case had to ernploy a French
General's assent.
stenographer to 'take the evidence and then
Hin. Mr. LANDRY-I think there is a dictated it to an English stenographer for
confusion of powers. By the Civil Service the use of the judge. It is only necessary
Act, that power is given to the head of the to mention this to show how unfortunate
department, and here we are ourselves ex- it is for parties in the province o! Quebec
ercising that power.
who cannot speak Englîsh when they bring
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- cases before the Exchequer Court. I have
No, we are simply bringing ahI these people had occasion to argue cases before Judge
under the Civil Service Act. They are now Cassels 'mysel!, and I have entire confidence
muade a part of the inside service; hereto- in his integrity and capacity, and arn quite
fore they have been regarded as an outside satisfied with him; but I rnentioned this
matter to a colleague o! the right hon.
service.
leader of this House and he said he wouhd
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But the moment take it into consideration and see that
they corne into the inside service they do sornething was done. As the matter may

SENATE
have been overlooked, 1 draw the attention
of the governmeûit to the fact, and I intend
at the third reading of the Bill to move an
amendment to this effect-that in the province of Quebec, when the sitting judge
cannot speak or understand French, on
the demand of one of the parties in the
case he may be replaced by a judge fron>
that province -who understands both Ianguages. That would be only fair. When
one of the parties does not understand Enlish, it is on]y fair that he and his witnesses should be examined in their own
language.
The substituted judge ehould
have for the tirne being the same power
as the judge himself.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Il
the hon. gentleman will submit his amendnment I shahl cali the attention of the department to it.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-That is worse.
The new one shouhd be better.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I have been
away, and have flot seen the Bill until now.
The minister to whom I spoke on the subject seemed to favour my view, and 1 anm
surprised that the Bill has not been
amended in the direction I have indicated.
I move that the cominittee rise and report
progress, in order that time may be given
to draft an amendment which- shahl be acceptable to the French population of thýý
province of Quebec, and I should like to
have time to consult the minister Vo whom
I have spoken on the subject.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-We do not care
for pc.sition or money in Quebec. We look
for justice. If, in the province of Nova
Scotia, they desire position or money, that
is their own aif ait. In Quebec we want
justice, and we will have it.

Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-We .might let tho
Bill be reported from committee, and at
the third reading the hon. member mixght
move his amendment.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I have no objec.
tion to that, if nothing else can ibe done,
but it amounts to the samre thing if the
committee will rise and report progaress, and
sit agaain on Tuesday next. In t.he meantume I shall take occasion to speak t-o sorne
of the right hon. gentleman's cohheagues
about this matter, and perhaps a better
amendment than the onpe I have suggeste.]
can be drafted.

Hon.
change.

Mr.

LANDRY-We

expected

a

Hon. Mr. POWER-There is no change
in that respect. The point which I particularhy wish to make-and it is a smal
one-is this: Under the present system it
is necessary to employ an interpreter t>)
translate what the witness says in Frenchi,
and then a stenographer is employed to
take down the evidence, and you can see
that there is employment given for at least
two deserving persons under the present
systeni in addition to the judge. I think
if niy hon. friend gives weight Vo that consideration, he may not feel called upon Vo
object.

Hon. Mr. OLORAN-I thoroughly endorse the remarks of the bhon. gentleman
from Montmagny.
This is a matter of
right in the province of Quebec, and there
should be no hair-splitting or small di3cussion over it. I understand that in some
cases tried in Montreai and Quebec, French
witnesses were obliged to speak, English.
Now, that is flot a fair position to place
citizens o! Quebec in. They may be ablt,
to talk English, but they cannot give their
evidence as accurately in another language, and I understand that there was quite
a revoit against the honourable judge when
he forced French Canadians to speak the
English hanguage in very serious cases. So
that the deinand made *by the senaVor from
Montmagny is a natural one, and is justified *by the condition of things in that
province. The senator from Halifax pointe-1
out that it wouhd give a job to one or two
more stenographers. That is putting this
question on a very small basis. What about
the attorneys who have to make their addresses and arguments before the judge'

Hon. Mr. POWER-There is one feature
of the matter whio.h the hon. gentleman
from Grandville seems Vo overhook. I think
the hate judge of the Exchequer Court was
Hon. Mu. TESSIER-They have the right
flot any more familiar with French than
to speak French.
is the present judge.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.

MAY 7, 1909
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is their right, and
it is necessary for them to speak French,
becaiise t.he attorneys in Queibec, 6orel,
Three Rivera and the lower part of -the
province are not ail familiar with the English language. They have some knowledge
of it, but flot sufficient to deliver their
arguments in the manner they would like
to do, and in that case how could you have
an interpreter? Would a lawyer making
his argument be obliged to stop at the conclusion of each sentence while the interpreter explained it to the judge? The position would be ridiculous. Under the circumstances, I think the government ought
te accede te the wishes of my hon. friend.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-My venera-ble
and hon. colleague asks what will happen
if the judge does not speak En.glish? Well,
I am sure my English friends would not
tolerate that for a minute.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Not for a second.
Hon. Mr. CHQQUETT-I arn quite will.
ing to make the amendment apply not
rnerely to Quebec, but to the whole Dominion, and insert a clause that if the judge
does not understand French he shahl be
replaced by a judge who speaks both languages, and when he does flot speak English,
then he shall be replaced by a judge who
does.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTGive notice of motion, and put it in plain
language, so that we shahl understand it.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I arn sorry the
right hon. minister does not understand me.
He is not familiar with the French language
and I am obliged te speak English. I do
not like to hear it stated that I amn not
understood. If that is the case, in the
future I will speak French. I arn quite
satisfied if the third reading is postponed
until Wednesday -or Thursday.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHIT-We
will not take the third reading until Wednesday.

stand it to be. The situation of litigants
appearing before a judge who is unable to
understand the language of the principal
witnesses is a serious one, and conducive
to anything but justice, and, I would say,
fair-play.. I would suggest to my hon. friend
to make his amendment apply to Ïboth.
parties, so that when the presiding judge
cannot understand French, to give full justice to the French litigants, and also when
the presiding judge does not understand
English, and English litigants appear before him, that those parties may have the
right to have their case heard by a judgc
who understands English.
The extension
of the principle to the 'whole Dominion
would be, prima facie, a fair proposition,
In
and should be supported, if feasible.
New Brunswick, where one-fif 1h of the
population is French, .and where, ipi large
districts, people do not speak the English
lang-uage at ahl, litigants have been confronted with similar conditions, and the resuit in those instances has been-I will not
say deplorable-but unfair ta the p#rties.
We have in the province of New Brunswick
one judge who can speak both languages.
I do not know whether smy hon. friend is
aware of the fact, but we have an English
judge in Nova Scotia who can speak and
understand French weli. In Ontario there
are judges of French origin who understand
both languages. I think it would be feasible, without incurring any extra expenditure, to have legislation in the line suggested by my hon. friend, not confining it
to the province of Quebec, but extending
it is as far as possible te the whole Dominicn. I, therefore, seriously ask the hon.
leader of this House te take this question
into consideration, net at ail for the purpose
of creating difficulties, or appealing to
racial prejudice, 'which I have neyer done
in this House myself, any more than appealing te the English people. I am convinced that it is the desire of ail the members of this and the other House te render
equal justice te ail. Agaîn, I ask the hon.
leader te take this matter into consideration, and see what possible betterment can
be provided.

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-The point raised by
The clause was adopted.
my hon. friend is much more serious than
Hon. Mr. WOOD, from the committee,
the hon, gentleman from Halifax understood it te be, or was desirous to under- report-ed the Bill without amendment.

SENATE
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTNo, they may go up te thirty. Fifteen
BILLS REPORTEr.
round voyages would only entithe them te,
The following Bis passed through the $100,000, and the hon. gentleman will see
Committee of the Whole and were reported the subsidy is net extended, but it amounts
te $200,000.
te- the House without amendment:
Bill (No. 131) An Act to amend the CanHon. Mr-. LOUGHEED-Is the governada Shipping Act.
nient getting more than fifteen round voyBill (No. 153) An Act respecting the ages for $200,000?
National Transcontinental Railway.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTBill (No. 156) An Act te amend the Yukon
The government will net give more than
Acet.
$100,000 for fifteen round voyages, but if
the company make thirty round voyages
OCEAN STEAMSHIP SUBSIDIES ACT
they -will be paid $200,000, and proportionAMENDMENT BILL.
ately, more or less, accerding teo the number of voyages.
'REPORTED -PROM COM)&I11EE.
COMMITTEE 0F THE WHOLE.

The House resolved itself into Committee
of the Whole on Bill (No. 146) An Act i-elating to Ocean Steamship Subsidies.
(In the Committee).
On clause 1,

The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. BAIRD, from the committee,
reported the Bill without amendmnent.
NEW BRUNSWICK DIVORCE COURT.

Hon. Mr-. ELLIS-Beiore the House ad1. Chapter 68 of the statutes of 1908 is reask the right hion.
pealed, and the following is enacted as sec- jeurnis, I should like to
tion 4 of chapter 2 of the statutes of 1889, leader if hie will impresa on his colleagues
intituled: 'An Act relating to, Ocean Steam- the necessity of settling the question of the
ship Subsidies':
Court judge in New Brunswick.
4. The Governor in Council may enter into Divorce
contract or contracte for a terni or 'ternis not The cou.rt should have been held on the
exceeding in ail ten years with any indivi- 3Oth April, but the judge was net in a
duel -or company, for the performance of a_
steamship service between a port or ports in position te, transact business for sorne time,
Canada and a French port or ports, on euch and ne other judge could do bis werk in
terme and conditions as the Governor in consequence of the way the court is conCouncil deenis expedient, and may grant stituted. The government us in a position
therefor a subsidy not exceeding two hua.
dred thousand dollars a year, based upon a now to appoint a permanent or temporary
miainiu service of fifteen. round voyages a judge of divorce, and it is really an imyear, and a subsidy therefor flot exceeding portant matter in view of the position of
one hundred thousand dollars, and so in prothe w~ork of the court.
portion for a more f£roquent service.
Q. The amount required for the paynient
of this subsidy shall be paid out of the ConHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
solidated Revenue Fund of Canada.
shahl cal! the attention of the Department of
Hon. Mr. -LOUGHEED-Can my right Justice te the niatter.
hion. friend say whether the contract has
CLASSIFICATION 0F SENATE OFFIbeen entered into?
CIALS.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYes, for one year.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
would cahh the attention of the House, and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-On the 'basis of of the members of the Committee on In$2ffl,0O for fifteen voyages?
ternaI Economy, te the fact that it is beHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT--On coniing urgenthy necessary to forward the
classification of the officers ef this House.
thue basis set eut in this clause.
I do net know exacthy what stage it is in,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will it be liniited ,but I hope it wihh he brought forward
to fifteen round voyages?
promptly.
lion.

r.WOOD.

MAY 11, 1909

463

Hon. Mr. THOMPSO N-The conimittea made to the namne; instead of -.it being the
Royal Guardians, it is now called the Royal
-*ill meet on Tuesday at 8 p.m.
G'uardians Association, so that it would not
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It be mistaken for the Royal of England. or
is desirable to get it through.
the Guardians.
Tuesday next
The Senate adjourned until
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTat three o'clock.
I arn af raid that would flot meet the objection, and I must oppose the use of the
'word ' royal ' under the instructions which
we have received.
The motion was agreed to.

THE 13ERATE.

OTTAwVA, Tuesday, May 11, 1909.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I will move for concurrence in the report to-morrow.

REPORTED FROM THE COMMITTEE.

hou. Mr. LANDRY-I understankl that
the lion. gentleman does not avail himseif
of the permission hie has asked from the
House. He moved for the suspension of
the rules. It was done for a purpose. If
hae did flot desire to have the House concur in the amendment to-day, there was
no necessity to suspend the rules.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON, from the Conimittev
on Banking and Commerce, reported Bill
(No. 95) An Act respecting the Royal
Guardians Benevolent Association, witli
amendments, and moved the suspension
of the rules.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-When I nioved for
the suspension of the rules, I did not
know that the right hon, gentleman who
It waa
leads the House objected to it.
because of his objection that I did not
want to force it through.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I do not want to delay any measure unnecessarily, but I must point out to my
hion. friend that there is a grave objection
to the use of the word 'Royal,' and that
a special despatch has been received from
the Imperial authority objecting very decidddly to the ute of the word 'royal' in
any of these Bills, unless the consent of
the government has been obtained thereto. So that I want my hon. friend to understand that in taking any further step
with this measure, I must move against
the introduction of the word 'royal.'

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But the right hion.
leader of the House did flot object to the
suspension of the rules.

Prayers and routine proceedings.
ROYAL

GUARDiANS BENEVOLENT
ASSOCIATION BILL.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The
was carried.

motion

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the hion. gentleman does not want to proceed to-day, I
do not sec why hae should ask to suspend
the rules. There is no rule to prevent him
doing nothing at al.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I do not wish to
avail myseîf of the suspension of the rules
in view of what the right hion. leader has
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I would like to
said.
point out to the right hon. gentleman
Hon. Mr. POW'ER-As I understood the
that, so far as the Banking and Commerce
Comnmittee are concerned, they have de- resolution of the hion. gentleman from
cided against the woÉ4 'royal' being used Lincoln, it was to suspend not only the
in any such prev loue legislation; but this rule which required a day's notice for the
company hsd the word ' royal' given to consideration of the amendment, but the
them under legisiation of the province of rule which required a day's notice for the
Quebec, and the matter was threshed out third reading, so that to-morrow, if the
in the House o! Commons as 'well as in House concurs in the report, the Bill can
our own committee, and an addition was be read the third time.

SENATE

INQUIRIES.

FIRST AND SECOND READINGS.

Bill (No. 91) An Act to incarporate the
Notices o! motion by the hon. Mi. Landry,
Prudential Trust Company, Limited-(Hon.
when called:
Mr. Young).
Hon. -Six RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
have received letters frerm the depaitments
CLASSIFICATION 0F OFFICIALS.
and they request that these three inquiries
The SPEAKER submitted to the House
stand over, as tFhey are not able to supply
a message from the flouse of Commons
the answers to-day.
with the classification and organization of
the officers and clerks of the Library of
ONTARIO AND MICHIGAN POWER
Parliarnent and the Printing Bureau.
COMPANY BILL.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It seems to me, the
righit hon. leader of the House should give
Bill (No. 34) An Act to incoiporate the notice of motion to concur 'with the House
Ontario and Michigan Power Company.- of Gommons in these classifications, be<Hon. Mi. Watson)-was intiodueed and cause they have to be approvedl of by both
read the first time.
flouses, and the mere fact that it has corne
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If there is no objec- up here does not sig-nify oui approval.
tion, in the absence of the hion. senator
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
frorn Portage la Prairie (Hon. Mx. Watson) moved that the message be taken into conI would ask that rules 23 (f), 24 (a), (b) sideration to-morrow.
and (h), 119 and 129 be suspended.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Why do we take a
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I objeet.
different course in this case fromn the one
we have been following? The hon. the
Hon. Mr. WATSON (just entered)-I Speaker, some Urne ago. laid before the
move that the Bill be read the second Lime Senate the classification of the employees
on Thursday next.
of this flouse about the samne time that
the classification of the flouse of ComThe motion was agcreed to.
mons was produced. Since that Urne, some
have been presented by the
CANADA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY nominations
Speaker to this flouse, which were referred
BILL.
to the Standing Committee on InternaI
FIRST READING.
Economy. The samne couse should be folBill (No. 56) An Act respecting the Can- lowed in considering the joint action of
ada Life Insurance Company-(Hon. Mr. the Speakers of the two Houses. The reYoung)-was introduced and read the fiîst port, under the provisions of the Civil Service Act, must be approved by both flouses
lime.
in the samne way that the report affecting
Hon. Mi. YOUNG-I move that rules 23 our officiaIs here was approved. Why do
(f), 24 (a), (b) and (h), 119 and 129 be we in one case submit the report of the
suspended.
Speaker to the Committee on Interrial
Economy, and flot follow the same course
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I object.
in this instance?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Will the hion. gentleHon. Mr. POWER-It may be that the
man consent to the second reading toreason why the message cornes up for conmorrow?
sideration to-moîrow, Iflis flouse may decide to refer this report to the InternaI
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-No.
Economy Com.mittee; but the hon. gentleHon. Mr. YOUNG-I move that the Bill man must see that the two cases are very
be xead the second time on Thursday next. different. In the one case we are dealing
The motion was agreed to.
with oui own staff; in the other case we axe
FIRST READING.

Hon. Mr. POWER.

MAY il, 1909
dealing with gentlemen who are nat exclusively our staff, anid where the House of
Commons have adopted a certain lineocf
action, unless there is something objectionable in the course they have taken, we
would naturaily concur.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not agiree wlth
the hon. gentleman when he says that In
one case we deal with our own ernployees
and in the othe;we do nat. In bath cases
wo do. The Lti'rary and the Printing
Bureau are under the direction of joint
committees; but we have car share of the
responsibility just as the House of Gommons has. My reasan for asking that question is, that if wo want ta procoed this
evening with the reports, there vould ho
less delay if-they were refexred îmmediatoly
ta the Internai Economy Commitice.
If
to-morrow the House should think fit ta
refer that report back ta the committee
it wiii cause delay. My desire is ta facilitate business.
Hon. Mrt. THOMPSON-I would suggest
the suspension of the rules in order that
these messages may be referred immediateiy
ta the Cammitteo on Internai Econoiny.
There has been some criticism on the slowness with which our committee movos, aud
I think it wouid be as wveli ta lot the messages go ta the committee without delay.
If it la decided ta adopt the decision of the
joint committee, very weli; if not, the messages should go ta the Committee on Internai Ecanamy to-night.

classification. The classification is goiug
ta be studiod to-niglit and that naîme wiii
be certainly praposed.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I mave that this
matter b e referreid ta the Internal Economy
Committee.
The SPEAKER-It is Inconvenient that
that should be doue. I do not kuow that
it should go thore at ail, the certificate
having been issued, it passes ta Mr. Nicholson; but I thouglit it vas mare canvenlent ta put it on the record.
Hon. Mr. POWER-This matter, which
la one affecting our staff, should go te the
commnittee, and I shail just refer ta the
certificate ta point out that there is some
reason why the question should go ta tho
committee. The certificate reads:
Civil Service Commission of Canada.
.4dam Shortt,
M. G. La Rochelle,
Commissi oners.
Win. Faran,
Secretary.
Ottawa, 8th April, 1909.
The civil Service Commissianers have had
under consideration an application frein the
Honourable the Speaker of the Senate for
the issue of a Certificate of Qualification in
favour of Mr Byron Nicholson, of Quebec,
who has been appointed by the Sonate ta the
position of Clerk of Committees as an Officer
of Subdivision A of the Second Division, such

appointaient havi!ig been made under the
provisions of Section 21 of the Civil Service
Amendmient Act, 1908. Having made a carefal inquiry ito Mfr. Nicholson's qualifications
for such position and having satisfied themselves th-at by. reason of his education, training, and previous experience in similar work
The motion was agreed to.
that he is competent, except as ta his knowledge of the French language, ta fulfil the
APPOINTMENT 0F MR'. NICHOLSON. conditions. as laid dowu in the Order of the
Senate appointing Mr. Nicholson.
The SPEAKER presented the certificate
Now, therefore, this is ta certify, prusuant
issued by the Civil Service Commissianers ta the provisions of Section 21 of the Civil
Service Amendment Act, 1908, that in their
in the case of Byron Nicholson's appointsubject to the reservation
opinion, ta his knowledge of the Frenchabove
.ote
s
Ianment.
guage. Mr Nicholson passesses the requisite
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose it can be knowledge and ability and is duly qualified
reforrod ta the committoe dealing with that as ta health, character and habits, for the
position of Clerk of Committees of the Sonate
nomination.
I undorstand that it is one as an Officer of Subdivision A of the Second
of those questions which wiii came bofore Division.
M. G. A. LAROCHELLE,
the committeo this eve.ning.
ADAM SHIORrT
Civil Service Commissioners.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Na. The committLe lias dealt with that case siready.

The certificate states that the commissioners have satisfied thexnselves that hit

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Thoy have deait is competent ta fulfil the conditions as
with the nomination, but there la the laid 'down in the ordor of the Senate, ex
30
REVX5ED ]EDITION

466

15L1ýATE

~1~ATE
466
cept as to his knowledge of the French through. We think the Bill may get
language. They say that in their opinion. through the Commons to-night.
subjeet to the reservation as to his knowHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My right hon.
ledge of the French language, he possesses friend may be able to say to-morrow what
the necessary qua.lification and ability. the intention of the government je?
There je a serious exception made in tbis
Ho'n. -Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTcertificate, so that I think it ie a matter
Yes.
that might very, properly go before the
AN IMPERIAL CONFERENCE.
committee.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I also ask
The motion was agreed to.
my right hon. friend a question or two
concerning a matter of intereet to the
THE INSURANCE BILL.
Dominion? I understand that the British
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the or- &0overnment has made arrangements for the
ders of the day are proceeded with, I holding of a conference concerning imperial
should like to ask my right hon. friend defence, and bas extended an invitation to
what the intention of the government je the various self-governing colonies te send
with reference te the Insurance Bill? It representatives te that conference. I vwould
has been discusse~d in the press of the like to ask my hon. friend if sucli an i
country, and the apparent intention of the vitation bas been received by the govern
government is te have it passed during the ment of Canada, and what -the intention of
present session. I would point out to my the government je with reference to sending
right hon. friend that this is the third representatives of this government to that
session this Bill has been under consider- conference. May I aise observe that a reThe port has been circulated that the Minister
ation in the House of Commons.
country is interested in it. A great of Militia aud the Minieter of Marine anl
whole
number of witnesses have been examined, Fisheries are going, dîrectly after the sesin fact ail the large financial institutions, sion, to London te convey the resolution cf
probably, of the Dominion have sent their the Canadian parliament respecting imrepresentatives to discuss this Bill before perial defence and te communicate with the
the cornmittee to which it was referred imperial authorities on that subject. Are
by the House of Commons. I notice that those two zuinistere te whom I have rethe cards are eut for prorogation. It seems ferred as conveying the action cf the Canate be the intention of parliament to pro- dian parliament reepecting imperial defence
rogue on the l9th of this month. Can my to be gIse delegates to the conference
right hon. friend say, in view of those cir- already arranged for by the imperial aucumstances, whether it je the intention of thorities?
the goverment to have the Senate enter
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTon the consideration ef that Bill atter it In reply te my hon. friend, I may say
passes the House of Couinions during the that such an invitation bas been iseued
present session?
by the imperial authorities, and that it je
the intention of the goverument te accept
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT the invitation and te send one or more
In reply to my hon. friend, I believe that
ministers te meet and conter with the imthe Bill in its present state je likely to
perial authorities. It is probable that the
pasei with pretty much unanimous con- hon. gentleman will understand, however,
sent. If ail parties are reconciled and,
that anything which takes place in these
'prepared to accept it, then perhaps the
affaire would be of a consultative nature,
Senate may be able to consider it. I quite
not in any respect or shape binding the
recognize what he bas not stated, but pergeverument until after full consideration.
haps what he intended to state, that a
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What about the
Bill of this importance ought te be brought
to enable it to get two ministers? Have the ministiers yet
to the Senate in tume
proper consideration and I should be loath been selected who are te attend that conto take any unreasonable step to put it ference?
Hon. Mr. POWER.

-7
MAY 11, 1909

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTVery possibly from the nature of the case
the Minister of Marine and Fisheries and
the Minister of Militia and De! ence may
be selected, but nothing definite has been
done as yet.
THE PACIFIC CABLE CORRESPONDENCE.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Before the orders
of the day are called, I would ask the hon.
gentleman who leads the House if we csn
expect soon te have a return to an order
which was made nearly two months ago
ta bring down the correspondence re the
Pacifie cable?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
will make inquiry about that. I do not
remember the incident. Possibly it maly
have been brought down.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-The right hon.
gentleman stated at the time that there
was no objection, and that it would. be
brought down promptly.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
will make inquiry about it.
THIRD READINGS.

467

ment of Justice. Perhaps the shortest way
wîll be to read to myr hon. friend a manmo.
which the Department of Justice have forwarded to me in respect to it:
I may. say that for ail domestio purposes
a oriminai prosecution in which it becomos
necessary to extradite the, accused do.e not
differ substantially from an ordinary prosecution in which the accused is found within
Âdditionai proceedingo
the, juriediction.
have to b. taken, however, in the former
case in order to bring the accued within the
jurisdiction of the domestie courts a for triai.
warrant
It nit infrequently happons, that
issued b a justice of the. peaco upon a
oharge ocyan indictable offence cannot b. executed within the jurisdiction because the.
accused has fied, and in snoh a case the
foreign jurisdiction has to b. invoked under
the. treaty with a view to having the. accused
&urrendered and returned for trial. Tiie proceedinge in the foreign state have, of course,
to b. conducted in accordance with the, laws
of that etate, and these provide for proof by
deposition taken acoording te the. iaw cf
Canada. There is a defect in our iaw upon
this point at present which it is the. object of
this Bil oecure. The defect cdnsists in the.
absence of any provision for compeiling the
attendance of witnessea and the. taking of
their depositions in the. absence of the, accused . .This power certainly ought to exist
in the. hande of ail the justices. You wili
ses b y reference to the. Fugitive Offenders'
Act, R.S.C., 1906, chapter 154, section 27, that
snoh provision is already made se far as what
we may termi extradition from -on. part of
Ris Majesty's Dominions ta anotiier i.s concerned. Furtiier youý will observe that a
kîndred provision is inserted in the, Bill to
ainend the, Crizuinal Code (No. 148) now before the Hous. of Commons, section 655 in
the, sciiedule.
The depositions taken ex parte lire not, of
course admissible upon the trial but only in
the. preliminary proceedinge, to show a
prima facie case for putting the, accused
upon his trial.

Bill (No. 131) An Act te amend the Canada Shipping Act.-(Rt. Hon. Sir Richard
Cartwright).
Bill (No. 146) An Act to amend the Act
relating to Ocean Steamship Subsidies.<Rt. Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright).
Bill (No. 153) An Act respecting the Na.
tianal Transcontinental Railway.-(Rt. Hon.
Under these circumnstances, the DepartSir Richard Cartwright).
ment of Justice are disposed to request that
Bill (No. 156) An Act ta amend the Yukon
the Bill be passed as it stands.
Act.-(Rt. Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright).
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tiie Department
EXTRADITION ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
of Justice seems to have overlooked the
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
essential leature of the objection which I
The Senate resolved itself into a Com- took; namely, that the depositions ehould
mittee of the Whole on Bill (No. 149) An be taken by a more responsible officer thsn
Act ta amend the Extradition Act.
a justice of the peace.
(In the Committee).
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Has my right especially cailed the attention of the minhon. friend given any consideration te ister te the point my hon. friend had made,
the suggestion which was made as te jus- and if I remember right-it is not aiiuded
tices of the peace taking these depositions? ta in this niemo, I see-he intimated that
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- in very grave criminal proceedings, even
Yes, I did, and conferred with the Depart- as grave as the case o! murder, depositions,

SENATE
of a similar kind may be taken before any cost of constructing the Grand Trunk Fa.
justice of the peace. I think that is so, if cifie Railway over the prairie section has
very largely exceeded their estimates, that
I amn not misinformed.
the Grand Trunk Rallway have had to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Only in the pre- corne to their assistance in the way of
liminary proceedings.
guaranteeing an advance to be made by
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It us. The term of the Joan will be for a
is in the prelirninary, as I under8tand, that period of ten years, and the rate of iunthis applies under the concluding remarks terest thereon will he four per cent. 0f
course, it is to be regretted that the comwhich. I read.
pany should have -made a mîscalculation
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-These are net in this matter, but 1 arn bound te say that
preliminary proceedings; they are deposi- they have not been by any manner of
tions which may be taken at any stage in means, singular in that respect. I arn
extradition proceedings, that is, depositiong afraid it must be admitted that the governte establish the committal of a crime.
ment of Canada made miscalculations of
the estimated cost of their portion of the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- line, as well as the Grand Trunk Pacific.
What hie states with reference te these de- It is only fair to eall the attention of the
positions is: ' Depositions taken ex parte House te certain facts te which I alluded
are nlot, of course, admissible on the trial, at another tîme. One is, that beyond ail
but only in the preliminary proceedings. te doubt there was an enormous increase in
show a prima facie case for putting the the cost of labour and materials over what
accused upon his trial.' However, 1 pre- could f airly or naturally have been calcusume my hon. friend will not contest it?
lated upon at the time that this railway
was undertaken, and that a very consîderHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
able additional charie has thereby been
Hon. Mr. GIBBON, £rom the committee, incurred. The other is-and that perhaps
is e matter of even more importancereported the Bill without amendment.
that the authorities of the Grand Trunk
GRAND TRUNK PACIFIC RAILWAY
Pacifie havinga carefully considered the matCOMPANY LOAN BILL.
ter, concluded that in view of the enormously rapid development of the northwest, and
SECOND READING.
in view of the fact that an unusually large
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT traffic might be expected from the very first
moved the second reading o! Bill (No. 128) to beoome available for transport over the
An Act te authorize a loan to the Grand railway, te construct 'this road in a
Trunk Pacific Railway Company. He said: much more substantial fashion, and with
The purpose o! this Bill is sufficiently ex- better facilities than are usually accorded
plained by the title thereof, almost. It is in the case of a road on the prairie, or
in brief, a Bill te authorize the govern. than were required in the case of the Canment te lend the surn of ten million dollars adian Pacific Railway. I need not point
to the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway out te any business man in the House or
on the security of a mortgage o! theirs, elsewhere, that the construction of a railfurther guaranteed by the Grand Trunk road under such conditions is necessarily
Railway. I do flot think there can be greatly more expensive than the construcany reasonable doubt that the security tion of a railway as it ia ordinarily done.
will be sufficient. The reason for the gov- I arn quite aware that very good authorerniment coming before parliament to al- ities have raised doubts as to the wisdom
low this advance te be made, arises from of such proceedings; but my hion. friends
the fact that from various causes, somne of opposite will I think agree that the conwhich, are familiar te the House, and in- ditions in the northwest are at the presdeed were touched upon by rny hon. friend ent entirely unprecedented, and that there
(Hon. Mr. Lougheed) and by myself in the is a very xnuch better chance ot this road
very early stages o! this session, that the having a great volume of business to
Hlon. Sir RICHIARD CARTWRIGHT.

MAY 11, 1909
handle fromn the very stari than would
occur in any ordinaxy circumistances. Under
tehese conditions, it is probably expedient,
on the whole, that the road should be constructed i such a fashion as to enable it
ta handie -a great quantity of traflc ai a
low raie, and I amn advised by the engineers and by the parties we have consulted, ihat there je a very reasonable probabijitv ihai the rond will receive a great
deal of freight, and that it will be able to
transport it ai urnusually low rates. We
have every hope that this road wiil be in
full operation fromn Edmonton to Fort William by the firsi of September, or ai lateat
by the Èrst of October, and every possible
exertion is being made by the Grand Trunk
Railway and by the government which je
charged with the construction of one link
in ihat portion of the line, ta bring that
about. Under these circumstances, I believe that the Senate wiul have no hesitation in concurring with the House of Coinmons that, on the whole, it je expedient
that this loan should be made. I may remind my hon. friends that a similar loan
of a good deal larger amount was made i
former days ta the Canadian Pacifie, and
I
it was repaid ai a very early period.
have not much douhi, looking at the rate
of inierest charged, that if the Grand
Trunk Pacifie proves, as we ail hope and
believe it will pr.ove, as great a commercial success in proportion as the Canadian
Pacifie~ has done, that before the ten years
expires they wil be able ta obtain money
for this road on such termis as will induce
them te repay us. In any case, 1 think
there can be very little doubi ihat the
aecurity firsi on the road itself, and secondly under the guarantee of the Grand
Trunk, will effectuaily guard ýhe country
against any lose being sustained.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If this Bull were
an isolated case in which the Grand Trunk
Pacific Railway Company were making application te this parliament for assistance
without oua- anticipating any further applications -of a similar kind, one might
possibly deal with the Bill purely upon its
menite, and h-respective ai the other transrctions which have grown out of this undertaking. But as it is msnifestîy one of a
series af concessions, flot onlv that have been

asked, bu1t that will be asked for in the
future, it involves my trespassing on the indulgence of ibe House for a f ew moments
while I very shortly review whai I regard as
the blundering policy of ibis governmneni, i
lfadig t the Dominion of Canada having
ta assume a financial obligation farx in exceas of ihai which was fiats snticipaied,
and oertainly an obligation which would
not have been auihorized by the people
o! Canada had ihey arealized ai the trne
thai this undertaking would a-un into the
immense coai which it ha. already assumed. It is not difficuit te discover wherein the blunder oïriginaied. The Dominion
af Canada aince canfederation has had a
Departmeni of Railways, and ihai depariment has been furniahed with ail the equipment and machinery necessary for ihe purpose ai keeping in tonch with the coat of
great railway undertakings, and of those
cbligations which the gavernineni of Canada is called upon te assume fram urnme
te unme in conneciion wiih railway building. The firsi information that we had of
this undertaking having been assumed by
the governmeni o! Canada, was an intimation that the Prime Minisier, and, 1 mighi
say, entirely on hie own responsibility,
irrespective of the governinent, ai Canada
and rega.rdless af the Department o!
Railways, had entered inte a contract
'withi the Grand Trunk Railway o! Canada
and with the Grand Trunk Pacifie Railwvay Company for the building ai this great
transportation seheme. When this undertaking or- ihis. proposa] was firet 8ubmiited
ta parliament, we had an estimate accoinpanying it, submitted not only by the
Prime Minister, but by the Minister oi
Finance. A great deal of discussion has
taken place as to what the estimate ai
the Prime Minisier upan thie undertaking
circulated
was
The impression
wvas.
thoeoughout the whole o! this Dominion,
and was absolutely relied upon as a statement comig from the head ai the government and responsible primarily for the ex*penditure which might be made by the
e
nIi Lme
uu
government oi Und
that this road would not exceed in cosi
$13,000,000. Reading the discussion whicb
took place in the House ai Commans, as
appeaa-ing on ' Haneard,' ihat statement

SENATE
was certainly made; but I cannot say, nor to keep the public informed, or to proteet
do I Vhink the Prime Minister was so the public treasury with reference to the
-simple, so entirely ignorant of the subject cost involved ini the assumption of the-se
-and o! the responsibilities which he was obligationa. Take the question of the Que.asssuming, although his ignorance o! the bec bridge. Here is an undertaking which,
question at the time was very marked, as when we entered upon it, was regarded as
te absolu Vely believe this road could be compaxatively amall. It kept on assuming
built for that amount o! money. But the proportions until it reached at least $6,000,Minîster of Finance, the minister charged 000, and then it went below the waters of
with guarding the public exchequer, charged the St. Lawrence, and now we are facing
v.ith controfling the expenditure of Can- an obligation of no less than $ 15,000,000 for
ada, the man I might say responsible above the reconstruction of that bridge. Take, as
others, and to whom the people of Canada an instance, any one of the public build.iooked to protect the exchequer, Vo guard ings'Canada against unnecessary obligations,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTcommitted himself te parliament without
Would the hon. gentleman allow me Vo
reserve by stating that this undertaking
interrupt? He gives $15,000,000 as the cost
would net cost more than $51,000,000. The
of the Quebec bridge. I presumne he inreason I referred Vo the statements which
cludes in that the loss that has already
were made at that time is Vo endeavour Vo
taken placeP
izrpress upon this Chamber the necessity
o! carefully scrutinizing and examining the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
-estimates which, are made from time Vo
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The
time by the government o! the day as Vo the
hon, gentleman does not mean $ 15,000,000
anticipated cost o! great public works. If
'there is anything Canada bas to regret Vo- will be expended over and above that?
day iV seems Vo me Vo be the infirmity
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The minimum
'which is so marked in connection with the oost of the new bridge will be at least nine
,expenditure of public money on our great or ten millions.
works. I say it advisedly, and the records
Hon. Sir 'RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-of parliament will establish that statement
Possibly.
beyond ail peradventure, that noV the
slightest reliability can be placed upon Vhe
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEDi-ThaV is for the
statements 'which are made !rom ime Vo construction o! a public work which. we
time by the different departments of t.he were originally Vold would not cost over
igovernment as Uo the expected cost of five millions. My hon. friend from Stadathe great public undertakings 'which we cona. says that the Prime Minister comare entering upon from time te ime. Take mitted himself to the statement that the
this for example, which, owing Vo its collo- cost would be four million, but I rieed not
mal importance, impresses itself more deeply enumerate the various public works upon
upon Vhe people of Canada Vhan the which we have entered from time Vo, time,
smaller public works upon which. we to point out the manifeat breakdow-n or
are engag-ed.
Here is an undertaking our machinery of civil government as to
which in cost will certainly exceed five or forming a proper estimate of what those
six times the estimate plaoed upon it by works will cost. We are, therefore, enterthe Minister of Finance when he introduced ing upon, I might eay in connection with
bis Bill te parliament in the session of this scheme, one of the firet o! a series
1903. If hon. gentlemnen will endeavour ta of obligations whieh 'will have to be as.
recaîl the cost o! Vhe various public build- sumed from time to time until this work
ings upon which we have entered from time is completed; and 'while the government of
to time, they must be impressed with the to-day submits in aIl confidence a Bill proutter futllity in our relying in the slightest posing Vo loan to the Grand Trun< Pacifie
degree upon the departments of civil gov- ten millions of money, I say without any
iernment Vo keep parliament informed, or hesitation that this will be only one of
Roui. IMr. LOUGIIEED.

MAY 11, 1909
a series of applications which will be made
from time to time to the parliament of Canada until the completion of that *undertaking, and that those loans, by the time
we make the last of them, will reach probably seventy-five million dollars.
Let me
point ont to my hon. friend the humiliatiug
position in which not only the parliament
of Canada, but the government oi Canada
is placed, not only with the people of Canada, but 'with the people of the empire
to which we be]ong. The minister vested
with aIl the responsibility which attaches
to an offictr of the government charged with
administering the exchequer, brings down
to parliament a Bill te enter upon this
immense undertaking, and we find him
atRting that it is proposed te build the
section from Moncton to Quebec, a -distance
ci 400 miles, at a cost of $25,000 a mile.
This estimate for one section of the road,
in view of the knowledge that we have,
portxays the most colossal ignorance on the
part of 'a public man assuming xesponsibility for such an important undertaking.
Lt was solemnly made te parliament
in 1903.
Before proceeding further to deal 'with that,
let me point ont the estimates of other sections of the road as mentioned by thu
Minister of Finance at that time. From Quebec to Winnipeg he estimated the distance
at 1,475 miles, and he put that down at
$28,000 a mile. That would make the cost
of that section $41,3W0,000. The two aections
together would thus caîl for $51,300,000.
Now, I ask my hon. friends on the opposite
side, no matter how loyal they may be, and
how uncompromising they may be in their
support of the present administration, if
such a statement made te parliament by
the government of the dav, and by the Finance MNinister, can for one moment be defended? Is it defensible? Is it justifiable?
Was hie true te the interests of his office or
of Canada to make a statement apparently
se reckless and, which the facts have since
demonstrated, was se absolutely wide of
-the mark as to have established the greatest
possible ignorance of the subject with which
lie assumed te dealP The people of Canada
at that time assumed that the Dominion
-was entering upon an undertaking te cost
-$51,000,000. We have a section of the road
ecosting $30,000,000, practically, that was

estimated at that time to cost $10,000,000,
we have a road which was estimated to
be from 120 to 140 miles less than the
Interaolonial, only 29 miles less; we have
a road with grades, 1 might eay, not very
m*uch better than the Intercolonial, -upon
that section of the road we have two pusher
grades of one and four-tenths per cent;
and we 'thus have .practically
ruined
the Intercolonial as a g-reat railwayl
enterprise.
It was estimated that the
balance of the road would cost, as I have
already pointed out, $41,300,000, or $28.000
a mile, according to the last return in parliament that road is te cost over $63,000 a
mile. An undertaking which the government of Canada pledged the people of Canada te carry out at the cost of $51,000,000
will cost $200,000,000 before completed. Ln
view of this; in view of the fact that the
minister who at that time presided over the
Department of Railways estimated the
building of the National Transcontinental
system at $ 139,000,000, 1 ask hon. gentlemen how the government can for one moment vindicate themselves against a recklessness, which borders cbosely upon public
malfeasanceP
Then again one would have thought that
the government in entering upon this work
would have adopted such a system as
would be followed by any responsible financial concern in carrying out a great undertaking. It must have become manifest
to the government when they entered upon
this scheme that at least one hundred and
fifty million dollars would have to be expended thereon, and the expenditure of
that money would have been vested in
the handa of a commission peciiliarly selected for assuming the responsibility; but
to crown the mistake which. the government origmnally made, they at once appointed a commission of some four or five
members not one of whom. knew anything
about .railway building, or ever aseisted
with a great undertaking o! this character.
They may all be estimable gentlemen so
far as I know and I am not saying a word
against any member o! the commission or
his ability to act in the sphere for which.
he is qualified, but for the goverrnment of
the country at the time when .it was entering upon the Ia.rgest undertaking ever assumed by the Dominion te place in the

SENATE
hands of a commission of laymen who
knew absolutely nothing about railway
building, the carrying out of Bo great a
work as is involved in this scheme, was a
puerile administration of the public duties
entrusted Wo the government. When one
looks back upon the policy adopted by the
goverment of 28 years ago in the carrying
out of the Canadian Pacific Railway, one
must conclude that the governiment of that
day was possessed o! very much greater
sagacity than the governiment of to-day.
In 1881-2 we entered upon the construction
of a great transcontinental systemi through
what was then practically an unknown
country. But in what a business-like manner did the goverument o! the day proceed to build that road. They advertised
for tenders, not only in Canada and
throughout the continent of America, but
also in Europe, and when that contract
was entered into the people of Canada
knew to a dollar what the undertaking
would coët. It was a matter upon whicli
we may, congratulate ourselves as Canadians, that the greatest railway undertaking that has been carried out on this
continent was carried to a successful consummation without costing Canada one
dollar more than it was estimated it would
cost when the contract was entered into.
We are told that the reason for making
this boan to the present company is because of the fact that construction becaine
very much more expensive after they had
entered upon this work-that the estimates'
made in 1903 were based upon then existing prices, and that since that tîme construction bas so very far advanced in cost
as Wo necessitate this additional expenditure. While railwav construction bas becorne somewhat more erpensîve, yet iA is
nothing proportionate with what is alleged
on this undertaking known as the prairie
section. 1 am told, from very close inquiry which I have made, a.nd possibly
from the best authority to be obtained in
Ganada, that the increased cost of construction between 1903 and 1908 might be
from $1,500 Wo$2,000 a mile, but certainly
nothing beyond that amount. That would
place the additional cost upon 916 miiles
at something less than $2,000,000. Âssuming that this road would cost $2,000,00 iii
excess o! what it would have cost in 1903,
it might flot have been an unreasonable
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

demand on the part of the Grand Trunk
Pacifie Company Woask of this parliament
additional aid to that extent. But I say
with confidence that there has not been
plaeed before parliaijient during the present session, or since the application has
been made for this loan, any satisfactory
evidence that the prairie section is costing the enormous ainount alleged. When
the government brought down its Bill in
1903, it was estimated that the prairie section would cost ini the vicinity o! $ 18,000 a
mile, that $13,000 would be three-fourths of
its cost, and no later than April, 1908, at
the last session of parliament Mr. Fielding, the Finance Minister, in mnaking a
statement of the cost of the prairie section,
p]aced it at $21,873,000, and to-day we are
facing, as appears from the parliamentary
papers on the table, a cost o! $33,000,000
I ask the govfor the prairie section.
erument of the day, 1 ask my right hon.
friend opposite, what evidence is there before parliament that this road bas cost the
difference between what was estimated
when the government brought down its
Bill in 1903, and the coat which we are
called upon to face to-day of over $33,000,000P This again portrays the helplessness
of the goverument; this again demonstrates
the breakdown of our machinery of civil
government where it bas to determine
the cost o! public worke. We have to accept, apparently, the statement o! the
Grand Trunk Pacific Railway Company as
to the cost of this work, and the goverfinment of C[nada bas blundered Wo such an
extent in carrying out this undertaking, bas
s0
Wo recognize itÈ helplessness and a.dvertise
to the world its inability in grappling withi
the cost o! this work, that immediately a
demand is made upon parliament by the
railiway company the government at one,have Wo accede to that demand. This encroachment bas been reduced Wo a system
ever since the inception o! the enterprise.
If lion. gentlemen will take up the atatutebooks from 1903 to the present time, they
will find this system of encroachment upon
almost every statute-book frorn that time
down te the present day. The policy of the
company, apparently, in 1903 was: ' We
shahl take wbat we can get and afterwards
That is the
we -will get wbat we wvant.'
policy adopted by tbe company, and it bas

-MAY 11, 1909

been a succestul one s0 far as the demanda
made by t.his company from time to time
upon the government of Canada are coneerned, particularly -when we %take into
consideration the varions concessions whica
have been wrung from the government aince
1903. We then thouglit we were entering
upon a stupendous undertaking, the greatest that Can "ada had ever assumed; but
since 1903 it has grown to dimensions exceeding that estimate five or six times.
We find sucli encroacliments on the statutebooksa as these: A postponement, for instance, of the securities whicb were fiast
given us, until now the securities held by
the government of Canada upon this road
are simply on a parity with the subsesequent securities as ta which we had
priority. That is a matter involving very
serions consideration, and yet the government apparently at one fell swoop waivea
its priority ta the subsequent rnortgages or
securities upon the road, and aimply cecupies the saine position as the aubsequent
creditors. Take again the case of foreclosure, another very serions 4concession
is wrung from the government of Canada.
There was a time when we were in a position te enter upon this property and foreclose should default be made. What position are we in to-day? We are in a position
that we cannot move hand or foot; we are
manacled for five years ta the compsny
after def suit has been made, and -then, alter
default, a receiver can only be appointed.
Foreclosure, we know, is a fiction. Ail we
can do is operate the property. The receiver operates the road, instead of the
company, and should the road, under the
administration of the receiver, prove ta be
successfully operated, the company cornes
in and takes the road back, pays off its
obligations, and the government of Canada
relapses into the handicapped position
which we at present occupy. But should
the operation of the road prove disastrous,
the government has ta psy the lo8ses. Then
consider the further concession we have
granted to the company on its demands.
There was a time when we liniited the
company ta a fixed expenditure upon the
mountain division; but a couple af sessions
ago, on the demand of the cornpany, we
waived that very important provision, and

473

we are to-day guaranteeing 75 per cent of
an unlimited amount for the cost of the
mountain division. .Think, hon. gentlemen,
if it is now necessary for the company to
approach the government of Canada for
assistanpe on the prairie section as great
as the amount proposed in this Bill what
wiIl be the assistance demanded under this
system of encroacliments which I have
ialready pointied out' when the company
enter upon the construction of the mountain
division.
The mountain division is now estimated
to cost -no leas than $80,000 a mile. 1
notice by this ireturn which lias been
placed upon the table, that the present
estimate-and how far we can rely upon
that, judging of the estinates of the past,
is very uncertain-is $67,000,000, or in
round figures, $80,000 a mile.
Compare
that with the estimato submitted ta parliamient, in 1903 by the Finance Minister,
$ 18,000,000 for the mountain section as
against $67,00J0,000 to-day, and even with
this estimate, I fear that the government
is floumdering in the dark and lias no ides
what the mountain section will actuslly
cost. Furthermore, of the three eections,
if we may divide them that way, the national transcontinental, the prairie section
and the mountain section, it is a well
known fact, and ca.nnot be controverted
for a moment, that the only productive
section of that whole road for years to,
corne must necessarily be the prairie section, and if this company can extrsct
from the government of Canada $ 10,000,000
by way of bean or otherwise for assistance
on the prairie section, what may we expect in the .way of demands which will be
mnade next session and the session afterwards and subsequent parliaznents, for assistance to construct and complete the
mountain section of this great system of
transportation. I quite concede that the
government of Canada lias so far committed itself to this great undertaking that it
cannot entirely ignore the demanda that
may be made tramn Urne ta time, sîthougli
that should not absolve the government
from acrutinizing most closely and examining most minutely as to how these demands are made. Speaking generally, the
government of Canada lias committed itself to the policy of building this road, and

SENATE
when demanda like the present are made,
it is for the government to ait down, the
rame as any business concern wouid, and
discuss the terma of the contract with a
view to having an equitable arrangement
between the negotiating parties. But is
there any evîdence of such a business
scrutiny in connection with this Bill?
Looking at it within its four corners, can
any hon. gentleman .point out to me the
slightest evidence of any concession having
been secured froin the company to the
government of Canada with reference to
the many infirmities which are quite apparent throughout the entire contract? It
was pointed out in parliament in 1903. 1904
and 1905, when the vanious Acta which the
company asked were being considered by
parliament what those infirmities were,
and yet nlot the slightest step, apparently,
has been taken by the government of Canada to say to the company, 'If we make
you this additionai loan, if we grant you
this great concession which you have
asked, you must repair the weaknesses in
the contract which were clearly overlooked
at the time.' Let me point out, for instance, the absence of any provision in
the contract compelling the Grand Trunk
Pacifie to operate the National Transcontinental Railway. The opinion of the best
lawyers seems to be that there is nothing
in the contract to compel the company to
operate the eastern section, while, on the
other hand, it is quite clear, that the coinpany may from tinie to time make demands upon the government of Canada to
operate such sections of the road as they
may select, subject, of course, to the terms
mentioned in the contract. There should
be a rectification of the contract to that
,extent. It was also pointed out that
owing to the collapse of the Quebec
bridge it wîll be impossible to operate
what is lknown as the section from Quebec to Moncton. It is estimated that it
will take some five or six years to complete
the Quebec bridge, wvith the great expenditure which I have already pointed out,
and until the completion of the Quebec
bridge it will be impossible to operate
this road as a transcontinental system in
its entirety. The Grand Trunk Pacifie are
therefore at liberty to say to the government of Canada, ' We shaîl not enter into
the operation of this system until you cernHon. 14r. LOUGI{EED.

plete the Quebec bridge,' and yet we are
left in that position by which the company
maay defy the government of Canada and
say, ' We shall not operate this road until
you complete it in -every feature.' Another thing I might point out, and which
should have been rectified, is the carniage
of unrouted freight. It is a well known
fact that the contract simply provides for
the Grand Trunk Pacifie carrying routed
freight along the governiment system, but
ail unrouted freight may be diverted say
at the Lake Superior junction of the Grand
Trunk Pacifie aystem. There is no provision made in regard to this very important matter, and which is ail essential s0
far as the operation and success of the
National Transcontinental Railway aystem
is concerned. I might point out another
infirmity, certainly a very glaring and colossal one when you corne to figure it out
in dollars and cents, and that is that during fifty years we are leasing this system
on a basis of three per cent although the
money is costing us at least four. It doed
not require any very complex calculationi
for hion. gentlemen to observe that if this
road cost $150,000,000, as it certainly will,
and probably $200,000,000, and we are paying four per cent on $ 150,000,000 it means
that we are Iosing one per cent. That is one
million and a haif a year in interest alone,
and in fifty years, without compounding
the interest, $ 75,000,000. Is there any reason why the goverrnent, should lease this
system on a three per cent basis to this
or any other company, while the money is
costing the Dominion four per cent? 1
might go on pointing out the varlous infirmities which have appeared in this contract or series of contracts, concerning
which the government have not made the
least effort to rectify. I have dealt with
the past and present, and now let me say
a word or two as to the future of this
undertaking. I have said before that the
helpless attitude of the government is an
express invitation to the Grand Trunk Pacifie, at any time during the construction
of this great scheme, to demand from the
governrnent such assistance as 'they may
need from time to time, notwithstanding
the limitations provided for in the contract. I have already pointed out that the
mountain section has been estimated by

MAY 11, 1909
the gaverniment authorities ta cost no less
than $80,000 a mile. What I wish to direct
attention ta is this: that the flxed charges
upon this system from Moncton ta the Pacifie will exceed twa thousand dollars a
mile; on the basis of three per cent upon
the cost of the eastern section, it 'will reach
at least two thousand dollars a mile. The
fixed charges at four per cent upon the
prairie section and upon the mountain section wiil reach no leas than approximately
$2,400 a mile. These will be fixed charges
that the company wilh be called upan ta
psy to the government of Canada, and ta
the secnred creditors ai the campany beifare anything ean be realized upan the
operatian af the system. I would like ta'
point out ta hon, gentlemen that these
flxed charge~s are at least one hundred per
cent in advance of what the flxed charges
should be - at least they are more than
double the flxed charges of any of the
raiiway systema within the Dominion af
In aur hast Year-book the net
Canada.
earnings af 1906 an 21,352 miles ai railway
in operaticin are given as $38,193,431, or
$1,789 per mile, out ai which ail dividends
and fixed charges are paid. The Canadian
Pacifie Railway, up ta June, 1907, with a
miheage of 9,153, shows a net revenue over
wvorking expenses, alter deducting miacellaneous revenue iram sleeping cars, exThis
press, telegraph, &c., of $9,273,564.
gives a surplus af two thousand one hundred dollars per mile. This gives a surplus applicable ta fixed charges and dividends. Ont ai this, $M2 per mile representa
the fixed charges and $987 per mile the
dividends. I might say that the flxed
charges af the Canadian Northern, s0 far
as I can ascertain are less than $1,000 per
mile. If han. gentlemen can salve the
prablemn as ta how this system with flxed
charges exceeding $2,000 per mile, pract.icaliy $2,000 per mile upan the National
Transcontinental Raihway system, and $2,400 per mile upon the mountain and prairie
section combined, ean possibiy meet its
obligations, I shonid be very greatly enlightened in learning the solutian ai that
probiem.

eto

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Interest payable
upon practically the actual cost of the road
as represented by the bonded indebtednesî
by whatever bonds, or mortgages, or securities may be upon the road.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-That is only $90
on the Canadian Pacifie Railway.
That is
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
given in tihe Year-book.
Hon. -Mr. POWER-I think the hon. gentleman means the yearly cost.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED. Yes. I furthermore inake this statement, that this section
will start off by having greater flxed charges
upan its three thousand and some odd miles
than upon the entire systemn of the Canadian Pacifie Railway with something over
ten thou.sand miles. However, as I hav-c
already said, the gavernment of Canada
has committed itacif ta this scheme, and
while in the interests of the Dominion it
may not be able fromn time to time ta ignore
the varions demands 'which are made upon
the treasury by this company, yet it is
incumbent upon the goverument ta exercise
a very inuei dloser scrutiny than they have
made in the past ta prateet the best interests
of Canada in the boans they shall make froin
time to time ta this company. So far as
the Bill before us ie coneerned the 6enate
cannot axnend this Bill; they must either
accept or reject it. Ail 1 have to say ini
conclusion, hon. gentlemen, is that as we
have committed ourselves to the undertaking 1 suppose it will have ta be completed
either as a public work by the goverument
of Canada or by the joint assistance of the
governiment of Canada and the Grand Trunk
Raiiway. However, I regret ta say it will
be a burden upon the finances of Canada
for the next. t'wo generations; and a monument ta the business incapacity' of thL9
government. I regret to say hon. gentlemen and it is a matter for national regret
that the government of 1903 rejected tha
proposais which were made by the Grand
Trunk Railway Company in 1902 for the
building of a system fromn North Bay ta
the Pacifie eoast upon what 'would undoiubtedly have proved a very smahi subsidy
in comparizon with that which we have
reHon. Mr. GIBSON-What do yon cal already granted, and it is to be further
gretted that the government af that day
the fixed charges?

SENATE

forced upon the Grand Trunk Railway of
Canada through its rejection of those proposaIs, a political instead o! a business
transcontinental system. Under these circumistances, hon. gentlemen, 1 can but express my *dissent te the recklessness ef the
financial policy which lias been pursued by
this government upon this very important
enterprise.
Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-This is the third
time the question of the Grand Trunk Pacific bas been befere this honourable House.
It is aIse the third time 1 have had the
privilege of answermng the leader cf the
opposition, who in 1903 and in 1904 was Vhe
hion. member for Hastings (Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell). My remarks on those occasions have been extensively published in
the press, 1and while I do not say At as a
toast, the fact remain-s that none o! those
statements, se far as 1 know, have yet been
contradicted. This I say in order that hon.
gentlemen may have confidence in the fe~w
iemarks I have to make. There may be a
difference o! opinion as ta the cost o! this
road. I remember full well that during the
Iast general election we claimed credit for
the !act that from Winnipeg to Wainwright,
a distance o! 667 miles, the t.rack had been
laid, the road actually in operation and that
without costing one cent ta the taxpayers
of this country, in land or in money. We
had a road o! *a standard sucli as had
iever before been huilt in this country.
We all remember perfectly well that an hon.
gertieman in the other House, Mr. John
Charlton, made an apparently optimistie
speech., in wçhich hie pictured a railway with
foui-lenths of one per cent grade, or 21 feet
ta the mile, traversing the continent from
ùcean to ocean. People thought then it
-was nothin.- but the drearn of.a visionary;
and that such a thing could not be possible;
but the realization max' be found te-day by
àny hon. gentleman who will go te the Railway Board and examine the plans and
profiles. What bringas this question more
particularly before this Rouse te-day is
the fact that the gevernment engineer, a
man of vast experience, a man who bas
been gevernment engineer for many years,
Mr. Collingwood Schreiber, estimated the
cest of the prairie section at $17,3W3 per
mile, and the gevernment agreed te guarlion. '%r. LOUVGHEED.

antee three-quarters of that amount. The
calculation proved to be altogether toc Iow,
and before lending money again on this
enterprise iA night be right to, examine~
into what bas been. done, and whether,
in advàncing this money now, the country
has ample security f or the loan it is about
to make. There is no disguising the fact
that the railway is costing much more
than was anticipated by some of the engiiieers who estimated the cost eriginally,
althniigh other engineers were flot mista-ken
az to what it actually would cost. The
actual amount of money spent, for instance, on the section between Winnipeg
and Moncton, up to the 3Oth of Septemnber
last was $46,000,000; total amnount of
*grading done was six hundred and sixtynine miles, and the total ntunber of
And, there
miles of rail laid 309 miles.
is this satisfaction about those rails that
every one of them bas been made in Canada, either by the Dominion Iron and
Steel Company, or the Algoma Steel works.
Thus the money expended on rails hias
aIl gone into Canadian labour, and the
Canadian people have had the benefit of
Something hias been
that expenditure.
stated just now as te the qualifications of
the four members of the Transcontinental
Railway Commission who are in charge of
the work, and the gravest charge against
them is that they are not railway men. No
one will deny that the Canadian Pacifie
Railway is a wonderful success, and if we
look at the namnes of the gentlemen who incorporated the Canadian Pacific Railway, I
defy the hon. gentleman to find a railway
man amongst thoem. Lord Strathcona, then
Sir Donald Smith, was not a railway man.
Mr. Stephens, new Lord Mount Stephen,
was not a railway man; Mr. R. B. Angus
was net a railway man; none of the directors that I know of were railroad men.
The railread men we imported from the
United States; Mr. William Van Horne,
new Sir William Van Horne; Mr. Shaughnessey, now Sir Thes. Shaughnessey, came
to our country from the United States. We
vwere glad to welcome them and they have
accomplished great things for Canada.
Noow. the great dlaim of my hon. friends
opposite, though net se xnuch in this House
as in the other Ohamber, was that the
Moncton section wvas devised for political

MAY il, 1909
purposes. If it were so devised it worked
admirably, because fromn Levi-s down to
the end of the province of Quebec, ail but
one county traversed by the Transcontinental Railway have returned supporters of the
government. In New Brunswick the 'whole
district traversed by the railway bas returned Liberals, so that if it was a political
job it worked admirably and the people approved of it. The railroad is divided into
three great sections; one section from -Moncton to Winnipeg, 1,804 miles; the prairie section fromn Winnipeg te a point 125 miles west
of Edm'-nton, at W-olf Creek, a distance of
915 miles; and lastly the mountain section
837 miles, making a grand total of 3,556
miles. No railway of tha.t length lias ever
been conetructed in Canada at one tuie,
and only one that . I know of in ail the
world, the Trans-Siberian Railway. But the
Trans-Siberian Railway cannot be coinpared or mentioned in the saine breath
with thîs railway, which has been built
The
on an immensely higlier standard.
hon. leader of the opposition was talking
about distances. I find the distance between Moncton and Quebec ia 460 miles,
and Mr. Butler claisus that if the Intercolonial was operated on that route instead
of where it is, an equal amount of business
couldr be done for a couple million dollars
less in the cost of operation. Be fthat as it
may, it is hoped that his opinion is better
than the opinions we have had from others.
Every one knows that with the easy grade
between Lévis and Moncton, it is posaible for a locomotive te do about twice as
much work as ehe could on a heavier grade.
Two pusher grades exist near Grand
Falls, but right at the Grand F alîs, as if
Providence had designedly placed iL there,
we have a water faîl of 131 feet head, capable of developing one hundred t'housand
horse-power which is quite sufficient to
transport aIl the railway traffie up these
grades. It csay be well for this House to
know exactly where the work has been done.
In New Brunswick, there have been 40 miles
cf rails laid; in Quebec, frein Quebec city
westward, altogether about 120 miles; and
from Winnipeg eastward, 149 miles; making
a total of 309 miles, including the sidings
and the yards, and the sidings are considerable. For instance, on the Winnipeg sec-

tion, if my memory serves me riglit, there
are some 35 miles of sidings and yards. The
grading in New Brunswick to the 31st of
December last was 150 miles; the grading
east and west of Quebec, 254 miles, in the
Abitibi district, 20 miles; and froin Winnipeg eastward, 245 miles; making. a total
of 669 miles.
Now, this route, which my hion. friend the
leader of the opposition does flot view with
f avour, has a very great advantage over
any known route. The distance froin Liverpool to Yokohamna via Quebec and Prince
Rupert is the shortest possible between
these points. As stated in a pamphlet
of the Grand Trunk Pacific Company,
it is ten thousand and thirty miles. I do
not know how they arrive at that estimate, because I make it 9,528 miles, which
is 528 miles less than by the Canadian
Pacific Railway and 1,313 miles less than
via New York. It would also be 130 miles
less than via Moscow and the Trans-Siberian line te Yokcohama. The length of the
circle going right around the globe at that
latitude is only 19,164 miles, which is, as
you know, about 5,000 miles less than by
making the grand circle at the equator.
That "distance of 19,164 miles is, strangely
enough, divided about equally between
land and water, being 9,500 miles by
steamnship and 9,500 miles by rail. If you
travel by steamship at 20 knots an hour- and nobody denies that steamers te-day
go much faster than that-you would make
the ocean part cf the journey in seventeen
days, and travelling at the rate of 30 miles
an hour by rail, you would make the 9,500
miles on land in thirteen days. Of course,
the average rate o! railway travel is much
faster than 30 miles an hour in America,
but the trains on the Trans-Siberian Railway go much alower, and -a fair average
would be 30 miles. It would take, therefore,
altogether thirty days for a letter mailed
fromn Quebec, following that route, te make
the circuit of the globe and be returned
te Quebee. These facts are corroborated
by comparing distances. Froin Liverpool
A
te Quebec the distance is 2,e.2 miles.
steamship travelling at the rate of 20 knots
an hour would maire that distance in five
days. Then froin Quebec te Prince Rupert
is 3,096 miles. A train travelling at the

SENATE
rate of 40 miles an ho ur-and that may not
be considered excessive, because the Canadian Pacifie Railway, which is not built on
as good a standard as the Grand Trunk
Pacifie, ran the Trans-Canada train last
year and the year before at the rate of 40
miles an hour from Montreal te Vancouver
-would run from Quebec te Prince Rupert
in three and a half days. Prince Rupert to
Yokohama is 3,800 miles, and the steamship would cover that distance in eight days
at 20 knots per hour. Yokohama te Viadivoi3tock

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-On the National
Transcontinental Railway from Moncton
to Winnipeg.
Hon.
Mr. LOUGHEED-The
Trunk Pacifie does not psy that.

Grand

lion. Mr. CASGRAIN-The amount on
which they will have to psy 3 per cent
will include the interest.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.

They have

is a comparatively short distance, that road for seven years after its comple-

and, a]lowing for slow travelling, could be
covered in two days. Prom Vladivosteck to
Liverpool would take ten days, owing to the
slow rate of speed on the Trans-Siberian
Railway. That would make 281 days as the
time it would occupy to go around the world
by this new route, which makes Jules
Verne's 80-day trip, which was looked upon
in those days as being chimerical, appear
now te be very slow.
1 would estimate the cost of the eastern

tion without paying interest snd the interest is not added to the principal.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I resd the contract the other day very carefully again,
and made special note of that fact, and I
have obtained information also from the
authonities. I had a conversation with MNr.
Wainwright.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is only on the
prairie section that the interest is added
section at $1o,000,000. The Ontario govern- te the cost.
ment have built the Temiskaming & Northeru Ontario for a distance of 250 miles. A
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I amn taking the
member of this House was on that commis- National Transcontinental Railway proper,
sion, and hie will bear me out in the state- between Winnipeg and Moncton, and
ment I arn about te make. The first section what I dlaim is that every year the
of that railwav has not as good a grade as interest on the amount expended in the conthe National Transcontinental Railway, but struction of the liue is added to the printhe last 150 miles of it wllich connects with cipal; but during the first seven years of
the National Transcontinental Railway at operation, interest is flot paid.
Then
Cochrane junction has, I understand, the another matter the hion. gentleman did not
same easy grade. The railroad, built by the put before the House, is the fact that the
Ontario government cost for the 250 miles entire equipment of the road, not only
the sum cf $15,000,000. It is a very simple from Winnipeg to the Pacifie coast, but
question of proportion; if 250 miles cost from Moncton to the Pacifie coast, must be
$15,000,000, what will 1,804 miles, the dis- furnished by the Grand Trunk Pacifie ittance from Moncton to Winnipeg, cost: and self, backed by the Grand Trunk Railway,
the answer is $ 108,000,000. The Temiska- sud out of the twenty million dollars rollming snd Northeru Ontanio has been bujit iug stock which they are compelled to put
through a country very siniilar to that which on that road, five million dollars of that
the National Transcontinental Railway tra- equipment is bound to be made for sud
marked National Transcontinental Railverses. Now, as the construction
proceeds,'
the interest on the money expended is way sud to remain on that portion of the
line between Winnipeg and Moncton.
added to the cost of the road. For
instance,' Allusion has
been made to the change
up to the 3lst of December last,
the
penditure was $46,000,000. The interest ex- in the contract in 1904, relating te
on
the mountain section. Instead of guaranthat is being added every year.
teeing an amount up to $30,000 per mile
SHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-On which sec- as the contract provided, when it was estition?
mated that the cost would be $40.000 per
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

MAY 11, :1909

mile, the engineers having found that the
road would cost more than that, the government agreed ta guarantee 75 per cent of
the amount af the actual cost, which was
in accordance with the spirit and the very
essence of *the contract. In guaranteeing
75 per cent the government are not running much risk, because they have not only
the guarantee af the Grand Txunk Pacifie
Company but also the guarantee of the good
aid Grand Trunk Railway with $187,000,000
assets. Besides that they have behind them
again the 25 per cent of money wvhich has
ta écame from soxnewhere other than from
the government.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And the stock owned
by the Grand Trunk Railway.
Hon. Mr~. ÇASGRAIN-The total stock is
$45,000,000, of which $20,000,000, is preferred and $25,000,000 common. In the first
contract, the Grand Trunk Railway was ta
hold the $25,000,000 coznmon stock, and in
the amended contract they were allowed to
dispose ai some ai the comman stock. It
is well now to look at the road, and see
what sort of a railway we are building.
Starting at Prince Rupert, the foundation
is being laid of a model city, which ivill
be equal to Vancouver or Victoria in
a iew years. Prince Rupert has the immense advantage af passessing a very mild
climate. Frost is almost unknown there
except for a few days in mid-winter. It
has been designed with the greatest care
by the very best landscape architects this
continent could afford, and the city has
been laid out 'with an eye to beauty as well
as commerce. The plans can be seen al
over this country, and property there wiii
seli at an enor'mous price, because the peaple have f aith in Prince Rupert. Ships
fromn the seven seas wili soon ride at anchar in that magnificent harbour, unloading silks and rice the products of the Orient,
and returnîng with full cargoes of wheat
and lumber. At its narrowest part the harbour is 2,000 feet wide, and it has a depth,
at low tide, ai 36 feet. There is no better
hsrbour on the Pacific coast, or perhaps, in
the world. There are along the caast other
fine harbours, such as Port Simpson, and al
with a good deoth of water. Around Prince

Rupert the timber industry is of enormous
value. Besides that, cannery aiter cannery will be erected, as at Vancouver.
giving exnplayment ta a large number ai
people, and the Grand Trunk Pacifie wiii,
as the' Canadian Pacifie Railway hias
been doing for years, carry large consignments ai the best af fish ta the eastern
cities ai Canada. Twenty-flve years ago, or
even fteen years ago Victoria, Vancouver,
Tacoma, Seattle, Portland, San Francisco
snd the smaller places like Beliingham,
Everett, Aberdeen, Astoria, San Pedro and
San Diego were small points on the map.
Fil teen years hence Prince Rupert wiii
without daubt, be the equal ci Vancouver.
We dlaim that this new raiivay wiil be the
finest in the worid. That is a common expression ta use, but in this case it is
absoluteiy true. I have looked into the
matter and have made inquiry of railway people, and ail agree that there
is no sudh rai]vay on the face ai the
earth as the Grand Trunk Pacifle wiii be
Now, starting from
when constructed.
Prince Rupert, the road foiiows the north
shore ai the River Skeena ta Hazelton,
about 180 miles. There is a very easy grade
all that distance. The navigation on the
Skeena is scarcelyr obstructed up as f ar as
Hazeiton, proving there is but little difference in level. From the Skeena river, the
railway ioiiows the Bulkley river about 100
miles, ascending slowly. Then there is a
smail summnit. That summit corresponds
ta the summit oi the Selkirks, only the
Canadian Pacifie Railway crosses at an altitude ai over 4,000 feet, wvhile here il is
much lover, as the inauntains decrease
in altitude as they run north. Then
the line runs -narth ai Fraser lake.
and irom Fraser lake ta the Stewart river
and another river wit.h an unpranaunceable naine ta Fart George, wheré it
crosses the Fraser river. I may say
that a branch is ta be extended down the
Fraser river from Fart George ta Westminster, a distance ai about 350 miles. Near
the su-mmit is the aniy place between
Prince Rupert and Quebec, a distance ai
3,096 miles, -where the grade amounts ta
ane per cent, and that point is at mile 27
west-ward irom the Great Divide utp ta

SENATE
mile 48, a distance of a littie less -than 21 elevation at that city is 3,428 feet, only 280
miles, following the Fraser river. As every feet below the summit level at the Grand
one knows, in former years a one per cent Trunk Pacifie in the Yellow Head pass.
grade was considered easy.
There are many buildings in New York
and e].sewhere much higher than 280 feet,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What does that or about the differenoe 'oetween the
elevation of the town of Calgary, which
.amount to per mile?
ia actually. in the prairie, and the
highest point reached by the Grand
Hon. Mr. OASGRAIN-It is 52 feet per
mile, so that in that 21 miles there is a Trunk Pacific. A railway train could easily
drop of about 1,000 feet along the Fraser haul-and this is not denied by any oneriver.
Then the road crosses the Great 2,200 tons on a grade of four-tenthe of 1
Divide, and 1 may say in passing, that on per cent. Here is another point which has
the western alope, near Lake Fraser and been discovered by engineers in actual exbetween Fort George and Hazelton, there perience, and not by theoretical calculais some excellent land. This grade of one tions. A grade of four-tenths of 1 per cent,
per cent for 21 miles is flot an adverse or 21 feet to the mile, is such that if a
grade, because, as we have ai] heard, the train commences te ascend that grade at a
grain of Alberta and northern Saskatche- certain speed it will maintain that speed
wan is moving westward, and, therefore, it ail the way up the grade. On the other
will be a favourable grade to help the hand, if cars geV loose and commence te
grain on its way to the Pacific coast. We descend such a grade, if they are going at
&Il know the importance of easy grades in ten miles an hour, they might go on foroperating railways. It has been found ever without accelerating their speed. On a
ea.sy to ibuild this railway because tlue grade of 1 per cent or 52 feet per mile, if a
altitude in the Yellow Head pass is not car gets free, the speed will accelerate until
very great, only some 3,708 feet and there an accident results. There is a point between
are no great depressions. The lowest point a grade of 1 per cent and one-tenth of i per
on the line between Prince Rupert and the cent where the car will go down the grade
source of the St. Maurice river is at Winni- without accelerating, where the grade is sufpeg, which is about 800 feet above the level ficient to keep it moving, while the resisof the sea. Ail1 the other portions are on a tance of the air being greater than the effect
level plateau, and there are no great de- of the grade, it cannot go any faster. This is
pressions. Compare this with the Southern the ideal grade that hias been found. On a
Pacific. I caîl special attention te the grade of that kind there is no trouble i
f act tliat the Southern Pacifie, in the state hauling a train load of 2,200 tons. Take
of Arizona, runs for a long distance at 203 one-thir-d off that for the weight of the cars,
feet below the level of the sea. N>ùt only you have a net cargo load of 1,466 tons. At
must that railway master a smmit of about 53 bushels of wheat to the ton, it would
e,000 feet, but it must descend 263 feet amount to 48,378 bushels, or roughly, 50,000
hbelow the level of tide wuter. The surnmit bushels as a train load.
'where the Grand Trunk Pacifie crosses in
1 submit the following comparison of
the Yellow Head pass, is only 3,708 feet summit elevations, maximum gradients and
above the level of the sea. The hon. leader total elevation ascended by various transef l1he opposition lives at Calrarv, and the. continental railways:

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

MAY 11, 1909

MAXIMUM OBDiEinT
IN FE1ETPER MILIL

Nnsa o~
RA1WAY.
NAXE F
RAIWAY.Summite.

ighest
EastboundI.

Grand Trunk PacitieWest. Div. Winnipeg ta Pr. Rupert ... .........
,712
Eastern Div. Winnipeg to Monoton.......... ............
Canadian Pacifie.............

...

5,532
2,849

Union Pacifie Syitein Oinalia to San Francisco...

...

..........

116
..

Westbound.

6,990
6,890...........
n8106
23,051
. . .. . . . . . .
...
15,305
.. . . .

......... ..........

116
116
17,830
.. . . . .. . . . ... . . .

17,137

3 summits.
8,247 .
...................
7,017................8,575
17,552
U,31 . . . . .
... . .... ....
5 summits.
8,247
..
..
....
. .....
6,953 .. . . . . . .... . . .. . . . . . . . .
31537
106
116
18,171
17,171
3,936 .. . . . . . . . .
. . .. . . . . . .
4,204 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

....

2 bummits.
5,712
W3
5,018 . . . . .

per mile ...............

Santa Fe Systeni...... ....

..

Easet.
baund.

3 summits.
5.202 ........... .....
1
6.
4,146...............15,987
3,375 . .. . . .. . . . . . . . .

so..........
C59..........

..

26
31

....

3 sufl-fits.

Northern Pacifie ......................

'Western Pacifie, $150.01)

21

....

...

... I

Omaha te Portland ..... .

Westbound.

2 summits.
52"9
237
4,38
. ....

...... ...

Great Northern .......................

TOTAL AsczNT IN
FRET OVERCOMEB.

...

53
9,3m5
. . . . .. . . . .

5,076
.. ..

6 summits.
.
7510 ...........
7,453 . . . . .

6,987

7,132
2,575
3,819

...
.
...
....
........
1Ï5
185.
34,003
34,506
.. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .

:::. ::..
..

Froin elevation at Moncton.
N.B.-Southern Pacifie railway in Arizona rune for several miles at a level 263 feet below sea level.

As ta the cost of the prairie section, we
have 8een that the first 767 miles from
Winnipeg ta WVainwright have been opened
without costing a cent ta the country. My
hon. friend the leader of the opposition is
very anxious about the security for this
boan. 1 would refer him ta the speech of
lis own leader, Mr. R. L. Borden, at page
8698 of ' Hansard ' of this year, and there
it is seen, according ta Mr. Borden, that
with the mere influx of population and the
growth of the country in a few years the
stock will be selling at $100 or $150. 1
cannot give my hon. friend from Calgaryv
ainy better authority than his own leader
flEvis1!ýr

in the Hanse of Gommons as ta the security
the country will hold for this loan.
The
estimated cast of the prairie section was
$ 17,333 per mile. That was made up by
Callingwood Schreiber, a man of vast experience, and he said that the prairie section should be buit for that. Mr. Schreiber
was mistaken, and it was not exactly his

fauit ihat he made this mistake. He as-.
sumed that it was all a prairie road, and
I will prove that it was nat. The actual
cost as constructed is $35,000 per mile. The
test of construction above subgrade is $12,000 per rumning- mile. This is an expenditurc cominon ta every mile of the road,
EDITION

SENATE
whether the work be heavy or light. Cost
over subograde includes fences, rails, &c.,
ties, telegraphs, depots. section bouses.
tuin-tables, engine bouses, ballasting, division yards and buildings. The $ 12,000 i%
part]y made up as follows:
Per mile.
Rails.............55W
Track laying..........250
Ties.............2,000
Ballast............1,000
Turn-table, terminais and ougilhouse...........,0
Deots.................500
Section houses. .7............2M
Deducting this $12.000 from the estimated cost of $17,333, it would leave for the
construction of the railway to grade $5,333.
The spirit of the contract was that the government was to guarantee three-quarters of
the total cost, and the three-quarters of
$35,000 would be $26,250. The prairie 6ecltion is 913 miles long and the present loan
would be equal to $ 10,734 per mile, which
added to our $13,000 guarantee, Nvould miake
a guarantee of $23,734 per mile on a road
costing $35,000 per mile. We have the first
mortgage on the $13,000. The prairie work
amounted to $12,000 cubic yards per running mile, and in the mountain country it
amounted to very much more. The divisional point between the prairie and the
mountain sections was fixed at Wolfe creek,
125 miles west of Edmonton. There was no
dispute about that, Mr. Kelliher, the chief
engineer of the Grand Trunk Pacific consenting to the point fixed by Mr. Scbreiber,
notwithstanding the heavy work dune east
of Wolfe creek. The government moved the
point which the Grand Trunk called the
prairie 100 miles further west, so that the
guarantee on the cost of the mountain section beginj 125 miles further west. Now,
tuie bridges between Winnipeg- and Edmonton cost as follows:

West of Edmonton, the Peanhina river is
crossed by a bridge costing $320,000, making in ail for bridges alone, $2,000,000 in
the prairie section.
This road will not only be able to coinpets successfully, but will be able to do
business at about one baif the cost of arIy
other road in the country.
It is now after six o'clock and I do not
wish to detain the House with further
commenta at present. I will have to reserve the remainder of my remarks for
another occasion. Let me simply say that
my moet fervent prayer is tbat Sir
Wilfrid Laurier may be perniitted by Divine
Providence to see the last spike driven in
this national enterprise, and the nation
can then say 'Laurier bas finished his
work.'
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Just a word. My
hion. friend boasted that it was the third
or fourth turne hie had got up to answer the
leader of the opposition, and bie now dlaims
that ail be had said in the past has been
realized.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I hope so.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I just wvish Vo remind him of one thing he said in the past,
wbicb will give tbe measure of bis eelf-content. It is thie. He said:
The total cost in cash
been fully demonstrated
Finiance of the country,
ho said that the cost in

to this country has
by the Minister of
Mr. Fielding, whenl
cash would not ex-

ceed fuurteen million dollars.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That is what the
Minister of Finance said.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hion. gentleman
continues:

The honourable Secretary of State in this
House has made it over that. He lias put it
at between nineteen million and twenty million dollars for the period of ten years.
making the burden on the people of this
country some two millions a year for ton
years. At fourteen million dollars, it would
simply mean the surplus of this one yenr..
and if we take the extreme figures furnished
by the honourable Secretary of State it would
take the surplus a year and a bal to psy
Other minor bridges between Winnipeg the whole amount.
and Edmonton bring up the cost of steel
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That is what they
structures and masonry work to $1,674,800. said.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.
Bridges between Winnipeg and Edmonton.
Bridge over the Assiîniboine river.. $ 93,000
Bridge over the Assiniboine river at
St. Lazare.............530W
Bridge over the South Saskatchewan. 351,000
Bridge and trestle over Battle river. 541.2w0
Approacli thereto.. .. ............
45,000
Bridge ov-er the North Saýk-atchewan. 618,000

MAY 11, 190948

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have not.hing more divorce ehoul<i b. conferred upon tii. provincial courte or upon judges of thoee courte
to add.
specally appointedl for the. purpose.
Hon. M.%r.
PERLEY-noved the adjournment of the debate until to-morrow.
H e said: The notice I gave the other day
having been ruled out of order Iby the
The rnotign was sgreed ta.
Speaker. I have placed another notice on
the paper which I hope will be found to be
BILL INTRODUCED.
within the raies. I arn not going ta take
Bill (No. 104) An Act respecting the Thes- up the time of the 6enate by repeating
salon Railway and Northern Railway Coin- what 1 said the other day, further than
pany.-Mr. McMullen.
ta say that I do flot propose that jurisdicThe Senate adjaurned until to-marrow at tion should be given ta the provinces, because that would be contrary ta the lInthree o'clock.
perial Act; but that judges shail be appointed in Quebec, Ontaria and other provinces which arc at present without courts
of divorce, and that the presenit tribunal,
which is cumibersorneand expensive, should
THE SENATE.
be abolished altogether. 1 do flot think it
OTTAWA, Wednesday, M~ay 12, 1909.
is the desire of the cornrittee which, is
appointed by the Senate from year ta, year
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
that they should be continued. I do flot
o elock.
think they have any desire ta hear evidence
such as is given before them in matters
Prayers and routine proceedings.
of this kind. 1 have fulil confidence in the
S«ULSIDï FOR RAILWAY, JONQUIERE honour and integrity o! the committee,
and 1 believe that according ta their best
TO ýST. ALPHONSE.
light they do their duty. I would like ta
limit the number of divorces, if possible,
MOTION.
and confine the relief ta cases where men
Hon M-%r.
CHOQUETTE moved:
are faithiess ta their wives or wives are
That an aider of this Hlouse do issue for faithless ta, their husbands, and where ruen
copies of the petitions, letters or telegrams absent thernselves, penhaps go over ta the
-,eut by .the citizens of the. parish, or of the
township, and of the village af Laterrière, in neighbouring republic and leave the poor
the county of Chicoutimi, asking for a sub- unfortunate women ta struggle for themsidy for the Ha-Ha Railway Campany, or selves. It is ail very weli ta say that the
any other railway, ta build a railway fran fees
required by parliament are not exacted
Jonquière, or near thereto, ta St. Alphonse.
in cases -where the petitioners dlaim ta be
The motion was agreed ta.
poor; but suppose that to, be the case in
sorne instances, what would you do with
the witnesses that might have A corne
DIVORCE COURTG FOR CANADA.
frorn thse extreme portions of distant provMOTION.
inces, wha cou]d nat afford ta came? In
Han. Mr. ]ROSS (Halifax) rnoved:
cases of that kind, you would find it was
only the rich who could corne here and
llesolved, Ist. That in the opinion of the.
Senate, the present method of granting di- obtain a divorce. I have the authority of
vorce iby statute is contrary ta the practice Judge Graham, o! Halifax, before whorn al
in Great Britain and France, as well as ke divorces in Nova Scotia are heard and
ing unnecessary for the provinces cf Nova granted, that the expense o! a divorce suit
Seotia, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, and Britishi Columbia, in which pro- there is from $80 ta $150, and that there
vinces there are courts having juriediction were only four cases tried in Nova Scotia
in divorce.
during the last calendar year, not one of
2. Thât as regards crst, it favours the rich
which could afford ta corne here ta obtain
and is tao expensive for the. poor;
3. That it sho'uld be discontinued, and that relief. My abject is ta have this matter disjurisdiction in niatters of marriage and cussed as freely and fully as passible, so
3] ý

SENATE
that the opinion of this House will ho ever to prove that these detectives were
~known, and tho public shall have the persons of character whc>se oaths should ho
benefit of it.
taken, or that they were flot merely swear
ing professionally as to certain things whicbz
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I want to make an ob- were necessaTy to, prove the case.
Thon
servation or two with regard to this matter. there is aiso the vast exponse which atI second my hon. friend's. motion. I do flot tends the carring on of the oxaminafions
think it is necessary te go into the ques- before the committee, and while the comtion as te, whether divorce be desirablo or mittee is some times liberal and allows
a
not desirabie at this moment.
Divorce poor person to get through at the least
is -aiready in operation in Canada. There expense, yot it is flot a practico that
is at
are divorce courts, I think, ini four prov- ail satisfactory, and it is not a matter, it
inces, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince seems to me, in which the parliamont of
Edward Island and British Columbia. FoT Canada should be cailod upon toD act.
the other provinces there are no provincial Viewing the matter, therefore, from that
divorce courts; the Senate grants divorce standpoint, I would profer to see divorce
for them. I think the Senate ought to get rid takon out of the bands of the Sonate a!of that duty. without reference at ail te, the tog-ether and reiegated te courts
of law
question involved as to, whether divorces created for the purpose of discharging that
are desirable or nôt desirable. This is a duty. 1 do flot think that the present
systime certainly of great unrest, and of setting tom roflects credit upon the Senate. While
aside of authority in a larger degree than the Senate is subject to much criticism
as
one would like te see. I observe that Car- to the way in which. it preforms its
dutv.
dinal Gibbons, of New York, in a contribu- and a good deal of the criticism is
unjust,
tion to one of the public journals of the stili this matter, affecting as it does the
United States this month, refers to the in- social life of the Dominion, is rather
calcrease of divorce as a deplorabie evil. He culated to, croate a prejudice against
the
estimates that at the present time thore is Senate itsolf; and the other branch of parin that country one divorce te every ten liament, which. is a party with us in
whatmarriages. Another writer who follows on evor is wrong in the matter, take
advantthat subject, shows that thero is an in- age of the fact that they do flot
inquirce
crease in the numbor of divorces, and hoe int,o it as deeply as we do, and
thoy satisf 'v
enters into calculati-ons, as statistlicians thomsolves, or at any rate onjoy thomselves,
and politicians sometimes do, fo show that with sneering against the Senate.
My view
in a comparatively few years there will be is, having divorce as an institution
in this
eue divorce te every four marriages. That country, the better way to do wou]d
ho
might be a good reason, and perhaps a for the Senato to get rid of the duty and
fair rea-son, at any rate a substantiai rea- hand it over to judges of a divorce
court.
son, for the euppression of divorce; butI 1know that thero are
some gentlemen who
what we have te deai with in the Sonate conscientiousIy believe there
should not be
is the fact that divorces are granted by livorce at ail; but it does not appear
to nie
parliament, and are granted in a manner t hat they save their consciences--of
course
in which 1 arn sure many of them would i.t ail depends on how one
looks at connet ho granted in a court of law.
The science-bv voting negatively on ail divorce
committee, ne doubt, exorcise their best Bills. I presume they are
influenced by
judgment in what they do, but they are t hoe idea that if they vote in the
nogative
net a court of law. They have adopfed. t hey are voting against granting
divorceif seeins te me, a standard mode of ex. )ut practically their vote is on the quosamination; there is ne speciai inquiry as: t ion which is before the
House. 1 trust,
to the credibility of witnesses. I have read Itherefore, that the hon, gentlemen will
two cases, I think, this session, in which t ake thîs matter into their most serious
if would seem that dotectives wore put upon considoration. Whether it can be done
thiQ
ftho stand-there snay have been more-but y'ear or it will have to wait
until some
at any rate two in which defectives -wore other yoar, I do not know; at any rate
the
called, and there w-as noeovidence w-hat- Senafe ouLfht to exorcise ifs power and inIlion. Mr. ROSS (Healifax>.

MAY 12, 1909
fluence against the present mode o! grantSo the constitution of our provincial
ing divorce.
courts is under the jurisdiction of the provinces themselves, and we have no right to
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do net want to say what css of subjects shall be assigned
discuss this question in detail, but I think them.
the firat part of the motion is incorrect. It
Hon. l'Ir. DAVID-Did the hon. gentle.,ays: 'In the opinion cf the Senate the
present' method of granting divorce by man read section 101?
statute is contrary to the practice in Great
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes, 1 read section
Britain and France.' I should like to know 101.
where the statute comes ln? I should like
Hon. Mr. DAVID-The last paragraph
te knoW where we are guided by any staof that section says that the government
tute in granting divorce P
rnay establish additional courts for the betHon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-We xnake the ter administration of the laws of Canada.
law.
Hon. Mr. LAKDRY-Yes, for the lawa of
Canada; but this motion imposes upon the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Each Bill that la
passed becomes a statuts, le that the mean- provincial court a jurisdiction which it has
not now. It is the province itself which
ing?
takes jurisdiction under surbsection 14 o!
section 92 cf the British North America
Hon. Mr. DANDURAN-,D-Yes.
Act. I contend that this motion is not in
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Because there is no order. It is unconstitutional, and, moreover, clauses 1 and 2 of the resolution are
law relating to divorce on the statutes.
a preface or preamble. They are put there
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It is the practice.
to introduce clause No. 3, and that has been
already ruled out of order.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I caîl attention ta
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The resolution, to
the third paragraph of the motion:
my mmnd, is in order. Ail that is auggested
3. That it should b. disccntinued, and that
juriediction in matters cf marriage and di- by paragraph three of the resolution is that
vorce should be cenferred upon the provin- the practice mentioned in the first paracial courts or, upon judges cf those courts graph ehould be discontinued, snd that
spe-ciilly appc-inted for the purpose.
jurisdiction in matters of inarriage and
The hon. gentleman wants us te creat2 divoroe should be conferred upon the provincial courts or upon judges of those courts
a provincial court.
especially appointed for the purpose.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-I do flot want
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-By whom?
anything cf the kind.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-W'ill the hon. gentleHon. '-%r. LANDRY-Clause 92 cf the
man shlow me te proceed. The hon. memBritish North America Act, which defines
ber is qulte right in saying that the estabthe exclusive powers of provincial legislalishment cf provincial courts belongs extures, says:
clusively to the province. I do flot intend
In each province the legisînture may ex- te dispute that, but it has been the
clusively ma-ke laws in relation te matters practice for the parliament tri allot work
coming within the classes o! eubjects next
te the contestation cf elections andl
hereinafter enumerated, that la toe ay.
aise admiralty cases. It is well knowvn
If we go dowu te the fourteeuth subsection that admiralty matters are under the jurisive find:
diction of the federal pari ament; nevertheThe administration cf justice in the pro- less the federal parliamont is entrusting
vince încluding the .constitution, mainton- the duties as regards inquiry and adjudicaance and organization o! provincial courts. tion of the admiralty cases te provincial
both of civil and of criminal jurisdiction, judges. As te whether
the legi.siature o! the
aud including procedure in civil matters in
province might object te a judge's time
those co'urts.

186

SENATE

being taken for that purpose is another than a comrnittee
of either branch o! parquestion; *but, as a matter of fact, it is a liament.
right which is being exercised and has been
exercised for a great number of years by
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I entirely agrea
this parliament of entrusting duties of that with the hon, gentleman who has just
kind ta provincial judges. If the hon. spoken -as to the point o! order noV being
gentleman turn-s to section 91, paragraph well taken; and I may add that although I
26, he will find that marriage and divorce sm in favour of the restriction of 'ivorce
are withiri the exclusive jurisdiction of this as much as possible, I would feel that if
parliament, and, being exclusively within we could transfer aur jurisdiction Vo a fedthe jurisdiction of parliament, under section eral court, and surround it with ail possi101 it would ha open to parliament to create MIe safeguards s0 as Vo restrict as far as
a special court for this purpose. 0f course we could the granting of divorce, we would
be taking&a step in the right direction.
it would be a federal court; but t, that
federal court might be entrusted, with the
consent of the provincial legisiature, the *
Hon. Mr. POWER-I deprecate any discussion on the merits o! the question until
work that might be discharged by judges the
point o! order lias been decided.
of provincial courts, or so long as the legislature of the province would flot have any
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Just in answer Vo
objection, and the judges are willing to rny two lion. friends, 1 may say that I conexercise these powers. So that I do flot see cur with them on this point, that parliathat there is any point in the contention mrent bias the riglit Vo create a fedigr-i court.
t.hat the resolution as printed on the orders That power no ones denies, because clause
of the day is in any way out -of order.
26 of section 91 states that marriage* and
The third paragraph says that the juris- divorce are federal matters, but where does
diction should be conferred upon the pro- it corne in in these resolutions? It is not
vincial courts, or upon juilges o! those a federal court they are askîng for. They
courts specially appointed for the purpose. are asking parliament to confer jurisdicit implies, of course, that it would have to tion upon the provincial courts, and that
be done in a constitutional way, and I do we have not the power Vo do.
not see that there is anything in the constitution which would prevent that being
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax>-That is not
done. I may be allowed to add that as far asked.
as I arn concernied I do not believe in
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I! the hion. gentiedivorce. It is against my religion, and.
apart from that, even if I were a Protestant, nian wants to create a court, let him create
1 would not believe in divorce. I think a federal court.
it tends to the destruction of society; but
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Tliat is what it is-a
if divorce hias to, be granted, whether
parliament creates a special court for the pur- udge of the Supreme Court.
pose or noV, it would noV divest iteelf of its
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But it is the propower to grant divorce in special cases.
vincial courts that are cited in lis resoBut if a court were created, parliament
:ution, and I say that we bave no riglit
would naturally decline to entertain any t
o impose upon provincial courts a juris.
application of the kind, and the matter
would be referred to the court, and as a diction which is ail their own. If they
vant Vo assume it Vhemselves, let them do
matter o! practice, so long as parliainent
t, but we have no right here to impose
is in a mood to grant divorces, I Vhink itt
would be far better if a court such as the hat jurisdiction upon our provincial courts,
Exchequer Court, which is a federal court, Lnd I think I arn riglit.
were entrust-ed with the duty, because the
Hon. Mr. ]ROSS-There is no doubt about
Exchequer Court exercises its jurisdiction t hat. It is noV in question at ail, because
and holds sittinzs in ail the provinces, and t o do that you would have to arnend
the
it would afford a mucli better guarantee I mperial Act.
Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE.

MAY 12, 1909
The SPEAKER-It appears to mue that,
under sections 91 and 101 of the British
North Amercia Act, power is vested in par]iament to legislate in the direction of
creating a divorce court, or giving authority
to courts, provincial or otherwise, to deai
with divorce; but the question does flot
corne up at this particular time in this way.
It is quite open te the Senate to express
an opinion, and that is ail that is being
asked now. The Senate is asked to give
its opinion that a systemi suai as is pointed
out would be better than the system now
in force. It seems to me the point of order
is not well taken.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The House will par.
don me if, at this stage of the session, 1
devote a little time ta the question brought
before 'the Senate by my junior colleague
from Halifax. The hion. gentleman wished
to fortify himself as againet the views
which the members of my church inight hold
by studying the Douay bible to see what is
said there on the subject of divorce. It just
happens that, as the hion. mem-ber from
St. John has mentioned, Cardinal Gibbon%
publishes an article in the May number of
the Ne-w York ' Century,' %vhich would
appear to have been written by one wlio
knew just the line that my hion. colleague
wss going to take.

separatiug from his adulterous wife, and in
marrying again. But the Catholie oliurch
explains the gospel in tlie sense that. while
the offended consort may obtaîn a divorce
from bed and board f£rom lis unfaithful wîfe.

lie is not allowed a divorce a vjnculo snatrirnonii, so as te liave tlie privilege of marryingeanotier.
his interpretation is confirmed by the
concurrent testimnony of the Evangelists Mark
and Luke, and by St. Paul, ail of wlicm prohibit divorce a vinculo, witliout any qualifi-

cation wliatever.

In St. Mark we read:

Wliosoever shall put awsy bis wife and
marry another, committetbà adultery iagainst
hier. And if the wife shall put eway lier
husband and bo married to anotlier, sie comnmittetli adultery.'
The same unqualified declaration is made"
by St. Luke. 'Every one that putteth away

his wjfe and marrieth another, committeth

adultery; and lie that marrieth lier that ig
put sw¶ay firom lier liusband, commîttetli
adultery.'
Botli of the-e evangeliats forbîd either
husbaud or wife ta enter into second wedlook, liowever serions may be the cause cf
their separation. And surely, if the case of
adultery authorized the aggrieved liusband
to marry another wife, tliose inspired pertmen would not liave failed ta mention tliat
qualifying circumstance.
Then he goes on to cite froru St. Paul's
epistle ta tlie Corinthiaus ta the same

effect, and he adds:
Here we find the apostle in lis Master's
namýe commanding tlie separated couple ta remain unmarried, witliout any reference te

tlie ca-se cf aduhtery.

If so important an

exception exkisted, St. Paul would not liave
omitted te mention it; otherwise lie would
have rendered tlie Gospel yake more grevious

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-That is comn- than the Founder intended.
plimentary.
I do not rend those passages altogether
for the information o! the Senate, but 1
Hon. Mr. POWER-He quotes the passage
from the 19th chapter of St. Matthew, from wish ta indicate to xny hion. colleague that
which my hon. colleague quoted, and draws he has not got the sound Catholie doca different conclusion from that reachedl trine.
by niy hion. colleague. He says:
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Halifax)-I endorse
To the Pharisees iirterposing tis
objec- ivhat the hon. gentleman lias rend.
tion, if marriage is not to ho dissolved, why
then did Moses command to give a divorce?
Hon. Mr. POWER-I uuderstood the hion.
Our Lord replies that Moses did not coinrnand, but siniply permitted the separation, gentleman from Halifax ta say that lie
and that in tolerating this indulgence, the regretted that there sliould be divorcegreat law giver lied regard te the violent that
he was opposed ta divorce, and would
passion of the Jewisli people, who would fal
into s greeter exceffs if their desire te b. be happy if there were none. Now, one
divorced and to formn a new alliance wore re- of the reasons why I support the present
fused. But Our Saviaur reminded them that
in the primitive times no such license was system la just that it limits divorce. If
granted.
we had a court sitting, for instance, in the
le then plainly affirms that sucli a privilege would neot be conceded in the new dis- province of Ontario, as we 'have one sitting
pensation; for, lio adds- 'I say to voun in the province of Nova Scotia, with suwhosoever shahl put away bi-, wife, sud shali thority ta grant divorces, I amn satisfied
marry another, ccmmitteth adultery.' Pro.
testant commentators erroneously assert that that there would be at least twenty time.,
the 'text justifies -an injured husband in as many divorces granted in the vear in

488

SENATE

the province of Ontario as are now granted
for that province by this House. I do net
know what the sentiments of rny Libéral
friends may be-I arn speaking of rny Liberal frienda who -do not belong to the sarna
denornination as I-but we know that on
more than one occasion the late Sir John
Macdonald was urged te establish a divorce
court, and he always declined, on that
ground that the present system rnînimized
the evil, and if a court 'were established
there would be a great rnany more divorces.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (H-alifax)-What
the poor?

about

cipate public opinion. In the province o!
Nova Scotia-I regret te say it-divorces
are more common than the hon. gentle.
man seerns te realize. On the last occasion
when I was in Halifax, the judge of the
divorce court gave judgment in three cases
in one sitting, and I arn, satisfied that on
an average there are as xnany divorces
granted in the province of Nova Scotia
per year as granted by this parliament for
ail the provinces in which there are ne
divorce courts.

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-That is net
correct, shlow me te ssy. There were only
four during the last calendar year. I have
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn glad my hon.
that from Judge Graham himself.
colleague has reminded me of the poor. The
bon, gentleman says:
What about the
Hon. Mr. POWER-The number during
poor? Well, as a matter of fact, hon. the last calendar year must have been less
gentlemen, in the divorce courts in Eng. than during the previeus calendar year,
land the parties, as a rule, are not poor and perhaps the three parties te whom I
people. Down in the courts of Nova Seotisi refer were making up for the shortcemings
the parties are not, as a rule, poor people; on the previeus year.
they are people 'who are well to do. As a
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Is divorce granted
rule poor people, perhaps because they are
net so highly fed, are not as likely to in the maritime provinces for the sarne
jump over the traces as people who are cause as in Ontario and Quebec and the
western provinces?
better off.
Furtber, my hon. colleague
seerns to ferget that if a party cornes te
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes. 1 arn net underthis House applying for a divorce and estab- taking te say there are as many divorces
lishes the fact that she or he is too poor per year in the province cf Nova Scotia
te psy the fees, the parties are allewed to as we have had here this year, but, tak-ingproceed in forma pauperis, and the Senate, the average for the last ten years, I arn
for the time being at any rate, defrays the satisfied there have been ab-out as many
necessary expense; se that there is not divorces granted in the province cf Nova
any more distinction between the poor and Scotia as by the Senate. One of the resthe rich in our divorce court than in the sens why I think the parliamentary tribunal
courts of the provinces. 1 wish te direct is a good one is that under our rules the
the attention of my hon. colleague, and notice which is requîred gives the parties
of the Heuse generally, te the fact that time te refleet, if husband or wife happens
while there have been seme expressions ef te be very much irritated, but if there is
opinion in this House and in the Heuse a court at hand, he or she is likely te resort
of Gommons in faveur ef divorce courts te the court. When he or she has te give
on the gro'und that these divorce cases three or four months' notice in the
take up the time ef either House, there 'Gazette,' and bas te wait ti]l parliament
bas been ne expression e! opinion frem meets, anger is like]y te cool off, and
the public outside, who are supposed te they are net near]y se likely te resort te
be affected by them; there is ne request. this ;tribunal. My hon. friend 8aid seme
1 do net think any hon. gentleman can thing about puhlicity given te the proceed
peint te any petition or te any resolution ings here.
Well, there is net any.
adepted at a public meeting, or te any The evidence is net distributed except tei
of the usual methods of expressing- public the members, whe have te act te a certain
opinion. in faveur o! the substitution ef a extent as judges. We know *what rnischief
court fer the par]iamentary tribunal, ani bas been done in England iby the publics1 de not think that we should try to anti- tînn of the proceedinges in divorce courts.
Tien Mr. POWER

MAY 12, 1909
There is nothing that I know to hinder materially, and any change in the systema
the publication of proceedimgs of divorce would largely increase it, I arn decidedly
courts in Nova Scotia or New Brunswick.
opposed te any change in the system.
Hon. Mr. ROSS .<Halifax)-It is neyert
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have no intendone.
tion ci' entering- into a discussion as ta
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is not done, but the theological controversy which has been
there is nothing to hinder it being doue. raised by my hon. friend from Halifax, parThe evidence in the cases before the Sen- ticularly in view of the lateness of the
C~e i8 not distributed. I notice that the session. It is a very prolific subject, and
hcn. gentleman froin St. John (Hon -*e might occupy a very considerable time
Mr. Ellis) said, and the saine thing over it without arriving at any conclusion;
bas been said in other places, that the nor do I intend ta express any opinion
committee do flot conduct the business sub. upon the proposition embodied in the
ject to the etrict rules of evidence. 1 have notice of motion. I simply desire to answer
not scrutinized the decisions of the com- a remark of my hon. friend from St. John
mittee very carefully, but I arn satisfied- (Hon. Mr. Ellis) who seconded the motion.
and the hion. leader of the opposition who It has been soxnewhat fashionable, I might
bas been a member of the committee for say. in this Chamber for lion. gentlemen
some turne I think will bear me out-that ta make disparaging remarks of what the
as a ru]e the ruies of evidence are cSrn Senate does from tiine to turne, and to, explied witb, and I 6ay that duiring the pres- press the want of appreciation of certain
ent -session I do not think the committef members of the Senate ta perform the eombas recomxnended the granting of a divorce rnittee duties which. are reposed in them.
in any case in which their recommendation My hion. friend fram St. John occupies
was not justified by the evidence. I ses a very high position in the journalistic
the hion, gentleman from St. John <Hon. world, and while I accord hum a fulineas
Mr. Ellis)-just as soine members of of knowledge as ta journalism. I very much
the other Chamber-reflected on the em- question bis being an entirely capable
ployment of detectives. I know that the cri-tic upon the jurisprudence of the law o!
evidence of detectives is not generally evidence. Mv hion. friend bas expressed
Ioked upon as being as satisfactory as very disaparaging remarks as ta the ability
of the Committee on Divorce te properly
that of other people, but 1 do not
think,'
looking at the cases that we have haed this pertorm their duties in respect to the
year that there was one in which the taking of evidence, and he bas illustrated
detective's evidence was more than a sort that opinion by stating that hie notices that
cf corroboration of the evidence whicb the credibility ot witnesses is not inquiredI
already existed. Then the hion, gentleman into, and particularly the credibility af
If my learned friend were
from St. John (Hon. Mr. Ellis) said some- detectives.
thing, about the attitude assumed by the familiar with the jurisprudence which obCatholic members voting against divorce tains in our courts with reference toe viin a sort of perfunctorv wvay. That question dence, bie would find that no such inquiry
I do flot care to go into now; but I amn op- is made in aur courts of lau'v. if my hion.
posed to any change in the system, be- friend will pause for one moment ta concause there is no demand for it from the sider how it would be possible te inquire
outside, noa popular demand for it. 1 have into the credibility of witnesses, it would
flot heard that the hon, gentlemen who be the best refutation of the charge which
serve on the committee, and who deserve hie has brought again-st the C.omrnittee on
the thanks of the House for taking ail the Divorce, because hie would at once apprecitrouble they do, have moved anv resolu- ate the impossibility of thus scrutinizinS
tien or organized any strike, so to say, evidence in the manner indicated. I might
against the appointinent of the committee say ta my bion. friend, that in any case
or in favour of having the work taken wbhere the credibility of a witness would
awav froni them,: and inasmuch as the be impeached. the comniittee -%ould, withpresent systein diminishes divorce very out any doubt, inquire into the credibility,

SENATE
of that witness, -or at least have the parties
to the application cail witnesses to, pursue
that particular line of examination, but
if the credibility of the witness is flot im
peached, it must be manifest to hon. gentlemen that it would be impossible to pursue
the line of evidence suggested by my hon.
friend. 1 think the very best recommenda.
lion that the committee has as to the way
in which it performs ils work is this:
that the Bis, or the reports of the committee, have flot only to pass this House,
but have to pass the House of Gominons,
and in this House, and in the House of
Gommons particularly, there are sourie of
the -ablest lawyers wjthjn the Dominion,
and in very few case2, I venture to say not
one per cent of the cases which go up
Vo the House oi Commons, are rejected on
tf < ground of the insufficiency of evidence.
I would assure my hon. friend, and
I do so in the absence of the chairman,
that the committee endeavours to adbere
as closely to the laws of evidence, as the
ç.ractice übtains in the courts of the realm.
A close examination of the reports which
are prepared fromn time Vo time wîll satisfy the mind of sny hion. friend fromn St.
JoI -n, who has made these dîsparaging ret.n'irks, that the committee has not been
unfaithful to the duties committe-d Vo them.

gatiun. I thirik it should be declared lost
on a div'ision.
The motion was %vithdrawn.
CHARGES AGAINST MR. L. A. SAUVE.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY directed the attention
of the governiment Vo the folloming charges
%vhich appeared last week in a newspaper

published in Mo'ntreal, and of which the
following extracts are the principal parts:
Three years ago the eniployees of the Soulanges canal demanded an inquiry into the
conduct of their superintendent, 'Mr. L. A.
Sauvé. The petition on this subject sent to

the ministry set forth facts of extreme gr'iv.
ity. Not only did the petitioners charge Mr.
Sauvé with innumerable acts of injustice
and brutality towards bis subordinates, but
they went the length of accusing him of having despoiled the public treasury of considerable amounts, both -by making employees
paid by the government work for his personal purposes, and by appropriating to hixnself materials belonging to the canal, for
Itouses, yachts, and even washing machines
which he was having built for hioeself.
The inquiry asked for took place in Vaudreuil in January, 1907.
This inquiry was only a miserable, comedy.
In spite of that, the inquiry revealed scandaIs whicb would warrant ton times over a.
dismissal, and in addition might have embarrassed noV only 3Mr. ýSauvé, but also several of his proteotors. This was so well understood among the latter that the petitioners have flot yet been able to procure the true
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-I wîsh to say text of the evidence. In the copy whîch was
thera the five most
that my object was merely to air this ques- sent wanting. Moreover, important depositionz
are
the shorthand. writer
tion, snd st this stage of the session I have lha omitted, voluntarily or involuntarily, in
no desire to put it Vo a vote at ail. If I the remaining depositions, declarations which
should be spared to corne back another ses- are mat compromieing for Sauvé.
.However, this text, although mutilated and
sion, 1 may have an opportunity of discus- falsified from one end Vo the other contains

sing the eubject again. I may say Vo my
hon. colleague from Halifax that on most
-of hi.s theologicacl quotationis hie and 1
agree, and thst hie and I agree also that
it -%ould he well for the government of
Canada if thev could limit the number of
divorces. That would be rny desire. With
the permission of the House, and promising that I will renew this motion next
session, I beg- leave to withdraw the reGolut ion.

enough to esta,]Aish that M'r. Sauvé has prac-

ticed tboroughly, at the expense of,the gov-

ernm2ent, upon the Soulanges canal the most
ingenious pillage that could be iniagined.
He used

the governnîent

material in the

construction of his bouses to let, his barns
and his yachts; bie sold to the goverumeut,
througb an iintermediary, rotten wood wbich

bie could not dispose of anyhow; hie carried
on a wholesale and retail trade in hay which
grows on the banks of the canal.
But where this worthy -servant showed himself still wiser, was in the praiseworthy custom hie had of keeping in bis personal emplny
dilizent sud conscientious emploi-ees paid by
the government. Throughou.t the year ho had
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not know them workiug for him. Some were building
yachts
whether we should give leave to withdraw. or repairing oats bie for him; others were harvostiug the
had sown on the lands
Thie is the second time this matter bas of the goverument; a third lot split his wood,
cleaned his stables, and exercised bis trot.
been brought up. We had it a few days
employee, milked Mr.
ago. We might have it on the eve o! proro- ting horse. A canal did
Saxiré's cows; another
Mr. Sauvé's washHon. '.%r. LOUGHEED.

MAY 12, 1909
The rules respecting the duties and obliing. Hle thus estabiished for hixnseif at the
expense of the country an almost innumer- gations of each employee were .revised ani
able staff; he had his labourera, his domestic servants, bis carpenters, his agricuitural clearly defined. There shoçild be no further
labourers, in short everything that waa difficulsty on that canai. If there is, the
necessary.
party in fault will be promptly deait--with
One understands, therefore, that iMr. Sauvé as the case warrants.
holds to his position.
What is less comprehensibie ie the attitude
Hon. Mr. DAKDURAND--Since the hon.
of the government with regard to him. For
after that, would you believe that the gov- gentleman has deemned fit ta call the attenernment bas deeined it its duty to keep on tion of the Senate to an article ini a weekly
ail the same this unworthy official?
That, however, is what bas happened, and paper ini Montreal, in which my ow~n name
there is more, W. wouid have thought that bas been referred. to as being instrumental
as a consequence of thie trial Mr. Sauvé in getting Mr. Boyer appointed and in
would return to a better conce6ption, if not
of hie duty at least of hie interesta, and that infiuencing hlm ini his report or shielding
in default of conscience, ho would have at Mr. Sauvé, 1 would crave the liberty of
least shown a littie prudence. Well, we are saying that 1 was not at the timne a .partner
mistaken, ho was scarcely reinetal.ed before
h. began hie acts of injustice (if flot hie roe~ of Mr. Boyer, altbough my nane appeared
berice, littie and big); f aise returna, dismis- as i the firm; that I had nothing ta do
sale, reductions of aalarY. and the rest,-by with bis appointment, noir with the decithese ho revenged himueilf upon the emploYes
siern arrived at by the department, and that
who had asked for the inquiry.
Instead of dismissing this un.faithful and my only contact with the parties complainlying servant-againet whom the inquiry bas ing; or the parties siding with Sauvé, was
established by evidence the worst cases of
peculâtion and disbonesty-he waS re-eStab- to meet some delegations of people fromn
lished in his functions
the cou.nities interested, who represented
And that ho will inquire whether the gev- either the complainants or tbe friends of
Of the
ernment, after having assured itself
existence of these charges, intends to dispense Mr. Sauvé, and to try and reconcile tbem.
with the services of Mr. Sauvé, or to force to accepting tbe decision thit bad been arthat employee, under penalty of dismnissal to rived at by the government. Some wanted
purge bimaself of the charges brought againat
him, by instituting in the courts judicial pro- bis disanissal; others wanted his immediate reinstatement, but the judgment of the
ceedings against his accusers.
and
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-T department had to follow its course,
neither faction was satisfied.
mny say to my hon. friend that un calling
the attention of the department more parHon. Mr. LANDRY-In answer te the
ticularly concerned to 4this matter, they observations mnade by my hon. friend I will
have 'informed me as follovm: Mr. Louii say tisis: Wben I gave notice cf the moBoyer, advocate, of Montreal, was appointed tion where I recited the facts stated in
a royal commissioner to investigate the thst newspaper from. Montreal, I took great
charges against Mr. L. A. Sauvé, overseer care net ta mention his name, se I do net
of the Soulanges canal, and under date ses why, when he is net accused, he -should
May 14, 1908, reported his conclusions to deem it necessary to make this statement.
the effect that no misappropriation of
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. g-enmoneys or incompetency in handling hiei
tlemnan first cited part of the article, and
Sauvé;work had been proven agaiist Mr.
I give hira credit for the fact that he eliminthat Mr. Sauvé had some difficulties with sted fr
the article a paragraph which
certain of his subordinates; that there were concerned me; but since lis question has
certain miner irreg-ularities in handling given greater publicity to the matter, 1
supplies; that each fact taken singly might thought 1 would answer that part that conbe overlooked, but thiat on the whole, un- cerned me.
less the conditions as they existed wvere
remedied, discipline would suffer and tho~ Hon. Mr. LANDRY-My object was net
service would net be satisfactory. In con- to put the hon. gentleman in a faise posisequeince of the recommendations made by tion at aIl.
Mr. Boyer, Sauvé was suepended for five
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I recognize that.
mnonths and ten days w'ith~out pay.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But as the article
said that since the inquiry teck place the
party bhad been reinstated and he was doing
the same things he was accused oi doing before, I desime to eall the attention cf the gevernment te the fact that he was accused
cf these matters a.nd to ask if it was the
intention of the government te compel hini
te answem bis accusers or te dispense with
his aervices. It was for the publie gocd
I made the inquiry, and not as a persona]
matter.
Hon. Mm. CHOQUETTE-Perbapa I may
add, te satisfy my hon. friend, that Mr.
Boyer, the conimissioner, bas within tihe
]ast fe'w days taken leg-al prcceedings
against the paper that bas published. this
charge. The whole thing will
go te court
and we shah] know exactly who is in the'
wvrong.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-With this
difference,
that Mm. Boyer is flot named at all ini the
article, so that the same observation I
made to my hon. fmiend whe spoke first
applies te my other hon. fmiend.
Hon.

Mr. CHOQUETTE-But

you will

get ail the facts into court.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do net know.
TRANSPORTATION

COMMDISSION.

INQUI'RY.
Hon. '-%I. LANDRY inquired:
1. On what date was the commission
crhamged with studying the question cf transportàtion appointed?
2. Who composed that comimisýsionP
3. Hlow much bas the work, of the commission cost ?
4. What works bave been executed by the
gevernment as a consequence cf the conclu-ions in the report of the commission?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The
reply is as follows:
1. 26t.h August, 1903.
2. Messrs. John Bertram. of Toronito;
Eebemt Refond, cf M-Nontreal, and Edward C.
Fry, cf Quebec.
Oit Noveinher 28, 1904,
Mr. Bertram died, Mr. Reford succeeding
him as chairmnan; shortlv after Mr. Fr"'
resigned, and on Januarv 15, 1905, Mr. J.
H. Ashdown, of Winnipeg. was appointed
to the commis-ionl.
3. $36-3301.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

4. The report of the comimission con.
firmed the scheme of harbour improvements
being carried out by the Department 'of
Pu'blic Works, and the department hais continued the work of improvement at the
points recoinmended by the comnmission.
JUDICIAL APPOINTMENTS AT QUEBEC.
INQUIRY.
Hm~. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
1. When waa the Honourable Sir Melbourme Tait appointed one of the puisné
judges of the Superior Court of the province
of (QuebecP
2. When was ho appointed senior judge of
the Superior Court f>or the district of Montreal P
3. When was he appointed chief justice of
the Superior Court of the province of Quebec?
4. When was the Honourable Fmanpoie
appointed one of the puisné judges
Lang'elierSuperior
cf th.
Court of the province of
Quebec?
5. When wa6 he appointed senior judge of
the Superior Court for the district of Quebec?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Sir
Melbourne Tait was appointed on the l8th
of January, 1887, one of the puisné judges
of the Supemior Court of the province of
Quebec.
The meply to the second question is 27th
October, 1894.
The reply to the third question is 6th
June, 1906.
The reply to the fourth question is l2th
Novexnber, 1903, and to the fifth question,
Gth of June, 1906.
The Hon. Francois Langelier wa.s appointed by the Govemnor in Cèoincil te perfrom the duties of Chief Justice cf the district of Quebec, as it is comprised and defned for the Court cf ]Revîe-%, on the 6th
of June, 1906.
CAýNADA LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY'S
BILL.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG rose te move:
That ruleq 24 (a), (b), <b), 119 and 129 be
suspcnded in so far as they relate to (Bill
56) An Act respecting the Canada Lufe Assurance Comnpany.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I object. The notice
isz that the motion will be made to-xnomrow.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I read the notice cf
motion for to-day, and it bas been put by
mistahe in the 'Minutes 'for to-morrow.

MAY 12, 1909
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Here ia what Bourirot says M. page a.34:
Thé rule which requires strict adherence
te the order paper is absolutely necessary
to prevent surprises. So rigorously is it inforced in the imperial parliament that even
when it lia. been adrnitted that a day lias
been narned by mistake. and no one has objected to the appojntmnent of un earlier day,
the change has not been permitted.
The SPEAKER-This is not a parallel
case.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But it is put down
for to-morrow, and .anybody reading our
paper would take it for granted that it
would not tomne up un-til to-morrow, and
might be misled.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I amn
an illustration of that. I was'not here
wlien my hon. friend gave notice of bis
motion, and when I looked at the order
paper te see what was ooming up, I saur
it set down for to-morrow and did n-ot prepare myseif. In that way it miglit mnislead one flot having the information at the
time.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I read my notioe
under the rule, as the rule requires t.he
one day's notice. I wrote my notice clearly
and distinctly for Wednesday and so read
it ta the House. Therefore, the House had
Hon. Mr.. YOUNG-We. will let it stand
no say in the matter as 1 was conforxning
with the rule; but through. some error in until to-morrow.
t'he records the notice lias been changed to
The SPEAKER-The motion stands untîl
one day later.
to-morrow. I regret very mucli the mistake
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There bas been a liaving occurred. It miglit bave been i1
serious one.
inistake.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Not by me; but if
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It cannot be, beit is more convenient for the House I cause if a motion cornes up to-morrow andi
arn willing to let the order stand until to- is carried, my hon. friendis will gain
their
morrow.
point.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do noL say 4shat a
Hon. Mr. WATSON-My notice wlich folmistake lias been made by the hon. gentlelows immediately after this was given in
man; but it is admitted that a mistake
has been -made in placing the notice on the same way, and was intended te be taken
up te-day. It is generally supposed we shalh
the paper for to-morrow.
have prorogation a week from to-day. If
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The mistake was pot that is carried out, there will be very littie
mine.
time for these private Bis.
Thie «notion -was allowed to stand.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I am n ot speaking
of the notice of motion itself; I merely
dlaim that a mistake has been made in
BILLS INTRODUCED.
the way it appears on the order paper.
Bill (No. 89) An Act to amend the GovHon. Mr. YOUNG-Certainly, but I arn ernment Harbours and Piers Âct.-(Hon.
willing to Jet the motion stand until to- Sir Richard Car'twrighit).
mnorrow.
Bill (No. 152) An Act to amend the Navigable Waters Protection Act.-(Hon., Sir
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-This motion is
Richard Cartwrighit).
not on the orders of the day; it la simrply
a notice given.
DELAYED RETURNS.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That is splitting
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-Before
hairs; it is on our minutes.
the orders of the day are proceeded witli,
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-II the notice may I ask the leader of the House if lic
was given for to-day, the hon. gentleman bas ascertained if -the Minister of Militia
could proceed witli it if lie chose to insist is prepared te lay on the table the coron bis right.
respondence for which I moved?

BENATE
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I addin-, the following as clause 5 to the
amn expecting to receive an answer to that iB iii:
address either this atternoon or to-morrow.
5. When the judge of the court does flot;
The Secretary of State promised to send it
nnderstand the officiai language of the parties
tor me.
or of one of them he may aék the. Chief Justice of the prvnein which ho is sitting to
naine a jug oftet province who underSENATORIAL VACANCIES.
stands the lxuaeof the parties, and the
judge so appointed shall have the saie
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend power as the judge of the Exchequer Court.
was to inform the House as to the probable
The amendment speaks for itseif. I stated
appointuient of senators to fill the vacanciea
the other day why I make the motion.
in the representation of Nova Scotia ini
this House, to which I directed his attenHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
tion last week.
may as well, perhaps, in dealing with the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I amendment of my hion. friend, likewise deai.
do aiot think I pledged myseli to do more with the amendment which is proposed by
the hon. 8enator from Ottawa in a somewhat
thgn mention that to my coileagues.
similar direction, but differing some'what
Hon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-Yes, my hon. in the mode in which hie proposes to effect
friend was to mention it. Has my hon. .the matter. I have conferred with the Minister of Justice on the subject, and while
friend done so?
both he arnd I are of the opinion that the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- question is one of very considerable moment
and requires consideration, the minister,
Yes, I did mention it.
for reaso>ns which I shall presentiy give,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wjth what re- suggaests that this matter he left until hie
baýs had fuil time, which lie cannot pos'sibly
suit?
give just now, to consider the inatiter and
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- see if any difficuities that miay have arisen
That it appeared to excite a great deal of or are likely to arise in the administration
consideration in the breasts of thait portion of the Exehequer Court Act can be met.
of the cabinet more particularly charged The minister st.ates to me tha-t the amendwith the important duty of selecting the ment my hon. friend proposes wouid hardly
senators.
be quite constitutional. Under the Britisi
North America Act, section 96, judges must
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-Was be appointed by the Governor in CounciL
the consideration as to whether they inNow, this amendment, proposes to leave
tended to fill the vacancies, or to get some the substitute judge to be seiected by the
one who would be acceptable?
Chief Justice of the province, and it goes
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-1 on to provîde that such judge so selected
think the latter difficultv is in a fair way shall have ail the powers of a judge of the
Exchequer Court. Then hie proceeds to sa '
of b.eing overcome.
that with respect to the genera] question,
EXCHEQUER COURT ACT AMENDMENT he would like to point out that Judgae Cassels bas at least as efficient a knowledge
BILL.
of the French language as Judge Burbidge
ever had, which, perhiaps. is flot saying
THIiID RIEADING.
a great deal. He may flot know it weli
Hon. Sir RICHARD
CARTWRIGHT enoug«h to understand evidence or argument
nioved the third reading of Bill (No. 98) given in French, but if such court proceedAn Act to amend the Exchequer Court Act. ings were taken down in shorthand he
would understand them perfectly when they
Hon. '.%r. CHOQUETTE moved in amend- were written out without the need of any
ment, that the Bill be ný,t now read the transiators. If any witness is unabie to
third time, but that it be amended by speak Enghlish, or prefers giighis
eviHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELT,

MAY 12, 1909
dence in French, a conipetent interpreter
is always available. Moreover, the registrar of the court, Mr. Audette, speaks
French as hie mother tangue, and many
cases coming before the court are af such
a character that, on account of the nature
of the inquiry, the most satisfactory method
ai taking the evidence and making the report is beo re the registrar. This is the
course taken not inIrequently by the presiding judge, and which the judge can
always adopt in euch cases. Then the minister proceeds ta remark that unless parliarnent is prepared ta require that the
judge af the- Exehequer Court must in al]
cases be able to speak bath French and
English, it ie liard ta see how the difficulty
eau be always avoided, and that any sucb
suggestian would very greatly limit the
area for the coice ai the judge. Furthermare, that the appeal from the Exchequer
Court is ta the Supreme Court, and iA would
hardly be asked that every memIer af the
Supreme Court should passese the ability
ta apeak or write the French language. But
the minister has also authorized me ta say
that while at this very late stage of the
sessiun lie daes flot wish ta- pass judgment
on the suggestions ai my hion. friend, lie la
prepared, if the matter is allowed ta stand
over, ta take the whole question up during
the recess, and that we trust at the next
session ta be able ta propose such an
amendinent as may be necessary to the
Exchequer Court Act whioh will obviate,
we hope, any difficulty that may be found
ta arise in the administration ai the court.
I wauld, therefore, ask bath my hion. friends
opposite me, and the hion. member from
Ottawa, ta content themselves with havlng
called the attention ai the government ta
this medtter, and bie satisfied that it will
be unider the consideratian ai the Department ai Justice during the comparatively
short interval which will now elapee between prorogation and the next session of
parliament..
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I amn quite willing ta let thje matter stand until Tuesday
ai next week; -but I wilî certainly flot
withdraw the amendment -and let matters
stand until next session. 1 wîsh ta have
t.he opinion ai the House on the question.
It is one that seenis te be sa plain and s0

easy to settie, that I amn surprised the answer could na't be given now. 1 may say
that when the lamented Judge Burbidge
died, representation was made ta the
goverfiment that they ought to appoint
a man "wha could speak and understand
bath languages, because vwe have only one
judge ai the Exchequer Court, and when
hie camne ta Quebec it was aur intention ta
ask that we examine witnesses lu French
anud argue cases in Frenchi. During the teri
ai the late Judge Burbidge when he came ta
Quebec we had ta argue cases bel ore
hlm, and we had te hear witnesses who
oould nat speak Engligli, and we made represeutiatians ta this gavernment ta that
effect. I had ta argue a case befare the late
judge, who was a very clever lawyer, but,
unfortunately, hie .cauld flot understand
French. As a matter ai iact, 1 think
Judge Cassels cannat understand evidence
given in French. 1 am sure hie will admit
himseli that he caunot preside lu a court
where the witnesses are Frenchi and where
the argument is lu French. Therefore it was
that after the death ai Judge Burbidge, we
made representatians ta the gavernment and
insisted upan the nomination ai a judge
wha wauld be able ta understand bath
languages.
The government ought ta
have had time ta consider the questian
since then. Wle h-ad expected that the Han.
Judge Cassels wauld be in a position te
understand French, jv'hen lie came to Quebec on the Marine investigation; but we
have seen that thoughi he may read
French lie could nat sit on a case where
the witnesses were French.
MaNireover, I
had saie arguments myseif with a lawyer
who was sent from Toronto wlio cauld nat
understand Frenchi and wha tried ta carnpel the witnesses ta speak in English, s0
I had ta tell hjin there that before caming
ta Quebec ta argue a case hie aught ta learn
Frenchi, that I wauld neyer go teo Taronto
and endeavour ta express my views and
especially tao examine a witness in English if I did flot understand the language.
I am very sorry, but I cannot let the session pass withaut doing samething, liecause I kuow cases are happening in Quebec where the parties are French and the
wituesses Frenchi, and we require te have
a judge or deputy judge or substitute judge

496

496
SENATE

who can understand our language.
It
seems to me that the point is easy ta settie.
It is a matter of urgent necessity, in order
to, give us justice in Quebec, that the Minister of Justice ought to be in a position between now -and next Tuesday ta give us a
better a-nswer. There is a point in the letter which bas been read, «bout the constitution, that, perhaps, if my amendment
were carried it might be unconstitutional. I
admit there might be eomething in that
contention but I do flot think, after studying the matter seriously, we should corne
ta that conclusion. However, it ia not my
intention ta argue the question again.
I
have given a special reason why I offered
that amendment. Though I amn quite willing to adjourn the debate, or postpone the
matter until Tuesday, I could not go further than that; otherwise I would urge that
my amendment be put ta the House now.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think there is one
respect in which. the Minister of Justice is
-wrong altogether. It is flot a favour we
are asking. It iîs simple justice. By clause
133 of the British North America Act it is
stated:
Either the English or the French language
may b. used by any persan in the debates of
the. Bouses of parliamient of Canada and of
the. Rouse" of the legislature in Quebec, and
bath those langugages shall be used in the respective records and journals of those Blouses,
and either of those 1angua&'es rnay b. used by
any person, or in plesding or process, in or
issuing fromn any court of Canada establish.
ed under this Act, and in or *from ail or any
of the Courts of Quebec.
This is a right.

*a right ta speak French, I think iL implies that the aLlier party has a duty ta
understand iL, or take the means ta understand iL.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTDoes the hon. gentleman think the British
North America Act requires every Englisli
judge ta understand French? Because that
would be the logical deduction from his
remarks.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, but in any
place where the two languages are officiai
languages, the judges should understand
iL. We do not always dlaim the rights we
are entitled to. We are lenient. We suffer at Limes. Yau neyer hear us complaiii
very much, but I think there should be an
end ta the abuses that are occurring nom%
You send a judge down ta the province of
Quebec who does not understand a word af
French; he is nat able ta understand the
pleadings of the people of that province,
and we are obliged ta submit ta that treatment. I think there is a measure of justice
ta be given ta aur people, and there is a
measure of justice the governrnent should
shlow. Let them send us a judge who understands French, when they send him ta
one of the courts in Quebec.
The hion.
minister knows that we are right in aur
dlaims, and I arn sure hie wiIl impress it
on the Minister of Justice. Why should
hie not send down a judge who understands
enough ta permit the parties ta plead in
French and have their cases tried before
him. in that language.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I would urge
the hon. gentleman fromn Montmagny flot
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
do not understand that Judge Cassels has ta insist upon his motion, because I berefused to allow any person to speak or lieve there is something in the remark
made by the Minister of Justice as ta the
gîve evidence in French.
framing of this motion. If he would withHon. Mr. LANDRY-If we have a right ta draw his motion I would insist upan caîlspeak French, it is his duty ta understand ing the attention of my right han. friend
ta the notice given by the hon. gentleman
French.
from Ottawa, whose views are on the order
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-No, paper as a notic'e, and with
whom I amn
flot necessarily; lie may have an interpre- in full accord.
ter.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-In order ta
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-A law must mean avoid any discussion about the consititusomething. If you have a law that means tionality referred to in the letter of the
nothing, it is no more a law. When the Minister of Justice, as to the power to apBritish North America Act says we have point a judge for the court hein- delegated
Hon. Mr. CROQUETTE.

MAY 12, 1909

to the chief justices of the province, and as
there might be something in that, though
I ar n ot quite prepared to argue the point,
if the government is willing to accept the
amendment prepared by my hon. friend
from Ottawa, I arn quite willing to withdraw mine.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
cannot do that.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-By the amendment proposed by the hon. gentleman from
Ottawa, the point I have in view will be
carried out. The hon. leader of the House
is froin Ontario. He .does flot understand
French. Is he going to tell me that the
people of Ontario would tolerate for one
moment a judge who doe not unders'tand
English presiding over the Exehequer
Court in the city of Toronto? Would they
permit for one minute a judge who does
not speak English to preside over the Exchequer Court in any part of Ontario where
oniy English is spoken? Would they not
came the next day to Ottawa and -ask for
the appointinent of a second judge who
coiild speak Eng-lish? I just put the question to the right hon. leader and bis colleagues.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTTheae are questions of practical facts. In
the first place, four-fiths of the population
of this Dominion are English and not
Frencb, or nearly that, and in the next
place the vast proportion of legal gentlemen, at any rate of the province of Quebec,
very much to their credit be it said, speak
English and understand it very weil, and
are quite capable of arguing in that language. As a matter of conveniencè, there
is no doubt whatever that the hon. member
froen Stadacona wvas perfectly right in saying that every man is justified in addressing the court in French, and is justified in
giving bis evidence in French. That is all
conceded. In such case, the difficulty be
speaks of does not arise, because an interpreter would be appointed to take. do-wn
ail the evidence, or take down the speeche3
properly translated and to place these before the judge in the event of his not being
able to understand French. I tbink the
hon. gentleman ougbt to be content with
the assurance 1 gave him, that the govern32

ment propose te consider the inatter. It is
not fair that within two or three days of the
close of the session we should be asked to
conaider a rnatter which involves such important consequences -and a considerable
study o! this Act and other Acta; and, as
the Minister of Justice truly observed, the
appeal is from the Excbequer Court to the
Supreme Court. I do not suppose he 'woulî
require that ail the members of the Sup reme Court ahould be proficient i both
languages. If he did, the choice of gentlemen to ait in that court would be enormously limited. I have no objection, if my
hon. friend from Ottawa wishes it particularly, as I do not want te spend a whole
afternoon on this discussion, to let this
measure stand until Tuesday. but I certainly cannot promise that the view of the
Minister of Justice will be altered on the
matter.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-It is quite true
that in this Dominion we are English under
an English constitution; but at the saine
time we have aorne rights in this Dominion.
and we intend te -have these rights more respected in future than they have been in
the past.
The SPEAKER-I do not want to interrupt, but th.e hon, gentleman is quite out
of order in speaking three times. 0f course
there has been some irregularity in this debate becauee he bas been asked to withdraw the motion.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-It is not my
fault if I could not put the amendment before. It was because the Bill was brought
in s0 late.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I arise for two purposes: First to ask the bon. gentleman f rom
Montmagny not te insiat on hîs motion,
and oue of the rmaisons why I do so is because I amn satisfied that the motion will be
de.clared out M~ Sder; also because I arn
satisfied that thre motion of the hon. member from Otta-wa, which he has given notice
of, would better carry out what I believe
Another
to be necessary in thre premises.
reason is, that thre demand made by the
Minister of Justice does flot seem. te be unreasonable, and I thiffk there is, in the way

REVISED EDITION

SENATE
that the demand hias been presented by
the riglit hon. leader of. the government,
sufficient reason to believe that justice will
be done in the premises. However, I cannet restune my seat without stating that my
reading et section 133 et the Constitutional
Act is what it implies when it says that
either of those languages, Engiish or
French, may be used by any person Or in
any pieading or proces;s in or issuing fromn
any court cf Canada establi-shed under this
Act., and in or from any ef the courts of
Quebec, that the judges who shall preside
over these courts shal] understand Englishi
and French; otherwise it will be nonsense
te allow the right te speak a language
which would net be understood by the judge.
However, it bias been properiy stated, that
before the Supreme Court it would be inconvenient te require that ail the judges
shall fully understand French.

Quebec, where the large majarity ot the
population speak only the French langnage, there -should be means whereby t.he
court shall be presided ever by a judge
who understands both languages, and it is
because 1 believe the Minister ef Justice
and the government appreciate the importance et it that I suggest te the hon. gentleman net to insist on his motion at present.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-In view of the
tact that my hon. triend frein Ottawa is
going te move his amendment, with the consent et the House I wili withdraw my motien, because 1 think his is more complete
and will meet the object I have in view.
Under the circumstances, 1 withdraw my
motion, but on condition that the one prepared hy my hon. friend from Ottawa be
put torward.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTF-They ouglit to. 1The anendmnent was withdrawn.
as a
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT moved:
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Thereupon
matter et convenience, and because et the
That when the Order of the Day is called
circunistances, the rights ef the French- for the third reading of (Bill 98) an Aot to
speakiing people et this Dominion have net amend the Exchequer Court Act, he wiil
move that the said Bill be not new read a
been insisteci upen, and I think that it third time, but that it b. emended by adding
tee far te insist on every the foilowing clause thereto:would be going
5.
cf
judge et the Supreme Court beîng able te fromThe judgetime,the. Exchequer Court may,
time te
and either temporarily or
fully understand both languages. But be- permanently er for special cases, with the
tween that and the trving et cases before approvai of the Governer in Council, appoint
as deputy jndge any person having the recourts of primary jurisdictien where the quisite qualifications mentioned in tetion 2
judges cannot understand French in provinces where three-tourths et the population
are French.speaking, thlere is a vast ditas a practieing
ference. Now, speaking
lawyer et 40 years experience, to my mind
it is a denial et justice te have a case
where ail the witnesses can enly spEa
French and where the parties can oe--,
speakz French, tried betore a judge who
dees net, understaiid the language. There
are ininy circunistances iii which it is mest
important that the judge shail understand
the langLuage ot the witnesses and et the
parties. It is coiiz-ider-ed important that
lie shall see the witnesses and observe their
demeanour. Can it be believed, for an instant, that hie would be satisfied with the
translation et a deposition?
1 caniiot
azree te that proposition at ail. I think
that justice requires
in the province of
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

hereof, provided such appointe. is proficient
in the two officiai laînguages, and such deputy
judge shall have and exercise ail such jurisdiction, powers and authority as are possessed by the judge of the Exchequer Court.
<a) The iappointment of a deputy judge
shahl net b. determined by the occurrence of
vacc
a <b)cThe in the office cf the judge.
Til udge of the Exchequer Court may,
with the approval of the Governor in Ceuncil.
at any time revoke the appointment of a
deputy judge.
He -aid: The niatter is neot a iiew one, and
I do net aitogether agree with the reasons
given by the Minister et Justice why it
shouid net be deait withl now; theretore I
must expressl my deep disappointment that
the Minister et Justice lias tound neither
t.he time nor the inclination te deal with it
at this moment. To prove that the matter
is net new, I refer te a hetter addressed by
thie present incumbent et the bench te the
rig-ht hion. Premier et Caniada, on the 6th

MAY 12, 1909

499

April, 1908, from which I -would like te point a deputy judge.' I want to deal just
read one or two extracts. He Baya:
ifor a moment with the objection raised by
The registrar of the court-Mr. Audette- the Minister of Justice as intimated by the
has been registrar ever aine the. reorganiz- right hon, gentleman, the leader of this
ation cf the court in 1887. In the past few
years he has, as refèree, been performinz House. I assume, however, that objection
judicial duties of a very important character, had refer;ence more to the notice of motion
notably ini the matter ci winding up of the given by my hon. friend from Quebec. I do
Quebec Southern Railway, and cf the Baie
des Chaleurs Railway; and it is only neces- not think the objection which bas been
sary teo read has voluminous reports to made under section 96 of the British North
appreciate his wcrk. Ris wcrk ha&, I think
been appreclàted by the profession. From America Act could possibly be applied te
his long experience in the court -Mfr. Audette this notice of motion, because the power te
has acquired a very thorough knowledge of
both law and practice. In cases cf expropri- appoint ia clearly lef t with the Governor
ation of land, and numerous other forms of General ini Coundil. The power is not given
action against the Crown, especially in the te the Exchequer Court Judge te appoint a
Province of Quebec, h. is probably better
qualified than I amn te ait ia judgrnent. It deputy judge; lie is merely given the power
weuld seem to me the best solution of the to make a suggestion te the Governor Genwhole situation, haviag regard to the present
business of the court and its iner-tising busi- eral in Council. who shail be appointed; se
ness, would be te app>oint Mr. Audette that that objection lias no weight as f ar as
Deputy Judge witb «Il the powers I. possess. my amendment is concerned.
The other
This is a letter addressed te the Prime reasena given by the Minister of Justice,
Mînister on the 6th cf April, 1908, more which are ail Teasons of cenvenience or inthan a year ageo. The matter, I have ne convenience, do net seemi te me te be very
doubt, must have cerne under the notice cf strong. He says that in the Exchequer
the Minister cf Justice. I wish te point eut Court the difficuity can be got over by the
that this, se far as my amendment is con- use cf an interpreter. I submit that any one
cerned at ail events, is net merely one deal- who lias had experience in interpreting eviing with the difficulty occasioned by lack cf dence in court knows liow very difficuit, I
knowledge on the part of the judge of tlie should say liow impossible it is for
French language. It is well known te those any one, I do net care how well qualified he
wvho practice in the Excliequer Court, as 1 is, te give a proper interpretation of the eviamn sure it is well known te the Minister of dence of a witness. We ail know that beJustice, that tfie work of that Court is new aides the general forma of language, there
altogether toc large for one judge te attend is the colequial language, there is the ver
te. A very large number cf cases arise there, nacular which is verY frequent-ly used by
which bave to be sent over te the registrar witnessea in the witness-box. I say that ne
or te some other official Ie act as referee- ordinary interpreter, I do net care how Procases which are referred for inquiry axld re- ficient lie may be in the twe languages, is
port. I may mention that, at the preseat capable of giving the right colour, the right
moment, there is in the ceunty cf Mada- shade cf expression 'whicli is se often used
%vaskaone hundred and forty-eight cases of by witnessea in the box. There are net only
expropriation arising eut cf the construction coiloquiai and vernacular expressions, but
cf the Transcontinental Railway, cases which there are local expressions that nobody but
cannot ail possibly be dealt with by one a man whe lias lived with the people can
judge, as every one will nt once perceive, pessibly interpret, and I appeal here te the
but whîch lie wili have te refer te Mr. Au- members of the profession, in the province
dette or somebcdy else te deai with. The of Quebec and Ontario, who have had that
object cf my amendment is te get over that experience time and again. If it is necesdifficulty as much as the other difficulty sary that a judge, as was pointed eut by
arising eut cf want cf knowledge cf the the hon. senater from Mille les <Hon. Mr.
Frenchi language. My amendment proposes Beique) aliouid hear the witness in order to
that 'the Judge of the Exchiequer Court inay appreciate tlie evidence, liow mucli more
from time tc time, and either temporarily necessary is it that the judge should underor permanentîsy or for special cases, with stand the language the witness is using?
the approval cf a Governer in Council, ap. Interpretation -of witnesses in the court is

SENATE
at best a very unsatisfactory procedure.
The hon. the Minister of Justice points out
that the regetrar of the Exchequer Court te
Nvery proficient in the twe languages. and
that because he je present in court the difficulty which we are trying te solve ie not a
serjous one.
We know that Mr. Audette
je not present at ail cases. We know that
very frequently the duties of cleik of the
court are perforrned by Mr. Morse, the reporter, or by some other official of the court.
Mr. Audette je net present,
1 amn
sure, at possibly more than one-half
of the cases which are tried by the
J adge of the Exchequer Court. The
reason which te advanced by the Minjeter of Justice, that if we exact preficiency
in both langueges on the part of the Judge
of the Exchequer Court we should have to
exact that on the part of judges of the Supreme Court, does not seern to me to be a
streng reason. The great difficulty we are
trying to overcome ie the difficulty which
arises at the trial of cases. There je not the
cerne reason for the judges ef Appellate
Courts te understand the two languages
as there ie for a judge who presides at nisj
priue, -who hears the evîdence. And, again,
%veail know that in the Supreme Court the
parties themeelves and the witnesses
are not present; they are represented
'by the counsel; and we know that ail
counsel ii1 the province of Quebec know
beth languages. In my experience in
the Supreme Court I think that 1 can remember only one instance where counsel
[rom the province of Quebec came there and
was flot sufficiently proficient in the English language te make bie argument in English. Tio-day I venture te eay there às net
in 'the province of Quebec a cingle FrenchCanadien lawyer who cannot comne before
the Supreme Court and make hie argument
in English and be pcrfectly well understood.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Do net most of the
judges understand French?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-In Quebec, yes
1 think they de. Se that there is ne simiiarity of argument applicable te the casa
peinted eut by the Minister of Justice.
If I were eatisfied that the matter was
geing te be dealt with, and dealt with by
lion. Mr. BELCOURT.

the tirne indicated by Tuesday next, 1
would not to-day insist upon my amendment, but it seerne to me the question has
been so often discussed, the parties interested have so often beepoken consideration
and attention to this matter, that unlees
some expression of opinion by this House.
or by some other in:fluential source, te given
I arn afraid the matter je going to he deait
with in the future in the same way that
it has been deait with in the meantîrne,
that it je going to be ehelved. It seems
te me there is no other way of bringing
this matter to a conclusion than by forcing it upon the attention of parliament. 1
know from personal knowledge that the
matter has been before the Minister of
Justice for a long tirne-not for weeks ex
months, but for years.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If 1 ar n ot mistaken, the hon, gentleman has adopted in
hie arnendment the wording of the Admiralty Act as it stands in the statutes.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-My amendment
is taken almeet word for word from section Il of the Admiralty Court Act, chapter 141. It provides that a local judge in
admiralty may from time te time, with
the approval of the Governor in Council,
appoint a deputy judge who shail have
and exercise ail such powers and authority,
as are possessed by the local judge. That
je almost word for word my amendment.
se there can be no such consitutional objection as that which has been mentioned
by the Minieter of Justice. There te no
great dîfficulty, and no important principle involved; it je simply the recognition
of a principle sanctioned at the time of
confederation.
Why the matter s3hould
require se much tirne and consîderation is
something which I fail to see. The right
existe on the part of those people to be
heard in their own language. Surely it
wilI not be contended that they are heard
in their own language if they are heard
by a man who doee not understand it.
Under the circumstances, it seems to me
that a clear case of the requirements of
justice has been made out and the leadex
of the House should accept my amiendment.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-If it is truc that the
Senate je the guardian of the rights o!

4AY 12, 1909
the minorities, the hon. gentleman has an
opportunity to prove so by accepting the
amendment. I do flot think there is a civilized country in the world which would
expect judges to sit in cases in which
they do flot understand the language used
by the lawyers and 'witnesses; I think it
is in Turkey there are certain parts of
the country where such things have been
done, but in Canada we are flot in sucb
a position. We are a littie more'civilized
than they are in Turkey.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I would sug.
geat that the hon. *gentlemaýi's arnetxdment be read, and that the matter be allowed to, stand until Tuesday. That would
give the Minister of Justice tixne to think
it over, and perbapa he might suggest an
amendment which would be acceptable te
everybody.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-On
second
thought, I withdraw my aý;mendment in
order that the one we have just heard
xnay be adopted; but I object to postponing the Bill until Tuesday next. The
cards are out for prorogation next week.
This is a Bill fro.m the Gommons and must
go back, if amended. If we postpone this
Bill until to-morrow, perhaps the Ministar
of Justice may have some time te give it
consideration. If we find that he has not,
it can be postponed for another day, but 1
object to so long a postponement as, the
one auggested by any hon. friend opposite,
since proro gation is iikely to take place
next Wednesday and the government might
be disposed te let the Bill drop if it should
be amended so near the end of the session.
Hon. Mr. POWER-This is
only Wednesday, and I see no reason why we should
put off the third reading of the Bill until
Tuesday next. We might let it stand until
Friday. The amendment proposcd by the
hon, gentleman from Ottawa is a perfectly
reasonable one, and is worded in the proper
way. I have generally been opposed to increasing officers and offices and expenses,
when I did not think it necessary. Up to,
to-day, I have neyer been friendly to the
idea of having a second judge of the Exchequer court; but I really think it looks
now as though it were almost a necessary
thing te appoint a second judge. Atten-

501

tion bas been called te the fact that the
Exehequer Court judge'at the present tinie
is unable to overtake the work before his
court. If the Minister of Justice wilP conaider this question during the reces s, he
may make up bis mind that, on the whole,
the better plan is te appoint a judge of the
Exchequer Court who ehail be familiaz with
the French language, and meet the wants
of the French people at large better than
by passing this amendment.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
would say to my hon. friend from Ottawa,
I presumne that before you can appoint a
deputy judge you must have some wberewithal to pay hini.
A vote in the estimates would be a necessary preliminary
te the appointment of a judge.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-My hon. friend's
mind may be relieved on that point. Mr.
Audette, the registrar of the court, bas as
a matter of fact, in numerous cases acted
as deputy judge without any remuneration.
He is stili there, and quite competent to
act as judge. He has stated that he is
1willing to do the work without extra remuneration.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Judges of the provincial courts could also be appointed.
Hlon. Mr. BELCOURT-Certainly. Il my
amendment even indirectly had in view the
expenditure of a sum of money, I would
have hesitated a long tume before moving
it in this House.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
not this proposition involve an expenditure
of public rooney?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-No, it does not involve the expenditure of one sou.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
amn afraid my hon. friend is unintentionally
misleading the House.
I have flot the
slighteat doubt if his amendment is passed
that there are numerous gentlemen, perhaps including Mr. Audette himself, who
would consider themselves qualified te be
made judges and receive a judge's salary.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I say that Mr.
Audette is not receiving anything like the
salary be earns. Three tbousand dollars

SENATE
iii wholly inadequate for the services he
performs. I speak of something of which
I have knowledge, and I say that if Mr.
Audette were appointed to-morrow deputy
judge, under my amendment, it would not
entail an expenditure of one single cent
out of the publie treasury, and there is
nothing in my motion requiring it.

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I arn quite willing to accept that suggestion. I had intended to add after the words ' appointee '
in tht, fourth line, the words following:
'Whenever called upon to act as such
deputy judge in téhe provinces of Quebec
and Manitoba.'

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Why flot makc
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- it general?
There may be nothing requiring it, but I
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Because it ba.i
think you will find my version the correct
one, that some considerable expense would been pointed out to me that the amendment
as framed might require, as a pre-requisite
be incurred.
to appointment, proficient knowledge of the
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-But it does not French language in cases deaît with in
follow as a necessity from xny amendment. Ontario. That would be unnecessary, and
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I s0 I want to lisuit it to the two provinces
thmnk
does follow as an inevitable con- where French is an official language.
sequence.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-We ought to include New Brunswick. The hon. member
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I have the greatest respect for the opinion of my right hon. from Shediac the other day called attenleader, but I do not accept his view on tion to the fact that it should apjply to the
maritime provinces.
this matter.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-When
I read this amendment, I was under the
impression that At would involve an increased expenditure, but I arn assured by
the hon. gentleman who has moved it that
a judge can be appointed and receive no
remuneration. If there is any lawyer within the circle of the hon. gentleman's acquaintance who will act as a deputy judge
for any length of time for nothing, I would
suggest that an appropriation be made to
hand down his name to posterity. I must
confess I have neyer yet found any legal
gentleman, or anyone else, who was prepared to aot in any capacity for the government without remuneration.
More than
that, I think it would be absurd and improper to ask him to do so. If this resolution involves an additional expenditure
of public money, how far is it in order, or
what right bas this Chaniber to adopt it
without first having received the sanction
of the Governor General and of the House
of Commons.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-1
would sug-gest to let it stand until Friday,
and I will then bring- the subject up again
for consideration; but I arn not prepared
ta
say wvhether the anendment
w'îll be ac-1
cepted or not.J
Ilon. MIr. BI:LCOTJBT.

The Bill and the amendment were allowed
to stand until next Friday.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (No. 149) An Act to amend the Extradition Act.-(Rt. Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright).
Bill (No. 162) An Act to amend the Customs Tariff, 1907.-(Rt. Hon. Sir Richard
Cartwright).
Bill (No. 82) An Act respecting the Monarch Fire Insurance Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Coffey).
Bill (UU) An Act respecting- the Prudential Life Insurance Company of Canada.
-<Hon. Mr. Gibson.)
Bill (ZZ) An Act to incorporate the Commerce Insurance Company.-(Hon. Mr. Gibson).
Bill (AAA) An Act respecting- the Fidelitv
Life Insurance Company of Canada.-(Hon.
Mr. Gibson).
CLASSIFICATION 0F LIBRARY EMNPLOYEES.
MOTION.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT moved concurrence iii the message frorn the
House of Co)mmons, re classification of the
offcers, clerks, and emplovees of the library of parliament.

MAY 12, 1909
Hon. Mr. POWER said:
When this pay about $31,000 for the purpose of expendmessage came up yesterday there was ing $ 12,000, and taking care of the books.
seine question raised about it by the hion. That is an expenditure hardly justifiable.
gentleman frein Stadacona. I think it was We eannot alter thinga as they are now;
on my motion that the consideration was we cannot cut down the salaries as they
put off until to-day for the purpose of see- exist, but I do think we should not coning whether it was such a measure as we cur in this proposal te raise
these two
should concur in. Having looked over this
salaries immediately by eleven hundred dolmessage, I find that there are in the liblars, and ultimately by.a couple of thousrary of parliament two librarians and eight
other clerks, and five messengers. This and dollars. I propose te move presently
classification takes the two chief clerks and that these two gentlemen whose names are
puts them in the Firat Division Subdivision put here as being in the first division, and
'A.' Section 5 of the Civil Service Act pro- in subdivision 'A' of that division, be placvides that officers of this class are paid ed in subdivision 'B' o! that division.
salaries pertaining to the rank of deputy
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will my hion.
heads. My contention is thât these two chie! friend say whether we have authority to
clerks in the library do îiot properly come amend this report in any respect, or have
under subdivision 'A' but under subdivis- we to accept it or reject it?
ion ' B,' ' consisting of and including the
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is not a question
chiei clerks ' now holding office and nlot elhgible for subdivision ' A.' ' My contention o! voting money.
is that these two gentlemen should be in
The SPEAKER-lt is a message.
subdivision 'B,' and their salaries, instead
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is a message askof starting at $2,800, shouid start at $2,100.
One of these gentlemen is now receiving ing us te concur in recommending a certain
$2,400. That was his salary on Vie first scale of salaries, and we can alter that
of September. The other receives $2,100 surely.
yet both these officiais start at $2,800 and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cannot for the
run to $4,000. We do not indulge ini that
tiine being appreciate any distinction besort of extravagance in connection with our
tween amending this Bill and amending any
own House, and 1 do net think we should
ordinary money Bill, because if it is
approve of il in connection with a poramended it is tantamount to reducing the
tion of the parliamentary inachinery as salary
by whatever the amendment may
to which we are supposed te have an equal
'be.
say with the other House of parliament.
I have already stated that there are alHon. Mr. POWER-It is in a different
together under these two chief clerks only class froin a money Bill.
eight clerks and five suessengers, and when
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-They are employees
we look at the amount of money which the
library authorities have to expend, I think o! both branches of tuis parliament, ani
the argument ag-ainst this expensive and surely a matter therefore over which wve
have control.
nuznerous staff will be strengthened.
As
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But are not the
1 understand it, for the purpose of procuring books and binding books there is supplies voted by parliament every year?
expended each year only about $ 12,000. In
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hion, gentleman
order te spend that $ 12,000, and aiso, of will see what hîs objection
xnay carry us
course, to keep the library open, we pay to; it will carry us to not
having the right
two librarians $10,000. If this measure is of controlling the
salaries of our own emadopted, we shaîl pay these two clerks ul- ployees. Surely hie does not
suggest that?
timately $8,000. That will be $ 18,000, and we
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would caîl my hon.
pay $5,000 to three first-class clerks. That
make $23000,and $4,00 t
e ps
8. As soon as practicable after the, coming
clerks; that is $27,000; and we pay nearly Iinto force of the, Act, the. head of each
de$4,000 more for the messengers. We shall partmnent shall cause the organization of his

SENATE
department to be determined and defined by'
order in council, due regard being had to the
statue of each officer or clerk as the case
may 13e.
2. The order in council &hall give the names
of the several branches of the department,
with the number and character of the offices:
clerkshjpe a.nd other positions ini each. and
the duties, titles, and salaries thereafter to
pertain thereto.
This action of the Governor in Council,
by clause 45, is devolved upon the Senate
for the officers of the Senate; s0 we are
practically acting here as the Governor in
Council in the diseharge of that duty.
Cleuse 45, provides that:
Wherever under sections 5, S...
any
action is authorized or directed to 13e *taken
by the Governor in Council or by order in
couneil, such action with respect to the officers, clerks and employees of the Hlouse of
Gommons or of the Senate, shall 1e taken by
the Hanse of Gommons or the Senate as the
case inay 13e.

clerks and, therefore, they necessarily
corne within the sub-division B of the first
division.
They cannot corne within the
other division; therefore I think that the
point raised by the hon. member from Halifax (hon. Mr. Power) is correct. 0f course,
aIl those clerks couki be zaised to $2,8W0 if
it is desired to do so, but it would be the
maximum salary, as is mentioned there,
and they 'would not be entitled ta any increase.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thiink the House of
Commons having adopted this, and as it
goes to Supply, it wauld be very bad taste,
and I do not think quite proper for tliis
House ta interfere, especially ta cut it
down. I find one of the officials whose
salary is propoaed ta be reduced, Alfred
H. Todd, has been clerk in the library aince
firat April, 1869, 40 years ago.
Does any
hon, gentleman say that a man in Mr.
Todd's capacity, having served the -country
for 40 yeairs ought ta be turned down in the
matter of salary?

So the action that, according to law,
should ha taken by the Governor in Council
is taken by us as representing the Governor
in Council. The Gove-rnor in Council is,
as far as the Senate is concernied, aurHon. Mr. POWER-Who is turning hiii
selves. So we are acting ini this capacity
of forming the list and fixing the salaries, down?
because the law gives us that special right.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hion, gentlemnan
1 think we are perfectly in order.
is.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Mr. Todd has now a
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-We could send
it back to the Gommons for them to amend salary of $2,400; if he is placed in sub-division B he will go up to $2,800; but I do not
it.
think he is entitled ta be raised immediateHan. Mr. LANDRY-We are acting as the
Iy ta $2,800, and after this to $4,000. That
Governor in Council. The report to us is
is the point. The librarian of parliament
made by the head of the department, iii
only a couple of years ago had opily $3,200.
t.hat case by his honour the Speaker, and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The afflcers of aur
we are taking action upon his recammendalibrary have always been underpaid. They
tion.
are a superior class of men. There is the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I t.hink the hon. distribution
of the innumerable books that
member from Halifax (Mr. Po-wer) is cor- corne
from al] parts of the world, because
rect: Sub-division B of t.he first division you know we
exchange libraries with vanicomprTises only the gentlemen who cannot ous rountries.
Dot only with the colonies
be classified in sub-division A of the first but with fnreign
enuntries, and anyone wlio
division. If they can be classified, it would will go into that
library and take a note
only be because tbey would be assistant te of the condition
of the books that are
the deputy head.
Under the Civil Ser- there, in so circumscrîbed space, will admit
vice Act librarians are deputy heads. that it is perfec'tly wanderful how
a clerk
They mîght give them the -position of as- can find a book. It surprises- me, often as
sistant to the deputy head, but t.he mess- 1 go into that library, with the terrible
age, as it is brought to us, is not in accord- confusion that exists
frorn
inability
ance with that; they are described as to find space to place the books, because
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

MAY 12, 1900
in niany ai the shielves there are double
rows. a back raw and a front row. that
the clerks are able ta find the book asked
for. 1 do think it a mast ungenerons and
ungraciaus thing for this Chamber ta cari)
at al] at any proposed increase ai the salaries, particularly ai gentlemen who have
been so long meritarions officiais ai the
gavernment.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Will the hion gentlemen allow me ta say that hie misunderstood me if hie thiaks that 1 objected to
the salary. I arn supparting the hion.
member from Halifax because 1 think hipaint is weIl raised. If we adopt this
miethod it wonld nat have the intended
effect. I amrn ot disposed ta criticise the
salary, if the cammittee ai the Hanse of
Gommons believe that they are entit]ed
to the amount; but I think the best course.,
the wise course wonld be ta suspend the
consideration ai this message and eall the
attention ai the committee ta the fact tliat
if they desire ta achieve the abject whichi
they have in vip.w. they shonld appaint
thiese officiais assistant depnty heads, as
being the anly way by which tbey caiî
bring them under subdivision A ai the
first division.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-If the two bouses ai
parliaRuent agree ta the classification and
ta the payment ai the salaries here provided for, who is going ta object? Certainly
flot the haon, gentdeman. When this bas
received the approbation ai bath Hanse it
is tantamount ta a statute.

shall be applied to the officers ai the library
which we apply teoaur own officers, and
which is applied, 1 understand, ta the
officers of the Hlouse af Comnions.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the hion, gentleman prepared ta say another thing, that we
shall apply here the rules that appiy ta thie
Han-se of Commons?
Han. Mr. POWER-That is another matter.
We are dealing now with this particular matter.
The amendment having been read by the
Speaker.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I t.hink the motion
is flot in arder. It wi]1 have the effect ai
putting these naines dawn in another class.
The paint raised by my hion. friend. may be
carrect; they may flot be naw in their praper place. Have we a right, in a jaint
actian, ta take upan'aurseles the responsibility ai taking thase names out ai the
place they are in now and pyutting them in
anather place? We should have a conference with the hion, gentlemen ai the ather
HoRie ta came ta an agreement, but I do
nat think we have a righlt ta settie the
question ourselves.
Han. Mr. POWER-Certainlv nat; 1 did
nat expect we shauld. I prapased ta niave,
if this amendment carried, that a message
be sent ta the Hanse ai Cammans asking
themn ta recansider the matter. I wish to
caîl the attentian ai His Hanaur the Speaker, and lion. gentlemen ta the fact that
section 45 ai the Act says that with respect ta afficers, clerks, and emplayees af
the Library ai Parliament, action shaîl be
taken by bath Hanses ai parliament by
resalution; and that just reminds me, if
the Hanse will permit me ta say anather
word, that in the Departmient ai Public
Printing, which is a very important department, and which deals with an infinitely larger sum ai money than the library daes, there is no clerk higher than this
subdivision ' B' af the first division, and
there is anly a ne oflicer placed in that subdivision, that is Mr. Davidson, the head
ai the Printing Department, and his salary
is ta be only $2,100.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I mave my amendment at any rate. It is this:
That ail the words after 'That' b. struck
ont and the following words siibstituted in
lieu thereof: 'the Classification and Ortanization ai the Officers, Clerks, and Employees
of the Library of Parliament, 6et forth iii
the Message fromn the House af Commons ai
the tenth day of May instant, b. not naw
agreed ta, but that A. H. Todd and
L. P.*
Sylvain therein placed in the First Division
Subdivision A, b
lace in Subdivision B
of the said Division.'
The Honse will permit me ta advert ta
the language nsed by the haon. gentleman
on =y rig.ht (Han. Mr. Scott). He taîks
as thongh we were committing sanie unHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Is that the distripardanable offence. What are we doing?
We are simply sayinga that the samne ruie bution department?

SENATE
Hou. Mr. POWER-Yes.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe House might note that these are the
only two increases the House of Commons
have recommended. In every other case
they remain at precisely the same figure.
The House has it in its power Vo disagree
or agree, but 1 hardly think it worth our
while discussing the question at length.

The SPEAKER-Hou, gentlemen, I desire
te say a word or two on this matter. The
position which was taken by the other
House, anu'd by those who represented the
other House, was that Mr. Todd aud Mr.
Sylvain stand in relation to the library in
the same position as an assistant deputy
minister does, and that the words in the
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I understand that refirst subsection as to subdivision 'B ' do port has been accepted by the House
of
not apply to them, because they are in
Commons P
the character of assistant deputy clerks,
and not to be treated and deait with as
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTchie! clerks.
Yes; it is their message to us Vo ask that
Subdivision 'B' consisting of the leaser we will concur with theni.
technical and administrative aud executive
The amendmnent was declared lost on
officers, including the chief clerke now holding office and net eligible for subdivision 'A'. division. Yeas-12. Nays-6.
They held that being lu the position,
Names flot recorded.
standing towards the library as an assistThe main motion was agreed to.
sut deputy minister did in a depsrtrnt,
The Flouse adjourned until three o'clock,
that they -were to be treated in the same
way. That view was presented at the time, to-morrow.
and I feit it wss my duty te concur in it.
It is open te the House to take a different
view and, if they do, I would point out
the only way it can be done, I think, is by
THE SENÂTE.
a message Vo the other House. Although
OTTAwA, Thursday, May 13, 1909.
I am new to the Senate in a sense, sud
new also in my connection with the liiThe iSPEAKER took the Chair at Three
rary, yet it was brought forward at the last o'clock.
meeting of the Library Committee and apPrayers and routine proceedin-s.
pears iu the report which was presented
at that meeting, that it was recoîumended
MORNING SITTINGS.
that Mr. Todd should be -appointed assistant librarian, and that the titie be given to
MOTION POSTPONED.
him of assistant librarian. So that, as far as
The order o! the day being called:
Mr. Todd is concerned, it would appear
That when the Senate adjourns to-morrow
that every body, except, perhaps my hiou.
Monday
at
friend, appreciates his services as entitling it do standinadjourned until and that nextand
Il o'clock
the morning,
on
after Monday there ho three distinct sittings
hîm to he treated with consideration.
each day, to wit: from il o'clock to one
Hon. Mr. POWER-I may say tliat that o'elock, and f rom three o'clock to six o'clock,
sitting
eight
recommeudation has noV been acted upon. and thein third evening, commencing at sitting
o'clock
the
and that each
shall constitute a sitting day under the rules
The SPEAKER - I
do not
know of the Senate.
whether it has been acted upon or noV.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
But a majority of the Library Committee
desire te have this motion stand untîl towere in favour of it.
niorrow for the reason that it is possible
Hon. MZ. POWER-There were not more we may have to ask the House to sit on
than six members of the committee present Saturday, and in that case I would have
at the time.
to alter the motion sornewhat.
The SPEAKER-There
were only tivo
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I understand
that voted a.aainst it.
the motion will stand until t.o-rnorrow wvith
Hon. MNr. LANDRY.

MAY 14, 1909

507

this amendment, that when the Senate ONTARIO AND MICHIGAN POWER COMPANY BILL.
adjourns to-day it do stand until to-morrow
at il a.m.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I objeet to that.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG (in the absence of the
Hon. Mr.- DANDURAND-The hon. gentle- Hon. Mr. Watson) moved.
man cannot object. It is a notice of m:- That rules 24 (a), (b), (h), 119 and 129 be
tion for to-day, and it is flot put to-day. suspended in so far as they relate to, (Bill
The hon. gentleman withdraws it and gives 34) An Act to incorporate the Ontario and
Michigan Power Company.
another notice of motion for to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would like to know
The motion was withdrawn.
why we should suspend rules in this -case
when we shall likely be required to take
WORK ON WHARF AT ST. JEAN.
Saturday and Monday in the discussion of
DESOHAILLONS.
these Bis? I see no reason for suspendINQUIRY.
ing the rules, hecause if we have three aitHon. Mr. LANDRY inquired of the gov- tings on Monday that corresponds to three
daya, and one on Saturday will make four
ernment:
days. I do not see any reason why that
1. How much a day has the governinent
on the motion shouid be made to-day.
raid for each workman who workedSt. Jean
ilwhich leadi to the wharf at
Deschaillons?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-My hon. friend is
2. How much for each horse and vohiele right in that respect, that it is possible
their drivers?
with
3. How long a time did this work Iast?
the suspension of the rules is quite unneces4. What were the wages a day of Dr. M. sary, ibut it is oniy providing for a conA. Chandonnet, who managed these works?
5. Hocw mucli las h. received under this ting-ency that might arise through a delay
head?
in the -committee sittings, and as we are
6. Are the works ini question finished?
7If flot, what is the approximate amount drawing towards the close of the session.
that their completion wifl require F
it might be convenient to expedite busiHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- ness «by suspending the rules. My hon.
The department notified me when I askeï friend is right enough in saying that thi.4
for an answer that they were in corres- motion may not be required at aIl.
pondence with their officer on the subject,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It will not prevent
and he has flot yet furnished them with
anything from being done to-day. The
ail the information they require. I wil],.
second reading goes on to-day; nothing intherefore, ask my hon. friend to permit the
terferes with to-day's business. If the hon.
motion to stand.
gentleman wants to move the suspension
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Was the request by of the miles let him do so when it becomes
letter or by wireless telegraphy?
necess1'fy.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Biit it is better to
think it was by letter on account of the gaive notice so as not to surprise the House.
remarkable saving of money which is ac.
complished by utilizing the post instead of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Will the hon. gentleman let his notice stand?
wireless telegraphy.
CANADA

LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It is better to move
it now.
BILL.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG moved:
That rules 24 (1), <b), (b), 119 and 129 b.
suspended in se far as they relate to (Bill
56 ' An Act respecting the Canada Life Assurance Company.
The motion waS agareed to.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Has it not been
the practice in the last days of the session
to suspend ruies in order to facilitate the
passing- of Buis?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not
whpre they are objectionaible Bis.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I thought that since
the Liberal party was in power we were
done 'with objectionable practices and that
we were complying with the rules. It certain]y is unnecessary to suspend the rules
to-day.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-As far as xny
recollection goes, we have in the last days
of each session suspended rules in order to
expedite business.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We shouid not wait
until the last days of the session, but at
the open.ing of parliarnent we should move
a resolution that ail the ruies be suspended,
and that we shall have no rules at al.
That wouid be the best -%vay to get over it.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-That would be
a littie radical.
Surely my lion. friend
Hon. Mr. GIBSON -frorn Stadacona is flot serious in his objeclion, because this resolution should have
been presented to the House yesterday.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-There is no doubt
about that at aIl. The fact of the matter i3
that when the hon. member for Killarney
gave notice, hoe gave it, in plain words for
Wednesday, and then my hion. friend took
objection to it being put out of its place.
It was not the fault of the *hon. member
that it did not find its proper place on the
Order Paper, and the sarne with Mr. Watson's Bill. Thev are both on aIl fours, and
surely we are not going to insist a second
time on the Bill standing over.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I will grant that the
hion, gentleman is in perfect good faith in
the remarks hie bas made, but *he is in
error altogaether. The question to-day is to
suspend the ruIes for an object. The motion
is before the House; it may be disposed
of; I suppose it will carry, but I do not
see any reason wvhy the motion shoald corne
up to-day.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the~
sarne reason ie advanced At is likely to meet
with opposition. 1 do not say it ie done
designedly, but it very often occurs, that
such Bis are not introduced in the Senate until a few days before the close of
the session, and then ail the rules whichi
lin. Sir «MACKE-NZIE BOWELL.

have been adopted for the protection of the
interests of the people are suspended for
the time being. This Bill requires a littie
discussion. It affects the interests of the
whole of Ontario, and invoives the destruction of a policy which has been adopted
by the government of that province; yet
we are asked to suspend the rules in order
that the Bill may be rushed through- the
House without receiving proper consideration. I have not seen the Bill since it
has been amended, but it should have the
careful attention of every member of this
Hbuse, particular.y the representatives
from Ontario, and those who have any
~regard for provincial riglits, whichi the
This is
Senate's duty le to protect.
just one of those measures which, if an
attempt is made to rush At through the
House, will iikeiy meet with strong opposition. It is likely to be opposed at
every stage unlese it is so amended as not
to interefere with the electric power policy
adopted by the province of Ontario. That
is one reason why we ought not to suspend
the rules in this instance. If the motion
is persisted in, we wiîl have to go into a
long discussion which. may occupy a day
or two before it le concluded; therefore I
object to the motion.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I do not think this
is the time or place to discass the merits
of this particalar measure. If we were
to discuss the measure now, I would remind hion. gentlemen that this Bill was
passed by the Senate three years ago in a
mach more objectionable form than it is
at present; but I ar n ot discassing- that
now. The motion does not asic for anvthing irregular. It should have been mad,
yesterday, according to the notice given,
and the only privilege asked from the
Hoase is, that the rules be suspended so
far as they relate to this Bill. It iý; for
the House to say whethier they wili grant
the suspension or not. The Bill has passed
the House of Commons. The promoter of
the Bill cannot be blamed for tbe delay
wbichi bas occurred. The Bill bas been
before the other House for weeks, and it
ie no fault of the promoter that it is only
before us now. It ie our duty to discues
the Bill and send it to the comrnittee as
early as possible in order that it rnay
be given the consideration it deserves.

MAY 13, 1909
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Do 1 understand mons committee; then I submit we are flot
that thia Bill is down for the second read- in a position ta give it that careful consideration which it is our duty to do.
ing to-day?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cannot find the
amended Bill, if it has been distributed. I
douht if any private measure bas received
more public attention, flot only in the Hanse
of Gommons, 'but outaide of it, than this
Bill during the present session. The province of Ontario was represented before the
committee to which this Bill was referred,
and even the Prime Minister himself took
very strang grounds againat the measure
as it appears upan our files. The Bill which
we have upon our ifie bas been practically
abandoned, and this Chamber does not
know to-day 'what Bill is before us. 8urely
my bon. friend cannat -be serious in saying that the &enate should go into the consideration and commit itself ta the principle
af a Bill which is not before it to-day? The
press of the whole province of Ontaria, including the organ of the Liberal party, the
Toronto ' Globe,' bas protested inost strangly against this Bill, and protesa to-day
against the f orm in which it passed the
Hîouse af Gommons. It was no latex than
Monday last that a very strang editorial
appeared in the Toronto -Ghlobe ' condemning inost strongly the Bill as it passed the
HTouse af Cammons, and as it is praposedl
ta be submitted to this Chamber to-day.
Han. Mr. WATSON. This Bill (No. 34)
was passed in the Hause of Commons on
May 8. The hon. member will have it an
bis file.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If this is the
Bill, wbat I said with reference to its flot
being distributed in its amended farm i.s
incorrect, and I 'withdraw that statement.*
It is a Bill involving very important constitutional questions, and it is certainly due
ta this Chamber that it sbould corne before
us in a way that we can give proper consideration ta it. If it is ta be railroaded
through under suspension of rules and by
aur being asked ta consider it holus baius,
withont due cansideration or discussion,
and 'witbout aur having before aur coinrnittee the representatives af the province
of Ontario who appetired before the Camn-

Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÂND-The hon. gentleman is surely undtily alarmed. This
Bill is on the Order Paper for second reading to-day. The motion wbich is now before us for discussion will not affect the
time that we may give ta it for the second
The
reading. It wifl go ta committee.
suspension af the rules does noV limit the
time that the committee may occupy in
dealing witb it. When it cames to the
Hanse from the committee, it may be given
its third reading, but it will be open far
discussion on the third reading. Sa that I
do not aee, except for the fact ai gaining
one day, perhaps, tbat there is an occasion
for alsrmn, or that there is anv restriction
in the amount ai time that will be devoted
ta this Bill by the Benate. No stage is cut
off.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman must know that if we suspend ail the miles it facilitates the passage
of the Bill after it cornes back fram the
committee, sbould it be approved 'by committee. It is clear enough that that is the
abject ai the motion.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It
Bill ta gain one day.

shlows the

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Those
who desire ta deleat the measure have the
right ta take advantage af that.
The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman has
already apoken.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-So
have others. If that rule is ta b-e enforced
with regard ta speaking more than once,
I shahl see that it is applied ta others. I
was onhy giving thanks ta the bon. gentleman for telling me when I should discuss the question. I .must reserve ta myself the right ta judge as ta the time when
I think it is proper ta discuss any question before this Hanse, and when it is
saught ta suspend the mIles for the purpose
of facilitating tbe passage ai a measure
that I tbink should not be passed, I must
use my own judgment as ta the time whien
1 should discuss it.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want to raise a CORRESPONDENCE RE FEDERATION
point of order. Clause 30 of our ruies
0F NEWFOUNDLAND.
states:
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
the orders of the day are called, I shouid
No motion to suspend any rule or standing
order, or any part of a rule or order, may b. like to cali the attention of the leader of the
made, except on one day's notice specifying House to the lack of information in
the rule or order or part thereof proposed to the return just laid down upon the table
b. auspended, and the purpose of such susin answer to an address of the Senate
pension.
Any rule or order, or part thereof, may asking for correspondence between the
b. suspended without notice ery the unanimous consent of the Senate, the ruie -or order, Hon. Sir Frederick Borden and Mr. Crowe,
or pa-rt thereof, propoeed to be suspended of Newfoundiand.
The answer is simbeing distinctly stated.
ply, 'There is no officiai correspondence.'
I arn under the impression that we were
This motion is to suspend rules, for what aware of that fact when the motion
purpose it does not say. It does flot say was made, and the motion did not ask
that it is to do away with the day for the simpiy for officiai correspondence, but ofthird reading, so that the third reading ficiai or otherwise, based upon the statemay be taken on the same day it cornes ment made by the minister himself that
back fromn the committee. It does not he wouid be very muc'h pleased to have
say 50, and rule 30 says that no motion the whole correspondence made public.
to suspend any mule may be made if it However, I have no doubt that it is bis
does not point out the purpose of such right to answer ini this way, but it is not
suspension. The purpose of the suspen- an anewer to the motion which was passed
sion is not pointed out in this case.
by this House.
WATERWAYS TREATY.
Hon. Mm. POWER-I think the gentleman's objection is taken too late. Thý
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I dequestion has been put by bis honour the sire to cail the attention of the leader of
Speaker. and the vote waa being taken.
the House to a paragraph in this moruing's 'Citizen,' and to ask if the hon. min-

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think 1 rose to ister can verify the statement. It is in mefspeak before it was put.
erence to the Waterways treaty. It is a
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-But the question was put.

very important
says:

question,

and the paper

Sir Wilfrid Laurier received last evening a
telegrani f rom Premier Whitney, of Ontario,
requesting thüt if the waterways treaty is
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But I made my ratified by parliament it should b. exclusive
objection and if 1 made myv objection I arn of the amendment made by the United States
rider Sir James Whitney says
flot too bite. If the Speaker resumed hie Seijate. Thisthe province of Ontario in view
is unfair to
seat and let me put my point of order, it of the other provisions of the tmeaty.

stands befome 'the chair.
The SPEAKER-The

It adds:

rules' which it is

proposed by this motion to suspend, are

rules of a derinite character for a definite
purpose. and provide against something
being done unless a niotice is given. The
proposai is a suspension of that rule which
dispenses with the giving of notice.
The

purpose of it is quite clear. and it speaks
for itself as a purpose, therefore I arn ofl
opinion that the motion is in perfect order.
The motion was agreed to.
li-on. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

The meply of the Prime Minister. it is said,
will be that to the original treaty Lb. federal
goverument was prepared ta giye adhesion,
as stated by Sir Wilfrid Laurier in the
Rouse, but that the addition of the UJnited
States Senate amendments so altered the
constitution that further consideration ws
imperative. So far, nothing bas been done
towards ratifying the amiended treatv on
Canada's behaif, and nothing wilI be done
this session in that direction.
I trust that the position indicated in this
pamagraph as the one takien bv the govI amn quite satisficd
ernment is correct.

b11

MAY 13, 1909
that it will not only meet the approval of
every citizen of Ontario, but of the whole
Dominion if the government takes a firmn
stand upon this very important question.
Uniortunately, in former negotiations bebetween the United States and Canada, they
have inanaged by soine means or otherby their persistence, with which I find no
fauit fromn their standpoint-to secure advantages which should have not been conceeded by any government to them. In
the present instance, I have no dou.bt, from
what littie information we have before us,
that if the treaty as amended shou]d be
ratified by Canada, it will have the effect
indicated by the Premier of Ontario-a disadvantage te Ontario and to the Dominion
generally.

CONSERVATION 0F NATURAL RESOURCES BILL.
FIRST READING.
A mestage was received from the Houseof Comtmons with Bill (No. 159) An Act to
establish a commission for the Conservation
of Natural Resources.
. The Bill ias read the first time.
Hon. ýSir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved that the Bill be read the second
time on Saturday.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
is the character of this Bill?

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIP4TTT-It
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- is a commission for the purpose of deciding
With the exception of the paragraph in in wbat way the natural resources of Canthe newspaper, I have no more information ada can best be exploited and prescrved.
on the question at present than the hion.
The motion was agreed te.
gentleman has, exeept that the trenty, up
bas not been ratified.
to date,
A CORRECTION.
OTTAWA AND GEORGIAN BAY CANAL.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We learn from the
newspapers that a niovement to obtain frorm
the government a guarantee of a three per
lan has been commenced in regard
cent b
to the Georgian Bay canal, and that Sir
Robert Perks bas interviewed the govern)ment with that object in view. Can the
right lion. gentleman inform the House if
there is any truth in that sttemnt?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
believe mv lion. friend is correct in saying that Sir Robert Perks, or soniebody witlî
a similar naine, bas been good enough to
intimate to the government of Canada that
hie can find the money to build the cana],
but I do not think that any further communication has tal<en place.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTBefore tlue orders oi the day are cafled, I
should like t-o make a correction of a mistake in the unrevised edition of the Senate
'Debates' of yesterday's proceedingas. I find
that I am credited with some very valuable
remarks made by the lion. gentleman from
Halifax (Hon. Mr. Power), and I do not
in the Ieast wish to deprive him of the
honour that pertains to him. I should ho
glad to have the remarks credited te where
tbey properly beiong.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I quite conceur. There
has been a mistake on the part of some one.
I only wish the right lion. gentleman had
trade the remarks credited to him. I have
ne doubt if hie had, the vote would have
beEn entirely different.

BILLS INTRODUCED.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is
quite evident that hie had too niuch regard
for bis own reputation to make tbem.

Bill (No. 136) An Act to amend the Post
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
Office Act.-<Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright).
Bill (No. 137) An Act to amend the Civil was credited with the excellent speech that
Service Act.-(Hon. Sir Richard Cart- my bon. friend made, and I do not desire
to wear laurels wbichi do not belongc to tire.
wright)>.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose my riglit
hion. friend should be complimented for disavowing that speech.
CLASSIFICATION 0F CIVIL SERVANTS.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTmoved concurrence in the message from
the House of Commons re classification
and organization of the officers and clerks
of the distribution office of the Department
of the Printing of Parliament. If my hionourable friends will look at page 637 of our
minutes of proceedings, they wilI see this
report in detail, and they will observe
that with the exception of one officer there
is no increase at ail. The superintendent
of the distribution of printed documents
hias been placed in subdivision 'B' of the
first division. He had $1,950; that brings
him to $2,100. The others remain exactly
as they were.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose titis
change was made~ in the House of Cornmons?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYes, and they ask for our concurrence.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Althoughl
I arn
of a sornewhat critical disposition, 1
have no criticisii
whatever to miake
in connection with this matter. I think
the classification of the officers and
of the clerksz of the distribution office
and the Department of Printing, is just
what such a document should be. There
is no one put into a class away above that
in what hie should be, and there lias been
no considerable addition to
the salaries.*
The cost of the whole staff of this
very
portant department is only $5,500, andimif
the classificaticn we hiad before us yesterday had been at ail along the lines of
this one, 1 should have been the last to
have said a word a.ýainst it.
The motion 'vas agýreed to.
AGRICULTURAL

FERTILIZERS

BILL.

THIRD READING.
The House resoh-ed itself into a Coinmittee of the Whole on Bill (No. 110) An
Act respectin.- ALricultural Fertilizers.
Hon qir IiICH4IRD CA-RTWRIGIIT

(In the Committee).
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI may say in reply to some questions that
were put by may hion. friend with respect
to this Bill, it hias been found that the Act
which it is proposed to repeal by this Bill,
that is, the Act of 1890, was flot working
very satisfactorily, and for -severai reasons.
Among others, which my hion. friend will
readily understand, it ignored potash as an
element in fertilizers, and it ignored fertilizers of less value than ten dollars a ton.
It required standards to be filed in Janusry, a condition to which manufacturera
and importers could not conform. It required publication of results of analyses of
standard samples; an expense quite useless. It iailed to, secure satisfactory identification of brands put on the market. It
set minimum limita for nitrogen and phosphioric acid in contravention of principles
of economy in purchase. It operated iii
the interests of the manufacturer rather
than of the users of fertilizers. For these
reasons, the departmnent proposes to enact
the present Bill. We can take it up in
detail. As it goes on I shaîl have certain
amendments to propose, but tbey are mostly
of a character to make the meaning of the
!3ill clear. They have been sug-gested to me
by some of our officers.
On section 3,
3. Fertilizers shahl be considered as distinct
brands when differing either in guaranteed

co~mposition, trade mark, name, or in any
other characteristic method of markin.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I would like to
ask what is the meaning of section 3; I
do not understand it. It reada, ' fertil-

izers shaîl be considered as distinct brands.'
Fertilizer is not a brand.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTBut these vrnoua descriptions of fertîlizers are marked, as I understand, wihl
particular and specific brands and are
disting-uishied one from the other.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I do not think tha,
is et ahl the meaning- of this section.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If you put in the
word 'of' betwecn the words 'as'
and
'distinct 'I think it would ie better.

513

MAY 13, 1909

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- tion,' be struck out. It will then read ' or
The section is intelligible, but il my hon. a corporation having its head office in
friend thinks it wouid be improved by in- Canada.'
serting the word 'of' I do flot objeet.
The amendment was agreed to.
The word «of ' was inserted in line 1 beHon. Mr. BAKER, from the conimittee,
tween the *words 'as' and ' distinct.'
reported the Bill with amendments, which
were concurred in.
On section 4,
4. Where the manufacturer of any fertilizer
has his factory or chief place of businss
eisewhere than in Canada, ho shall file with
the minister the name of a person resident
ini Canada, and acceptable to, the minister.
or a corporation in, or having its head office
in Canada, as the agent or representative of
such manufacturer for ail the purposes of
this Act; and any notice to, or commrunication or deaiing with, such agent or representative by the minister shall be effectuai for
ail the purposes of this Act.
Hon. Mr. LOTJGHEED-I pointed out
ta my hion. friend the advisability of omitting the words ' or a corporation in ' with
a view to enforcing the penalty where an
agent is appointed. It will be obeerved
that this clause makes provision for the
appointment of an agent of a foreign company, a.nd that the penalty shall be enforced against the agent, and that penalty
may consist in imprisonnment.
Hon. Sir
Or a fine.

RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-

The Bill was then rend the third time and
passed.
COMMERCIAL FEEDING STUEFS BILL.
THIRD READING.
The House resolved itself into a Com.
mittee of the W-hole on Bill (No. 127) An
Act respecting the Commercial Feeding
Stuifs.
(In the Committee).
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis Bill is being brought forward by the
department in consequence of a grent num*
ber o! complaints that have been made ta
them with respect to frauds that occur in
cattle feed. The department looked into the
matter, and alter receiving deputations from
the Guelph college and divers other parties
supposed to be authorities on the subject.
they decided to submnit this Bill for the consideration of the House.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOOR, from the committee,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes. Of course
reported the Bill with amendments, which
you can fine a corporation but you canwere concurred in.
not imprison it.
The Bill was then read a third time, and
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTpassed under suspension of the ruies.
I
I think that is ail that can be done.
mentioned the matter to the departmnent
MANITOBA AND NORTHTWESTERN
and they appeared to think that the power
RAILWAY BILL.
to fine 'would be ail they could hope to do
SENÂTE ÂMENDMENTS NOT INSISTED
ia the case of a corporation.
ON.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They are ail corThe order of the day being called:
porations practically that handie artificial
Consideration of the message tromn the
fertilizers.
Hlouse of Commons disagreeing ta the amendmenti made by the Senate to (Bill 81) A. Act
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- respeeting the Manitoba and Northwestern
Railway ompany of Canada.
I think most of them are.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I move, seconded
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-However, I will by the Hon. Mr. Camnpbell, that we do not
waive my objection.
insist on our amendments.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I do not propose nt
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI move that the words ' in, or,' in the this late stage of the session to take any
twenty-third line alter the word 'corpora- action wlth reference to tht. measure or to
33
PREVISED XDITION

SENATE

oppose the motion made by the lion. member from Portage la Prairie, for the foiiowing reasons: In the lirst place, this
amendment thet I have been interested in,
which was passed by the Senete the other
day, relates to only one of many branch
lines pro vided for in the Bill, and I arn
under the impression that if the Senate
were to reaffirrn its action of the other day
at the present tirne and send it back to
the other House, there rnight be a question whether the Bill would pass this session or dlot. I do not wish to block the
legisiation on account of these other
branches, but et the sarne time I want to
draw the attention of the House to the
fact thet the statement

and the reasons

given for the disallowance of the amendment passed by this House is incorrect in
every partîcular, and I think it is nothing
but rîght and just to the Senate that I
should draw attention to this fact. The
Bill was returned from the House of Gommons, I think, on Tuesdav. The reasons
advanced by the House of Gommons for
the disellownnce of the Senate arnnments
were as follows:
lst. Because the condition imposed by the
said amendment is unusuai and embarrassing to the company and is of such a character that it would, if adopted, prevent the
company f rom going on with its operations.
I wîsh to draw the attention of the House
to the fact that it is flot unusuai, beceuse
the very Act incorporating this company
contains a clause which providea foi
the building of twenty miles in each and
cvery year, s0 that when the original Act

provided for the building of twenty miles
a year by this cornpany, which I arn sorry
to say they have not carried eut, I do net
sec how the gentleman in the Houise of

Gommons who moved to have the amendnient struck out could advance the arg-unient that it was an unusual procecding te
incorporate such a provision in the Bill.
whîen it was already part of the charter.
The second reasen given for the disellow.
ance of the amendment in the House or
Cornrons is as follows:
Because the company has aiready shecwn
its good faith by the work already perforineil. and the penalty provided in tie saàd
aniendmnent to inept itý requirenients is iiiiieceqssrv and ivould be ineffective.
Hfon '.%r. DAVIS.

jThe company have not shown their good
faith. Let me read you a clause froin the
original charter.
In chapter 52 of the
statutes of 1893, section 9, subsection A, it
is provided that:
An extension of the main lino from its
present terminus thereof at Yorktown in a
northwesterly direction to a point et or
near Prince Albert on the North Saskatchiewan river.
That is the clause covering this very
amendment we are discussing at the present tune. So when the company got this
charter from parliament 16 years ago, wbcn
they bought the old Manitoba and Northwestern Railway Company, they- were gîveil
the right to build that main line from its
terminus at Yorktown to the city of Prince
Albert in a northwesterly direction. I
want to point out to this House how they
have shown their good faith: instead of
carrying out the provisions of this Act by
building towards Prince Albert et the rate
of twenty miles a year in each and every
yenr before the 3ist December, they werit
as far on that line as a place called Shiehio
forty miles from Yorktown, and after that,
te serve the purposes of the company, not
in the interests of the settiers, they deflected their line and man it off to Saskatoon; so that ail they have buiit, on an
average, is two and a haîf miles a year
for the sixteen years; stili gentlemen will
corne forward and say that this company
have kept faith, and have shown their goad
faith. I say they have not ehown their good
faith. The first reason given against agreeing to our amendment, that it was unusual to place such a clause in a Bill, is
not correct, because it was in the original
Act, and the second reason, that the coinpany lied shown good faith, is not correct,
because they have net shown good f eith,
end 1 think this Senate showed its gooi
sense in passing this emendment. 1 arn
sorry that when the House of Gommons
wanted to disallow an ernendment that
certainly wns in the interests of the settiers of that country, they could flot advance sorne better argument than is conteined in the reasons given in the message.
They are the most trurnpery reasons why
a Senate amendment should be disallowed
that 1 ever heerd. I want to give a few
instances of the wey in which these peopie have shown their good faith towards

MAY 13, 1909
the country. It is well 1<nown that the
Ca.nadian Pacifie ]Railway got a grant of
twenty-five million acres of land in the
firsi place on their main line, and another
grant of a very large number of acres of
land afterwards on their branch liues.
This is only one grievance out of fifty because of not building the line into Prince
Albert. Why did they not build the uine
into Prince Albert at this particular place?

Simply because the Pacific Railway had

not land in that part of the country. Their
land did not lie there; and it did not suit
their purpose to increase the value of that
land, and they simply did flot build the
road.
It is a well known fact to every one in
the western provinces that this saine company, on account of the immense amount
cf land they hold in different'parts of
the province, have adopted a certain policy.
When they want to raise the value of
their lands and get settlers, they send out
a surveying party to locate a line in a
e-,rtain part of the country. The moment
!ie line is run and the stakes are driven
in along that line, settlers flock iii there,
believing that the cornpany, as they have
-i charter and have made a survey, are
gcing to build a railway. After getting- the
poor innocent settiers there, they find the
value of their own land increase and they
leave those settiers there for years without railway facilities. In this case, settiers
have been left for sixteen years to
,tritggle aIon,« and carry their grain out to
inaiket as best they can. They have surveyed another line now to delude another
lot o! settlers. It is a shame that parliament should allow people to be humýbugged
in that way by a corporation -%which has
raceaved from the people of Canada the
vaEt amount of land and money that lias
teon granted to the Ganadian Pacifie Railniay. The company, in 4comnion decency,
should be forced either to build their roads
t-, to drop them, and let the people know
,what they have to expect. This is a case
in point. They have held this charter for
sixteen years. When it served their purpose to extend their line to Saskatoon,
although at that *time there was not a
settler along that route. while in the other
direction there were settlements where peo-

pie had been waiting for sixteen years for
railway communication, the company simply turned their line to Saskatoon and
left the settiers without any means of getting their produce to market. Is it any
Wonder" that the representatives of those
people are kickingP That is the condition
we are in. It is not a question of what the
settlers want, or the benefit of the country;
it is just a question of how the company
can forward their own interest. Perhiaps
the company are not to be blamed:
corporations have no eouls, but the representatives of the people in these two
Houses should see that the company is
not allowed to pursue a policy of deception.
In the west 'we have three great railway
corporations scrambling for territory. The
Canadian Pacific Railway, the Grand Trunk
Pacifie and the Canadian Northern. Not
one o! themn considers the interest of the
people. They ail are looking out for 'what
they can do for themselves. The Senate
this session has served notice, in the
amendments which we passed on this
company, and they should take warning. They surely will corne back again
for an extension o! their charter.
They
have been back to parliament six
times already, and 'why should wc xiot expect them back the seventh time. The Senate hias served notice on the company and
they know what they may expect when
they corne back again. Instead of limiting
the construction to ten miles a year, 1
hiope their Bill will be thrown out.
The
company had a survey of the line three
or four years ago and set their stakes in
along the route, but they have no intention of building, this year or next year. 1
dlam that if they are not going to build
their road they have no right to mislead
the people. I shall fot oppose the motion,
for the reasons which I have given, that
it might perhaps kili the Bill!, and there
may be other parts o! the country where
branch lines 'would be affected, and on
which, perhaps, this glorious company wil
do some work this year. If this Bill were
kilIed they might be prevented fromn doing
that work. I dlaim that the Senate were
perfectly right ini passing the amendnient
to which objection hias heen taken in the
House o! Gommons. The reasons given -by

SENATE
-the promoters in the House of Commons for the general advantage of Canada, any excompany not
tension of the railway of
-'were fiimsy and incorrect, and deserving heretofore authorized shall such subject to the
be
of ne consideration whatev-er.
provisions of this Act with respect to notice
anà to the subinission te the board of its
The motion was agreed to.
plans, profiles and reports as provided in
section 5 of this Act.
RAILWAY OOMPANZIES INCORPORA2. Upon the board being satisfied that al
the requirements of this Act and the RailTION BILL.
way Act applicable thereto, have been coiplied with, the board may fix the amount of
DEBATE CONTINUED.
the bonding powers and the securities which
The order of the day being called-re- the company inay issue on the said extension, and may jgive sucli other powers prosuming the adjourned debate for the second vided for by this Act as it deems necessary,
and may thereupon grant; a certificate that
reading of Bill <QQ) An Act to provide for
publio necessity demands the construction
the Incorporation of Railway Companies.
of the raîlway applied for, and that ail the
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-When this debate was provisions cf this Act and of the Railway
adjourned a few days ago, I was trying Âet and ail regulations cf the board have
been complied with.
to explain the provisions o! this Bill with
3. The applicants may thereupon file the
the object of having it thoroughly dis- said certificate with the Secretary of State,
the payment of
who
cussed in the country, so that in another fees, shahl, upon certificate under the proper
grant a
his seal
I bring it Up again, there may authorizing the construction of the railway.
session, when
4. Excepting as in this section provided
be some possibility of the measure becomnothing ia this Act shahl apply te any railing law. I think it is a step in the right wvay oompany incorporated before the passdirection-a progressive step whichi I arn ing of this Act.
certain will relieve this House of a great
There you find in clause 14 two subsecdeal of work that they are doing at the tions, a provision for existing companies
present time in passing this private legis- hike the Canadian Northern Railway or
lation, and if the principle contained ini Canadian Pacifie Railway, or Grand Trunk
this measure is extended to other private Railway, getting ready to extend their unmeasures so that ail such private measures dertaking or to build branches or anything
shahl be taken eut of this House, we shall o! that kind, te do se without coming here
be able te shorten the time which par- te bother this House at ail. They have
liament would have te sit each yea.r by simply te advertise, as they do now. They
at least three weeks. I take it for granted have te get a profile and plan of the prothat the majority of the hon. members of posed branch, and the information that
this House have read this Bill and under- would be required by the Board of Railstand the principle of it, which is, that way Commissioners, and the Board of
any body of men who wish to become in- Railway Commissioners go over the plan
corporated, by carrying out the provisions and profile and they estimate how much
of the Bill may, in a speedy and easy the road wihl cost, and if it is necessary at
,manner, beceme incorporated for the pur- ail. The Board can fix the bonding
pose of building a railway in the coun- powers and fix the amount o! stock that
try. I would hike to explain one provision should be required and give thiem a cerof the Bill, because it does not appear in tificate, and they do net have te cornte te
the Bill on the files of hon, gentlemen, in this House at ail. It may be claimed, and
reference te allowing incorporated compan- I have heard it raid that we derive quite a
ies te, build further extensions. That was revenue from these charters, as I mentioned
leit out in some way in the printing. The the other day. If any hon. member wil]
provision is in the Debates, and with the ait down and figure eut for himself the
permission of the bouse I will read it. This amount of revenue we derive from 116 charBill, in the first place, provided for the in- ters granted sînce 1900 and add the revenue
corporation of new companies only. But derived from 86 renewals, and then take
clause 14, if you will notice, provides for the time that bas beeij occupied in this
the assisting o! companies to obtain ex- bouse and the House of Commons in puttended powers. The clause reads:
ting these charters and renewals through
14. When any raihway cempany is incorper- parhiament and figure what it costs te keep
ated by an Act of the parliamnent of Canada,
going day by day I thinli you
or its undertaking is declared to be a work parliament
blon. Mr. DAVIS.

MAY 13, 1909
will find that the balance will be on the
wrong side of the sheet, and in place of any
revenue being derived from this source,
you will find we are losing money as wel
as the valuable time of the House by bothering our'heads with legisiation of that
kind. I think that would be an absolute
answer to that revenue argument.
Again, I have heard ftle argument advanced:
'We have lots of tinie; what
is the use of introducing- a new system
when liarliament bas so much time to deal
with measures." I say we have not time.
The time is coming when this House, and
the other Chamber also, will have to devote
more time to important public measures.
The population is growing rapidly and the
sessions have grown fromn three to eight
monfits. The time is coming when parliament will have to devote itself to greater
inoasures and more important matters than
sitting in the Railway Committee zoom
scrappin.- over a railway charter which is
being proinoted by gentlemen who are
trying to seli out and make money out of
if. I notice-and I think it is a step in
the rîghft direction-that my hon. friend
from Middlesex had a commiftee appointed
on Trade and Commerce. If that committee were extended to the other House
and made a joiint commitfee, it might do
much good, and we could make it then a
Cominittee on Trade and Commerce and
Tariff. We could hear the evidence of
people who urge certain changes in the
tariff, and we would he able to get particulars âo that when a measure was brought
down to increase the duty we would know
what we were doinga, and not be groping in
the dark. We do not know why duties are
increased, any more than what we are told
by people who are interested.
If we
were f0 appoint a committee of this Huse,
or a joint committee of this House and
the other Chamber, on militia and defence
of this country, our time would be we]]
occupied.
We are spending every year
seven millions of the people's money on a
lot of frilîs or wbstcver you may caîl them.
fellows dancing around with tin swords,
and the institution is looked upon as something sacred and no man must lay hia
hands on it or talk about it. I should like
to know how the money is spent, and if
we had a committee of this House we could

bring the gentlemen with the swords before us and find ouf how the seven
millions is being expended. That is one
of the benefits that would accrue from such
a commitfee, because wre would have time
to do that as well as look into the particular matters which we are dealing with
at the present time. For instance, the Indian Department spends a lot of money.
They.have control of the wards of the country. We know nothing about the details.
We have no committee and neyer investigafe whaf they are doing. If these railway
matters were placed where they should be,
outside of the House, and desît with by the
Secretary of State and Railway Commissioners, we ivould have time to do a great
deal more valuable work.
Hon. Mr. PEI<LEY-And the patronage
list, f00.
Hon.- Mr. DAVIS-I do not, know anyfhing about it, as I have no patronage. I
do flot deal in patronage and do not want
it and amn not looking for anything in that
line. Another reason why this is a beneficial measure, is that it ivili make railway
charters free. There will be no object in
anybody coming here to get a charter to
seil, because if will have no value, and
they cannot seli if. Anybody who wants
to build a road can get a charter by depositing a certain amount of money and
complying with the provisions of this Bill.
The chartex-mongers couid flot get a charter hecause f bey would flot put up the
money; if they did obtain a charter
they could flot realize anything on if because it would have no value. There would
be none of the wrangling over extensions
of lime, because anybody could get s
charter when he *wanted if. Another
thing has corne under rny observation this
year: 1 arn inferesfed in having a railway
built into our part of the country. The
company want fo get a charter to build
from a point on the main line towards the
town where I live, but if was too late to
advertise and they cannot get if now, and
they must let this whole summer pass over.
They cannot build railways in thaf country in the winter, therefore, a whole year
must elapse before the company can build
the road, whereas if this measure were in
operation, they could obtain a charter in

SENATE
six weeks. Another important matter is in this, measure is the doing away with the
regard ta bond issue. The promoters will lobby. Notbing has done more ta lower
tell you ail about the character of the public life in this country and in every
country through which their proposed other country, than what is known as the
road rune. The immense rivers to be lobby, 'a lot of promoters coming around
crossed, and what a very expensive road lobbying for Buis. I have no doubt
it is ta build, and they ask you from every ]awyer in the country will oppose
$30,000 to $40,0930 a mile of bonding power, the measure, because, as one gentleand you grant it ta them without any man said, 1 was taking the bread and
actual knowledge of the facts, because you butter out ai bis moutb. I do not tbink
have to simply take their word. You carn- the people of this country can afford ta
flot see the rivera, you have no report front have parliament waste three or four weeks
engineers, no profile, but just a Une drawn of valuable time to keep the bread and
on somne map that costs ten cents; whereas butter in tbe mouthis of half a dozen lawwhen the gentlemen came before the Rail- yera. With aIl due respect to thiem tbey
way Commission they have to go thera can get something else ta do. If this Bill
with not only the plans and profiles of does nothing more than ta do away with
the road, but the estirnate of an engineer the system ai Iobbying in this country I
showing what the road will cast. The say it will more than meet all abjections
bonds are limited ta an amount sufficient that anybody may urge against it. I amn
ta build the raad, and there will not be sure that every member of parliament will
anv leakage, or rake-oif. The Bill also pro- be glad ta see tbe last of the lobby, s0 that
vides that any money that accrues from tbey would not be bothered wîth gentlemen
the sale of securities will be used in the p 'irates peatering them. They could try
construction of the road alonte, and thera and lobby the Riailway Commissianers and
will be no leakage such as exists under the see what effect it woul have an the chief
present system. Conipanies now issue bonds Commissioner Maybee, or go ta the Secreta the extent of $15,000 a mile on a prairie tary af State and see wbat good it would
road. They put $13,000 inta the road and do tbem there. The Railway Commissioner
$-2,000 will go into somebody's pocket, an would tell them that the commission
whichi amount the farmers and producers must carry out the provisions of the
will have ta pay the interest. This mea- Act. The comimissioner wou]d say to
sure will also prevent amalgamation of tbem ' There is the Act, I cannat go outcompeting lines; where this country bas side of it, yau must put up so much money.
given subsidies or guarantees for railwayi 'Ubmit the plans, and do the advertista be built as comipeting lines they are ing, or I cannat do anytbing for you.'
lioi ahlowe-1 ta arnalgamiate with any other About one visit of the lobbyists tathe B3oard
road runninig in the samne direction, as a of Railway Commissioners would settle if;
competing road. It protects tlue riraht af flhere would be no more lobbying-, and they
the property holders. inasmuch as before would have no object in coming to parliathe promoters cauld enter upon other pea- trient. I am sure the lobhyists would not
ple's property, they have ta put up cer- bother their beads about caming ta this
tain sums of money ta the satisfaction of House ta lobby for publie Buis gointhe Board of Railway Commissioners that througb the House. and wc would see
they are able to pav for the right of way, no more of them, and weýuld have the
and any damages thev may cause the pea- advantage of being able ta go hiome about
ple. and any land thev mav expropriate. tbree weeks soaner, or would at least bie
We now give a charter ta a few mnen who dcvoting- that three weeks to some leg-islaperhaps, are not worth five dollars. We t ion which would be beneficial ta the peoreive them the right ta go througb a fax- pIe of this country. I do not expect my
mer's fields and tramir down bis grain. Bill ta go tbrough this session. If. is a
and without any provision ta see that they large measure, introducing a new principle.
are paid for the damages that accrue, but The people have ta tbink it over. I see
the ' reatest benefit that will accrue ta the the press of western Canada bias spoken
people of this country from the passage of very favourably of this mnsuire, and I aiii
lion. Mr. DAVIS

MAY 13, 1909

satisfied that, after the members of the
House have had time to consider it during
the recess, when it is brought up next
session we will be able to make it a
practical working Bill. The argument has
been advanced that perhaps this is too expensive a means ot getting a charter; ini
other words, you are throwing everything
inte the hands of large corporations, and
small corporations will not be able te get
a charter at ail. As 1 mentîoned in the firat
place, the principle of the Bill was in the
first clause. If you adopt the principle, we
can sit down and work eut a measure that
will satisfy everybody. If it is in the minds
of hon. gentlemen that we 8hould make
it cheaper and easier te get charters, all
you have to do is to reduce the amount of
the stock yeu force these people to take,
reduce the arnount of cash you force them
to put up in the first place, and reduce the
amount you force thern to put up for right
of way; and you can make it as easy to
get a charter frorn the Railway Board and
I
the Secretary of State as it is here.
arn satisfied if the principle is adopted, that
the eombined wisdorn of this House and of
the House of Commons can work eut a
measure that will prove beneficial to the
people of this country, and leave us more
time to deal with more important measures
than we have under the present systern of
dealing xith railway corporations.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I move the adjourninent of the debate until Wednesday
next.
The motion was agreed to.
CLASSIFICATION 0F THE SENATE
STAFF.
REPORIT OF STAN DING COMMITTEE
ON INTERNAL ECONOMY.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON--Before rnoving
the adoption of the report of the
Standing Committee on Internai Economy
and Contingent Accounts, I wvould like to.
ask the indu],-,èee of the House, not te
amend the report, but reafly to correct the
report, as it is not as it should have been
in respect of one matter. The report as
handed in was made by the secretary, and
did not cover one farther recommendation
made hy the committee; it is incorrect in
omitting a motion to increase the salary

ot J. W. Pelletier, wardrobe keeper, fromx
$800 to $850. The report as it reads leaves
Mr. Pelletier with a salary of $800 and
also in the subdivision in which he was at
the time the matter ivas brought to the attention* of the committee. In this respect,
while it is heing amended, the report is
not correct, as it should have read in the
way I have indicated. By the indulgenoe
of the House, I would have that report read
as it was the intention it should be read
when passed by the cornmittee.
Hon. Mr. LMNDRY-He cannot go in
the subdivision mentioned, because subdivision <a) of the third division commences
with $900.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-If t.he hon. gentleman will allow me two or three minutes,
I arn really correcting the report te make
it read as it should have corne from the
comxnittee, if the clerk, of the committee
hiad g-iven it in the manner in which it
sIhould have been given into the hands of
the Senate.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I object to any corrections in the report made verbally like
that. The report is here as it came from
the committee.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-I arn perfectly
willing to have the report go as it is. The
hon. gentleman is a member of the commu~tes, and took part, and I think supported the resolution; if he is unwilling
to amend the report in that respect, I arn
quite willing to leave it as it is. In moving the adoption of the report, I should
like to add further that in the organization
of the staff, we did not arrange the precedence as they should properly appear.
We placed them, in their subdivisions, and
the clerk of the House, we presumed, would
place them in their proper order in respect
of precedence. Then there is another matter, and only one matter that 1 shall ask
to refer te in that respect, that is with ref.
erence te the usher of the Black Hod, who,
by the memo. of the Speaker, was made
secretary of certain committees. As our
cornrittee did not accept the recommendation of the SpeakeIr, it was proper that that
officer 8hould be dropped from that classification. The cornniittee felt that this was
not a finality in respect to the salaries or

SENATE
subdivisions, or the promotion ai the staff
of this Senate. The committee fif iargely
that the action ai the Senate Iast year,
having evidenced the desire on the part of
the Senate ini respect of classification ai
the messengers of the staff of this
House, they would be doinýg their duty
if, instead ai exercising large generosity, they should exercise their judgment
as ta, the classification, as though the
classification had been made on the lst
day af September, when the Act came
into force. I may say that the committee,
and I think I arn speaking ior the coinmittee in that respect, regarded their duty
te, be more ta ciassiiy the messengers or the
staff ai the Senate iargely on the amount
ai the salary that they were receiving, and
with one exception, under the provisions
ai the Act, the assistant cierk af the Senate was put in subdivision one ai subdivision (a). This is the opinion as expressed by the committee through this
repart. Looking back over the history
oi the Senate in the last tweive vears.
we iound that we had been generous
in this respect, and in passing this
work over, under the Civil Service ALct, ta
the commission, we felt that the service,
promotion and indemnity would be properly carrîed out. A statement has been
handed in by the accountant ai the Senate,
whichi shows that the increase in the cost
af the Senate in the last twelve years is
upwards ai $ 44,000; and with the best af
feeling on the part ai the committee ta do
justice in ail cases, we feit that this wa,
not a tirne when we could make large additions in that respect. We differed froin
the merno handed ta us by aur Speaker ta
the extent which this report shows.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-While my lion.
friend is on his ieet, would hie have any
objection ta painting out wherein this report differs irom the classification ai bis
honour the Speaker? Wou]d my hon.
friend enumerate the items in which the
report differs?

the Hanse by what anthority the cammittee
has departed from the Speaker's classification? Is the classification ai the Internai Economy Committee, ai the officiais
ai the Senate contemplated by the Civil
Service'ActP
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-I presume the
Committee on Internai Economy, when the
matter was reierred ta them, exercised
their own judgnient, and had a right ta,
amend tise recommendation as they thought
it should be, either in accordance with the
Act or in their judgment in accordance
with such recommendation as had been
made ta the Senate. The authority they
acted an wouid be the autharity ai the
committee ai this House in deaiing with
questions which in their judgxnent wouid
corne under the Act that cailed for a simple
classification ai the staff and the messengers. I ielt it was the opinion of the coinmittee that there shauld not be large additions made ta the salaries, as the salaries ai the staff ai the Senate had been
increased from time ta, time during the last
tweive years, and that last year the
Internai Economy Committee made a recommendation ta this Hanse an this line.
They expressed their judgment in respect
ta the classification and salaries ai the afficers ai the Hanse, and, in same respects,
I assume thse committee were influenced
by that. The question was asked in respect
ta the changes in classification; I think
there are anly twa. I think the usher ai
the Black Rad ta, be put in subdivision one
ai subdivision (a), was the Speaker's recommendatian. That required an increase ai
salary that was greater than the committee,
in their judgment, feit the Senate wonld
be justified in making. The change was
within the rights ai the committee when
making recommendations ta the Senate.
The changes have only been in the reduction ai salaries and same increases, amaunting in ail ta same $ 1,200.

LANDRY-The repart was
Hon. ,Mr.
adopted by a majority aio the committee.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The repart was based
The anthority given ta this Hause ta
an the salaries ai September.
classify its employees is ta be iound ini
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Speaker's
section 8 ai the Civil Service Act ai 1908.
classification will be found an page 340 ai
Thiat clause reads as foiiows:
the 'Minutes.' At the saine time would
coming
As soon as practicable
my han. friend be good enough ta inforrn into for-ce of the Act, the after the cach dehead of
Han. Mr. THOMPSON.

MAY 13, 1909
peartment shall cause the organization of his
artmeut te be due regard being had to
aeodr in counecil, determined aud defiued hy
the status of eacli officer or clerk as the
case may be. Thoe order iu council shai
branches of
the
give the nines of hwith severalnum ber aud
the depai'tment,
the
character of the offices, clerkships aud other
positions in each, sud the duties, titles snd
salaries thereafter te pertain thereto.
Âfter being se determined aud defined,
the organization of n departineut shall net
be cha.ged except by order in council.
Copies of sueh orders in council shall be
sent te the commission.
Tie head of each departmnent is beund
to act in uccordance with this section. Section 35 of the Act provides for the efficers
of parhiament. It deciares that whenever
action is autherized or directed te be taken
by the Governor in Gouncil, or by order in
couilcil, such action with respect te thé
employees cf the two Heuses shall be taken
by resolution, or if such action is required
during the recess of parliament, by Governor in Council, subject te ratification cf
the twe lieuses at the next ensuiug session. Se that, by law, the action te he
takenl in this matter sheuld be taken by
his honour the Speaker, who, by virtue cf
siubclause <c) of section 2 of the Act, is iu
the positien cf n head cf a department.
Sectien 8 says that the head cf each department shal] cause the officiais cf the department te be classified, sud in the case
cf this lieuse, the head cf the departmeut
is the Speaker, sud his classification must
be subxnitted te the Senate, wvho, in thut
instance, acts as the Gevernor in Council.
That is the law. The report of the Speaker
should have been sent te this lieuse, sud
should have been adopted by the Senate.
It is ouIy, perhaps, as a matter cf cenvenieuce that in this instance it h'- been
referred te the Gemmittee ou Interna]
Ecenomy, sud I maintain that that cemmittee, in taking up this isubject, -,vas
bouud te accept the law as it stands on
the statute-beek. We made that law last
year, sud ugreed te abandon the privileges
we enjoyed býefore, sud put the matter ini
the bauds of the Speaker, sud cf the Seuate
as a whole to ratify by resolutien what

the law says must be adopted by the
Gevernor iu Gouncil.
Let us be consistent.
We passed the iaw; let us
take the consequences of the law.

occurred?
mittee-

What

A motion was made in the "cm-

Hon. Mr. POWER-It is not regulàr to
refer to what took place in the committee.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I beg the hion. gentleman's pardon. I have a perfect right
to report ail that took place in the coinmiittee, when the report of that committe
is before the House, and I defy the hon.
gentleman to show any authority against
the course I arn taking now. A motion
was made in the committee to the effeet
that the classification before the committee
should be based on something. We wanted
a principle to guide us. We supposed that
the House of Gommons had acted in accordance with the iaw, and that the Internai Economy Committee and the Speaker
of that House had made the classification
as the law enacts. We thought if we foliowed in the footsteps of the House of
Gommons we were sure to be right, and a
motion was made that the classification
wvhich had been adepted by the House of
Gommons shouid be the basis of the classificabuon for the Senate. We thought that
the officers of this House should not be
inferior to these of the House of Gommons.
We feit that the sergeant-at-arms, for instance, in this House, should not be piaced
in a position inferior to that occupied by
the scrgeaut-at-arms of the Gommons. That
was a true interpretation of the iaw.
What are the principies laid down by the
Act itseif? The Act says that the inside
service, under the deputy head, exciuding
messengers, porters, sorters and packers,
and other appointments determined by the
Governor in Gouncil in the iower grades,
shall be divided into three divisions. You
will see, later on, that this committee is
bringing in messengers to be placed among
the clerks of this House. But let us proceed. The officiais are divided inte three
divisions which are as follows:
Subdivision 'A' consistîng of offleers havigthe rank of deputy heads but not beilig
degput y heaâs administering departments,
assistant deputy ministers, aud the principal
technical and administrative and executive
officers:Subdivision B consisting of thie lesser tech.
nical and administrative snd executive offloers including the chief clerjxs and not eligihie for subdivision A.
The second division shall consist of certain other clerks haviag technical administ rative, executive or other duties which are
cf the saine character as, but of less import-

SENATE

ance and responsibility than, those of the
first division. This division shall be divided
into subdivisions A and B.
.4. The third division shall consist of the
other clerks in the service whose duties are
copyinig and routine work, under direct supervision, of less importance than that of the
second division.
This division shall be
divided into subdivisions A and B.
Now, what does the committee do? It

sets the ls.w aside. The committee set
aside the classification made by the House
of Comnmons, and voted down the proposition that the classification should be
acording to law, and according to the
classification of the other House, and decided te go by the salaries as they had
existed on the lst of Septeruber. Where
do they get tneir authority for this? They
seem to have taken their authérity from
section 7, which is as follows:
Except as herein otherwise provided, ail
persans now employed in the flrst or inside
departmiental division as defined by paragraph A of section 4 of the Civil Service
Act, including temporary clerks paid out ef
civil goverameat contingencies, shahl, upon
the coxning into force of this Act, ha classified according to tie'ir salaries under this Act.
That is the provision which only applies
where the law does not pro-vide otherwise
what shaîl be done. Let us see what paragrsph A of section 4 of the Civil Service
Act is: It provides that the service shaîl
be divided into two divisions namely:
(A> The flrst or inside or departmental
division which. shall comprise officers, clerks
or emnployees of those classes xnentioned in
schedule A, employed on the several departmental staffs at Ottawa, and in the office of
Auditor General.
So the provisions of section 7 apply only
to the officers, clerks and employees mentoned in schedule A. Now ]et us turu to
schedule A. That schedule says:
(a> Deputy heads of departments;
(b) Officers who have special pîofessioiîal
or techaicai qualifications;
(o) Chief clerks of both grades;
<d) First class clerks;
(e) Second class clerks;
(f) Junior second class clerks;
<g) Third cla.ss clerke.
So section 7, in which the committee
thought they found authority for the division which they made, applies only to the
departmental officers as enurnerated in the
schedule 1 have just rend, and in no way to
the personnel of the Senate. Moreover, that
that section 7 is a clause of exception goyerned by the words ' except as herein other%viseproviddd '-that is if there was nothing
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY.

in the law providing for the case. So that
the classification cf salaries is to be resorted to only if we do not prooeed with the
classification imposed upon us by the ex-

igencies of the law.

1V is only in default cf

a legal classification, -made un-der the authority of clauses 8 and 5 that those who
appropriate the money to pay the salaries

cf the Senate officiais, finding nothing has
heen done, will faîl back on the salaries
paid on the Ist of September at, teo determine what shahl be paid in the way cf
salaries. That is the object of that section
7.
At six o'clock thie Speaker left the Chair.

After Recess.
Hon.

Mr. LANDRY-When

the

House

rose at six o'clock I was stating that the
Committee on Internai Economy had taken
as the basis cf their classification the salaries that different employees received on
the lst cf September last, and that in takiîîg that as a basis, they thought they hai
complied -with the law; but, as I stated, the
Act, clause 7, does net apply in this case.
It applies only if this House fails te do
its duty-f ails Vo make the classification or
fails, at aIl e-vents, Vo confirm the classification made by the hend cf the department, *who is in this particular case the
Speaker hiniself. In that case, the money
te be pmovided must corne in one form or
the othier, and must be given by somebody
who knows about it, and in the absence
et any motion at ail they fall hack on the
salaries that are received on the Ist of
September last, and give Vie inoney according-ly. But the law is there. Soinebody bas stated: ' But we cannot go outside
of the salaries.' I deny that, and I will
prove that we are obliged to go outside cf
the salaries Vo find a guide for our classification. I cail 'attention to clause 35 ef
the Act, -which pro-vides:
Nothing in this Act shahl be held te reduce
the status of any officer, clerk or employee in
the service, and if the salary cf any officer,
clerk or- employee is iess than the minimum
salary of bis subdivision or position undier
the provision cf this Act, his salary may forthwith be increased in such minimum.
This clause proves beyond a <loubt that
the law ne-ver intended to impose the questien of the salaries as the basis cf our
classification. Should we be bound Vo take

MAY 13, 1909

523

the salaries as the basis of the classifica- against sornething which does not appear.
tion, we will arrive at a real chaos in each Ail the hion. gentleman bas been conwendparticular case. Takie for instance the case ing for is implied by the report itself.
of the assistant clerk of this House. By the

law lie is placed in a certain class. If you
base it on -the salary, you put him in a
c]ass where hie is not entitled to go, and
you are acting against the law, because
the law says that nothing in this Act shall
be held to reduce the status of any officer,
clerk or emnployee in the service. If you
put hirn in a class wbere he has a right
to be, evidently you rnust'leave the salary
question aside, and then the Act operates.
because it says that if the salary of any
such officer, clerk or emnployée is less than
the mninimnum salary of bis subdivision or

Hon. Mr. LANDRY=If I say that the
report is, valueless and not worth the paper
on which. it is written, who will believe
meHon. Mr. McSWEENEY-Nobody.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want 'to prove
rny case, and to show that the report is
against the law, a.nd therefore valueless.
When I have stated this clearly, I ahall
corne to mry conclusion, and wind up by a
motion.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I ar n ot satisfied
bis salary may fortbwith be increased to niyself with the report, and I arn airaid
such minimum. So if you place him in a that the hon, gentleman may speak so
class to which lie is entitled, not by the long that a good many members rnav not
salary, but by bis status, then the Act he open to conviction when we corne to
operates and you are compelled to give deal witb it.
hlim the salary whicb is provided by the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If my hion. friend
Act itseif. Great stress bas been laid on
is convinced that the report is wrong, 1
clause 36. which Qays:
will rely upon birn to -make the final charge
Except as herein otherwise provided, the
salary of any person placed in the inside âer- and carr ' the field. I hope when 1 have
vice,. by or under this Act or ta whom the done that he will take the sarne ground
provisions thereof are made applicable, shaîl as 1 take, and convince the House if I fail
be that which hie is then receiving, anjd the
to do so.
said salary shall determine bis classification.
position under the provisions of this Act.

It is specially on that clause, coupled
with clause 7, that the comrnittee has 'based
itself in rnaking the classification, but what
does the law say? The law says: 'Except as hierein otherwise provided.' But it
is otherwise provided. It is only in cases
where it is not provided, but section 8 says
that the head of the departrnent shaîl cause
a classification to be made, to be adopted
by the Senate. Consequently, the action of
the Speaker is not controlledl by section 36,
and cannot be controlled, because there are
other sections which regulate the action of
the Speaker, and consequently this section cannot applv.
Hon. '.%r. BEIQUE-1-May I ask the hon.
gentleman what he is arguing for? I fail
to see wbat conclusion he is airning at.
We have to deal with the report of the
cornmittee. The comrnittee in its report
bas made a classification, wbich we are
called upon to accept or reject. It seerna
to me that the hon, gentleman is arguing

Hon.

Mr. BEIQUE-I

do flot

purpose

covering as much ground as the lion. gentlernan.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Perhaps it will flot
be necessary. The hon. gentleman is mnore,
.itvit cing and eloquent than I arn, and
mrwiy be able to convince the House in a
few words, and I shall rely upon hirn to
do so. This report, as I have proved, is
based on an erroneous interpretation of
the law. The comrnittee took as a basis
the salaries paid on the Ist of September.

Has the report followed that principle? 1
say no. It reads in this way:
The Committee on Initernai Economy and
Contingent Accounts have the honour to
make their fifth report, as follows:
1. In obedience to the several orders of your
Hlonourable

Hlouse

hereinafter

mentioned,

your committee have considered the following
documents referred to your committee for
report thereon, viz.(a) The memorandum of his honour the
Spe3aker. dated 26th March, 1909, presented
to the Senate aiîd referred to your cornmittee
30th Mareh, 1909. showing the proposed organ-

SENATE

given ta the sub-committee in making their
classification, had been followed, Mr.
Stephens ini place of being in subdivision
It winds up:
A ai the firt subdivision, ahould be in sub2. Your committee recommended that the division B. That is the cansequence ai the
organization and classification of the staff principle adopted by the sub-committee.
of the Senate under The Civil Service Act,
1908, be made as proposed in the memorHon. Mr. THOMPSON-No.
the
his honour
by
ization of the staff of the Senate, with the
classification of the varjous officers, clerks
and employees;

submitted
andum
Speaker on the 30th of March, 1909, amended
ta read as in the echedule appended to this
report.
1Sa the report brought in is an amend-

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I ask the lion. gentleman if it is flot true that the first motion that was made was ta classif v thi
ment of the report submitted by the employees according ta their ealaries?
Speaker. I shall point out a few differHon. Mr. THOMPSON-It was, as the
ences in the two. The report of the Speak- first work ai the committee who'had the
er was submitted ta the Hanse on the 3Oth subject ai classification to take np, and
of March. In the first division oi sub- eventually ta make a report ta this Hanse.
division A there were three appointees, Their duty was ta make that classification.
the clerk assistant, the law clerk and the and that classification wvas ta be offered ta
gentleman usher of the Black Rod. In the Hanse as the judgment ai the cointhe report presented by the committee, mittee. It was the basis upon which the
*we find that the law clerk bas been given subsequent action ai the committee was
precedence over the clerk assistant. I do reported, and under the sections which
not know if .iat is an amiendment ta the the lion. gentleman bas referred ta. Where
report of the Speaker.
classifications were possible ta make them
Hon. Mr. POWER-No, the chairman
said that the order was not binding.

under the one deputy head and executive
afficers, that special committee reported,

handiii, in the classification tbey would
Hon. Mr. LA1,w DRY-I suppose it is not recommend and amendinents ai that classibecause it was made by the law clerk him- fication.
self, and hie did not forget that charity
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think tbe hion.
begins at home.
gentleman did not quite seize my question.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-I do not think I asked blim if it was not truc that a motion
it is fair ta makze that reference ta the law was made in the committee directing the
clerk in respect ta the report ai the coin- committee ta make the classification acmittee. I stated that the classification was carding ta salary?
not intended ta establish the precedence
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Not as a basis ta
ai the officers. That will be leit ta the
repart ta the House, but as a basis ai workclerk ai the Hanse.
ing ont the problein and getting at tbe
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I could understand judgment ai the committee which woul
that if it had been copied irom the original eventually shape itself in this repart.
report, but it is a change from the original.
Hon. Mr. LAINDRY-Tbat is a very lang
In the original the clerk assistant was answer ta a simple question. The resuit il
placed first on the list; in the amended a contradiction ai the principle laid dawn
report hie is second on the list, 80 it must by the lion. gentleman. I know wbat the
have been done designedly.
result is. I know that the committee went
Hon. Mr. POWER-The committee made black and wbite on the same question, but
no sncb order. It is a matter ai seniarity I want ta extract froin the lion. gentleman
the iact tbat in tbe committee a rule bas
merely.
been adopted, and that rule was tbat, nat
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-When the report the qualifications ai the emplayees, but the
was made, the salary of Mr. Stephens was salaries they had on the Ist September
$2,600. If the principle accepted by the should be the basis ai their classification.
committee, and which was the instruction That was the rule.
Hlot. Mr. LANDE Y.

MAY 13, 1909

525

Hon. Mr. DAVID-Does the hon, gentleman contend that the class was changed
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Well, if that is the
by the committee, and that the class for
rule, how do you aocount for the fact that
Mr. Stephen was raised, because of his
Mr. Stephens, who received on the Ist day
salary, to another class?
of September last $2,600, is placed now in
the class from $2,800 up te $4,000?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, what took place
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Ne; $2,600 up to was this: The sub-committee put Mr. Ste$2,800. I do net want te interrupt the hon. phen, according to the instructions that it
gentleman; he is right in one respect but had received, in an inferior class. That
he is net stating -the case fairly. The ques- came before the cemmittee, and the cerntion of the classification of salaries that mittee, who had passed a resolution deexisted on the Ist September, 1908, was claring that the classification would be
made as a pîeliminary for action, upon made accerding to the salaries, feit that
which the committee would subsequently they could flot stand any more by their
resolve their judgment which bas been pie- principles.
sented in their report te this House. It
Hon. Mr. DAVID-They made an excepwas net moved as the basis upon which the
report would be adopted, but it was a pre- tion.liminary, like the ground weik, te shape
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-They made an exup and te get it into shape, which we have ception, a right exception; I admit they
done.
sbould do that, but they did that against
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I differ entirely from the principle they had formulated in the
what the hon. gentleman has stated.
I committee.
stated, as a matter o! fact, that the subHon. Mr. DAVID-The hon, gentleman
ceinmittee received an order from the committee, and wbat was that eider? It was has made his point.
te classify the employees, net accoiding te
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Ând what did this
their status, net accerding te their capacity, House do two or thîee days agoP We acbut acceîding te the salaries that were re- cepted the joint report of the Library Comceived the lst September previous.
mittee and the joint report to-day of the
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-They did that.
Joint Committee on Printing. If you open
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Why did they do that report yeu see that there are officiais
it? Because they received an eider te do it. who, according te salary, would not be
classified ini that position. Nobody took
Hon. Mi. POWER-I do net think the the salaries as a basis.
They took the
hon, gentleman bas any right te cross- status of the employees, and that is what
examine the chairman e! the cemmittee, or the law says. Just at the opening of this
te discuss wbat took place in the committee. sitting, the chairman of the ceminittee
The report of the committee is bef oie us, called te oui notice the fact that the clerk
net what took place in arriving at their had furgotten to put before this House a
judgment.
motion that was passed in the committee,
Hon. Mr. IANDRY-Up te the time my which gave $50 more to Mr. Pelletier, I
hon. friend made bis remark, I theught it think. I will net discuss the merits or
was the hon. gentleman who inteirupted demerits of Mr. Pelletier, or of any of the
me, but now I amn told that I arn inter- empleyees, but what is the true meaning of
auch action? Where iâ the theoîy that the
iupting hlm.
salaries of the lst September should be adHon. Mr. POWER-I said crosa-examin- hered toP
Here is another breach of. prining. The chairman o! tbe cemmittee is net
ciple by the committee to faveur one emhere te be cross-examined.
ployee. More than that, the hon, gentle.Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I am flot here te be man said with that increase he falîs in sectold that such a thing did not occur, when tien (a) of the third subdivision. 'Why
I state wbat I know eccurred in the cern- ehould he faîl in section (a) of the third
mittee.
division P
Hon. Mi. McSWEENEY--So it is.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-Why should hie
not?

recoinmended at a salary of $2,100. The
committee, by a stroke of the pen, put him
at $1,800.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Because if you give
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-He is an exthe position according to salaries, section
with $900, and you are only at member of parliament.
<a) begin5
$850. Where is the principle? Here is a
Hon. Mr. LAINDRY-My hion. friend
messenger plaeed in the same class where
says, because hie is an ex-member of parliathe clerks are.
ment.
Han. Mr. THOMPSON-The hon, gentleHon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-No, I simply
man is wrang-.
say that hie is an ex-member of parliaHon. Mr. LANDRY-There is a special ment. Having been a member of pariaprovision in the law for those 'who are ment hae should have consideration.
simply messengers. You may go up to a
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-He has the saine
certain amount, but that does not give us
right ta be placed in that position as Mi.
the right ta place him in one class or the
other. I desire to point out one or two in- Nicholson.
stances in the classifications made by the
Hon. Mr. OHOQUETTE-Hear, hear; hie
House of Gommons to show the House what should be put on the samne footing.
variance there is when we compare our
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not sýpeak of
personnel with the personnel of the House
of Gommons. It should be a matter of himi as a personal or palitical friend of
pride for us to see our staff placed at least mine, because hie is nat; but I say, why
on the saine footing as their brethren of the do you not distribute justice in the saine
House of Commons. Take our sergeant- measure for everybody? Look at the House
at-arms. In what class is hie now? If we of Commons. The chief translatarisl
lcook at the report we find that the sergeant- placed in subdivision ' A' of the first diviat-arms is in the second division and in sion. Where is aur chief transiator placed
We
subdivision (a). In the Gommo'ns In what hiere? These are technical officers.
class is the sergeant-at-arms? If those two do not ask ta put aur technical officers in
gentlemen corne befare the public the people subdivision ' A,' but we ask ta put them in
will say : ' Here is the sergeant-at-arms of subdivision ' B ' in the lesser technical ofomq altua5 aili fices, as Mr. Nicholson is himself.
-u.92js eitp puiileq s85ss-c
That
at-arms of the Comomns.' More than that. would be justice. We are not asking
In that classification I find that Mr. Nichol- more than that. What does the law say?
son is put in îmmediately at the sum of Clause 5 states:
$2,100 in subdivision (b) af the first diviaf officersý having
Subdivision
sion. I do not object to that, but I amn the rank of A, cansisting
deputy beads, but not being
speaking for the sake of argument. Wliy deputy heids adrninistering departments, asdo you put that gentleman in that class sistant deputy ministers.
and why do you leave out old translators
But the -word minister, haie means t.he
who have been here for years and who are clerk of the House, so that those who axe
now put in an inferior class?
assistants ta the clark of the House have
a îight, by tha law, to be in class No. 1 in
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-And who speak subdivision 'A' ai the first division. Why
bath languages.
should they net be thare? And in subdivision 'B' consisting of the lesser technical
Han. Mr. LANDRY-And who speak bath
administrative and axecutiva officers-that
English and French. I do not object to the
done in regard ta Mr. Nicholson
classification of Mr. Nicholson, but I say bas bean
other French
every-body. Mr. Cyr has been and why is it not done for tha
do justice ta
translators of aur dabates? For all these
recommended by the Speaker of this Hause
to replace Mr. Trudel, or to replace ane reasons, I think that the report should
of the staff of the translatais. He has been net be coneurred in, and I move that this
Hlon. Mfr. LANDRY.

MAY 13, 1909
House do flot adopt the present report of
the Standing Comtnittee on Internai Economy and Contingent Accounits, but that
it proceed to the proper organization and
classification of its own officers, taking
into consideration the law as interpreted
in the Honse of Gommons in the organization and classification of its own officers
and employees.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
must confess I arn fully in accord with tihe
views expressed by the hon. gentleman
from Stadacona as to the irregular manner
in which this subject bias been treated by
the Senate.
I can only account for it by
the fact that the classifications which were
submitted by the Speaker, based upon the
recommendation by the clerk of the Senate as provided *by law, were referred to
the Committee on Internai Economy more
as a matter o! courtesy than of right. The
objet of the Senate in adopting that
course was to assist to as great an extent
as possible, the Speaker in arranging the
classification of the staff of the Senate and
not from any right that the Committee on
Internal Econorny had to deal with a subject of this kind.
What I more particularly desire to caîl attention to in connection with this report is what I consider to
be the irregularity or improýper classification of certain of the officers. I shall deal
afterward withi the recommendation of the
Speaker, based upon the clerk's letter to
hlm, as nlot being at ail in accordance with
the recommendation made by the clerk of
the Senate, whose duty is, under the
law,
to make such recommendation, and in addition to that I find that the classification
of the different officers is not in accordance
either with usage or practice. This Senate is supposed te be what I might perhaps call u miniature of the House of
Lords. It lias always been understood that
the Senate of Canada is governed by the
practice and precedents of the House of
Lords, and if we look at the classification
of the officers of the House of Lords we find
that this recommendation to the Senate
is not at ahl in accordance with the classification in England. If yeu turn to May,
page 189, iast edition, you find this principle laid down:

The chief officers of the Upper Hanse are
the clerk cf the parliaments, the gentleman
usher cf the Black Rod, the clerk assistant,
the reading clerk.
That wouid be in our case the assistant
clerk.
And thé sergeant-at-arms. The clerk of the
parliaments is appointed by the Crown by lettere patent, &c.
Now we find in this classification, that
the clerk cf the Senate is given his proper position, but the gentleman usher of
thé Black Rod, who shouid rank next to
the clerk, is in the third class, and none
cf these gentlemen are placed in their
proper positions so far as precedence is concerned. The law clerk is given a position
and style, among others, -as mastex-inchancery.
Now that la an office which
was abolished 20 or 30 years ago ini Eng]and, and really has no aignificance in
this country. So much for that portion cf
the report which deals with the classification. Now I desire to cali attention te the
appointment cf Mr. Nicholson. I fi.nd
that the recommendation cf the clerk te
his honour the Speaker, reads as follows:
Sir,-I liad. occasion, at the commencement
cf the session, te invite your attention te the
necessity cf obtaining additional help for the
clerical work cf the Senate. Now that the
creation of the six additional committees has,
by the appointment cf the members thereto,
become a fixed fact, somes members cf the staff
will have te be detailed te attend the saine as
cer k of coin înitilee. Inasmiuh as there are
but two clerks who are available for committee work, viz.: Messrs. Soutter and Caron
(the latter only a novice) it will be impossible
for themn te answer all the calîs made upon
them.
I do not include Mr. Creighton, who has
heretofore held the office cf clerk of committees, because in addition te the legal work in
his office and having te attend the meetings
of the two large committees -of Banking and
Commerce and of Railways, Telegraphs and
Harbours, he has seine tivent'Y odd cases of
divorce te attend te, which mulst necessarily
take a great deal of his time. 1 would, therefore, recommend that the services cf a cern-

clerk be secured
mtent Englisliwho understands and by preerence one
the French
language.
Then there is a postcript:
P.S.-I might have pointed eut that past
experience bias demonstrated the necessity cf
having, at ail times, a sufficient number cf
employees well trained te the peculiar work
required cf them, in cases of emergency.

Upon that report the Speaker makes the
following reÀcommendation:
The undersigned has the honour te represent
that he has received a report from the cierk,

SENATE
stating that the services of an efficient English
clerk, well versed in the Frenchi languaRe, are
required for the staff of the Senate, owing to
an increase in the work of the latter, as well
as to provide, in case of future emergency, the
6ervices of an employee properly trained to
the peculiar work required of him.
The undersigned would, therefore, recommend the appointaient of Mr. Byron Nicholson,o£ Quebec, at the minimum salary of subdivision 'B3,' of the .first division. Said Sppointment to be subject to the conditions contained ini 6ection 19 of the Civil Service
Ameudment Act of 1908.

qualifications. Every one who has been in
the habit of attending those committees
knows that had the recommendation -of the
clerk and Speaker been carried out, the
ohin
ceksol
aeakoldeo
acbt
h.odhaeanweg
lr
guages in order to enable him to jlerform
his 0duties properly. But we have seen
a gentleman without knowledge or experience of such work sitting at the table with
an old servant of the Senate (I refer to Mr.
Young) teaching hlmn his duty. Apart from
Now if you will turn to the report made that, I should like to ask the Senate what
by the Civil Service Commission as te the justification can there be for selecting a
qualifications of this gentleman, you will man 'who has neyer had any experience iii
find that it reads as follows:
the Senate, and placing him in the position
he filîs, paying hlm a salary of $2,100 a
The Civil Service Commissioners have had
erwtaposctithfurefreiv
consideration an application from theyerihaposctntefurefrciunder
lionourable the Speaker of the Senate for ing $2,800, to do that which any ordinarv
the issue of a certificate of qualification iii clerk could be found to do at $500 or $600
favour of Mr. Byron Nicholson, of Quebec,
who has been appointed by the Senate te the a yearP I do not wish to be understood as
position of elerk of committees as an officer saying one word against Mr. Nicholson, but
esm
esnohrta
of subdivision A of the second division, such teema
esnohrta
csm
appointment havîng been made under the teems
provisions of section 21 of the Civil Service desire to -select a clerk te performi certain
Amendment Act, 1908. Hlaving made a care- duties, for placing Mr. Nicholson in a posifuI inquiry inte Mr. Nicholson's qualifications
for such position and having satisfied them- tion of that kind, placing binm over the heads
selves that by reason of his education, train- of clerks who have been in the employing, and previous experience in similar work mient of the Senate for years, and have neyer
that ho is competent, except as to bis knowledge of the French language, to fulfil the had a complaint made againat them. It is
conditions as laid down in the order of the only another evidence of what bas been
Senate appointing Mr. Nicholson,do
eon in recent years, and I hesitate
Now, thereforo, this is to certify, pursuant
te the provisions of section 21 of the Civil net to say that the conduct of the
Service Amendnient Act, 1908, that in their Senate lu the past in making certain
opinion, subject te the reservation above
noted as te bis knowledge of the French appointments is bringing this House
language, Mr. Nicholson possesses the re- into contempt.
We had the appointquisite knowledge and abîlity and is dulymet
ad ofnasiatclr.W
n
n
lr.W
ad ofnasiat
qualified as te health, character and habits,met
for the position cf clerk of committees of the it was found out that that appointment
Senate as an officer of subdivision A of the was unpopular, at the suggestion of the
second division.
hon. ruember from. Halifax the duties of
How f ar does this justify the appointment assistant French transiator were attached
of Mr. Nichoison? The clerk represents to to his position. No one, especially amongst
the Speaker that an officer is required to act the English speaking members, objected to
as clerk of committees and that clerk should that. They were not lu a position to exhave a knowledge of both languages. We press an opinion of bis qualifications as
ail know how desirable it is that any officia] a French translator, but he was put ln
occupying sucli a position should under- the position without any previous knowstand both languages, and that the gentle- lodge of the work, so far as we know, or withman nientioned in the certificate given by out any previous dlaimi to the Senate, at a
the commissioners lacks that qualification maximum salary of about $2,800. Why? Was
for the position. Furthermore, the recom- it because he had dlaims of a political charmendation of the Speaker is not strictly in acter upon the government, which induced
accordance with the recommendation made the government te folat upon this Senate a
by the Clerk of the Senate; neither le it clerk they did not want, lu order that they
in accordance 'with the Civil Service Act, might carry out the pledges they had made
which provides that any person appointed to a politician for services rendered iu the
to such a position should possess certain ,past. We understand it aIl perfectly. We
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MAY 13, 1909
know that that gentleman had been promised a seat in ýiie Senate. We know that
the seat had been given to another. What
better dlaim could be advanced? The appointment was s good one and a credit to
the Senate, but that did not justify the
Senate in putting the country to the expense of another officer at $2,800 when he
was flot required. The appointment of Mr.
Nicholson appears to be of a similar character.
What bis dlaim on the ýgoverfiment was I do not know, but I do know
that the duties o! his office could be periormed just as ivell by one of the clerks o!
the Senate who bas been in its employ for
a number of years, with a slight addition
of salary, and if additional help were needed, a man could be got for $600 or $700
a year who would have a knowledge of
the French language a.nd be capable of
performing the duties dîscharged by this
favoured son of the party. I wish to cail
the attention of the Senate, and particu.
larly of the ex-Secretary o! State, to ane-ther point: D-3 hon, gentlemen know
the extent to which the expense of conducting the business of the Senate ba-z
increased during the last 12 years? Wheil
the Conservative party were in power, and
the Contingent Accounts Committee recommended any, increases o! salary, my
hion. friend opposite (Hon. Mr. Scott) used
to mise in holy hiorror and deprecate the
increase o! expenditure, but my hion.
friend has had very little to say duming the
last 12 yenrs. notwîthstanding the fact that
the expenditume of the Senate bas incmeased
to the extent of $44,000. Part of that expenditure may be justifled, and was justiable from the fact of having certain work
clone by the transîstors which formerly
was not charged to that account.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The largest portion of that expenditure in the last twelve
years, which no doubt the hon, gentleman wishes to attribute to the Liberal
government, occurmed while the Conservative party weme in a majority in this
House.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is
vemy strange to suggest that the late government made provision for this large increase of expenditure, and left it for the
present Senate to incur and pay. I am not
ÉEVISED

52%

prepared to accept that statement.
I was
tolerably well acquainted with every increase of salary that was made during the
time that the Conservative party were iii
power, and I know that in every instance,
wvhatever. increase wvas 'made was on the
recommendation of the Internai Economy
Committee, and approved by the Senate.
But that formed no part of the expenditure
to which I now refer, other than the
necessary expense that was charged to .this
accounit in consequence of taking over the
French translation staff and adding to it,
and the Senate, in the last 12 years, are responsible for ail the increase% which have
taken place. Scarcely any question arises
in this House, whether it 'be of an ancient
or modern character, that is flot justifled
by hion, gentlemen opposite on the ground
thiat their preclecessors were a great dea]
worse. Supposing- that statement were correct, is it any reason w-hy a reform administration, which used to deprecate the expenditures of the late governiment should
go on nîultiplying those expenditures by
three or four hundred per cent? It is the
resuit of what I have already stated, the
placing of unnecessary officers upon the
staff. No man knows that better t.han my
hon. friend from Portage la Prairie; but
there seems to be an influence behind the
curtain that no one knows anything about
except those who make the recommendations. I do not object to Mr. Nicholson
personally. I do not know 'what claims
lie has, but I do protest against taking a
new man, as they have done in this case,
who knows nothing of the Senate and its
work and giving hlm a high position and
large salary to do work whi-ch could be
performed by an ordinary clerk. I venture
to say there is not a senator who would,
in the transaction o! his own 'business,
make suci axe appointnlent and squander
money in that mariner.
Looking at this
classification, I find there are clerks who
have been in the service only a year or two
who are placed above inen who have been
here for 15 or 16 years. I do not wish to
mention names, but I should like to know
why it is that some clerks who have been
in the service only a couple of years, and
whose duties are flot as important as those
of the postmaster, are given better posiEDITION

SENATE
tions and salaries than the postmaster?
our postmaster bas been in the service of the Senate 8oine 16 years, and 1
have neyer heard a complaint against him.
He attends assiduously ta his duties, and is
civil to every.body; but hie is put in an inferior class ta same who have been in the
service only a couple of years. Take the
case of the young man in the reading room,
who has been in the -service ten or twelve
years. He has every qualification to perform the duties discharged 'by others who
have been put above him, and who get
larger salaries. I can only explain it on
the principle that 'kissing gaes by f avour'.
If the business of the Senate is ta be conducted an that princîple, the sooner we
know it the better. For my part, I deprecate a system af that kind.
I was in office for nearly 18 years, and I challenge any
man to say that in the administration cf
my department I ever drew any distinction between Frenchi and English, Roman
Cathalic and Protestant, Grit and Tory. I
considered those men who were under my
contrai, as far as my ability enabled me,
upon their merits.
Hon «Mr. POIRIER-It -was a matter of
duty for you.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
a matter ai duty, and it is a duty which
should be performed by every head of a
departmnent, and a duty wvhieh should pertain to this Sonate. I see one ai my aId
colleag-ues whio hias been a number ai years
here is listening ta me; hie knaws very
well hiow I ccnducted the afiairs ai my
departmient, sa far as I had them under
my control, and I arn only advocating now
the principle I acted upon for 16 or 17
years, one which I consider ta, be a iundanmental principle ai the British constitution, that whien a man is in the employment ai the g-overnrment hie should be
treated accarding ta bis merits, and poid
iii proportion ta the value ai bis services
ta the country, and this treatment lie
should receive irrespective af his creed or
race. That is the principle an which this
country should be governed. It is the
principle on which this Senate shoul'l act
in the appointment and promotion cýf its
Sir M ICRENZIE BOWELL.

officers. I find no fault with the gavernment, or with the majority in the Senate,
if, in making appaintments ta new positions,
they select their own friends. When I
was in power and had vacancies ta, fill 1
se:ected men for new positions fromt the
paxty ta which I belonged; but once a man
accupies a position in a department, his
merits should be the only qualification ta,
be considered in fixing his remuneration
or making a promotion. I repeat, there is
no justification ai this classification or ai
the appointments which have been made.
I venture the assertion, that if I were ta
put the case plainly ta any senatar here
ai the merits ai the gentlemen who have
been appointed, hie would say at once that
those who had periormed their duties iaithfully in the past, aught ta be considered
in the future in the line ai promotion
and increase ai salary. If that is flot
done, what incentive is there for any emplayee ai the Senate ta iaithiully periorm
his duty? He will say, 'there is no chance
for nie. Same political favourite will be
selccted and put abave mie at a high salitry.' I look upon this as a vital and important princil)le in the administratian ai
the afiairs ai the go0vernment departrnents,
and if there is anything that tends ta
bring the Senate inta disrepute among
the people w-ho thinkz and read, it is the
inanner in whichi we have been acting in
appointing political favourites when they
ane înt required, and g-iving themn high
salaries ta periorm duties for which men
could be found at a quarter or one-third
ai the amaunt we pay.
1 should like ta
know why a gentleman hias been selected
ta fill an inierior position, for which six
or seven hundred dollars a year would be
a reasonable salary, and give him $2,l00 to
begin -%ith, and an annual increase bringig it Up ta a maximum ai $2,800?
If any hon. gentleman respansible for it
can explain ta the Senate the reasans for
this appointment, anîd the duties which this
gentleman bas ta periarm ta justify the expenditure which hias been made, I shall be
very glad indeed ta withdraw aIl that I have
said, and any abjection I may have made;
but same years ai experience in the conducting of the business ai this House justify

MAY 13, 1909
me in making the remarks I have made,
hoth in reference to, this classification,
which is flot in accordance with precedent,
flot in accordance with justice in the appointment of people to office who have no
dlaimis so far. as I know, other than may be
poltical. upon the Senate for the positions
which they hold, and salaries which are unjustifiable, and whîch no one can by any
possibility justify if they will consider the
nierits of the case and do justice to others.
I have spoken warmly on the subject, because 1 feel warmly. Notwithstanding the
high opinon that I have of the Senate, and
the great desire that I have for its perpetuation, and the belief that I hold that it is essential to the good government of the country, I deprecate strongly this practice of
constantly doing for reasons unknown except to those who are behind the curtain,
that which is bringing us into'contempt with
every thinking man in the country.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is perhaps
idle to discuss the reasons that actuated the
committee, and the House later on, in appointing a new employee to the staff of the
Senate. The hion, gentleman could well
have furnished bis complaînt and put bis
question in due time. The nomination has
been made, and I think that it would be but
an academie question to discuss, and one
which we could discuss at length and over
the night perhaps, as to the reason why each
employee wvas selected for a certain kind of
work. To-day we have more pressing work
than that, and it is because we have more
pressing work that I would urge the hon.
gentleman irom Stadacona to withdraw his
motion in the form in which. be has made
it. What does hie ask? He asks that the report of the committee be set aside, and that
the Senate proceed to classify the employees.
according to law.
Supposing that motion
carnies, the hon. gentleman is flot advanced
one inch, because then hie bas to formulate
in a concrete way the modifications hie would
suggest, if any, to the report of the hion.
Speaker. So wliy bring in a simple academic question to be voted upon, when it bas
immediately to be followed by a proposition
which will contaîn bis desiderata?
He is
satisfied witb the report of bis bonour the
Speaker, or lie is not; or bie is satisfied witb
the report of the committee or bie is not. If
34 à

hie is not satisfied, let him, in a motion or
ameudment, say that so and s0 should be
put in such a class. and should be given
more or lesa salary. In that way we shall
clinch the question, andcome to a decision
and do something practical.
Hon. Mn. CHOQUETTE-I desire to give
one or two reasons why I am going to, support the motion of the lion. gentleman from
Stadacona, and I might say at tbe saine
time tiat 1 agnee with a great deal of what
has been said by my hion. friend. from
Hastings. When the recommendation of
bis honour the Speaker was pnesented to
this House a motion was made by the hon.
gentleman from Halifax to, bave the report
referned to the Internal Economy Committee of this House. I then supported the
motion, saying-- at the saine time it was not
a want of confidence in the Speaker, but
I tbought that befone the committee it
would *be easier to do" justice to, everybody
in discussing the merits and demenits of
every employee wbo is going to be classified. 1 thought then, and I tbink now, it
would be betten to refer that to the committee, but it was understood the matten would
have to come back to the House, and if we
were not satisfied with the classification,
or the amount allowed ta the employees, we
could discuss the question here. The bion.
gentleman 'who bas just spoken tbinks it
will be better for the hon, gentleman from
Stadacona to witbdnaw bis motion and
move an amendment to every name that
will he called, beoause if we are going to
go over the report we bave a right to ask
for explanations in regard to eveny name
mentioned in the report. I tbink it would
be better, instead of making a motion for
perhaps every name, ta have this other motion put and then go on with the report,
and by the clenk reading to the House wbat
is contained in it, perbaps a lot of names
wvill pass witbout discussion; but there are
some names in regard ta wbicb thene will
be discussion, and it 'will be just as easy
to discuss this point flow as ta bring- it up
wben a certain nome is proposed. That is
one reason why I am going ta -support this
motion, unless, by consent, the hion. gentleman will withdraw it, and it is undenstood
that bie 'will nenew his motion with every
nome. I am nat prepared ta accept that
report, hecause there is a great injilstice

SENATE
done to different parties by it. 1 amn quitU employee, but others should be on the saine
willing tu admit that the committee havE footing. Take the transiators, Bouchard
done their very best. Perhaps theý *and Chapman. 1 arn not speaking of them
decided as they have because they did noi particularly but of the French transiators
know better. They did flot know how xnany *who have been long eniployed in this
years employees had been in the House, and *Houýse, most reliable men, able to performn
did flot know their status and qualifications, their -duties perfectly. Being old emand I think some explanations should be ployees, and occupying the position they
given to the hion. members of the commit- do, why should they not be on the same
tee that they wîll accept. Some injustice footing as Mr. Nicholson, who is a new
has been cited by the hon. mover of the employee, or why should they not be on
amendment and the hion, gentleman fromn the same footing as the transiators of the
Hastings, but I wish to illustrate the point House of Commons?
According to the
by one -or two examples. The uaiae of statement I have in my hand, the transByron Nicholson has been mentioned. lators of this Senate are doing several hun1 must say that, although 1 should be dred pages of work more than the bouse
glad to count Mr. Nicholson as a citizen ,A Commons
translators. Why not put them
of Quebec, hie is not. Mr. Nicholson is a on the samne footing as the
transIstors of the
very nice gentleman, highly educated in other bouse, or, at
least, why should they
the English language, but unfortunately not be on the saine
footing, receix'ing the
he does not speak French, I do not, how- same salary as Byron
Nicholson? That i.s
ever, object to this appointmcnt for that another point
on which 1 should lilce bn
reason.
He is irom Ontario. Hie bas have some explanation from
the membere
been in Quebec for a few years for some of the committee.
Go further down. Take
special service, and I do not object to for instance on the
third subdivision B.
him. personally, but I do object that Mr.
MNr. Pelletier, who is marked there as
Nicholson, who is a new man, not pro- the
wardrobe keeper. Here is a man that
ficient in the two official languages, is
we ail know, a very intelligent gentleman
given a salary of $2,100 with increases acwhio bas been employed 34 or 35 years. Hie
cording to law, when Mr. Cyr, who is an
ex-member of parliament, highly educated. has a salary of $800. Take Mr. Weston,
having an extensive knowledge of parlia- he has been employed three years, and bas
mentary business, knowing perfectly both the saine sa]ary. What explanation is it
]anguages, is placed at $1,800 onily, and why? possible to give for that difference? Take
I should like to hear some member of the Mr. Berube, the next to Mr. Pelletier, hie
committee give me a single reason why there has been employed 24 years, a good man,
should be this difference between these two nothing ag-ainst him, and hie is kept there.
men. Supposing one is just as good as the Ris salary is $800; and Mr. Weston, only
other in many resp)ects, I maintain that three years, with the same salary, and hie
Mr. Cyr is better than Mr. Nicholson, for wvill have-the same increase. In ordinary
the reason that lie cani speak both Ian- business, whien a man bas been long emg-iages-and is therefore able to fill the ployed in office, hie deserves a ]arger salary
position of two men. He is just as edu- than the man coming in. We will supcated, perhaps more in some ways, than pose that Mr. Berube is just as wvell qualiMr. Nicholson, and they came here the fied as Mr. Xeston, because hie speaks both
same session, one coming filteen days ago, languages and the other one does not
the ither coming earlier, yet there is a dif- speak French. I do not reproach him for
ference between the salaries. Why is that that, but I think it is in the interests of
so? In taking up the two names, we should every one to learn French. It is a further
be given an explanation, so that we can qualification for an employee to speak both
accept the position, or the members of the languages. He will be more useful. But
committee will say that they were mis- I find here a man employed 34 years, on the
taken and should have put the two men same footing as a man employed three
on the same footing. I do not object to years. That is one reason why I should
Mr. Nicholson's salary, hie may be a good like this report te, be taken item bv item
Flon. Mr. CIHOQUETT..

MAY 13, 1909

533

or naine by naine, and for that reason I
shall be in favour of the motion presented,
in order that the Senate may proceed to
the classification of its own officers, taking
into consideration the law as interpreted
by the Coffmons in the classification of
their employees.

itial step, in my opinion, has been wrong.
The proper course was to refer this question to the head of the depa.rtment, the
executive head, which is the Committee
on Internal Ec-onogmy.. Now, we are face
ta face With two reports. First, the report
o! the Speaker which bas been, as iA were,
superseded, and I submit properly so, flot
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I eall attention on account of its being defective, or more
to the fact that we must examine each case, defective than the other report, but because
and we do not require to vote upon the of lack o! authoxity within the spirit o! the
motion of the hion. gentleman in order ta law as it bas been passed. We are conproceed in that way.
fronted with that report, considerably altered by the Committee on Internal EconoHon. Mr. POIRIER-I will not touch the
my, and we are called upon to confirmn this
ground covered hy my hon. friend the exreport. As tnembers of this Hanse. we are
leader of the opposition, and my hon. friend in duty
bound to protect the officers in the
who has just taken his seat, because on the spirit of justice-that word justice which
whole, I pretty well agree with thein. I
my ex-leader has expounded. We are asked
will simply take ane or two points. Hon. to confirin a report which I for ane deem. in
gentlemen ail know that the civil service3 înany particulars to be unjust and unfair.
have been looking to us for the last two The employees o! the Senate look to ui
montlis for the passag-e of this classification. for justice, and, as honest men, we are
and reaching the end of the session, we bound to give thein justice, and to see that
are now face to face with a classification menit and duration of service be properiy
that is altogether unsatisfactory. I might say rewarded. If an employee is not capable,
unacceptable in many parts of it. At first and nat deserving, he may be disxnissed;
the question was, who was authorized by the but if he bas the qualifications and qualiAct 'which was passed last year to prepare ties ta which I have referred they should
the classification. It has been agreed that be recognized and other employees shoull
the Speaker of the House was the proper not be passed over their heads. There is
person. According to my interpretation o! anather consideration: we of the oid generathe law the Speaker is not that person. tian have been jealous o! the ancient priviThis is what the law provides:
leges and rights of the Senate. What do
As soon as practicable after the coming we find to-day? To-day we are transferring
into force of the Act, the head of each depart- those ancient rights and pniviieges into the
ment shall cause the arganization of the departmnt to beý deterrnîned and defined hy banda of the governinent by allowing the
aider in council, due regard being had to theé Speaker-and I arn not referring ta aur
status of each officer or clerk as the ctî'se most, reRnected Speaker. I amn talking of
May be P
Who is the head of the Senate as a de- the Speaker not in a personal way as it
partinent? Our Speaker is the head of this were, not merely for to-day, but for tadeliberative body, but hie does not stand in morro'w aiso, when the Conservatives wil
the spirit of the law as the head of a de- he in power. because they are bound ta
partment, as a minister does in his own came inta power saine day.
departinent. The Speaker here has no executive authority more than any of us. He
has not been given any executive authority.
In committee, and in the House, hie can
only vote as any other hon. member. That
being the case, who is the head of the
Senate in the executive capacity? I submit that it is the Committee on Internai
committee
that
that
,Economy and
stands in lieu af the head of the department mutatis mutandis. Therefore, the in-

Hon. Mn. CHOQUETTE-In haîf a century.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-We are passing the
appointinent of employees o! the Sena.te
into the hands of the governinent. Our
Speaker is appointed by the goveriment.
He appoints aur employees; therefore, he
i.s 'practically appointing employees at the
dictation o! the powers that be, and that
is one o! the reasons why we are facing

634

SENATE

to-day a situation that is altogether, I might
say, deplorable. The report which is before
us is, in my estimation, not only incomplete and unsatisfactory, but in many instances, incoherent.
By what authority,
discarding the precedents of the House
of Lords or the parliament of Canada,
do we find that the first man on
the list after the clerk of the Senate is the
law clerk of the Senate, parliamentary
counsel, Master in Chancery, which is a
myth, an English translator, Mr. Aylwin
Creighton, in the last report, while in the
report presented to us by he Speaker, he
was a little lower on the scale? How bas
that happened. It is not satisfactory to
anybody and should not remain as it is.
We should follow the precedents established in the House of Lords, or at least
as they have been followed heretofore in
Canada. I will take other instances without going into minute details. We should
see that our employees are paid equally
well with the employees of the other House
occupying similar situations, when the work
and the responsibilities are the sane. In
the House of Commons, for example, the
postmaster is under class B, I believe, with
a salary running from $2,100 to $2,800. Our
postmaster here as long.as be is in the service, with equal responsibility, with hours
just as long, is put down at $1,000.
That
strikes me as not being fair. True there
is not as much work in this House as there
is in the other chamber, but it is also true
that there are four or five employees in the
House of Commons post office to one here.
There are eleven or twelve there and two
here, therefore the proportion is the saine.
I could refer you to another case. There is
Mr. Arthur Ralph, who is the curator of
In the
the reading room, salary, $900.
other House, the gentleman performing the
same work absolutely, the same number of
newspaper and reviews being received in
both Houses, is a class above himn; and
Mr. Berube, the first assistant at $800, with
ten or twelve or 14 years' service, while the
corresponding servant in the other House,
doing exactly the saine work, is one class
ahead of him. I am sorry to have to go into
details, but this classification does no credit
to the committee who have, after nonths of
laborious preparation, having ýbefore them
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

the elaborate report of the Speaker, corne
down with what I may call an Incoherent
report. I am sorry we are at the close of the
session. We have to take some step, because
the whole service is -suffering, having been
promised an increase of salary, and rnany
of them possibly having already spent it.
They are looking for and are expecting the
money, and we are under now the necessity
of railroading this undigested report through
the House. I for one express my regret that
it has been framed with so little consideration for the due protection of our employees, and that we are called upon to perpetuate what, I am sorry to say, in many
instances, will be injustice to subordinates,
although we are in duty and honour bound
to protect our employees according to their
merits.
Hon. Mr. POWER--I think these spirit
stirring speeches are perhaps rather to
be deprecated in the discussion of a business matter like this. It is true that the
members of this House owe a duty to the
employees. They owe a duty to be just;
and it is also true that we, as members of
this House are, in a certain sense, trustees
of the public money, and no matter how
much disposed we might be as individuals
to be very generous with the public money,
as trustees we have not the right to be
unduly generous, and, with that preliminary observation, I wish to say a few words
as to what bas taken place in this matter.
Under the Civil Service Act, as has been
stated more than once, the clerk takes the
place of the deputy head and his honour
the Speaker takes the place of the minister.
and the Senate takes the place of the Governor in Council, the cabinet. That being
the case, the clerk has made recommendations, bis honour the Speaker has laid
those recommendations before the Senate,
and the Senate was at liberty then either to
accept those recommendations as they
came or to refer them to the committee, or
to deal with them directly, and amend
them here in the House. As there were a
a great many details to be dealt with in
connection with this classification, the
usual course in such cases was adopted,
and the classification submitted by his
honour the Speaker was sent to the Committee on Internal Economy, which bas

MAY 13, 1909
always deait with matters affecting the
staff of the Senate, and now the report
of the committee cornes before us for consideration. W'hat is the position now that
it cornes up to be considered by the House.
1 think everything hias been perfectly regular and proper up to date. The question is as to the merits of this report. If
the report is on the whole satisfactory, I
think it is the duty of the House to adopt
it. Every hon. gentleman cannot have his
own way. For instance, one hon. gentleman found fault with the report because
it proposed to give something additions]
to the wardrobe keeper, and another
hon.
gentleman found fault with it because it
did not do that. Now yen cannot find
fault with it for both reasons. It is a case
of if you do and if you don't. I think
we should deal with the report in a more
reasonable spirit. The first case whicli
came up was that of the clerk assistant.
Subseetion 2 of section 5 of the Civil
Service Act of last year reads:
The first division shall be divided into subdivision A, consi-ting of officers having the
rank of deputy heads, but net being deputy
heads administe.rillg departinents, assistant
deputy miniqters, and the"principal teehaical
and administrative and executive officers.
Now our clerk is a deputy minister. He

535

name of the law clerk. That was, 1 presume, an accident which. occurred in the
drawing up of the report. We did flot undertake te determine the precedence of the
twe officers. The precedence would be
governed, I supposed, by seniority, and the
clerk assistant is far senior to the other
officer. We have disposed, I think, fairly
well of the flrst division, subdivision A.
Our duty was clear with respect to the clerk
assistant; %ve had to follow the law, even
though the salary had te be increased. There
is a section of the Act which bas a provision
for that, and which the hion, gentleman
from Stadacona lias read, the first subsection of section 35.
Nothing in this Act shall ho held to reduce
the status of any oficer, clerk or employee

in the service; and if the salary of any such
officer, elerk or employee is less than the

minimum salary of his subdivision or position under the provisions of this Act. bis
salary may forthwith ho increa-.ed to such
minimum.

That is the case of the clerk assistant. It
is true that the cornmittee adopted as a
basis the salaries as they existed on the Ist
cf September. Now were they justified in
that? Sectionî 36 of the Act savs:
Except as berein otberwise

provided, the

Sa]ary of any person placed in the inside

.Service 1)7 or under this Act or to whom
takes the place of a deputy minister and the provisions thereof are made applicable
naturally the clerk assistant takes the place shall ho that which ho is then receiving.
Tiîat is the saiary lie wvas receiving on tlic
of an assistant deputy minister, and under
the ternis of the Act cited ýby the hon. mem- lst of September.

And the said salary- shali determine bis
ber irom Stadacona, it was the duty of the
cornmittee te put the clerk assistant in that classification, except as hierein etherwise provided.
subdivision in which they put hîm, namely
The exception is in the subsection of secsubdivision A of the flrst division. Has the
tion 35, which I have just read. You cannot
hon. gentleman any fauît to flnd with that?

lion. Mr. LANDRY-I find no fault with
that, but I do find fault with the fact that
a resolution was passed that the salaries
would be your guide.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn asking now
about this particular case, the case of the
clerk assistant. The narne of the clerk
assistant appears in the saine way
in the classification submitted by the
Speaker, and in the classification reported
by the commnittec. It is true that attention
lias been called to the fact thiat in the one
case the naine of the clerli assistant appeared first on tAie list, and in the other the

lower the status of an officer and except in
that case you have to take the salary as it
wvas on the lat of September.

Hon. M-Nr.LANDRY-Does the lion. gentlemnan contexîd that that exception applies
only to section 35?
Hon. M.%r.
POWER-That

is iny conten-

tion.
Hon. Mr.
one.

,7It
1,ANDRY

is a verx' crude

Hon. Mr. POWER-It is my opinion.

1

amn confirmed in that view bv a reference

11cthe discussion on this same matter in
the other Chamber on the lOth of 'May, in

SENATE

conn'ection with their own classification.
Mr. Fisher, the minister who had charge
of this Bill last session, and who has charge
of the Bill amending it this session, says:
My hon. friend (Mr. Foster) probably does
not realize that officers of the flouse of Corumons were not in the inside service until the
Civil Service Act came into force last year.
Then the Department of Justice gave it as
their dehberate opinion, and it has been
acted upon, that on the first of September
last all outside employees and officers had
to be put into the classification at the salaries
which they were enjoying at that time;
they came into the subdivision and division which was indicated by their salaries
on the lst of September. I am not very familiar with the fact as regards the employees
of the flouse of Commons, but 1 understand
that on the lst of September last the Sergeantat-Arms was receiving $2,500 as salary and
certain accommodation in the flouse which
was reckoned as being valued at $800 a year.
Under the ruling of the Department of Justice, if only the salary of the Sergeant-atArms had been taken into account lie would
have had to be put into the elass rangine
from $2.100 to $2,800, but the Speaker, and
thé Clerk of the House, and the internal economy committee thouglht it would be unfair
to do that, and they added the $800 a year
the assumed rental of his department, to the
$2,500 and called the salary $3,300. In that
way, on the lst of September the Sergeant-atArms was enjoying a salary of $3.300 and
under tie ruling of the Department of Justice
ho came in the classification which ranged
from $2,SOO to $4,000. If the Sergeant-at-Arms
or any other officer had been in a lower subdivision and the classification w as so arranged that the officer should in the future
be put in a higlier subdivision, thon his
salary mright be increased to the minimum
of the subdivision in which lie w-as placed.
But if ho comes into a certain subdivision
without having been promoted or rai.ed from
another subdivision ho has to come in at
the salary which he was enjoying on the 1st
of September.
I do not understand, how,
under the law, it would be possible for the
House at this present time te increase or
change the salaries. Of course the flouse of
Commons can at any time by a special vote
in the estimates add to the salaries of its
officers, but under a resolution of this kind
and in this classification I do not think they
can do more than transfer from the outside
service to the inside service at the salary
which the officer was enjoying on the lst of
September.
I quote this to show that my view of the
law is substantially the same as that taken
there. Then the Minister of Public Works,
at page 6236, took the same view of the
law, that the salary must be what vas paid
on the 1st of September. That view was
taken by the hon. member from North
House of Commons,
in
the
Toronto
the financial critic of the opposition, and
it was taken by the leader of the opposition
Hon. Mr. POWER.

-that the salaries of the officiaIs in the
Commons were not te be increased from
what they stood at on the 1st of Septem
ber, and there was quite a discussion as
to the salary of the clerk assistant of the
House of Commons.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wnat does the hon.
gentleman do vith section 35 of the Act?
Hon. Mr. POWER-Mr. Plante's salary
was increased. There was a report of the
lCommission made, I.think, in January of
last year, increasing Mr. Plante's salary to
$3,500 and the gentlemen who were leading
the opposition contended that that was not
legal, because, although the House had decided at that time to increase his salary,
lie liad not actually been paid under that
decision of the House. So in the House of
Commons the leaders of both partiesgovernment and opposition-took the view
that the salaries which were to form the
basis of the classification were the salaries
whiclh the officers had been receiving on
the 1st of September. That seems a very
reasonable proposition. Under this Act,
when it goes into operation, the officers of
both Houses will not be tied down to the
salaries which they receive under this classification. There are provisions in the Act
for paying an addition of $100 a year in the
case of the hicher officers, and $50 a year
in the case of the officers who are not of
the highest grade, and there are provisions
for promotion also. The door is not shut
a2ainst any one.
Now, with respect to this
claim that there is gross injustice; have
the committee recommended that the salary
of any officer of this House be eut down?
No one can say that.
The hon. gentleman from Hastings-I am sorry to see is
not in his place-took the ground that we
were exceedingly extravagant, that we had
increased the expenditure of the Senate
during the last twelve years by a very large
sum; but other hon. gentlemen who criticised the report took the ground that we
should not be contented with the salaries
we have now; that we should increase the
salaries of our officials to the same figures
as the salaries of the Commons officials.
That is not the kind of economy the hon.
member from Hastings advocated. It was
the other way. It never has been the practice-and I have been a great many years

MAY 13, 1909
a member of the Senate now-to base our
salaries on the salaries paid in the House
of Commons. We have paid our officers.
on the whole, liberally. As a rule they have
been contented; gentlemen wlio were not
contented had no real reason for their discontent. It would increase the cost of carrying& the business of the Senate immensely
on
if ive'were to adopt the salaries paid in the
Commons.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We have mnore than
the rule w-e have the law.
Hon. Mr. POW'ER-There is no law to
govern the arnount we shial pay.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Look at section 27
of the Act
Hon. 'Mr. PO\VER-That fixes the minimumi and maximum salaries in each division, but that hias nothing to do with the
salaries paid by the bouse of Commons.
Hon. MINr.
LANDRY-Look at the followin- section, 28.
Honi. '-%r. POWER-I have said that, in
the case of the clerk assistant, the law may
be perfectly clear that hie had to be placed
in the first subdivision A, of the first division. Bevond that, iii the cases of most of
the officers, the only guide we had really
was the remuneration they were receiving,
and thiat ivas a fairly reasonable guide. A
good deal has been said with respect to the
case of Mr. Nicholson. I amn sorry to have
to mention the namne of any employee, but
lis name lias been bandied about in a very
free wvay. The kind of officer mentioned in
the memo. from the elerk and the memo.
from the Speaker w-ns one to take the position of chie! clerk of committees. That is
.an important office, and his honour the
Speaker submitted the name of this gentleman, wvho lias been so talked about, for that
position and indicated that the salary
It will lie remembered
should be $2,100.
that I did raise some question about the
case of the clerk of committee.i, and I was
rather surprised to hear the hon, gentleman
from Hastingas. a littie whule ago denouncing
in such vigorous language those who were
responsible for that appointment; but when
the appointment w-as being considered here

537

in the House the hon. gentleman neyer said
a word. It is too late now. When the committee came to consider these salaries they
would probably-I think I arn speakîng
within the mark, and -am safe in saying
wliat 1 do-if the House had not solemnly
fixed the salary o! Mr. Nicliolson at $2,100,
have put 1dim in at the saine figure as Mr.
Cyr. Soniething lias been said about the
precedezîts of the House of Lords. We have
not the saine offices here that they have in
the House of Lords, and our officers, have
not all the saine funetions. It bas neyer
been the practice of the Senate to pay Blaek
Rod as one of the hig-hest officers. He is a
vcry importanit officer, and lis position is a
dignified o11e. At the opening and closing
of parliament lie is a conspicuous figure,
but it has neyer been the practice of the
Senate in the past to pay that officer at the
rate indicated by the speech of the hon.
gentleman from Hastings, that lie wvas to
come next to the clerk. Up to the present
incumibent, the officers did not receive more
than $ 1,800. The present incumbent is now
receiving $2,200. Somcthing lias been said
about the postrrastpr. W~e have followed in
the case o! the present postmaster the samne
line that was followed with respect to lis
predecessor. The postmaster lias got up to
$1,050, and is increased at the rate of $50.
His predecessor had been thirty years in
the employ of the Senate before lie got
$1,100. 1 do flot thînk any hon. gentleman
can say too mudli in favor o! our present
postmaster. 1 thiink hie is an admirable
officer, and 1 trust that his salary will lie
increased stili furtlier. Something las been
said about the messengers and about $800.
It liappens that $800 is the maximum salary
which the law allows for a messenger, and
that is why some of thein have not been
increased. We cannot esdhlihave lis own
way. There are things in this report that
I do not approve of, but one lias to sink lis
own individual opinion to a certain extent,
and I may as well mention before 1 sit
down that, in my humble opinion, the
sergeant-at-arms is an officer -who would
naturally faîl in the saine class as the
usher of the Black Rod. Tlie sergeant-atarins has been in the employment o! the
Senate for 40 years. He sits at one side of
the bar and the Usher of the Black Rod at

SENATE
the other side. If the report is adopted, I iollows: 'That the present report be conshauld be disposed ta take the view that he sidered item hy item.'
should be placed in the same division-and
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is evident from
I think hie properly and naturally goes there
the discussion that the repart as it stands
-as the Usher oi the Black Rod.
is flot right in its entirety. Several hon.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-What is the outcome members have spaken in regard ta the
of ail the excellent things which have been persanal merits af many of aur employees
said this evening? The auteome is that who have been overlooked in the classifi,the mexnbers of this Ho use, and even cation, and in the matter ai salaries. I
the members ai the committee, and the thoroughly agree with their criticism in
chairnian of the caînmittee which hias that reizard. The report is fair as far as
reported, consider that they are not bound it gaes in regard ta the men wha have
by the classification whieh has been based been advanced either by classification or
un the salaries as they were fixed in the by increased salary, but the report is nat
month of September last. They dlaimi that fair ta quite a number ai aur emplayees
the Senate has a right to amend or reject who bave noi, heen advanced either by
the repart, and nobady can deny that it classification or by increase ai sa]ary. T
bas been shown that errors have been do nlot intend ta go aver ail the list the
committed, errors amounting even ta in- same as the hon. member from. Halifax
justice, that the classification recoin- started out ta do.
mended bas not been made as it shau]d
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon. gentleman
have been made, that certain afficers ai
has no right ta say that I went aver ai!
this House have been placed in classes
whert, they should nat have been, and the names. I mentioned two names.
that, consequently, the most practica]
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-As I was saying, the
thing we have ta do now is ta consider haon, gentleman froin Halifax started out
and amend the repart. I arn sure that ta go over the list, but did nlot cantinue.
the han. members ai this House are taa Hie made allusion ta a demand for an inreasanable flot ta do what mav be neces- crease ai salary for the Usher ai the Black
sary ta remedy errars or injustices whicb Rad. The hon. gentleman forgets that the
may have accurred inadvertently. If the Black, Rod in olden days had an equivaSenate fails ta do justice, it will be the lent for what is now demanded in the
first time that it lias flot been ready ta saliry-he had three apartments.
do what is just and fair. Cansequently, I
Hon. Mr. POWER-He had anly $1,350
ask this House ta accept the motion made
ai a salary ai ter having been here for
by the hon. gentleman iramn Stadacona.
When we have examined the report, every- twenty years.
body will be satisfied and justice will be
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The demand made
done ta the deserving. But in order ta do an behali ai the Usher ai the Black Rod
that, the motion should be amended. As is not an extravagant
anc.
Next ta the
it stands, it involi-es the rejectian ai the clerk, hie is the most prominent officiai.
report. We do flot w-ant ta reject the re- Hie is a link
bctwoen the viceroy and
port. We wvant ta modifv and amend it, democracy and hie ought
ta be guilded a
ta remedy errars and injustices which may little. I would have no abjection ta see
have been committed. The motion might him put in the first division.
be madified by the unanimous consent ai
the House, or anather motion substituted
lion. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Knighted.
for it, ta the effect that this blouse proceed
lion. Mr. CLORAN-Knighted too. An
ta the consideration af the repart item by
injustice has been done also to thc transitem, in order ta make the clasgsification
lators. For the translation af the Senate
richt.
dehates w-e have only two transIstors on
bon. Mr. LANDRY-If the bouse will aur staff, ýwhilc the bouse ai Commons bas
permit I shial accept the sur'lestion ai my twelve. The result is that ana translator here
hion. friend, and make my motion read as does nearly one-third marc -work, than any
Hlon. M-Nr.
POWER?.

MAY 13, 1909

one of the twelve transiators of the House
of Coxnmons. That will be a surprise to a
great many of oui hon. friends, yet our
transiators get nearly 20 per cent less remuneration, receiving on.ly $ 1,800, while a
transiator in the Gommonis gets $2,100.

their work. 'It is flot fair to send it broadcast through the country that tee Senate is
generous with the public money: We are
in some cases, but in many cases we act
contrary.to that principle, and this is one.
Apart fromn that, these two translateis have
to remain here for twelve inonths in the
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-I think we have year, while the translatera of the House
four French transiators.
of Commons, as soon as the session is over,
are free. Oui translaters are here 365 workHon. Mr. CLORAN-There are only two
to translate the debates. I wish f0 make ing days in tee year. They have te prea comparison of the work done in the twvo paie the index for the debates.
Houses for the last thîee years. In 1906
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Does it take them
there were 3,852 pages to be translated in ail that time to do the work?
the ' Hansard ' of the House of Commons by
twelve transiators, which gave them an
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No, but they have
average of 321 pages for each transiator. In to remain bere.
the saine year, the Senate 'Hansarci' conHon. Mi. CAMPBELL-I should like te
tained 1,275 pages.
Instead of having to ask, the lion. gentleman if the pages of the
translate 321 pages each, our-transiators had Gommons 'Hiansard' do not contain very
to translate 657 pages, more than double. much more on account of the dloser print
The work requires just as much talent and than the Senate ' Debates '?
ability in oui House as in the CommonsHon. Mi. CLORAN-Yes, there may be a
in fact it requires more ability te translate
our debates. 0f course the comparison was few ems more in the page. There may be
not always as striking as in 1906. In 1907 three or four lines different. The Senate
the Gommons 'Hansard ' contained 3,39 ' Debates ' are just about as closely printed
pages, and each translater translated 333 as the others. Five or six lines in the
pages. In 1907 the Senate ' Debates ' con- column would make the difference.
tained 1,079 pages, and each of oui transHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I am in a position
laters translated 539 pages, almost double to state the facts as they are. Taking into
again. Last yeaî the Commons ' Hansard ' consideration the help that they have had.
eontained 6.992 pages, giving each translator and tee difference between the quantity of
82 pages to translate. The Senate ' Debates ' material on a page, oui translators have
for that year contained 1,356 pages, and actually within the last five yeaîs tîanslated
each of oui transiaters had 668 pages te an average of 50 pages more than in the
'translate, over 100 pages more than the House of Gommons.
average in the Commons, notwithstanding
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And they receive
the length of the session and all the talk in
$300 less. I contend that wben this matter
the House of Commons. During last sesgoes before the committee, or if it remainj
sion we were absent fromn the Senate for bef
oie the bouse, this state of things should
neaîly two-thiîds of the session, yet oui be coîrected in regard to these gentlemen.
translaters had to do that much more work, They are men of ability; they are authors,
and the saine obtains through the years men who are pushing the literature of oui
previous. but 1 have only taken three years country to a high standard. We have among
to make good my argument that the trans- these translaters one who is a well known
lators of this House are doing woîk for poet, a man who bas given bis time and
whîch they are flot paid, notwitbstanding intellect to the deve]opment of social and
the contention of the hon. gentleman fîom intellectual matters. the writin.- of histoîy
Halifax. We do not want to be generous and novels, and -%hv should we not pay hlmi
with publie money. We are the trustees of adequately for bis woîk?' 1 say f lis matter
if: but w-e must not be unfair to men who sbould be îemeiied at once as far as tbeso.
deserve to be properly recompensed for 1two translatois aie coneeîned. Ofheî names

SENATE

in the service have been mentioned. We
have a man who bas been here for the past
tihirty-five years, a faitbful servant from 0
a.m. until midnigzht, whenever it is necessary for a senator to be here at that hour.
He is present at ail hours of the day and
night, appointed under the Mackenzie regime in 1874, drawing only $800 with
a *eggarly increase of $50 that they are
trying to take away from him. I refer to
Mr. Pelletier who has been kind and polite
to ail the senators for thirty-five years. and
is only receiving this small salary. In the
stationery office, Mr. Young has rendeîed
valuable service to the Senate and the saine
with regard to Mr. O'Neil. Surely they are
entitied to an increase. They have respon-sible duties to perform. They *perform
clerkship work, and they are left in the
lurch. These are things that require con.
sideration, and I hope they rnay receive
reasonable consideration. There are other
ernplovees whom 1 cou]d naine, but I do flot
propose to detain the~ bouse. I hope. when
this measure cornes before the Senate, that
it wiil be received in an amicable spirit,
flot in a party or fiLhtiinz spirit, but that
fair play will be accorded to ail.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I thînk it will be
admitted that I very seldom interfere with

satisfied he could flot be replaced by anybody to whom we would be paying $2,000
or $2,200. There are in the House of Coinmons eleven transiators who are doing the
very saine work, and who are flot doing it
any 'better than he is. He is a faithful servant with a family, a respectable citizen,
and I think it is but fair to deal with him
as this House has dealt with the other employees.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I see there are
four transiators. What are the duties of
the other two?

Hon. Mi. BEIQUE-Two of the translators, Mr. Lelievre and Mi. Trudel, are
occupied translating the Bis and the proceedings of the House. They are altogether
separate and have nothing whatever to da
with the Senate ' Debates, ' which are transIated by Bouchard and Chapman alone,
whereas in the bouse of Gommons there
are twelve ge ntlemen employed preparing
the translation of the House of Cemmons
'Hansard' and our transiators bave each
been doing more work than a transiator in
the bouse of Commons, and I feel t.hat it
is but justice to submit their case, because
they are being paid iess than the other
transiators are. If I considered that the
the a epot
o
ommtte' bt terearetransiators in the House of Gommons were
occasions -when exception should be made overpaid I would not subrnit the motion
to any general rule, and I think this is a which. I propose to meve, but it is because
case where it should be done. I feel that in I know that the work is exceedingly diffiaccepting- the report as it is new before this cuit. It requires a thorough knowledge of
honourable bouse a very great injustice hoth French and English, and it requires
would be done, and whether 1 am supported more than that, a very high education to be
or not, feeling es deeply as I do on the able te translate the speeches of members
question, I think it is my duty te offer the of parliainent. Let mie add ýa word as f ar
amendment which I propose te move. 1 do as Mr. Chapman is concerned. I opposed Mr.
se, net because 1 have any friends te piotect,
Chapman's nomination at the time hie was
for such is net the case. I have net allowed appointed. but Mr. Chapman has proved to
any gentleman to ask my advice or to solicit
be perfectly qualified, and if he were either
My vote in bis favour any more in this case
an Irishrnan, Scotchman or Englishman, he
than in any other matter; but we have te
would be a man cf whom you would be so
deal specially with two men, one of them,'
cf his literary attainMr. Bouchard -who has been in the employ proud, by reason
ments, that there would be nething tee
of this branch of parliament fer some 15 or
good for him. As a matter cf fact, men of
20 years.
that position in the literary world should
Hon. Mi. POWER-Ten years in oui em- be given an occasion to be able to earn
ploy.
their living and devote more time than this
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-be bas been in the gentleman is able to, to literary work. Mr.
service for 20 years; at any rate he bas been Chapman's ability bas been recog-nized in
îendering most valuable service, and I arn France, and we, as French Canadians, are
~Ron. Mr. CLORAN.

MAY 13, 1909
proud of his reputation not only here, but
also in France. It seems to me it is an
additional reason why Mr. Chapman as
well as Mr. Bouchard should be treated as they deserve to be treated. The
committee' has decided to appoint Mr.
Cyr as one of
the
transia tors
in
place of Mr,. Trudel. He should be paid
the samne salary as the others. There are
other persons who, I believe, have flot
been treated as liberally or as justly aa
,other empldyees of the Senate, but 1 do
flot propose to go any further. I move
the following amendment, leaving to others
the responsibility of their own actions:
That the report be flot now adopted, but
that it be amended in suoh a manner as to
place Messrs. Bouchard, Chapmani and Cyr
in first dlivision of subdivision A.
This would place them exactly in the
position of sîmilar employees in the House
of Commons, which will give them $2,100.
The SPEAKER-I suppose
the lion.
gentleman's amendment will be that al
the words alter ' that ' in the first line
be struck out, and that the report be flot
adopted, but that it be amended in the
manner the hon, gentleman lias stated.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It seems to me, an
amendment must be such that it cannot
carry at the saine ýtime wîth the motion
which it is proposed to amend, but I do
flot know that the amendrnent proposed
by the lion. gentleman from De Salaberry
would corne in that categýory, because it
is quite consistent with the nmendment
moved by the hon. gentleman from Stadacona. If we adopt the amendment of the
hion, gentleman from Stadacona, and take
up the itemis one by one, we may do just
the thing that the amendment proposes.

541
Contents:
The Honourable Messieurs

Baker,

Bolduc_
flowell
(Sir Mackenzie),
Chevrier.
Choquette,
Cloran,
Costigan,
Dandurand,
David,
Fiset,

Godbout,
Landry,
Lougheed,
Megregor,
MecHugh,
Miller,
Mitchell,
Poirrier,
Ross (Middlesex),
R<oy,
Scott-22.

Non-Contents:
The Honourable Messieurs
Bostock,
Boucherville de
Campbell,
Car1twright

(Sir Richard),

Colley,

Derbyshire,
De Veber,
Douglas,
Frost,
Gibson,
.1 ray,
nff

MeMullen,

MeSweeney,
Perley,
Power,
]Riley.

Robertson,
Ross (Halifax),
Ross <Moosejaw),
Talbot,
Thompson,
Watson,
Wood,
Yeo,
Young-25.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I think the hion.
member from Wellington lias forg-otten that

hie was paired with Mr. Tessier, wvho left
for Quebec at four o'clock; at least I understood they were paired.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I did not so un
derstand it. I was paired upon the amend,
ment that was intended to be moved by
the hion. member from Ottawa, that is the
Hon. Mr. *Belcourt.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN
<iter Bill.

Thiat is the Exche-

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I am sorry; it
niav be an error on my part.
The Senate divided on the amendment.
to the main motion, which was rejected by
The
SPEAKER-The
difference
is the f ollowing vote
that it absolutely and definitely prescribes
what is to be voted upon, or how these
Contente:
names are to be placed, and in wbat subThe Honourable Messieurs
division. Therefore, it seems to me that
the amendment to the amendment is in Baker,
Fiset,
Godbout,
Bolduc,
order.
Boucherville de,
Landry,
Lougheed,
The 8enate divided on the amendment to Bowell;
Miller,
(Sir M~ackenzie),
the amendmnent, which was rejected by thi Choquette,
Poirier,
Cloran,
ROY-14.
following vote:
David,

SENATE

Non-Contents:
The Honourable Messieurs
Bostock,
Campbell,
cirt wright
(Sir Richard),
Chevrier,
Coffey,
Costigan,
Dandurand,
Derbyshire,
DeVeber, -Scott,
Douglas,
Frost,
Gibson,
Jaffray,
MeGregor,
MlHu I

7McSweeney,
Mitchell,
Perley,
Power,
Riley,
Rtobertson,
Ross <Mokosejaw),
Ross (Halifax),
Ross (Middlesex),
Talbot,
Thompson,
Watson,
Wood,
yeo,
Young-22.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-lefore the main
motion is submitted 1 desire to move an
amendment, I do not intend te occupy the

under our minutes hie is now entitled te
twenty three hundred dollars. Surely it is
itot the intention of this Ohamber te reduce
that gentleman not only in the priority
which he should occupy, but also in the
salary lyhich lie should receive, as now
made part and parcel of our minutes.
I
inighit also make the same reference to -the
sergeant-at-arms.
The sergeant-at-arms according to this classification is in a grade
practically three steps below that occupied
by the sergeant-at-arms in the House of
Commnons. I think hion. gentlemen owe
it to their own dignity that the corresponding officers of this House sbould occupy an
equally good and dignified position te those
in' the House of Commons. The sergeantat-arms in this House bas been in the employ of the government of Canada since
1869, soine 40 years, and yet we propose
placing that gentleman in a position inferior
to that of some of the clerks who have been
recently appointed to this Chamber, a gentlemxani wixo lias to fill certainx social obligations, and the demand upon whose purse is
very considerable so far as the social obligations of the office are concerned. Let me

time of the House at any length.
What
I desire to move is this, that the report of
the committee be amended so as to restore
the classification of bis honour the Speaker
as to the Black Rod and the sergeant-atarms. The classification of bis honour the
Speaker will be found on page 340 of th,Minutes, in whicb. under first division, subdivison A the gentleman officer of the Black
Rod is classified, and under flrst division direct bon. gentlemen te M%,ay's parliamentsubdivision B the sergeant-at-axms is classi- ary practice with reference to the precedfied. 1 certainly cannot appreciate what ence which this gentleman should occupy
led to the reduction of those officers te the te other officers of parliament:
classification embodied in this report of the
The chief officers of the Upper House.-that
committee. There is no reason why the is the Ilouse of Lords, are the clerk, the
clerk, of parliament, the gentlemen usherer
officers in the Senate should occupy an in- of the Black
Rod, the clerk, ass~istant, the
ferior position te the same officers in th3 reading- clerk, and the Sergeant-at-Arnis.
House of Commons; for instance, in the
Notwithstanding the practice in England
classification of the House of Commons we we are practically putting the sergeant-atfind in the first division, subdivision A the arms of the Senate in a position inferior
sergeant-at-arms of that Hlouse.
Is there to soma of the clerks. I think it is uninany reason why the Black Rod of the Senatte tentional, and that it is onlly necessary te
who takes priority in the precedence of par- point this out to bon. gentlemen to appreliament to the serg-eanit-at-arms of the Com- ,ciate the desirability of maintaining at
mons should occupy an inferior position to least the dignity of this House and the oblithat gentleman. It seems te me extremely gations we are under to the officers of the
unreasonable, and why it bas corne about House. I igh-lt also refer to another clerk.
that that gentleman was reduced by the to Mr. Young-, who bas been in the service
InternaI Economy I cannot very well under of t.he goveriiment of Canada
no less than
stand.
501years.
I miglit also point out that the salary
Hc is yet in the prime of lite, a gentleman
mentioned in the classification suhmitted
as well qualified te perform the duties of bis
by the Committee on Internal Economy is office as any clerk, in the Senate.
Mr.
less than the salary which this Chamber Young entered the service of
the governauthorized to be paid the Black Rod. He
ment of Canada as a page, and there is no
is classified at twenty two hundred wvhereas
good reasoni why Mr. Young should not
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.

MAY 13, 1909
occupy a eorresponding rank, and have the
same advantages as Mr. Bowles in the House
of Commôna.
I think that it would
flot be unreasonable that we ahould
place that gentleman in precisely the saine
position as.that occupied by Mr. Bowles in
the House of Commons. Their duties are
similar;.the office corresponds to each other,
and certainly the duties of Mr. Young are
quite as onerous and quite as important as
those of Mr. Bowles, and while he rnight not
corne under the motion which I have movied
at the present time, as the classification
may be somewhat different in the classification of bis honour the Speaker, I would
however imove that as to the officers, the
Black Rod and the sergeant-at-arms, the
classification of the Speaker be maintained
and that Mr. Young be given the higher
classification.
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
would point out to my hon. friend that we
intay, without intending it, do a very considerable injury to these various gentlemien whose salaries are about to be considerably increased, taking them ail axound,
by the report of the cornmittee. At this
period of the session, if we go on amendin,-, amiending and amending, we may be
quite unable to get the report down in time
to be adopted, and, if I understand the
position, everybody will fall back on the
salaries they have been receiving-. I do
not want to go into the merits of the matter; but I arn afraid there ia no option for
us if we are to provide our officers with
the increases which have been recomonended, except to adopt the report of the cornmittee.
Every hon. gentleman probably
would like to augment the salary of one or
more officers. t4- whorn he is particularly
attached, or for whom hie has a particular
regard; but at this period of the session
there will be absolutely no chance of getting through with this matter unlesa we
maintain the report of the committee.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It would be very
much better that the report should stand
over uitil next session and allow the present condition of thinga to continue until
justice could be done to aIl the officers of
the House, than to do an injustice to any

543

one now. It must appeal to rny hon. friend
that this classification which has been axTived at by the Cornmittee on Internal
Econoeny, has been reached through the irnportunities of the various parties interested, and according to the irnportunity of the
officer the salary has been largely determined.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon. gentleman
ia miataken, and his ataternent ia directly
contrary to the facta. The commfittee have
resisted t.he irnportunity of any one.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It rnay be due
to the importunity of the hon. member
frorn Halifax.
Hon. Mr. POWER-What kind of importunity P
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If there be no
tirne to give proper consideration to the
report, would it not be better, and more
juat to the parties interested, to let it stand
until next sessionP
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
arn afraid that vwould hardy meet with the
approbation of the va.rioua parties whose
I offer
salaries are about to be increased.
no opinion on the merits of the matter, because I have been unable to attend thie
meetings of the cornrittee, and the gentlemen who formed the cornmittee have better
acquaintance with the officers of the Senate and their merits than I could possibly
posseas, but I think, weighing the advantages and disadvantages, that it is in the
beat interests of the officers Of this bouse
that we ýshould adopt the report of the comrnittee.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-My hion. friend forgets this fact, that a Bill must be introduced in the other bouse incorporating
ail these changes.. Nothing will be done
before we adopt the Bill, and previous to
that we can make any changea we like.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-They may proceed -%vith the Bill without
receiving the classification of the Senate.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If so, when the
Bill cornes to the Senaté we have a right
to amend it.

544

SENATE

SENATE
544
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. THOMPSON-The clerk sugNo, we cannot amend it.
gested that hie should be piaced in the 3rd
division, subdivision A.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-They will flot send
Hon. Mr. CROQUETTE-I have asked
it before we are ready, because there are
too many interested. At ail events, what that he be put there.
would bc the difference? If we adopt
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Delaire has been
the principle that we must go by the saïengaged for the iast two years at the rate
aries of the -lst of September, what dîfferof $2.50 per day, and if you accept that
ence does it make?
as a basis, the salary hie received on the
Hon. Mr. POWER-Would my hon. friend lst of September iast was about $700, and
the leader of the opposition state just what I therefore move that the blank be
filied in with $700.
his amendment is?
The SPEAKER-I arn told by thue clerk
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My amendment
that this gentleman lias been receivingis to restore the classification reperted by
the Speaker with reference to these two $2.50 per day which would be at the rate
of $75 per month. That would be $900 per
officers.
year. The statute provides that v;here a
The motion was declared lost on a divi- person has been emnpioyed temporaîiiy and
sion.
piaced on the staff, hie shall be empioyed
Hon. Mr. CROQUETTE moved that the at the rate hie wss receîving.
report be flot now adopted, but that it be
Hon. Mi. WATSON-I know hie is on-ý
amended by placing Joseph H. Pelletier in of the best messeng-ers that we have. and
the 3rd division, subdivision A.
I should be clad to sec bis salary fixed at
$800.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-That -ives hini
Some hiou. GENTLEMEN-No, no.
how much?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Then I press my
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Nine hundred
dollars. He has been in the employ of motion to make it $700.
the Senate 35 years, and is entitled to
The SPEAKER-I have called attention
some censideration. He is now in the
3rd subdivision, subdivision B, and I ask to whiat the effeet of that may be.
The amendment was agîreed te.
to have hini put in subdivision A.
The amendment was declared lost.
Hon. Mr. CROQUETTE-There is another
employee of the Senate whose name is flot
Hon. Mr. WA.PSON-I notice by this rementioned here, Mr. Samard, who translates
port that, in the 3rd division, subdivision
the reports prepared by Mr. Rannay for the
B, in the case of messengers, there
press. He bas been working steadily since
is no salary attached to Abraham Dethe beginning of the session. Mr. Hannay
laire. I think that is a mistake, and I
receives $40 a week. They are both very
move that that vacancy be filled in by
competent men, and make good reports,
inserting $700. He has been a sessional
and I think Mr. Samard ought to be put
messenger, and is now put on the peron the staff ini the same way that Mr. Hanmanent iist. He was paid by the day.
nay has been.
Hon. Mr. POWER-You cannot do that.
Hon. Mr. POWER-These gentlemen are
He has to go in at the minimum.
net on the staff of the Senate. They are
The SPEAKER-Let mie cali attention to specially employed, but only temporarily
the fact that Mr. Pelletier is placed in 3rd empioyed, and wili be paîd out of oui condivision, eubdivision B, where the maxi- tingencies.
mum is only $800, se that if his salary is
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Then put Mr.
to be above that it will he more than Samard in the same position as Mi. Hanis allowed by the Act for that subdivision. nay.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

MAY 13, 1909

545

Hon. Mr. POWER-I see no objection to
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It is for the minister
that. The heading is ' The following are to do that.
specially employed,' and these are only
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The
temporarily employed, and I do flot thin];
there is any necessity for it; but there is Commons send us their classification in a
Bill. They are waiting for the classification
no objection to mentioning his name.
of the Senate.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Mr. Simard has been
The motion was agreed to.
acting in the place of Mr. Belanger, who
was appointed on the condition that hie was
ONTARIO AND MICHIGAN POWER
to be paid $15 a week when the Senate was
COMPANY'S BILL.
sitting.
SECOND READINO.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE moved that Mr.
Simard's naine be placed with that of Mr.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the second
Hannay.
reading of Bill (No. .34) An Act to incorporHon. -Mr. WATSON-From the explana- ate the Ontario and Michigan Power Comtion which has just been mnade, it appears pany.
that Mr. Simard is not the gentleman who
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will the hion.
was named by the Senate to do this work. gentleman explain the Bill?
He has flot been appoînted by the Senate.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The Bill cornes to us
We have xio objection to the Debates Committee appointing anybody to have this in the usual way from the House of Gomnwork performed, and we are glad to know mons. Two years ago, this Bill, on simîlar
that it is being performed satisfactorily. lines, for developitig po-wer at this point
Surely' the $15 a week can be paid out of was passed by the Senate.
Objection was
the contingencies.
taken to it at the time, because it contaîned
Hon. M-Nr.DANDURAND-The Debates a declaration that it was for the general
advantage of Canada. In the Bill *before
Committee %villsettie that point.
us, that objection bas been removed. I also
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Provided his find that the Gommons have restricted the
dlaim is recog-nized, I have no objection.
powers of the company which were granted
two years ago, in a great many particulars,
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL moved that Joseph
and in other respects have modified the Bill
H. Pelletier be put in the third division,
to a great extent. I suppose it will require
sub-division A.
very little explanation on my part in introThe SPEAKER-That motion has already ducing
the measure. In fact, I -believe this
been voted on.
Bill, which was f-ought in the early stages
The motion for the adoption of the report of the session in the House and in commitas amended wvas adopted on a division.
tee, has been so amended that it pretty
Hon Sir RICHARD
CARTWRIGHT well represents the unanimous feeling of the
moved that a message be sent to the Comn- House of Gommons at the present time. I
mons to acquaint that House with the fact hope the House will consent to the second
that the Senate has adopted the classifica- reading, and will let the Bill go to the Railway Committee, where it can be properly
tion of its officiais.
considered and discussed. If the commitHon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not think there tee, in their wîsdom, see fit to amend it in
is any necessity for sending a message to the interest of the country and of the prothe Commons.
Did the Commons send moters, they can do so.
their classification to usP
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is entirely imThe SPEAKER-Certainly.
probable that this Bill, at this hour of the
Hon. Mr. POWER-This bas to be comn- night, can receive a second reading and I
municated to the Commons, in order that would suggest that inasmuch as the Banking and Commerce committee are te meet
it may be put in the Bill.
\REVISED EDITION

SENATE
Hon. Mx. DANDURAND-I understood the
to-morrow morning. we should proceed to
consider the next item, narnely the Canada hon. gentleman who was to epeak on the
Life Bill, and let this order be postponed. Grand Trunk Pacifie Loan Bill to ask that
t.he Ordar Paper be cleared before resuming
Hon. Mr. POWER-Paxflament will sit the discussion upon the measure. We are
at a late period of the session, and there
until the business is finished.
are sorne BUis which should be advanced a
Hon. Mr. WATSON-For the very sanie stage and sent to the committee. There is
reason I wish Vo have this Bill passed. We this Canada Life Bill which should go tc
are nearing the end of the session and the the Banking and Commerce Comrnittee. I
chairman of the Railway Cornmittee has in- have not given very rnuch attention Vo the
timated that hie wiil caîl a meeting of that Bill now before the House, and which was
I hope, discussed elsewhere at considerable length.
écommittee to-morrow morning.
my hion, friend will concux in I have an absolutely open mind es Vo the
therefore,
rny suggestion, and pass the second read- merits of the Bill itself. 1 hold in my hand
ing of this Bill to-night i ordex that it a telegram frorn the Attorney General of
may be considexed by the committee to- Quebec drawing my attention to a clause
ini the Bill which hie regards as an encroachmoxrow.
ment upon the xights of the provinces. I
Hon. Six MACKENZIE BOWELL- I arn under the impression that the Bill
should like Vo cali the attention of the cornes under the purview of our parliament
leader of the House Vo the conditions under to sonie extent, but Vo wvhat extent I do not
which the Bill affecting the Grand Trunk know. I do noV intend to discuss the Bill
It wau now, as it can be considered carefully in
Pacific loan was postponed.
distinctly undersVood when the order was comrnittee, and when we have the report of
called that it should stand until the non- the committee before us, it can be thorScntentious Bis and questions wexe dis- oughly considered.
posed of. IV was distinctly undersVood that
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-What is the clause
any question which would cause discusof the Bill to which the Attorney General
sion should be allowed to stand until that
loan Bill wss considered. I admit that we of Queb-ec takes exception?
ovexlooked that agreemnent when we disHon. Mr. DANDURAND-The clause concussed the classification cf the Senate offi- cerning the expropriation of property.
ciais, but thexe is no reason why we should
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
transgress the agreement further. No matter what view we may take of the Grand understand there is a clause which gives
Trunk Pacifie Loan Bill, it is a measure power Vo expropriate provincial pxoperty.
which should be dealt with promptly. If Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-All that can be
any faith is to be kept in the Senate, we considexed ini committee.
should pxoceed with the non-contentious
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But if
items and then take up the Grand Txunk
we know there is such a clause, we would
Pacific Loan Bill..
affirn the principle by consenting to the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understood second reading now.
froni the hon. membex frorn Wolseley
Hon. Mx. LOUGHEED-I object Vo this
(Hon. Mr. Perley> that he did noV want Vo Bill on what seems Vo be the fundarnental
speak Vo-night on the Grand Trunk Pacifie fMature of the measure, nainely, the right
Loan Bill.
Vu expropriate certain provincial propexty
for the purpose of exploiting the underHon. Six MACKENZIE BOWEL-That taking which the promotors have in view.
may be so, but thexe a.re others who may I hold in my hand a telegram which 1
desixe Vo discuss the measure. It is a ques- have received froni the Premier of Ontario,
tion whethex an undexstanding arrived at in which he expresses a very strong pro.
-should be adhered Vo.
test against the passage of this Bill, on the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MAY 13, 1909
ground that it proposes to expropriate provincial property. Opposition coming from
thbt particular source should receive some
*ittenition from this House. I observe my
hon. friend froma Toronto opposite me, the
president of the Toronto 'Globe,» and I
propose also to read an editorial from that
paper in which my hon. friend froin Toronto
will hbave the greatest possible confidence.
1 refer to the 'Globe' of the IOth May.
Hon, gentlemen 'will observe that this Bill
was passed in the House of Commons on
the 8th May. This is an editoria] of the
lOth instant in the ' Globe ' upon this particular measure.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-You should net take
aniy stock in that.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Weîî,
Urnes when the Toronto 'Globe

there are
'--

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTilves evidence of sanity.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is pe rfectîy
lucid a.nd sound in the faith on this question. The editorial reads:
The Ownership of Water-powers.
The Counee Bull for the exploitation of the
water-powers on the Pigeon and Nipigon
rivers has in its progress through the Private
Bille Committee of the House of Commons
been shoru of several objectionable features.
'but it does not at alI follow that it ought to
become law. There is left a good deal of uncertainty about the whole matter, încluding
the jurisdiction of the Dominion parliament
in the promises, so that the balance of convenience and safety seems to favour leaving the
whole question over for more careful ocasideration asid more thorough discussion. The
Premier, in the course of the latest debate,
expressed the opinion that the matter of
jurisdiction will probably have to be settled
eventually by the courts. Uet that b. done
before there is any more legislation.
There is a special reasen why haste should
b. made slowIy in granting to private parties
controi of water-powers within measurable
distance of Thunder bay. Three great railway systems now have terminal facilities at
that Voint, and it is only a question of a comparatively short time when the towne of Fort
William and Port Arthur will together form
on. of the most important industrial comnmunities in Canada. Power is sure te be
needed. for aIl sorts of purposs and for these
it ought te be resevd The Ontario government made a serious blunder in allowing the
Kaminjistîquia water-power te pass into private
hands, and this blunder ehould mot be repeated by the Dominion parliament. There
is no chance now te pleadl ignorance of the
importance of water-powiers in cunneotion
with. the production of electric e1lergy, and
nothing is more certain than that the prem35à

attire alienation of water-powers will 1» a
subject for unavailing regret before many
yeare paso.
With those views I entirely concur.
This policy has been practically followed
by the Dominion government within the
present session. I think it was no later
than yesterday that there was presented
a Bill-and it is before us for consideration at the present time- for the conservation cf the natura-1 rescurces of our
Dominion. If we are te adopt a sane and
intelligent polîcy for the conservation of
those resources, it surely is net for this
Chamber or for the parliament of Canada to, place machinery ini the hands of
private parties by which they can secure
those saine resources .which are looked
to for the purpose of supplying electrical
power for the future, and which, according te the best gevernmental policy ef
to-day, both federal and provincial, are
tu he centrelled by the respective governments cf this Dominion. I do net take
the position, as my hion. friend fromn Montreal has juat pointed eut, that it is a
questien whether this parliament has juris.
diction or net. Surely we have net arrived
at the stage wvhen there is an overlapping
juisdiction between the federal and pro.
vincial authorities, that we must assert
that jurisdictien under ail conditions and
circumstances.
It is a question wihich
parliament must satisfy itself upon, that
there are grounds for the proper exercise
cf that discretion vested in us as te the
exercise cf the rights
which we possess.
If it becomes apparent that the provinces
desire that the federal parliament should
net exercise the jurisdiction which is common te both sources, surely parliament
will net make such an invasion or encreachments upon the rights of the provinces as will prevent them frorn making
the best possible use cf the natural resources within their boundaries.
This Chamber, even more than the other
Chamber ef parliament, should certainly
be consistent with reference te this Bill.
My recollection is, that we rejected this
measure on two previeus occasions, and
from a close perusal of the Bill I cannot
observe any great departure from the
powers coxitained in the Bill cf previcus sessions. I find under clause 7
that the company ask for the right te ac-

SENATE
quire such lands, easements, privileges as I have said before, is the fundamentai
water and water rights as are necessar' y feature of this legisiation, and I shall, therefor the Iurpose of its undertaking upon the fore, vote against the second reading.
Pigeon river and upon the Nipigon rive' rHon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELL-I
in the District of Thunder Bay, and 1 find
have the sarne objections to make to this
by clause 17 of the Bill that it proposes tc
Bill as my hion. friend who has just spoken.
apply the expropriation machinery of the
Ne matter what may be said by those who
Railway Act to the expropriation of land are opposed
to it, so long as the mafor the purpose of carrying out the under- *jority
of the House is influenoed rather
takîng which it hias. ii view. That under. *by party
feeling than by the- princitaking undoubtedly cornes directiy in con- *pies invoived in
the Bill, of course
flict with the policy of the Ontario govern- *they wiii vote ail opposition
to it down.
ment respecting the developrnent of elec- *It was exciusively a party vote that
carried
tricai energy in that province.
We know the Bill iii the lower House. We are under
that Ontario lias adopted a comprehen *the impression that we are here to act
sive policy with reference to the develop- *urider the constitution that established this
ment of uts hydro-eiectric power resour *branch of the legisiature, for the purpose of
ces, and that that policy embraces idûing that which the Toronto ' Globe' hias
the control, so faý as the province cau iof late years so strongly advocated, that is
possibly do it, of the water-powers with- *to nieintain the rights of the different proin the boundaries of the province and the
vnt.If we are to permit private indidevelopmient of those powers for the pur- viduRls to become incorporated for the purpose of transrnitting- electricai energy to the pcse of attacking, and to a certain extent
various points throughout that province degtroying, the policy of one of the large3t
-where such rnay be desîred. If this parlia. *provinces in the federation, I must corne to
ment, in the face of the insistent protests the conclusion, and so wili the thinking
which have been made by the province of people of Canada that the Senate is not
Ontario, and Quebec I riiight also say, be- carrying out the principles upon which. it
cause that province lias been equaily assert- was founded. Both Ontario and Quebec proive iii protesting ag-ainst the exercise of tested against this kind of iegisiation. They
these powers by the federal governinent- were also joined by the province of British
denies the demands which have been made Columbia and by Manitoba during the last
from time to time by the two great provin- session of parliament, when this question
ces of Canada, and wili insist upon granting was under consideration. We are now in
to private parties powers by which. they can the face of the policy adopted by the proencroach upoil the well defined poiicy of vinces, and in defiance o! the rights o!
those governments as to the development of those provinces, taking frorn thern that
their naturai resources, there must of rne- which the constitution .-ives them. Why?
cessîty be a conflict at an early day, which Because private parties were connected with
may prove of a serious nature, between the a certain party, and that party liaving a
provinces and the Dominion. This Senate rnajorit-y in parliarnent are able to set at
is particularly charged withi consîdering the defiance the minority and the wishes and
views wvhich the -provinces may entertain, policy of the different provinces. That is
especialiy upon a question of this naturé. It the position we feel ourselves in to-day.
My hion. friend read the editoriai opinion
it not a question of the moment, as to whether we have the jurisdiction, -but whether expressed by the organ of the great Liberai
we shaHl exercise the jurisdiction with party in this country on the lst of May
which we are vested, and this pecuiiarly in on this question, but hie could have gone
the face of the protest which hias corne frorn a littie further back and read editoriais
both sides of polities in the province of equaiiy as strong, deiending the position
taken upon this question by the Premier
Ontario. I submit that this Bill shouid not
of Ontario. No one wiil assert and no one
be entertained by this House.
I amn wili corne to the
conclusion that the Toopposed flot oniy to rnany provisions in the
ronto ' Globe ' was favourabie to the genBiii, but to the generai principle whicli,
eral poiicy of the Ontario g2overnment, but
Hon. M-%r.
LOUGHEED.

MAY 131 1909
upon this great constitutional queetion
there is no diverse issue between the Conservative press of the province of Ontario
and the Liberal press. It is removed entirely from the political issues, so far as
these leading journals representing the different parties in this province are concerned.
If hon, gentlemen who look upon a question so serious as this, affecting the administration of the affairs of the country,
can sit and laugh at it, I will not be eurprised at any policy they may adopt. If
they have paid the slightest attention to
the policy of our neighbours across the
line, and have read the utterances of exPresident Roosevelt upon this very great
question, in which he pointed out the
difficulty that would arise in the future in
case private indîviduals and capitalists are
permitted to exploit aIl the electric power
in the United States, that when the coal supply should become exhausted in that country the public would be at the mercy of
men who would extort from them exhor'bitant rates. President Taft is following on the
same lines as Mr. Roosevelt. I have extracts before me in w'hich he announces his
policy, and I have extracts from the utterances of the ex-President upon this
question but I do flot propose to take up
the time of the House by reading them. I
merely desire before the second. reading
is carried-because I fancy it will be carried, and carried oy a party vote, I do not
heciitate to say.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon, gentleman has no rig-ht to say that this Bui
wiIl be carried in the Senate by a party
vote.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I withdraw the expression if it is offensive.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Because the
hon. gentleman knows this Bill went to
comrnittee last year and was rejected by
the committee. I do flot think the Senate
deserves such strictures.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I will
withdraw that, and wvill say that the Bill
will be carried-I amn under that impression.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
my reason for saying so is that the course
that was pursued in another branch, and
the lobbying that was going on upon this
question in the last day or twoHon. Mr. LANDRY-The vote may be ail
right.
Hon. Sir, MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
vote may juatify what I say, but I hope
not. I arn not going to pursue that question further than to point out that the
policy of the province of Ontario, and the
policy of the province of Quebec and thc
policy of ahl the provinces where there are
extensive water-powers, is opposed at the
prescrnt day to placing them in the hands of
private individuals who can control hydroehectric power in the future to the detrinient
of the -whole country. That is the position
they have taken. I repeat again that thf,
United States has taken equahhy strong
grounida upon that question, from the President down. They look forward to the time
when a great injury will be done to that
nation by placing in the hands of capitalists
and those who at the present moment are
grasping for control, ail the water-powers in
that country. We all kno 'w that there is
perhaps no cou.ntry in the world that possesses greater wealth in its water-powers
than does Canada; therefrnre the greater the
necessity that exists for legisiatures to protect the electric power wvhich shahl be developed in the înterests not only of the
present but of the coming generations. We
know very well that the tume is net far
distant when the railways shahl, in ail probabihity, ha propelhed by electric power. The,
rapîdity with which the science of electricity
is being developed is marvelous. Every day
points to the necessity of absolute controi
of that great public utility in the interests
of the future as welh as of the present generation. I arn quite satisfied that if *this
Bihl is passed, giving the company power to
expropriate government property, that there
us no safety in the future for private individuals or for the provinces. That is the
position in which. we are about placing ourselves when we give power to a company to
take possession of the whole water-power.
at one point on the Nipigon river.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-But it may not
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No, this Bill specibe carried in comniittee.
fies at onhy one point on the Nipigon river-

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-And there is no power fact that the Bill should be oppoaed on
of expropriation. The power of expropria- the ground that it gives the company power
to expropriate provincial property.
The
tion bas been cut out of the Bill.
telegram reads:
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
The *Conmee Bill provides for the exproHlon. Mr. BCOTT--So f ar as the Nipigon priation of provincial property.
is concernied.
That teiegram is of the sanie character
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, simply the as the one my hon. friend read frorn
water-pewers upon the Nipigon, but they the government of Quebec. 1 have no decan expropriate other property on the Nipi- sire, aithougli I have a number ef extracts frorn différent authorities to sustain
gon river.
the position which I have taken, te deHon. 31r. WÂTSON-Only for the trans- tain the House at any length. I do net
tiiik, if it cornes te a vote, we can reject
mission line.
the Bill, aithough it ouglit te be rejected.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Those I expreased a hope that if this Bill is
who have any acquaintance with the Nipi- placed upon the statute-book, that the
gon river know that it lias very great water- provinces will unite and carry the quespower, and no one can tell at the present tion to the Supreme Court te decide how
moment what its real value is; but the mai- tar their privilegea have been invaded.
velous thing connected with this Bill la The fact is, we are every day enacting
that the powers under it commence at the measures which are direct infringements
Nipigon river and extend to Ile Royale, of the riglita of the provinces, if they ever
some 40 or 50 miles seuth of Port Arthur, had any. A saal Bill passed the other
and still further southwestward until it House, which I suppose will come te us,
takes in the Pigeon river. I arn not pre- for the construction ot eight or ten miles cf
pared te say what the distance is between a road. It was declared te be a work for
the Nipigon and Pigeon river, but my im- the general advantage cf the Dominion,
pression is that it ia 100 or 150 miles, per- and was therefore passed by the Commons,
haps more. In giving those distances I instead of by the provincial legisiature.
speak subject to correction. We know that True it connecta with Dominion raiiways.
the Nipigon river is exclusively the prop- No matter what railway it is, it connects
erty of Ontario, and we know also that the with sorne other railway or navigable
Pigeon river is on the international beund- water, and if the principle ef incerperating
ary between Canada and the United Statoes. aIl railway companies by Act cf parliament
We know also that Ontario controls the is adopted, the sooner we ask the imperial
lands and river bed to the middle of the government te change the Cenfederation
river. We know that the riparian ownera Act and place ail railways under the conhave riglits to, the centre of the rivet, if it trol of one pariiament-and I should like
is navigable, and in the construction of a te sec that-the better it would be for the
country, the better for the provinces. We
bridge or any other work which would incould then act u.nder the constitution interfere with the navigation of that river,
atead of infringing it every eession and
the province would direct what ehould be
almoat every month during the session. I
done under the sanction of the Lieutenant
am very much under the same impression
Governor in Council. The Secretary of as other hon. gentlemen who have taken
State says that the expropriation clause of very strong grounds upen this question.
the Bill was expunged. It is very atrange One gentleman said: ' What is the use of
that the authorites in the province of On- fighting it. All we can do is te say that
tario should telegrapli my hon. friend, ob- we are opposed te it.' When the measures
jecting to the Bill because powers of ex- cerne up, the influences exerted are eure te
propriation are contained in the rneasiire, carry them through, ne matter how far
and it is strange that the telegram, which
infringe private or provincial
I hold in my hand, signed by the Premier tihytmay that Bill gees through a stage
rgt.If
cf Ontario to-day cails attention to the to-night and is sent te cornrittee we can
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

MAY 13, 1909
discuss it clause by clause more fuily there
than it would be advisable to do at this
hour, because as one member of the Senate
I would object strongly. to keeping the
lion. gentleman from Portage la Prairie up
so late.*
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I
you.

wiil stay

with

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He desires more rest than hie is getting, although
youngeT men like myseif, the ex-Secretary of
State, and a few others do not mind it at
ail. Ont of consideration for the hion, gentleman and those who are supporting him,
I propose to suspend my objections for the
present; but at this stage of the Bull 1
desire to be on record as being strongly opposed to infringements of the rights of the
province, which we are constantly doing
and which wiil lead ultimately to trouble,
turmoil, annoyance and great diffliculty.

was changed to 90 per cent payable to th2!
policy-holders und 10 per cent te the shareholders, and I understand that the shareholders have not up te now received more
than 10 per cent. A doubt has arisen as
to the meaning of the legislation of 1879
as to whether iA included interest on the
shareholders' money and on the capital
stockc of the company, and it is to remove
these doubts that this Bull is beforo the
House. The Bill will be referred te the
Banking and Commerce Committee, where
ample explanation will be given. Every
opportnnity will be given both sides te be
heard in the matter.

Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-It is not very often
that a private Bill is diàcussed at its second
reading, but the Bill now before us involves a principle which, to my mi, is
so very serious that I cannot Jet it pass
without offering a few remarks. The mover
of the Bill has stated that the sole purpose
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I
fully agree of the measure was to explain a doubt.
with the leader of the opposition in what hie
Hon. Mr. 'YOUNG-I did not say the
says, that although we may have concurrent jurisdiction it may not always be sole purpose; I said the contentions clause
wise for the federal power to exercise it. was.
If there is concurrent jurisdiction in this
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-The higchest authorimatter, we can well afford to hear both tics say there is no ambiguity i the secsides in cominittee and with a free mind tion of the Act; that it is as clear as water
to do justice to ail the parties interested, and does not need explanation. By the
feeling that we are doing our duty without Bill passed in 1879, the company changed
dividing on party lines.
its mode of dividing profits. Prior te that
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill time the shareholders received 25 per cent
and the policy-holders 75 per cent. The
n-as read the second time on a division.
Act was preceded by a petition, which was
CANADA LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY'S prepared by the ableat lawyers the company
could employ, and it set out as follo'ws:
BILL.
To the Hfonourable the Ilouse of Commons, of

the Dominion of Canada, in Parliament
SECOND READING.
A4ssemb1ed
Hon. Mr. YOUNG moved the second read- The Petitiom of the Canada Life Assurance
in- of Bill (No. 56) An Act respecting the
Company humbly sheweth,
That your petitioners were by an Act of the
Canada Life Assurance Company.
parliament of the late province of Canada

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We want an explana- passed on the twenty-fifth day of April, A.D.
1849 duly incorporated for the purpose of
tion of this Bill.
proseeuting the business of hifé assurance in
its varions branches and have carried. en such
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-In 1879 an Act was business te a large and constantly increasing
passed amending the charter of the Canada extent ;
That the directors have heretofore allottedl
Life Assurance Company and changing the and divided among the assurera upon the parrelations between the policy-holders and ticipation scahe seventy-five per cent of ahi
the profits realized
the shareholders.
The division of the of the oinpany and fromn theof entire businesa
in view
the increasinbx
profits had been in the ratio of 75 per cent busineffl of the company it is deemed desirable that tlbey ahonld be empowered. te into the policy-hnlders and 25 per cent to the
crease the proportion of such profits which
shareholders. By the amending Act that may be allotted to such assurera;

SENATE

That your petitioners are desirous of making it clear that the directors may fix their
timè of holding the annual general meeting
and of removing the restriction as te the
number of votes which any one shareholder
nay east and of varying the provisions of
their Act .of incorporation as to the execution
of policies, contracts and other instruments;
That your petitioners desire to be empowered to invest in securities issued in Great
Britain or any foreign state or country so
far as may be necessary for the purpose of
carrying on the business of the company
therein ;
That with the view of saving assurers the
expense of the appointment of personal representatives within the province of Ontario
to receive moneys payable under their policies of insurance your petitioners ask that
payments made to personal representatives
appointed in any of the provinces of the Dominion of Canada and to executors whenever appointed may be declared to be valid
discharges to the company;
The number of directors required by the
Act of incorporation being twenty your petitioners believe such number may with advantage to the company be reduced to twelve
and would ask that the directors may be
enabled to make such reduction.
Your petitioners therefore pray : That
your Honourable House will be pleased to
pass an Act to amend the Act incorporating
the Canada Life Assurance Company in the
foregoing respects;
And your petitioners as in duty bound
rill ever pray, &c.
(Sgd.) A. G. RAMSAY, President.
R. HILL. Secretary.
(Seal.)
The preamble of the Bill is as follows:
Whereas the Canada Life Assurance Company by their petition represented that in
carrying on their business heretofore the
directors have allotted and divided among
the persons assured upon the participation
scale seventy-five per cent of all the profits
realized from the entire business of the company, and that in view of the increasing
business of the company it is or may be desirable to vary the relative proportion in
which such profits should be allotted and
divided as between the shareholders and such
persons assured, and have prayed for an
amendment to the Act of incorporation as to
the mode of allotment and division of profits
and for other purposes.
Then follows the first section to which is
attached the following proviso:
Provided always that the proportion of such
profits alloted to such assured shall not be
less than 90 per cent thereof, and the proportion to the shareholders shall not exceed
10 per cent thereof.
To my mind that is perfectly clear. It
does not need any other Act to explain it.
It
is plain to any legal gentleman,
and even to any layman, who
understands the English language.
The
opinion of Sir Robert D. Finlay, one of
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC.

the highest authorities in England,
been obtained as to the meaning of

has
that

clause, and he has given the opinion that
it is not open to two interpretations; that
it has, but one meaning, which is that the
policy-holders were entitled to at least 90
per cent cf all the profits realized on all
the business of the company, and the shareholders to not more than 10 per cent. Then

we have the opinion of the Minister of
Justice, who says:
Upon that subject I have formed an opinion
some months ago when the question was raised
before the Department of Justice upon the
reference te that department by the superintendent of insurance, and the opinion which
1 then expressed and which for my part
I still entertain as a matter of law is, that
under the wording of the Act of 1879, and
giving to the language there used the strict
legal interpretation, the company or the
shareholders of the company cannot deduct
from the general earnings of the company a
percentage by way of interest upon the
amount of their capital stock before calculating 90 per cent of the profits for distribution
among the policy-holders.
After giving the opinions of these two
eminent authorities there cannot remain a
doubt as to the interpretation of the Act
passed in 1879, and there is no necessity for
a Bill to remove doubts as to its meaning.
If there was the alightest doubt in tte
minds of legal gentlemen as to the meaning of the clause, I would admit that an
Interpretation Act might be necessary; but
when there is no difference of opinion, it
is a very serious matter for this parliament
to pass a Bill stating that all the parties
who have made contracts with the Canada
Life Assurance Company during the last
30 years have been deceived by a law passed
by this same parliament. It is a serious
matter that this parliament should decide
to take away the civil rights of the policyholders in this company.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.-The Bill covers
something else. That may be a reasort to
urge when the Bill is in committee.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-But I cannot accept the principle of the Bill while it contains that clause.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The second reading
of the Bill will not be considered an, acceptance of the principle against which the
hon. gentleman is speaking.

MAY 13, 1909
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-There are in my district rnany policy-holders in the Canada
Life, and I feel it my duty to them to
state my views on the subject at the second
reading of the Bill. I had hoped that the
niover of the Bill would give us a little
more information, and furnish evidence that
there was any necessity for it. I should
like him to point out what harm bas been
done to the shareholders on account of the
Act passed in 1879. In order to understand the question, it is well Vo go back a
few years and ascertain how the company
stood at its inception, and what capital was
invested in the business. The company
w-as organized by a deed of settlement on
the first of January, 1848, the capital invested beîng $4,000. It was stated in the
organization that the capital should be
£50,000, Canadian currency, or $200,000. In
1849 a charter w-as obtained froni the old
province of Canada, under wbich the conipany bad a right to increase its capital to
$1,000,000.
By adding the dividends and
interest to the amnount of $4,000, in 1856,
the amnount to the credit of the shareholders
was sornething
like $28,000.
Another
amount of $24,780 had been paid in money,
and between 1857 and 1865 the stockholders
liad paid in a VotaI of $63,573.50, and added
to the capital by dividends out of the profits $61,426.50. But 'while the shareholders
w-ere adding every year tremendous amounts
Vo their capital, they neyer forgot Vo vote
themselves small amounts as interest, for
pocket money I suppose, and every year
out-side of the amounts voted Vo increase the
capital, the amount voted as interest to
the shareholders -was on the wbole of the
capital, including the amount paid in bard
casl4 and the additions to capital froni interests and dividends.
The amount paid
outside of these numerous sums increased
from seven te eleven per cent. I have here
some figures which indicate the different
amounts collected by the company. 1 bave
mentioned the amount of dividends added
to capital up to 1865, and besides that the
shareholders were receiving interest in
amounts varying from five to eleven and
one-baîf per cent. Between 1866 and1 1870,
the dividends were 5 per cent on the capital of $125,000 wîth an extra of $6 per
share. In 1870 it was 8 per cent with a

5M3

bonus of $70 per share, fromn 1876 to 1879 a
dividend of 15 per cent with a bonus of
$ 17.00 per share. From 1886 to 1889 it was
20 per cent with a -bonus of $25 per share.
They were increasing their profits. In 1890
it was 20 per cent with a bonus of $25
per share.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-From what is
hion. gentleman reading?

the

Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I arn reading from
the report of the Royal Commission on Insurance. In ail an amouint of $62,500 was
paicf in 1895. As yon may have remarked,
the amount invested by those who organized
the company in 1847 bas been a gold mine
for them.
Instead of investing large
amounts of money, they have received in
dividends and interest five or six times the
amount they invested besides high salaries
paid to ail the officiaIs. The company w.as
very prosperous, and had plenty of rnoney,
but the stockholders, finding that it was
a very profitable investmen, added $875,000 to the capital.
When the Act was
passed in 1879, increasing the profits to the
policy-holders, many were induced to insure in the company. The reports of the
Superintendent of Insurance show that as
soon as the Act was circulated by the coinpany's agents through the country, there
was a large increase in the applications
for policies. I know myself that the agent
of the company in the county of Beauce,
a notary, in. canvassing people for insurance told them that the company was the
most generous in the whole of Canada, as
they were paying 90 per cent of profits to
the policy-holder, the shareholders retaining only 10 per cent-that the policy-holders
were getting at least 90 per cent of the entire
business of the company. I arn satisfied
from what I heard and saw myself that if
the Act of 1879 had not been passed, the
company would neyer have been as prosperous as it bas been. There is only one
company in Canadaàdoing a larger business
than the Canada Life, and the Canada
Life is far ahead of ail the others. I admit
that the company bas at its head a gentlemen of large experience and greaf nhilitv,
and he has succeeded in placing the conipany on a sound footing. 1 must also add
tliat the company bas been very generous
to the gentleman who is now administer-

SENÂTE
ing its affairs. He lias a salary of about
$20.000 and one of his sons has a salary
of a similar amount.
Hon. Mr. COX-My salary is $15,000 and
rny son'a $ 10,000. You are only doubling
the figures.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Has the hlon. gentie
man ever received $20,000?
Hon. Mr. COX-I have.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Djd the hion. gentlemnan's son ever receive more than $10.000?
Hon. Mr. COX-Yes, and lis salary has
been reduced.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-That is what I
heard, becanse when the hlon, gentleman
was heard before"the Insurance Commissien his salary was then $20.000.

presence of my hon. friend the senator
from Stadacona. I see that on the 31st December the policies in force lin Canada
were 41,755, for an amount of $85,456,926.
Outside of Canada, 15,182 policies for an
amoulit of $33,562,784, or a capital in ail
of $119,019,709; that the reserve at the end
cf the year was $33.585,476. Profits of last
year were $1,143,181. Expenses of last year
$866,600, out of which $20,756 has been
paid for expenses on investments, because
I had been told that the investrnents of
the cornpany have been made by the officers o! the cempany. I was informed at
the sarne tixne, by other parties. that the
Canada Life Company was hindered by
numerous littie compa.nies belonging te the
hon. president which, were gravitating
round the Canada Life.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I would like te interrupt the hion, gentleman te say that
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The hon, gentleman the Canada Life has ne subsidiary coinshould net make staternents which are net pany directly or indirectly. It is a cernwarranted by the facts. These alterations pany that solely and wholly does its own
in the president's salary and the rnanager's business with the Canada Life, irrespective
salary -were made by the board.
of any other company within the Dominion
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC--I arn asking for in- of Canada.
formation from the president of the CeomHen. Mr. BOLDUC-We shall discuss
pany who is in a better position te furnish that later on.
it than any one else.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The hion. gentleman
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I arn happy te zay is sureiy bound
te accept xny statement; I
that I can correborate every word the make it on my own responsibility in this
president las said, and that the rernarks Heuse.
with 'regard te the salaries in the statement made te the Royal Commission lad
Hon. Mr. BOLDU-I have some figures
nething te do with it at ail.
of the Royal Insurance Commission.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I have ne feelingy Hon. Mr. GIBBON-I have nothing te de
against any member of t.he company.
with the Reyal Commission. I arn simply
detailing the f acts as I know them te be,
Hon. Mr. POWER-Hear, hear.
as a pelicy-holder and director, that the
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I arn glad the hion. Canada Lufe has ne subsidiary Company
gentleman agrees with me. It is net often in Canada, United States, Great Britain,
we vote together, and I appreciate very or any other country. That it is simply
mudli lis approbation. I may say that the an insuranoe cornpany, without any affiliafigures that I shall give te this House have tien whatever with any other company in
been obtained from the Department of In- the world.
surance as late as yesterday. Some figure?
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-You do net employ
have been obtained from the report cf the
any other company te invest the funids of
Royal Commission on Insurance, and sme
have been obtained froni the report cf the your cornpany?
Superintendent cf Insurance cf 1907. Frorn
Hon. Mr. GIBBON-No, we invest our
the information that I obtained froni the own money in our own way, irrespective of
Departrnent o! Insurance yesterday. in the any other Company in the world.
Hou. Mfr BOLDUJC

MA.Y 13. 1909
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-It was not rny intention ta read the report af the Royal
Commission on Insurance, but I see in this
report that investments *were also made by
the Canada Lufe Insurance Company in the
bonds of fie Dominion Rolling Stock Company, the Cape Breton Rolling Stock Comnpany, subsidiary companies of the Dom.
inion Coal Company, of $275,000 each. An
investinent was aiea made in the bonds of
the Dominion Iron and %tel
Company ta
the extent o! $100,000. Here is a long list
a! investmenfs in companies wiich are
completely controlled by fie hon. president
o! the company <Hon. Mr. Cox).
Hon. Mr. COX-That is untruthfully
stated.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-The conclusion by
fhe Royal Insurance Commissioners is as
follova:
These transactions indicate to your commissioners that the funds of the company ver.
emiployed with tiie utmost freedom in transactions with institutions in whieh Mr. Cox
lwas iargly interested. In many of the"e
transaotions the. confliot of Mr. Cox's interest
ifi hie dnty ie oa apparent that the care of
the insurance funds could flot always have
been the sale consideration.
I do net say that myself. I take thaf
from the report of the Royal Commission,
whichi vas instituted by the present government and 'which went carefully into the
administration of the affaire of the Canada
Life Insurance Company.
Han. Mr. GIBSON-I would like ta point
out ta -my hon. friend, that every year,
'when the Canada Life reaches the end o!
its fiscal year, according to law, every dollar o! investinent
is
published
ta
the warld and sent ta the Deparfment of
Insurance, and I might go further and say
that whule I have the greatest respect for
the president of the Canada Life, hie has
ne more voice on that board thon any
other gentleman connected with it, and
if one member o! the board fakes exception ta any wecommendation in regard
ta an investment of any kind, ne matter
where it comes iroin, that investmenf cannot go througi.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Order, order.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-We have invested in
every part a! the venld, according ta law,
under the direction of the Department of
Insurance.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY--The hbon, gentleman
has no riglit to apeak now.
Hon. Mr. GIBBON-Nor has the hion, gentleman from Stadacona.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-The list I have in
my hand vas taken fromn the report of the
Royal Commission on Insurance, -and I
saw myseif. from the evidence given by
Hon. Mr. Cox before the Royal Commission,
that the report of the Royal Commission
is correct, and the honourable president
of the Canada Life Insurance Company admitted before the commission that he had
the controlling interest-that he vas really
the whole master of the following cernpanies: Imperial Lufe Insurance Company,
National Trust Company, Central Canada
Loan and Savings Company, Dominion Insurance Company, Provident Investment
Company, Toronto Loan and Savings Comnpany, and of course president of the Canada Life Insurance Company.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Is this matter
germane ta the Bull wiici is before us?
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I amn just establishing that the offcers of the company have
been well treated; tiat tiey have treated
theinselves in a first rate way; that they
have neyer lost any money, and 1 vant to
establish the fact fiat they are flot justified
in depriving these policy-holders of the
rights fiat fhey have at the present moment.
That is my contention, and in order ta do
that I have to establisi tiat the stockholders have always received very high
amounts bath as salaries, dividends and
profits as interest. 1 stated a little while
ago that the company had added $875,000
ta the capital of the company when there
was not fie slighteEt necessity ta do so.
What would be the standing of the coinpany to-day if they had left the .,apital accounit at the amount of $ 125,000, as if was,
when I -have establisied that this amount
paid by the stockholders vas mot ouf of
their moneys; that tiey have received
already ini dividends and interest tbree
or four trnes the amount invested. Supposing for a moment it was periectly understood fiat there is no ambiguity in the
application of the law of 1879, and tiaf
instead of increasing- '.he capital the coinpany would be exactly in the position that

SENATIt
they were in 1879, when the directors underHon. Mr. DANDUERAND-Ijnder what
st.ood their business and the capital would form would they receive that 31 per cent
always be $ 125,000. What were the opera- outside of the officiai dividend?
tions last year? The figures 1 obtained
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-On their proportion
from the Department of Insurance.
The
interest on the capital invested was $ 1,536,- of ail the profits.
146; profits, $1,143,187; making a total sum
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Do you mean
of $2,679,327 of profits earned during the
operations of last year, and interest frorn the quinquennial 10 per cent.
the amoiants inveeted. Supposing the Iaw
Hon. Mr. BOLDUO-After they have
was followed as -it was passed in 1879, what
paid the bonus.
would be the position of the stockholders
at the present time? They have a right
Hon. Mr.
DANDURAND-Well they
to 10 per cent on the amounit of ail profits
divided the profits.
and the policy-holders who are insuredwhen I say the policy-holders, I mean those
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I hear they are
on the participatixig plan-are insured for dividing those profits every five years, and
the amount of $ 100,000,000, so that the the amounts are bearing 'interest so that
stockholders have a right, on the profits they have nothing at ail to lose; but I say
realized last year, to an amount of $270,- that if the profits
were divided each year,
000 odd at 10 per cent, and if the com- that this state of things would happen, and,
pany had remained with their capital at as I said, I
obtained the figures from the
the sum ot $125,000-it was amply sufficient
Department of Insurance.
to administer the affairs of the companywhat amount would that -ive them as inHon. Mr. GIBSON-I wouid like the hion.
terestP Ten per cent to stockholders on gentleman to explain.
$125,000 would give them $2,640,202.
Thé
interest would be 211.21 per cent. Can *we Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-The hon. gentlenot admit that the directors who, in 1879, man has denied the statement that they
applied to parliament to obtain the Act are receiving $80,000 outside of that.
which was pa-ssed anew understood the
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I arn sure my lion.
question and knew that it was a gold
mine they had in their hands, and that friend does not want to misiead the House.
they 'have been trying to increase the
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-No.
powers of the company and push theni
along as fast as possible?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Because the whole
Hon. M.Nr. DANDURAND-How niuch division of profits every year of eight per
would they have got at 25 per cent profit cent instead of ten, on the million dollars
would be $80,000 every year.
which they were entitled to before 1879?
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Every year?

Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Much less.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-They
ting 25 per cent.

were -et-

Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Even on the capital of $1,000,000 it is stili giving them 31
per cent on tret whole million dollars, the
proportion of the net profits realized during last year. If I amrn ot right I amn
willing to be corrected.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I should like mny
hon. friend to explain how lie arrives at
the 31 per cent.
Hon. Mýr. BOLDUJC.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-And
takes place whatever.

no

division

Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I do not deny that
-you take only $80,000 every year, but I
say that at the end of five years you will
take back aIl the amounts which have been
earned. You will take your share of the
ten per cent and you will receive ten per
cent.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Not one dollar; whatever profits there are after paying the eight
per cent dividend is divided amongst the

MAY 13, 190)9
policy-holders, and the shareholders do flot
earn one dollar over and above the eight
per cent.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUGý-How do you explain
that having a right to about $260,000 you
take only $80,000?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-For the reason that
the company have neyer exacted the
amount. The law allows them to take ten
per cent, and they have been satisfied with
eight per cent. The hon. gentleman je
speaking of the shareholders of 1847. There
ie not one of them living to-day and whatever benefits may have accrued to the company at that time have ail disappeared
with the present -shareholders.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Is that $125,000 still
in the hands of the companv'
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Yes, and $875,000
was added in money, and I will give the
reason why that $875,000 was added.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-The hion. gentleman
has denied that hie was taking $80,000 every
year?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Somebody has been
stufflng the hon. gentleman.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hion, gentleman
could continue his remarks at another stage
more conveniently.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I desire to prove
that what 1 have statecl le correct, and if
the hon, gentleman admits they are receivîng $80,000 every year--eight per cent
on a million dollars ie $80,000 every year,
divided among the ehareholders.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-As interest.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Or divîdends.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-It makes no differelnce.
Non. Mr. GIBSON---It je the came thing.
There le no interest and dividend

added

together. The dividend covers everything,
and the -whole profits of the company are
set apart and divided amonget the policyholders and instead of taking the $100,000
out of the company, the shareholders are
taking" $80,000.

557

Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I know there was
a division corne five years ago, and I received about one-third of one per cent a
year, and if ail the arnounte were put together 1 amn sure I would have had 2 per
cent. The point is that il thie law je passed
as propoeed, the result will be that an
amount of $47,000 will be added to the
etockholders, and when I cay the stockholdere, I believe the president of the company owns about three-fourthe of the whole
of the stock hîmeelf, and at the same tiine
I admit that the honourable president,
though having adininietered the affaira -of
the company well, that while hie wae receiving a high salary, he formed another coinpany to compete wîth the Canada Life, for
the sole purpose of placing one of hie sons
at the head oi that company. I say that
when the president of the company was
highly paid by the company to administer
the affairs of the company it was not in the
interest of the stockholders to organize
another company to cvinpete againet the
affaire of the Canada Life Assurance Company and take over one part of ail the
insurance which shouJd have been taken by
the Canada Life and eend it to the Imperial
Company. I admit that for the honourable
president of the company it made no
difference, because hie was paid by the
Canada Life Company, and was paid
at the samne time a very fair salary by the
Imperial Life Company; but my contention
je that when hie was paid a respectable
salary by the Canada Life, to my mmnd it
would have been hie duty, inetead of organizing other companies to compete with
the Canada Life Company, hie should have
tried to improve the affaire of the Canada
Life and make more profits for the policyholders. If the Bill ie passed, you will
have to deduct from the revenues of the
coinpany going- to these policy-holders a
sum of $47,000 which otherwise fairly and
honestly belonge te the policy-holders.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Has that cum
_

1,

1. :.-ý
- P. n

--.

e

ainewav since 1897?

Hon. Mr. BOLDTJC-I arn told they did
it, without any authority, and now that it le
known perfectly well, I suppose they will
not take any more. I have established that
outeide of that amount of lntereet they

SENATE
are trying to squleeze ont of the policyholders, thougli the different agents 'who
have been making the applications announce that the Canada Life Insuxance Comnpany is the only company ini Canada reapfig so many advantages, and even without
that ainount the af airs of the coinpany are prosperous, a.nd tbey are making money; and 1 believe that when the
stockholders invested their money between 1879 snd 1903 with their eyes wide
open, knowing that the law of 1879 existed, the company have no right to corne
now and say that these gentlemen are
receiving liigh dividends and profits; that
stili they will take away froin the orphaus
and the widows $47,000 every year ont of
their rights to gîve it to the shareholders
of the present company. I know that the
hon. president of the company is very anxious to have the Bull passed, because, as I
said a littie while ago, hie owns very nearly
tbree-fourths of the shares of the compauy,
.and I have been assured that hie was so
anxious to see the Bill passed that bie delayed a very joyous trip to a land where
honey is flowing almost without interruption to see that the Bill got through. I hope
that, although delayed. hie will enjoy on his
trip the pleasures hie expected to euj oy. I
May add that if the Bill is passed, there is
not a private contract that cannot he broken
by ihis goverument, whether it be witb at
corporation or a private individual. You
ruay have a contract made for a civil right;
a compauy or a party of men, or one single
man, undertakes to give you so much for
a certain consideration. If, after several
years, the parliament of Canada can step
in and say: «You have contracted in virtue
of sucb a law, but now we decide that you
have no right to what bas heen promised
to yon,' and that, tbereafter, the other party
eau refuse to give you what you had a.
right to, and decide by law that tbey are
right, the policy-holders will be justified
to petition His Excelleucy the Goveruor
General to witbhold bis assent to tbe Bill,
sud i case of the Bill being assented to by
the Goveruor General, I believe that the
policy-holders will bave a rigbt to address
a large petition to England aud ask for s
disallowauce of this Bill. For these cousiderations, I move that the Bill be not
HIon. Mr. BOLDUC.

uow read a second time, bnt that it be
read a second turne this day six mouths.
The annendinent was lBat ou a division.
The Bill was then read a second time.
SECOND READING.
Bill <No. 104) An Act respecting the Thessalon Nortbern Railway Cornpauy. (Hon.
Mr. McMullen).
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (No. 106) An Act to amend the Railway Act.-(Hon. Mr. Dandurand).
The Senate adjourned tili tbree o'clock
to-day.

THE SENATE.
OTrAwA, Friday May 14. 1909.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceediugs.
THIRD IREADINGS.
Bill <No. 91) An Act to incorporate the
Prudential Trust CompanY.-(Hon. Mn.
Young).
Bill (No. 63) An Act to incorporate the
Royal Accident Insurance Company.-(Hon.
Mn. Casgrain).
BILL WITHDRAWN.
Bill (E) An Act to incorporate the Dominion Burglany a.nd Plate Glass Insurauce
Cornpauy-(Hou. Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
CANADA

LIFE ASSURANCE

COMPANY

BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON froin the Committee
on Banking and Commerce, reported Bill
(No. 56) Au Act respectiug the Canada Life
Insurance Company.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG moved that the Bill
be nead a third time.

MAY 14, 1909
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I desire to raise a and the petition are in. accord, then the
point of order. I raised a point of order Bull is created. It is the report of the
in the Commnittee on Banking and CJom- committee which. allows the Bill to corne
merce, but the point I desire to mention in. But the Bill may differ-it may have
now is alightly different. Our mile says some - additional clause put ini, and may
that when a petition is presented, for a not be- in accord with the notice or the
Bill asking for the incorporation of a com- petition. I dlaimi that the Bil new before
pany, notice must be given in the Canada the House is not in accord with the first
'Gazette,' and if the Bill is for the in- petition presented here, and deciared corcorporation of a railway, in some local rect according to the notice, because new
paper. I refer hon, gentlemen to clause clauses have been inserted in the Bihl and
107, which reads:
those new clauses may not be covered by
When an application is for An Act te in- the notice and the petition. My point is
corporate a banking company an insurance that the Bill as it stands, though the
cornpany, a trust company, a loan cornpany, ptto
n
h
oiehdbe
on
o
oiehdbe
n
h
or an industriai compaay iwithout any ex- ptto
cluive. powers, in the Canada «Gazette' oniy. correct by the Standing- Orders Committee,
That is for the incorporation, but when is no longer correct, because the Bill based
an application is made te amend any Act on that report differs from the notice.
incorporating a banking or insurance comThe SPEAKER-What does the petition
pany under subsection <e) of that clause- ask for?
For the extension of the powers of a cernpany lien not invoiving i.gatn
fai
Hon. Mr. LAN'DRY-Âmong other things,
ecuierghts or for the increase or reduetion of the capital stock of any cornpany, or it declares that certain doubts exist which
for increasing or altering bonding or other it is desired to set at rest. What we are
borrowing ypowers, ior for any arnendmnent akd by the Bil is not to create a difwhich would in any way affect the rights or ak
înterests of the shareholders or bondhoiders ferent mode of payments, but to declare
of the company, then the notice besider. what wss the intention of the law in 1879,
bel n gprinted in the ' Canada Gazette'tht
should aise appear in a principal newspaper thry years age. This was neyer brought
in the place where the head office of the corn- te the cognizance cf the policy-holders.
pany is uituated.
The Bill does more than appears in the
1 raised that point and the committee notV e, something altogether different from
decided I was net in order, that it was not the notice, and for that reason I ask the
the place to raise such a point of order at Speaker te deciare that the Bill is net in
that time. It 'was proved in the commit- order.
tee, and it can be proved here, that -the
Canada Life, on the 4th January cf this
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It seema te me that
year, published a notice in the 'Canada the point àe not well taken, because the.
Gazette ' Toronto 'Woxld,' and in the petition covers the materiai part cf the
'News,' asking fer amend-ments.
They Bill. The clause in the Bill dees net read
cQplplied with the Iaw. In the House of as I expected it wouid read. When I had
Commons they decided that the notice was occasion to see the Bill to-day, I noticed
not sufficient, and that corporation was that the clause dees net say that such and
obliged te publish a new notice which was such an interpretation shahl be given the
published in the ' Canada Gazette' on the 'wording of the Act passed in 1879, but it
27th of March. In the commîttee, when I substitutes a clause dealing with how the
raised my point cf order, it was argued profits in the past and in the future shahl
that the Standing Orders Committee cf this be divided, and it seems te me the petitien
House having reported on the petition, and covers that ground. It is true that in the
having reported the petition in order ac- House of Commons the comrnittee concording te notice, that setthed the whole sidered that the notice was net sufficient,
question. That might be for the petition, aud they ordered new notices te be given.
because the Cemmittee on Standing Or- On referrin.q to the 'Votes and Proceed'ders just cempare the petition with the inga ' of the House ef Commens, 1 find
notice, that is previeus te the Bll, and jthat the cemmittee reported that notices
if the cemmittee declare that the notice were published in the ' Canada Gazette '

SENATE
in January and February, and in the Toronto 'News, and ini the 'Monetary Times.'
Therefore we have it here that the notices
to which the hon. gentleman refers, have
actually been published in local papers in
Toronto. Now it will be for this flouse
to deal with the matter and decide whether
the notice, under the circumstances, wasnfot
sufficient as covering the matter mentioned
in thç petition and in the Bill. Ail that
could be required would be to send the Bill
back to the Standing Orders Committee for
the purpose of reporting exact]y the facts,
as was done in the flouse of Commons. It
would be hardly practicable, and it seems
to me that notices were sufficient to meet
the requirements of the rules.
Hon. Mr. LANDBY-The Bill before us
declares that the division had always in the
past been made in sucli and such proportions. That is giving an interpretation Èo
the law of 1879-explaining the meaning of
the law of 1879, and the notice does flot
cover that ground at ail.

The SPEAKER-This is a Bill originating in the flouse of Gommons. For ail
that appears, the Bill, as introduced in
the flouse of Gommons, may have been
in strict accord with the petition. Al
we have here before us la a Bill which
eriginated in the House of Gommons, and
which, after passing through that flouse,
has been sent to us by message in this
form. It ia, in fact, a Bill which was reported upen by oui Standing Orders Comnmittee, and the petition for which, at ail
events, was reported upon as sufficient.
There is nothing here indicating te me anything different from the notice, and it appears to me, therefore, that no case has
been made for objection so far as it is
befere the flouse now. In support of that
position,- it wiii be manifest that a Bill
mig-ht be introduced in strict accordance
with the notice, and the flouse of Commons might have amended it. That Bill
would corne from the flouse of Gommons on
the petition which had been presented 'to
both flouses. An amendment might be
mnade there of a material part of it, which
would not inteifere with oui enteztaining.
the Bill on the original petition.
The
original petition here wvas presented to the
Standing- Orders Committee and was passed
there, and this flouse adopted that report.
It is on the strength of that we received
this Bill and gave it the second
reading.
No (1bjection having been taken up to thil
point, it seems to me that at this stage
the objection cannot prevail.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The question for us
to decide is have the public had sufficient
notice of this Bill? It does strike me that
-%vhile we were content 'with the first notice
here so far as the Standing Orders Committee and the flouse afterwards wp'--.'
cerned, the other flouse exactedà a great
deal more-not only more extended notice
through the same channels as in the ftrst
place, but also notice to the policy-holders
themselves. I understand some thirtv-five
Hon. Mi. LANDRY-I do not want to
or forty thousand notices were sent eut in
question the decision of the Chair, but 1
addition to the newspaper notices.
want to point eut that the objection I took
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-As a policy-holder was not that the petition and notice were
not correct. The petitien and notice may
1 neyer received a notice.
be correct and let it be understood they
Hon. .Mr. YOUNG-To send it back to are correct; neveitheless a Bill might come
the Standing Orders Committee wouid be, up which weuid net be in accord at ail
in effeet, te kilI the Bill. This flouse is with the petition.
comipetent to deal with it.
Hon. Mi. YOUNG moved the third reading of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It is adinitted that
the second notice is correct.
The firat
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I meve in amendnotice on which the Standing Orders Com- ment that this Bill be not now read the
mittee passed it, was not correct. What 1 third time, but that it be read the third
contend is that the Bill as it appears be- tirne this day six months, for this reason:
fore us is not in accordance with the notice This Bill is intîoduced here to explain
submitted to us.
the Act passed in 1897. Under that law
lion. Mr. BEIQUE.

MAY 14, 1909
contracta were made with different parties
every year. Actually I think there are
about 40,000 policy-hoiders in this country,
perhaps more. Every year since 1879 a
new set of people became policy-holders in
the company; they made contracta with
the company; every one of them was told
that he would share in the entire profits
of the cornpany. The Bill amends the
Act so as to be understood in ail countries
that the policy-holders do flot share in
the entire profits of the company, but that
a certain amount is set aside for the shareholders themselves, not to be divided as
the law of 1879 declared. Il there is a
doubt in the law, why not allow the tribunais of the country to settie itP There are
actions pending, dlaims against the company. Parties want to go to court to
settle the meaning of the law. They wil
be prevented by this legisiation, which is
retroactive. It does away with the vested
rights of ail the parties who consented to
take policies in that company on the
promise that they %vould share in the entire profits of the earnings of the company. For that reason I cannot accept
the Bill, and make this motion.
The yeas and nays being called for.

Derbyshire,
Ross (Moosejaw>,
DeVeber,
Boss (Halifax),
Douglas,
Bo-ss (Middlesex),
Ferguson,
Roy,
Fiset,
Thompsou,
Frost,
Watson,
<3odbout,
Wood,
leugheed,
Yeo,
MeGregor,
Young.-34.
Hon. Mr. BAIRD-I was paired with
Senator King on this question.
Hon. Mr. DANDUEAND-I understand
that the Hon. Senator Bolduc voted, although he is a policy-holder.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I have no objection
to having my name withdrawn.
Hon.
called,
staling
cause 1

Mr. POIBIER-Before the vote is
I would request the privilege of
that I abstained from voting bewas a policy-holder.

Hon. Mr. DANDUBAND-I make the
same declaration. If I had voted I would
have voted against the amendment.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I amn a policyliolder, and for the same reason did not
vote.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn a policyholder, and dlaimi to have the right to vote,
and my hon. friend, by making that stateThe SPEAKER-Call in the members.
ment, impliedly puts other policy-holders
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I suppose the iii a
very compromising position. I thinik
shareholders of the company can vote.
the position is flot tenable.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I was just going
Hon. Mr. DANDUBAND-My impression
to ask that question. Have -%e the right
is that the true situation is that no policyto vote, Mr. Speaker?
holder being interested can vote against
the Bill, but lie can vote for it.
Some hion. MEMBERS-Order, order.
The House divided on the amendment,
which was lost on the following division:
Contents:

Honourable Messieurs
Boucherville, de,
Non-Contents:

Honourable Messieurs
Blique,
MecHugh,
Bowell
McLareu,
(Sir Mack-enzie),
MoMCullen,
Campbell,
MrMillan,
Cortwright
Miller,
(Sir Richard),
Perley,
Casgraîn,
Plower,
Chevrier,
Riley,
Coffey,
Riobertson,
36

Some hion. MEMBERS-No, no.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That was my
view, and that was why I offered mny vote.
The SPEAKER-I dedlare the amendment
Iost.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG moved that the Bill
be read the third tirne.
Hon. Mr. LANDBY-The hon, gentlemen
who have just been giving their reasons for
not voting, were not in order in stating why
they did iiot vote. Hon. members should
not rise until the resuit is known a.nd somebody objects and asks why so and so did

REVISED EDITION

SENATE
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTnot vote; but as they have nil given their
reasons I should be permitted to give mine: The answers to the hon. gentleman's quesI dîd nof vote, because I am a policy-holder. tions are as follows:
1 and 2. Chief carpenter, $2 per day; carI refer f0 clause 53 of our rules, which
penters, $1.50 to $1.7.5 per day; labourers,
says:
No senator is entitled to vote upon any $1.50 per day; one double team. with one
question in which he bas any pecuniary inter- man $4 per day; carters, $2 to $2.25 per
est whatsoever, negative or positive, not held day; boatman $2.50 per day.
in common with the rest cf the Canadian sub3. From lst June te 30th November, 1907;
jects of the Crown.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-For the very from lst June te 3Oth November, 1908.
4. $3 per day.
same reason given in that rule, I did not
5. $930 for both seasons.
vote. That is a matter for each one to de6. No.
cide for himself. I did not vote because I
7. $2,000.
thought that, under the rule, I could flot
vote.
MORNING SITTINGS.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Another point occuis te me ; if the hon. gentleman cannot
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
vote, bas he the privilege of moving the think I will relieve hon. members from
six months' hoist?
the necessity of attending to-morrow, and
the motion of which I have
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Certainly, the rule will amend
given notice to read as follows:
says lie cannot vote; but it does flot say lie
That when the Sonate adjourns to-day, it do
is fied up alfogether.
stand adjourned until Monday, at eleven
and that on and af fer
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I be per- o'clock in the morning, three distinct sittings
Monday next, there be
miffed fo say f0 hon. gentlemen, that in each day, to wit from eleven to one o'clock,
o'clock, and the
my judgment rule 53 does not preclude sen- and from three o'clook-te six eight o'clock in
third sitting eommencing at
respecting a the eveRing, and that each sitting shall conators from voting on a question
domestic matter in which they alone are stitute a sitting day under the, rules of the
Senate; and further, that from now on to the
interested. The public is flot interested, end of the session the standing comniittees of
s0 far as this legislation is concerned. If the Sonate be authorized to sit during the
is private legislation as between aIl parties sitting of the Sonate.
The motion as amended, was agreed
concerned in the Canada Life, and, in my
to.
judgment, rule 53 would not apply.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Has the hon. gentleThe motion was agreecý to, and the Bill
man any objection to inaking it 12 o',clock
was read a third time and passed.
on Monday?
WORK AT THE WHARF 0F ST. JEAN
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If
DESOHAILLONS.
my hon. frîend wishes it, as he has been
so very good this session, I must comply
INQUIRY.
with his request.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired of the govHon. 'Mr. LANDRY-I do not want fa
ernment:
g-et it ýon false pretenses. By this motion
1. Hlow mucli a day bas the government paid we are asked to do three three things, to
for each workman who worked on the hli
which leads to the, wharf at St. Jean Des- come here on Monday morning, to have
chaullons?
three sittingcs on the same day and f0 per.
2. How mucli for each horse and vehicle jifi the committees te sit while the bouse
with their drivers?
is sitting. I object to the last part, and
3. How long a time did this work last?
4. What were the wages a day of Dr. M. A. 1 hope my righf hon. friend will not insist
Chandonnet, who managed these works?
5. How much lias lie received under this upon if. I do flot want to raise another
head?
point of order, but I wanf the House fo
6. Are the works in question finishied?
agree thaf the committees shall not sit
7. If not, what is the approximate amount
simultaneously with the House.
that their completion will require?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

MAY 14, 1909
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Unless
cornes absolutely necessary.

it be-

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If it becomes absolutely necessary, notice can be given today.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon, gentleman knows it is not done sirnply for the
pleasure of having two sittings at the one
time.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTFor the convenience of the House, j think
we hiad better leave it as At is.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon, gentleman should trust that this privilege will
not be abused. It will only be exercised
when absolutely necessary.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY--Clause 86 of the
ruIes says t.hat no committee shail sit while
the House is sitting.
Hon.
'Mr.
DANI\DURAND-Neceseity
should supersede any by-law. It is done
in the House of Comrnons duringa the last
two weeks -of the session.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I %vill let it pass if
the hon, gentleman will concede one thing,
that it shýal not be done on Monday.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It ie
a well underetood principle of parlianientary practice that committees should not
sit during the sitting of the House, for the
simple reason that a member may be
deeply interested in- a question coming bef are the Senate and equally interested in a measure *to be considered by
the committee. Therefore, there is a positive rule preventing what je contemplated
by the resolution that has been read. I
arn quite sure that the hon. member from
Stadacona will flot raise the point of order
to which he has referred unlees he je
obliged to do so by the tacit threat thrown
out by hon. gentlemen who do not share
hie view. If appealed to for a decision I
arn sure the Speaker would have to decide
the point of order well taken. Hon. gentlemen who are desiroue of having the
committee and the House sitting sirnultaneously, must recognize the difficulty
that presents itself. We had better accept
the suggestion mnade by the leader et the
House. and let it be distinctly unclerstood
that if there are measures in which mernbers of the House are deeply intereeted,
they shall not be considered in the Houe
while the committee is eitting.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Surely my hon. friend
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-There will be will not contend that the motion cannot
be moved if notice of it has been given?
no sittinga Monday morning.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The object of passing this motion is to facilitate the passage
of the legisiation which is now before parliarnent.
The Railway Committee is to
rneet to-night. The chajîrnan rnay cail a
mieeting- to to-morrow or Monday morning, and the object is to give the committee the privilege of saying wvhen they &hall
meet again. At present, without suspend.
ing the rule. we can only sit with the permission oi the House.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELIL-The
rules provide how you shall change the
standing orders of this House, and if it je
desired to rnake that change, notice muet
be given to every senator a certain num.ber of days in advance.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I have consulted the hon. gentleman. The request
made is that the committees should 'not
sit simultaneously with the Senate next
Monday forenoon. That is agreed to on
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I know you have na this side of the House.
right to do it.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-After twelve o'clock
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Then the hon. gen- you may sit when you like.
tleman can divide the House.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Do I understand
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I will not divide the that if the Railway Committee choose to
House. Since the hon. gentleman chooses sit to-morrow morning they cannot do so?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The hon. gentleman
to take that stand, I shail raise the point
of order, but I do not care to do so if the from Montreal gave us to underetand that
committees are not to sit on Monday dur- he had corne to an agreement with the
hon. gentleman frorn Stadacona that exing the sitting of the House.
f6l

SENATE
cept during the sitting of Monday forenoon
he has no objection to the committee aitting any other time-that is that if the
House is sitting to-night the committee
could sit at the same timp.

85, because no notice bas been given, and
it is toa late to give notice now. The only
remedy will be to change the motion and
adjourn the House until ta-moirow.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hon, gentleman
cannot take tflat way because rule 14 says:
'When the Senate adjourns on Friday,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If the House is flot unless otherwiae ordered, it stands adsitting to-morrow, and it is convenient for journed until the Monday following.
some of the committees to hold a meeting
Han. Mr. BEIQUE-Notice was given two
they could ait, but during Monday morning noa sitting of committees should take days ago that when the House adjourna
place. Now we find that the understand- to-day it shall stand adjourned. until toing that the other aide have is this, that moirow.
up to Manday atternoon thjs motion of the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The notice was given
leader of the government here shail not
apply. Therefore there wilI be no sitting yesterday and withdrawn. It waa not put
and has not been oidered by this House.
to-morrow or Monday forenoon.
and if I wanted t6 object we would not
Hon. Mi. DANDURAND-The
under- have a right ta corne here Monday mornin.-, because oui standing rule is that the
standing is simply for Monday morning.
Hanse shall meet at three o'clock. ProHon. _Mr. LANDRY-I did not .say a vided the aimultaneaus sittings commence
word about to-day, because I never thought only on Monday at noon 1 cannot object.
for a moment that we would sit aimultanHon. Mr. WATSON-We will ait taeously to-day.
morrow.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-For to-night.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If you have the
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-You want to begin power to do it.
only on M-Nonday morning. The motion was
asking permission to sit simultaneously
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-We have no power
with the Senate, beg-inning Monday moîn- t'O do it.
ing. I objected to that, and we came to
a compromise, and said we will begin on
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-A few years ago we
were in a similar dilemma tbiough flot takMonday at noon.
ing precaution. The resuit of it *was that
Hon. 'Mr. GIBSON--Surely my hon. friend prorogation was delayed a day or two. We
could flot object to the committee sitting should not flu into that mistake again. I
from 10 to 12 on Monday P In the alter- appeal to both aides af the House, is it
noon, as I understand it, the committee not better that the government should regumax' sit right along simultaneously with late these thîngs than the hon. member
the House without any objection being tram Stadacona? He raises a good many
laken. Why should the hon. gentleman objections, but the business of the country
object to our sitting to-night or to-morrow is f ar more important than bis convenience.
in committee?
Hon. Mi. LANDRY-Do I understand that
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Because you have no the motion sha]I îead that simultaneoui
rigcht. We are asking to cive the committees sittingas will be permitted fromn Monday
the rig-ht to sit while the House is sitting. at noan?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Oh, no.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-What is the objecHon. Mr. BEIQUE-We must not be
taken by surprise; there should be a cleai tion ta the motion as pîintedP
undeîstanding. It may be necessary to
Hon. Mi. LANDRY-Beeause it does not
have the Railway Committee meet to-moi- ask to suspend the rules. That is somerow, which could not be done under section tbing which we cannot ignore. Rule 30
Hon. Mr. WA.TSON.

MAY 14, 19W9
provides that you caunot suspend the rules the convenience cf the House, I propose
without giving one day's notice, but I will to dispense with the sitting to-morrow; but
waive ail those objections.
if objections are taJken I must faîl back on
t.he original motion requiring us to meet
Hon. Mr. POWER-I direct attention to
to-morrQ)w, and it ii for my hon. friends to
rule 24, which says:
say. My wish was simply to consuit their
One day's notice must be given cf any of convenience. It does
not incommode me
the. following motions.
1. For an adjournment cf the Sonate other to meet to-morrow; it may incommode sain.
than the. ordinary daily adjournments.
of my hon. friends.
I think the notice that the hon, gentleHon. Mr. LANDRY-I consider it is net
man has given is covered by that.
a fair way to put the question.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I call attention tu
Hon. Sur RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
rule 30, which states:
shall move the original motion if the
No motion to suspend any mile or standing
order, or any part cf a mile or order may be amended motion is objected to.
made except on one day's notice specifying
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I raise a point cf
the rules.
order before this motion is put. I object
Hon. Mr. POWER-The day's notice bas
to the motion on two grounds. The motion
been given.
that bas been made as the firet motion did
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It does net ask te not contain the last paragraph-it was
added yesterday alter the first motion had
suspend the standing order.
been withdrawn by the right hon. member.
The SPEAKER-I do not know whether He added that to his motion, and he corthe hon. minister wishes to withdraw the rected bis motion so that the motionmotion he put in my hands and substitute
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-It stands for to-day.
another or not.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-When my right hon.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If the hon, gentleman objecte to the amended motion, the friend withdrew bis notice of motion yesSpeaker wiil have to submit the original terday, it did net contain the part regarding the sîmultaneous sitting of committees
motion.
of the Hou-se.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do flot object, but
The SPEAKER-He did not move the
as we came to an understanding, I want it
motion yesterday.
put in the motion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the Speaker deThe SPEAKER-The motion is for adjournment until Monday. Leave ivas given sires to discuss the question let himo please
te ainend the motion. That is the on]y leave the Chair. He is going te decide
the point. cf order and he is arguing
motion before the House.
againet me. le that fair? As a question
Hon. Mr. POWER-I understand the hon. cf fa-et, the first motion of my right hon.
gentleman bas objected to that motion.
friend, given as a notice cf motion on
Wednesday evening, did net contain the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, net until Mon part with
regard te the simultaneous aitday.
ting cf the committees and cf this House.
Hon. Mr. POWER-And then that ques- That was added yesterday; a part cf a new
tion of order being raised by the hon, gen- motion, and when the hon, gentleman says:
tleman from Stadacona, the hon, gentleman 'If you do flot accept the new motion I
will fali back on the oid motion,' I do not
has a right not to proceed with it.
see that-the Speaker, when that is threatHon. Mr. LANDRY-If he dees not pro- ened, bas a right te take the old motion,
ceed with it, there is no motion.
and ta couple te it the last part cf
the new.
He must take the firet
Hon. Sir RICHARD OARTWRIGHT-T motion as it was, and as it was it did
w-ill proceed with one or the other. For net contain the part with regard te the

SENATE
eimultaneous sittings of the committees
and of this House. If the hon. gentleman
wants to make his first motion, let him
make it as he first drew it, and then we
will discuss it. If lie puts it on the second
motion, let him put it in the form of
which he gave notice yesterday. Does the
hon. minister take the first motion to ait
on Saturday without reference to the committees, or does he take his second motion?
Will the hon. gentleman be kind enough
to tell me, as a question of fairness P
The SPEAKER-Let me state the circumstances in putting the point of order.
The riglit hon, gentleman gave a notice
of motion for Thursday, gave it ýon the
12th, and it stood over until yesterday, the
13th, as follows:
That when the Senate adjourns to-morrow
it do stand adjourned until Monday next at Il
c'clock in the rnorning, and that on and- after
Monday, there be three distinct sittings eacli
day, to wit: front il o'clock to one o'clock, and
from three o'clock ta six o'clock, and the third
sitting commencing at eight o'clock in the
evening, and that each sitting shall constitute
a sitting day under the miles of the Sonate.
Yesterday, instead of putting that motion,
the riglit hon, gentleman said that lie would
not proceed with it, and wvould give a new
notice.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not contest that.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-There is no point or
order, surely.
Hon.' Mr. LANDRY-That is oonceded.
Where we differ is this: My hon. friend
says: 'If you make any objection to my
second moticn-that is the amended motionHon. Mr. POWER-That is for Monday.
The SPEAKER-Yes.
Hon. Mm. POWER-With the consent of
the House lie is going to move to adjourn
until Monday. instead of to-momrow. The
hon, gentleman objected and lie stands by
the original motion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the hon. gentleman speaking for himself or for my right
hon. fmiend? I am asking the explanation
from my ight hon. friend and I shaîl take
his word.
The SPEAKER-I have no doubt whatever about it, and I have muled on it. 'The
question is on the motion of the ight hon.
leader, which I have mead" that when the
Senate adjourns to-day it stands adjourned
until to-morrow, &c,

Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-I desire to raise a
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND--That liewould
point of order. I caîl attention to rule 86,
amend lis notice.
which. says:
The SPEAKER-Thnt lie would give an
No select committee may sit during a sitting
amended notice, which lie did, and that of the Sonate.
amended notice is the one in the terms
That is one rule. Then I mefer to mule
of which he is now making a motion.
14, which says:
When the Sonate adjourns on Friday, unleas
Hon. Mr. LANDIRY-The amended moothemwise orderedtion does not ask for Saturday.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes, it does.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It is not ordered yet.
The SPEAKER-That when the House
Hon. Mr. WATSON-We are going to
adjourns to-day it stands adjourned until order it.
to-mommow at eleven o'clock.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The rule continues:
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-And it matters not -it
stands adjourned until the following
what wvas written on the paper on Wednes- Monday.
day or Thursday; it is what notice was
So that we have two standing mules which.
given. The question is, was this notice state that when the House adjourns on
given yestemday? The notice that wss given Friday it stands adjourned until Monday
yestemday was a notice of motion which the at three o'clock. The other mule says that no
hon, leader of the goverument proposed ta select committee may ait duming a .sitting
make. One day's notice is ail that is me- of this House. These two rules cannot be
quiTed.
suspended in that way.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

MAY 14, 1909

567

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-There are two
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-By an order of the
ways of framing the notice. It is either
House.
by asking the suspension of rule 23 (b) or
asking authority to do a certain thing. We
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Clause 30 says:
No motioni to suspend any rule or stand- have proceeded by asking that the Senate
ding order or any part of a rule or <order may be authorized to sit on Saturday. That imb. made except on one day's noticA specifying plies the suspension of the rule whichi prethe rule or order or part thereof proposed te vents us from doing so, and I th.inli it ict
be auspended and the purpose of such suspensufflciently comprehensive to be within the
sion.
Where in the motion before us is there a spirit and letter of the law.
complianoe with that ruie?
Hon. Mr. POWER-During the thirty od
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is there al years I have been in the House I have
neyer known at the close of the session
right.
any otheT method of procedure adopted than
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Where is the motion that which bas been adopted by the right
to suspend these mules? The rules say that hon. leader of the House now. He gives
it must be specified. Is it.specified? There notice just as stated here. The object of
is no allusion at ail to these two rules. the rule is to prevent the House from being
Y-ou cannot, as a inatter of igbt, suspend taken by surprise, and when a notice like
those two rules if their suspension is not this is put on the paper, the House is inasked for, without giving a day's notice. So formed in the most satisfactory way of
I dlaim that a committee cannot sit while what is proposed to be done. It is a perthe Chamber is in session, unles a proper fectly frivolous objection.
notice for the suspension of the rule bas
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The rules are the
been given. and we cannot ait on Monday
or Saturday until a proper motion has been protection of the minority. The majority
may prevail against any right, of course.
made asking to suspend rule 14.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It seems to me that
it is easy to answer the main part of the
hon. gentleman's contention. As f ar as
the other part is concerned, he may be correct. As to the motion which seeks to adjourn the House until to-morrow, is the bon.
gentleman 'contendîng that t-he motion is
out of order?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Certainly.

Hon. Mr. POWER-There is a rule -%hichi
prevents anybody from speaking more than
once.
Hon. Mr. ÇHOQUETTE-I think, strictl 'v
speaking, the objection is well taken.
I
arn not absolutely sure, but it seems to me
on a small matter lîke this, wvith the consent of the House, notice might be dispensed with and -we ought te agree.
The
hon, gentleman was asking that we shouid
not sit Monday forenoon. Why not grant
that? He did not speak of to-morrow at
aIl. I think if 'we should agree not to sit
Monday forenoon it would settie the matter,
and we would nlot waste so much time.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE--If the hon. gentlemani refera te rule 14, the paragraph te
wbich the hon. gentleman from Halifax
calis attention, paragrapb I of 24 settles
that point, because it says:
One day's notice must be given of any of
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-I think we
the following motions.
(i) For an adjournment of the Senate other have been spending too much time bair
than the ordinary daily adjourriment of that splitting. Common sense, with the conhonourable House under mile 14, 25 or 44.
sent of the House, should govern in matHon. Mr. LANDRY-Certainly it means ters of this kind. We are talking too much
that when you adjourn every day you do nonsense and spending time very foolishly.
not require te give a day.s notice, and when
The SPEAKER-I have to rule that the
you adjourn froma Friday until Monday
you do flot require a day's notice. Rule practice since I have been here hs.s been
u-niformly in accordance with what 'we are
30 remaîns.

SENATE
adoptingnow, and, under the circumstances,
I think the rules must be interpreted in
that way, and I rule that the notice of motion given yesterday for to-day, and moved
to-day, is. in order, and the question is now
on that motion.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Might
I ask that the ruling be placed upon record
in order that we may know in the future
that precedents and practice of the Senate are to supersede any fixed rule of the
Senate?
THIRD READING.
Bill (No. 104) An Act respecting the
Thessalon and Northern Railway Company.
(Hon. Mr. McMullen).
SUBMARINE COMPANY PATENT BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the third reading of Bill (No. 77) An Act respecting the
patent of the Submarine Company.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before this Bill
was referred to the committee, I pointed out
to my hon. friend in charge of it what I
considered to be an objectionable clause,
by -which licensees or others who had engaged in the manufacture of this particular article after the expiration of the patent,
would be precluded from continuing the
manufacture, notwithstanding the very great
lapse of time which had occurred between
the expiration of the patent and the making of the application for this renewal.
Now, this is an extraordinary case. There
wvas an interval of almost three years during which the public had a right to enter
upon the manufacture of this article on
account of the expiration of the patent. I
pointed out when this matter was before
the House at the second reading, that the
same right should be accorded to licensees
as to those who had anterior to the expiration of the patent entered upon its
manufacture. The only parties likely to
enter upon the manufacture of this particulax article would be those who had been
engaged in it either as licensees or as manufacturers under the patent. The committee. in this report, has excluded the very
The SPEAKER

parties most likely to have engaged in the
manufacture - after the expiration of the
patent. I pointed out the strange inconsistency which has marked from time to
time the action of this committee in restricting rights of this nature, while in
other Bills enlarging them in the most comprehensive manner. I need not go back
further than last session to furnish illustrations of this. Taking up the statutes
of 1908, I find that four Patent Bills were
passed in that session in which there has
been a substantial deviation from the particular clause to which I have alluded.
Take, for instance, chapter 3 of the statutes
of 1908, on page 140, and you will find
there the language of this particular clause.
Then turn to the next Patent Act, chapter
113 of the statutes of 1908, and you find the
right to manufacture given in its widest
sense to al] parties who had in the interval
entered into the manufacture of the patented article. This clause, I consider. the
public is entitled to, and certainly should
have been in all these Patent Bills. Why
should the public be restricted, or why
should licensees or those who enter upon
the manufacture before the expiry of the
term be prevented from manufacturing the
article? I hesitate very greatly to throw
any impediment in the way of the Bill at
this late hour of the session, yet I had
taken the precaution before the Bill went
to the committee to point out to the gentleman in charge of it, and to the House, the
objectionable character of this clause. It
has not been amended, and I therefore
move that this Bill be not now read the
third time, but that it be read the third
time this day six months.
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-The deputy head of
the department sent a letter to the committee stating that the Bill was perfectly
satisfactory te the department in its present form. I did not know that this matter
was coming up, and I cannot lay my hand
on other Bills containing a clause like this,
but I am satisfied that such Bills have
passed the House. I do not know why the
hon. member should take such an extreme
course in this instance, but it seems te me
the Bill could be amended.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If my hon. friend
will have a clause inserted in this Bill for

MNAY 14, 1909

the protection of the publie, as in other
similar Bills, I shail be satisfied.
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-I did not have
charge of the Bill, but I w-as in the committee when it was considered, and 1 du
not know that it differs in any degree from
other Bis of this nature that have gene
through. There may have been soma BilA
in w-hich the clauses w-are differently
w-orded, but it w-ould be too bad to throw
out the Bill at this stage, and 1 would prafer to see it amended.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-This Buil was caref ully deait with by the committee, and its
consideration w-as postponed to a future
sitting, bacause the committee desired te
have further information. That infermatien was, first as ta whether the patentee
or parties interested in the patent had heen
netified by the department of the lapsing
of the patent. That information was ohtained, in a negative way-that is, they were
not made aware except sometirne before the
application w-as made.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Why should the
patentees he informed?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-There have been
three assignments of the patent. For xny
part, as a member of the comniittee, I
wanted te ascertaîn at w-hat dates these assignments had been lodged with the department, and whether on any of those occasions the parties interested had not been.
notified of the lapse of the patent. That
was -with the intention of refusing the Bill
if I sheuld not obtain, that information.
1 w-as, however, satisfied an that peint.
Then the othar point on w-hich the committee demanded information, w-as as to whether
the patent w-as still in force in the United
States. For my part I objected to the ranew-xng of the patent here if it had lapsed
in the United States. The committee w-as
furnishad with an affidavit te the affect
that the patent w-as stili in force there.
Then as regards this hast clause of the Bill
which, the hon. gentleman has taken objec
tion to, I did caîl the attention o! the cernmittea to the clause, but the committea
passed it because they w-ere given satisfactory assurance that there neyer w-as any
licensa issued t-o manufacture under the
patent. Ind the clause w-as, under these circumstances. satisfactory.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There is another
clause there as te thosa who commence to
manufacture before the expiry of the patent.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-We w-ere told that
the patented article has not been put on the
market yet; it has been held in abayance
until the patent is confirmed. The members
of the committee feel, as the hon. gentleman dees, that thesa demanda corne to ps
too frealy, a.nd some expression of opinion
shouhd be given by this honourable House
sa that the public will understand in future
that such applications will not be as readily
received in the future as they have been
in the past, and if some of the members
of this House w-are to move in that direction, for my part I would support them,
and be very glad to do so; because I feel.
as the hon. gentleman from Belleville does,
that it is becoming an abuse. We have a
number of Bills of this kind every session,
and they are dealt with too liherally.
Hon. Mi. BOSTOCK-As a member of the
committea I w-ould like te say a few words
in connection with this matter, because I
feel very strongly that some kind of notice
should be givan to the public that we are
not going to continue the course w-e have
pursued for several years past. I feel very
strongly myseîf about this Bill, and w-ould
like to have seen it thrown out, because
this patent lapsed in 1906, and for three
years it lias net existed, as the persons
to whom the assigninent was made could
have found out, and I think they did find
out when they took the patent ove-r, that
they w-are really buying practically a
riglit that was w-orthless unless they could
get parliament te reinstate it. Personally,
I feel that this thing has been going on
too long, and w-e should. place the matter
fairly before the public, that in the future
thev must not expect us ta do this kind er
work for them.
Hon. Sir MA*CKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
sornewhat at a loss te know how the publia
is to ascertain w-hat lias taken place in the
committea in the direction indicated by
the tw-o hon. gentlemen w-ho have just
spokan. The hast w-ay to infoirn the public
as ta what aur future action is to e awouhd
ha te raject this Bibi, and then the public
would ascertain that there was a detarmination on the part of the committee of the Sen-

SENATE
ate not to deal lightly with these questions
in the future. Notwithstanding the explanation made by the chairman of the committee, I have flot heard any reasons given
why this speculative patent, for such I take
it Vo be from the remark made by the chairman of -the committee, is to be renewed.
If I understood him correctly, he informed
the House that this is the third assignment
of this patent. If it is the third assigument, it proves beyond a peradventure that
it is a speculative patent, and it has becorne apparent that it is useful and can
be nmade profitable by entering intn t1ip
manufacture of the article. I take it for
granted that it would flot be applied
for and placed in the market in the
manner it has been unless the parties
who are purchasing it have corne to the
conclusion that there is money to be made
out of it, and in order to protect this third
assignmee of the patent they put in a clause
protecting certain parties who may have
commenced the manufacture for sncb
periods, also a proviso byý which they
prevent the continuance of the manufacture
of the article, or the erection of a building in which it is ta be rnanufactured by
those who commenced the erection r'f the
building- during the holding of the patent
by the person who first purchased it. There
has been no reason given at aIl by the
chairman, or by the gentleman who introduced this measure, why the manufacture
of the article was delayed until the present
period. There have been occasions in
which, from circums-tances over which the
patentee has no control, he has been unable
to proceed with the manufacture of the
article. The chairman of the committee
now gives us to understand that lie bas
ascertained certain facts.
How that information has been obtained we do not
know. It may be information that has satisfied the chairman, and also the members
of the commit tee, but is it possible that
they have ascertained that no one has entered into the manufacture of this article,
and if so, that they will be injured by the
renewal of the patent throughout the whola
Dominion.
We are simply accepting a
declaration of the speculators who have purchased this patent that they have bouglit
it -in the first place; that there is money
tao be made out of the manufacture ait the
Hoil. Sir MfACKENZIE BOWELL.

present moment; that it lias lapsed for a
number of years, and we very quietly acquiesce in their representations and renew
tihe patent. I may add that on this questicei of- renewing patents hon. members of
the Senate know very well that I have
taken strong objections unless there are
very potent reasons why they should be renewed, and I am glad ta learn that the
chairman and the members of the committee have taken a position as ta what they
shall do in future. We have been constantly enacting laws and doing t.hings that
ouglit not ta be done, simply because they
have been done before. That is the excuse
that lias been offered s0 often, that it bas
become almost standard, and that is the ex
cuse we have to-day, without any reasor,
being given by the chairman of the committee or the members of the committee or
the gentleman who introduced the Bill, as
ta why the manufacture o! this article
was not proceeded with froni the tume the
patent was obtained until the present time.
We are legislating as blindly as we possibly
can, and I venture Vo predict that if we
are here next session we shaîl hear the
same excuse again given for the purpose
of renewing patents which are speculative.
I repeat what I said when I discussed this
question before, that in 19 cases out of 201 might say 99 out of 100-it is not the
genius that invented the article, it is the
speculator who bas obtained the rights from
the patentee who asks for these renewals,
for his own advantage, and rather to the
disadvantage of the patentee who had the
genius ta invent the article. For that reason I have been strongly opposed to the
renewal o! these patents, in the intereats
o! the public. Another thing I suggest ta
my hon. friend: The hon. senator from
Calgary who has moved the three months'
hoist bas indicated that if a certain clause
protecting the people of Canada were added
ta the Bill he had no objection Vo let it
pass. My hon. friend can easily delay the
third reading until Monday, and notice
can be given of a clause that wouhd protect
the intaresta of the people of Canada and
have that added ta 'the Bill at the third
reading.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-This is one of
those Bills that have been coming before
parliament for a good- many years. I do

-MAY 14, 1909
flot ýagree with the observations made by
the hon. member from Hastings.
I do
flot believe that anybody would suifer if
we pass this Bill, or that anybody bas suffered by the legisiation that we have been
passing for the hast l3hirty' years.
Our
patent haws are very liberal. A man gets
a patent, and hie is entitled to that patent
for 18 years. He pays hie fees, and has
the riglt to use that patent for six years;
then lie can renew it by paying a further
fee, and hie has the riglit for six more
years, and so on for the full terni of 18
years. It often happens, and it is impossible to avoid it, that men, for some
reason or other, neglect or refuse to pay
the fees, or in some way or other the
fees are flot paid, and the patent is void.
They corne before parliament and make
out a case, and we do not extend their
previous rights at aIl, simply restoxe
the same rights that they had in the
beginning; and we have gone farther than
that in this Bill; we have in this second
clause prot-ec ted the rights of everybody
except the licenzee. It may be that a
patent is issued and a license is granted
to John Brown to manufacture that article;
-lie is a licenaree; lie is manufacturing the
article, and if, througli any cause or neglect on the part of somebody, the patent
expires temporarîly, it is not just that parliament should restore that riglit ini order
that John Brown should be at li'berty then
to manufacture, because lie was a licensee
in the start. But everyone else, the innocent man, the man wlio did not know the
patent was in force and started manufacturing, everyone else in Canada is fully
protected by clause (2).
It is the clause
that lias been invariably inserted in ail
these Bills for a good many years.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Might I point
out to iny lion. friend the Bille passed last
session-I have mentioned two already, and
1 undertakie to say that I could find more
than two in the statutes of 1908.in whieh
the exemption applies te ail.

571

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The practice of
the committee lias been to put the clause
in one Bill and omit it in another and so
on-no regularity about it.
Hon. Mr. OAMPBELL-Tliere is no
harmn in this clause, because my hion. friend
wihl admit that if, when the patent was in
existence, 1 teok out a license and had the
riglit to manufacture and seli this particular
article; and the patentee, tlirough some
cause or otlier, tem'porarîly voids lis
patent, and tlien parliament overlooks that
and restoree his right, it would not be
just that I wlio had been a licensee, aliould
be at perfect liberty to go and manufacture
ion my own account. The object of the
clause is to protect the man who did flot
know this patent was in existence and who
had started manufacturing.
Under this
clause lie lias a perfect right to continue,
and to this clause there slîould be no objection. I do flot know that anybody is going
to suifer by reviving this patent, and if
these people like to corne here and pay $400
for tliis legiïslation, as Parliament has granted it before, I think thev sliould grant it
this time. 1 shall support tlie Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
lion, gentleman says that no one will suifer
by this.' Why then is the proviso added to
section 2? Some person, I fancy, must have
commenced the construction of works for
the manufacturing of the article.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-If anybody lad
started than this man who took out tlie
license from the patent-ee, lie lias a perfect
right to go and manufacture and sell.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oh no.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Oh yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Will
the hion, gentleman read that previsoP

Hon. Mr. CÀMPBELL-It is as follows:
Provided that the exemption shaîl not extend to any persan who has cammenced the
construction or manufacture of the said invention before the expiry of the patent, without the consent of the holder of the said
patent.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Well, there may
Certainly if le commenced to -manufacbe exceptions; I was not aware that ther,ý ture this fraudulently before the patent lad
were.
expired, lie cannot now continue.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-And take advantage of his fraud.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-We would then
give him the opportunity to go on and take
advantage of his fraud.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May 1 put this
case to my hon. friend? Three years have
elapsed and that manufacturer who started
before the expiry of t.he patent to manufacture the article in question may have considered that the patentea was flot going to
apply for a renewal, and he goes to a very
large ex-pense and builds a plant for the
manufacture of this particular article on
account of its flot -being covered by a
patent, because for threa years it was not
covered by a patent; then are you going to
destroy the capital which that man may
have invested in the manufacturing of that
article?

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
think that is quite .ýar. The proviso is
not inconsistent wità the clause.
The
clause gives the right to any persan who
commenced the manufacture of the article after the expiry of the license to continue manufaeturing. There is no doubt
about that, but there is a proviso declaring 'that any person who commenced the
erection of a building for the purpose of
manufacturing this article, though it may
not be finished, though he may not have
had any intention of going on ta manufacture the article until alter the expiration of
the licensa, is preventad manufacturing
even though he may have investad thonsands of dollars in the erection of buildings
for the purpose. How my hon. friand can
twist the meaning of the English language
ta any other construction ai it I should
like te know.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I understand my
hon. friand to mean this, that if John
Smith thinks a certain patent will expire,
ha will not renew his licensa, but he may
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-If he commenced expand inoney in preparatians ta use 'a
ciuring thosa three years after this patent patent in anticipation cf its expiring.
was voided, he bas a perfect right to go on
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
110w.
is his risk.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-He had iio riglit
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-If I understand ta expect ha could use the patent. If ha
had waited until the patent expired and
the Eng-lish language at ailthan gone ta work, ha could go on under
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That thîs law. If ha attempted ta commit a
_proviso is to prevent hlm from going on.
fraud and get an advantage ta w'bich ha is
n,&t entitled, I do not think the laws of
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Oh no.
this cauntry should protect him.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Tha proviso seems
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-The conimissioner
ta be contradictory of the previous state- af patents explainad ta the committea that
ment.
there had been thrae assignmnents of the
patent. and that thare wvas not a vary long
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
pariod cf time betwaan any of themn. The
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-The proviso is fea for six yaars had bean paid, and tihe
simply this, that if John Smith commencad solicitor of the company called at the ofto manufacture this article bafore the patent fice*in reference te these assignments shortaxpired, without getting a licensa from the iy prior ta the lst of Decambar last. When
patentee ta do so, he cannot go on now and ha undertook ta pay the fea, hae found that
s-eli it; but if ha did flot commence until ha had ta coma te parliainent and gat the
after the patent had expired, then he bas patent ravivad. I do not se-e 'that the Bill
a perfect rig-ht ta continue ta manufacture differs from a great many Bills that we
it now as though it had neyer been pat- have passed cf late. However, I have ne
ented.
objection ta this Bill being made to corHon. Mr. DANDURAND-He is entitled
to no sympathy.

Hau. Mr. CAMPBELL.

MAY 14, 1909

573

THE SENATE DEBATES.
respond exactly with the Bis which the
hon. snember from Calgary found ainong.
The order of the day being called:
those passed last session. At the same
Consideration of the second report of the
tixne, I ams satisfied that other Bills have standing oommittee on debates and reporting
been passed this session on the same lines of the Sonate.
as this one.
Hon. Mr. POWER moved that the order
Hon. Mr. WATSON-With the explana- of the day be discharged. and placed on
tion the House has received from the the orders for Monday next.
ehairman and other membere of the eomHon. Mr. BEIQUE-There le no necesmittee, no pereon can be injured by the
passing cf this measure. When the Bill sity for t3aat
was introduced, I explained that the patHon. Mr. POWER-The chairman of the
ented article was a machine which cost
$100,000 te construct. It is net nianufac- Debates Committee je absent and will not
tured in Canada, and there le ne danger cf be here until Monday.
anyone suiffering by this legielation. I
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. gentleman
know that the committee carefully corieidtold me yeeterday before leaving tihat he
ered the Bill, because they a-sked fer .adwould be here on Monday, but that we
journments te give it that careful considermight freely deal witih the matter in hie
ation, feeling that injury might be done te
absence. I told him that I would prefer
some manufacturer.
With- the explanahe should be present, and that we would
tions which have been given, I trust that
to
the leader of the opposition may 'withdraw wait until M-%onday; but if we desire
corne to any decision on this matter, I
his amendment.
arn afraid postponing it until Monday m.ay
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wîth an under- make it toc late, so that it might be better
standing that next session we will adopt to deal with the matter te-day.
a uniform clause and make this exempHon. Mr. POWER-Inasmuch as there
tion generai. I in-tend te point eut next
was a difference in the committeesession and strongly urge on the committee that there eheuld be uniformity in those
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-No, I thjnkl the comBills, and that the exemption shouid be the mittee was unanimous.
same"in ail cases. I withdraw the amendment.
POWER-I accept the hon. genHon. M.%r.
The motion 'was agreed te, and the Bill tleman's statement that that wvas his impression.
was read the third time and passed.
GRAND

TRUNK PACIFLO
LOAN BILL.

RAILWAY

The order of the da-u bain- called:
Resuining the adjourned debate on the
motion for the second reading (Bill 128) An
Act to authorize a boan to the Grand Trunk
Pacifie Railway Compau.-(Rt. Hon. Sir
Richard Cartwright.)
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTMr. Perley has informed me that he does
not intend te speak on this Bill. I therefore meve the second reading.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
was read the second and third time and
passed.

Hon. Mr.
that.

BEIQUE-It was more than

POWER-Will the hon. gentleHon. M-Nr.
man allow me to state what I propose to
state? 1 understood frorn the chairman that
he was not in harmony with the viewe expreesed in the report, and in view of the
circumetances, inasmuch as this report
je inconsistent with the previous report
which the chairman brought in, and as the
chairman will be here on Monday, I think
it je more desirable in every way that it
should stand until Monday. I move that
the order cf the day be discharg-ed and
that it be pis ced on the orders of the day
for Menday.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)- It will be
unfortunate if it is delayed until Monday.
I arn under the impression that the hion.
gentleman from Halifax is mistaken as to
the attitude of the chairman. He quite
concuxred in the report. I was present al
the time. It seemed to be the unanimous
opinion of the committee that the report
presented to the House would be the opinion of the committee, and if any action is
ta be taken this session to put our reporting staff on a better basis, it should go
through to-day and give the cominittee a
chance to meet again and bring it Into
operation next session. It will be unfortunate if we begin next session not upon
any regular basis.

get very little I fear, but rather for the
purpose of having some parties to take
charge of them and prevent themn from
becoming dilapidated as they very often do
at the present time for lack of a little supervision. Probably my hion. friend will have
no objection to allow me to take the second
reading now, and if further discussion is
desirable it can be had ini committee.

Hon. Mr. LOTJGHEED-I have no objection, but I should like to ask my hon. friend
to furnish us with some information, if
possible, as to the amou±nt of money the
government has expended upon those varieus undertakings, particularly in the maritime provinces, where the action of the
government has been of a very generous
Hon. Mr. POWER-This is a very slim
House in which to discusa a question of character.
this kind, and I do flot eee why there
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
should be any objection to al]owing it to shahl be happy to -ive my
hion. friend as
stand over; and with regard to the hion. much information as I possibly
can before
member irom Middlesex, it was at his sug- Monday, but it is a large
order.
gestion that the previous report was reHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I quite appreciferred back to the m'mittece. He was anxious to have another meeting because lie ate that. That is the reason I put the queshad not been present when the report was tion. Perhaps hie could appreximate it.
prepared, a-nd I t1Èink we should flot now
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
wish to go on with the discussion in the should
say several million at least.
absence of the chairman.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If this is a conHon. Mr. BEIQUE-The statement iade tinuation
of the policy that has been purby the lion. gentleman from Halifax is a sued
in the past-that is the handing over
great surprise to me, but, under the cir- of those
wharves and piers to undesirable
cumstances, I prefer that the matter be
parties-it is something that will be worth
deferred until Monday so that we may see
aur considering. In this connection. I
whether hie was surprised or not.
would Jike to ask my hion. friend if the
The order of the day was postponed until government has any particular policy in
Monday.
view with reference to the leasing of anv
GOVERNMEXT HARBOURS AND PIERS of those particular wharves or piers, te any
certain individual, or is it simply a genACT AMENDMENT BILL.
eral authonity?
SECOND READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Sir RICHARD
CARTWRIGHT They ask simply for general authority te
moved the second reading- of Bill (No. 89) make the beat bargain they can, with a
An Act to amend the Governinent Harbours view to obtaining some littie revenue from
and Piers Act. He said: The object of this them and for the preservation more parmeasure is to enable the aovernment to ticu]arly of those works. Owing to the enlease sonie of the numerous wharves of which armous number that they have got, which
they have latt-erly got possession. 1 think, might perhaps be advantageously diminit will be in the public interest, judging ished, it is impossible for the governxnent,
froni past experience, that they should be without maintaining expensive officers at
allowed to lease these, not so rnuch for the a great number of ports, to keep a superpurpose of obtaining, revenue, as thev will vision over them.
I think they wvill be
Hon. 'Mr. POWER.

MAY 14, 1909
able to save a great deal of money by having some parties who are interested in seaing that the wharves are kept in proper
order, and oua of the main objects iu the
leases is to endeavour to sacura that. How
far they will b; able to do it ramains to
be seen.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is At proposad
to turn those wharvas and piertt over to a
company that contemplatas handling thp
whole of them P
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTNot a single company.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I ask mjy
right hon. friend if the government la satisfied up to the prasent with stopping any
furthar expenditure iu this particular lina?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe govermmnt seas the extrema desirability of stopping, as f ar as possible, the
enormous demands that are made upon the
public pursa for wharves, harbours sud
piers in every direction. The governmant
are bacoming alive to the mattar, and for
very good reason.

575

leased to the parties, fali upon the country,
or will there be a condition in the lease
compelling the lessee to pay the expense of
repairs?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThat would depend on the suxrounding conditions. It is intended as far as possible
to have the lessee keep them in good order;
even if we do not receive much rent front
them, he will be bound to do it; of course
the terms must vary in accordance with
the conditions and also in con8equence
of the exposure. There are some of those
places whére, owing to the extent to whieh
they are exposed in the winter, gales and
other things, it would hardly be possible
to bind the lessee to make the repairs under
aIl conditions. We could only do it so far
as regards what might be called. ordinary
wear and tear. You could flot ask a man
to lease a wharf in some of those places,
where it might be tomn up by the tempest
fromn the very foundations, but you can
ask hlm to keep it in decent repair.

Hon. Mr. ROSS <Halifax)-I happen to
know something about the building of
wharves, and the amount that would be
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The whola of collected would be only a trille in comthe coast of the inaritime provinces must parison with the amount required to keep
be covered pretty well with thasea truc- them. in repair in stormy places where
they are exposed to drift ice and heavy
-turcs.
gales. I know of two wharves in the
county I used to represent, that had repairs
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
think thare are some places not yat pro- to the extent of $2,000 in one case, and
vided with them, but I should not like to $1,000 in another, last year. While I arn
not going to object to the measure in any
state how many.
form, I hope that the hon. leader of the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I was unawara government will not be carried away with
of that, bacause recently the governmant the delusion that the amount that will be
has been building wharves and piars on collected will be sufficient to keep those
dry land and I thought possible the coast wharves in repair.
line had been pretty well occupied.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWtRIGHT-It csn assure the hon. gentleman that I amn
might prove more economica] to fence in not carried away with any such delusion;
the whole coast hune in many of these coun- very much the reverse, but I arn in hopes
ties, but that would be a question for con that the supervision that I think could
sideration. Howavar, my hon. friand wil be exercised over them if there were
agrea that this is a mova lu the ight direc- any party in charge and where there was
tion, and is likaly to save the public pursa a reasonable interest in keeping tbem in
indiractly if not directly.
order, will save many thousand dollars
to the government.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Will
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-I do
the expense necessary to keep those
wharves in repair after they have been not besitate to say that the suggestion

SENATE
that hias been made in this clause je a
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
good one if it ie properly carried out; but çvas read the second time.
that it can be abused there je no question
SECOND READING.
of doubt. If honestly carried out, it is
Bill (152) An Act to amend the Navigable
inaugurating a system that wili be a beneWaters -Protection Act.-Hôn. Sir Richard
fit to the "country.
Cartwright.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-]
ROY-AL GUARDIANS BILL-AMENDmay eay ini ail serioueness to rny hion.
MENTS CONCURRED IN.
friend, that the governnient are aware
there je very considerable risk to the pubHon. Mr. GIBSON moved concurrence in
blie exchequer of unfair expenditure in the amendments mnade by the Standing
these matters, and they honestly desire- Committee on Banking and Commerce Vo
I think I can say that I arn aware of that Bill (95) 'An Act to incorporate the Royal
-to check it as far as possible, and this je Guardians.'
one of the means that they can adopt
Hon. Mi. LOUGHEED-What does mny
that will have some effeet in that direc- hon. friend think of the attitude
of the
tion.
government, that the royal aeeent would noV
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-You be given to this Bill?
will have sorne trouble to accomplish it.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I arn only rnaking
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-1 the motion on behlf of the committee, and
arn aware of that. When once money je I leave the hon. member from De Lanauspent in any locality in any part of this dière te answer the question raised, because
extended Dominion fromn the Atlantic to he je in charge of the Bill.
the Pacifie, iny private opinion has been
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Regarding
this
confirmed by 45 years of experience, that a Bill, the Royal Guardiane, it je a very
ruinning soie je -created which le neyer fully serious matter for this cornpsny Vo ask
healed Up.
it now Vo change its naine. It has sorne
.Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There will be no 3,000 policies throughout Canada-that je
change in the Act with regard to the dues. throughout Quebec, Nova Scotia and New
The toile and the dues to be collected Brunswick. It lias also done aIl its adverfrom the public on these wharves will re- tising under the present narne, having obmain as they are?
tained that title froni the province of QueHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Yes, bec. Ail its stationery je printed with the
that ie the intention of the departinent.
worda 'Royal Guardians' and ail the inHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I nay say that signia of the order and ite seai, and so on,
we lied for a smali province,' a good deal of appe.ar witli that titie, and I arn authorized
experience wtli this question of wharves and by the promotere of thie Bill te state in
piers in Prince Edward Island when I was Vhis House that if they were Vo lose their
in the goveroment, and we took this mode namne, they would prefer Vo withdraw the
Therefore, entreat the governmnent
of dealing with them, and where we could B3ill.
get a tender from corne responsible party iiot to deal with this Bill differently froin
who would put up eecurity that lie could the treatment accorded te the other Bill
carry it out properly, we iound it was bet- regarding the Royal Victoria Insurance
ter than trusting to a return froin some Comnpany of Canada, which I think wae
person appointed as a governnient officiai, passed this session.
and we really got a good deal more than
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-How long lias
by appointing somebody who would make a the company been doing business. Two or
return. It was sometinies impossible to oh- three years?
tain returns from these people, but when we
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-They have been
got a reputable person Vo put in a tender doing business for a long time under Vhis
and inake a contract at a fixed price, we naine.
got it.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, oh, oh.
Hon. Sir MACKEN_ýZIE BOWELL.

MAY 14, 1909
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is on'ly two
months since they got their name by order
in council.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-They have been
doing business for a very long tuie. They
have now three thousand policies out under
that naine, and a great quantity of paper
and literature, and ail their advertisements,
without speaking of the inaignia of the
order, and the expenses for advertising and
propaganda. Since the month of December,
they have had ail those things, and they
obtained their name froin the Province of
Quebec.
They go on to, recite that the
solicitor general of the Quebec Government
belonged to the association, the member for
Hochelaga, the member for Quebec Centre,
the member for Richelieu and -many other
well-known gentlemen. They dlaim that
the organization is doing a lot of good in a
benevolent way, and should the Government insist upon changing the name, they
would have no option -but to withdraw the
Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think rny hon. friend
bas rather overstated the case. That was
the general impression given te the committee in the first instance; but on very sharp
examination, as to the origin of the eociety
and the time it acquired its titie, we gleaned
this fact, that it bas been ini eperation for
many years under the name of the Grand
Lodge Mfthe Ancient Order of United Workmen, and was allied with a United States
Order. Ail their paper and policies were
under that narne. It is only a few months
age that they applied to the Quebec governinent-not te the legislature but to the gevernment, and, inadvertently, without attention being called to it the name of Royal
Guardians was obtained. That is the fact.
I hsad some difficulty getting at the date,
but it wvas found that it was only in Octaber
last that the rigeht to use this naine was
given. The ground I took was entirely in
the inteîest of the Association. It is veîy
unfair for Parliament to place His Excellency in the embarrassing position of having
to refuse to sanction a Bill or to violate
the instructions which he bas îeceived. It
is net fair or just.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Up to the present session, Parliament bas been very generous in
granting charters to societies with this word
'Royal' ini the titis. It is only fair that we
should ask the bon. gentleman froin Ottawa, when dijl this dispatch corne which
forbida the use of the word 'Royal' ini the
titie of a Company?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As Secretary of State,
it came to, my notice repeatedly, and parties
applied to me for the use of the name. In
soins cases I had a communication sent to
Ris Excellency to ascertain if the Crown
was wiiing; but unles li the case of the
formation of a scientific society, the invariable answer was that they refused. I
have a letter here from Downing Street
dated the 9th of December 1899 on the
subject.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That is ten years
ago.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It has been repeated
over and over again.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Did the hon. gentlemani, when he was Secretary of State, advise the Lieutenant Governor of that? The
province acted in good f aith, and tbey
should have been notified. They allowed
the corporation to, be formed under this
name, and now it is a vested right.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
underatand that the various local goveruments were apprised, but I amr- not prepared to say exactly when, and whe±her it
occurred prior to the formation of this
society or not.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The difflcuity
is, that the horse bas been out of the stable
now for years and years.
Montreal is
painted ail over with the word «imperial
for aIl kinds of powders and crackers, and
ail our laundries are either imperial or
royal. In London, of course, we see so
and so is purveyor to His Royal Highness;
but in this democratic country that is
about the only smattering we have of royal
prerogative and it la distributed ail over.
We know the weakness of our United States
brethren for those expressions, and they
corne here with the name. Royal Arcanum
is an American institution. They can corne

37
RtEVISED

577

EDITION

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understood my
in and get a license in any province. I
do not think the imperial authorities know hon. friend to say that the governinent
the extent to which. these tities have been 'would adviae His Excellency to refuse his
cheapened.
sanction to this Bill.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWJRIGHT-I
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-This association
do not think the government would advise
ie incorporated under an Aet of the province of Quebec. That ie, the Crown has Hlie Excellency in that particular case.
already granted. this naine to those people
Hon. Mr. LOTJGHEED-If that is the dein the province of Quebec. Now, ie the claration of the government. that they
parliament of this Dominion going to take 'would pursue that course, it would be futile
that grant awayP This ie a Crown grant. to proceed further with the Bill. PersonThis name ie given to the society and ally I was opposed Wothe adoption of t.he
used by it under a Crown grant. Are we name in the committee, but inasmuch as
here Bitting as a Dominion parliament go- the committee adopted the -report as wa
ing to undo what the Crown in the pro- have it before us, I shall abide by the findvince of Quebec has already done'
ing of the committee. At the saine time,
Hon. Mr. CLORAK-The same company if Hie Excellency wvill flot give the royal
can go to any province and get a license assent to the Bill, there je no use in going
to run under the same naine. They have further with it.
a right to use the naine 'Royal Guardians '
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-An amendment was
in Quebec, and I do not see why we shoul-1 mnade by the committee, to the effect that
deprive them of a vested right.
the Royal Guardians. Benevolent AssociaHon. Mr. SCOTT-It cannot be called a tion could be the title. The Bill passed
vested right. They got it only a few through the House of Gommons and no
objection was taken to it there.
months ago.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Attention was not
Hon. Mr. CLORKN-If they had it one
hour, it ie as good as if they had it ten called Woit..
years. When did this instruction corne
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-In the -case of the
from the Colonial SecretaryP
Royal Victoria Insurance Company, we got
over the difficulty by adding the words ' of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In 1899.
Canada' in the title. In this case we have
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I understood that
words ' Benevolent Association '
were received recently. added the
formai instructions
to the titie, without infringing on the rights
When was the last instruction from the
We
given it by the province of Quebec.
.British.goverpament that the wordi ' Royal'
should not take from the company that
should not be used?
My own impreswhich it has obtaîned.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There have been re- sion je that the view of the ex-Secretary of
peated despatches.
State je perfectly right with regard to any
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Has one been re- new legislatioli, and the committee agree
that no new illhs should receive the s3ancceived recently?
tion of the committee if the word 'Royal
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yee.
were used in the title. But this is the firet
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understood the time I have heard of any objection being
other day the leader of the government taken to the use of the word. This namne
to say that the government would not per- having been given by the province of Quemit the royal assent to be given to the bec, and having been passed by the House
Bill.
of Gommons, our committee thought it inHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- cumbent upon them Wo let the Bill pase
The government have no power in that with the amendinent which I have menmatter. This je one case in which Hie tioned to the title. The association wishi to
Excellency might act on instructions from extend their business ahi over the DoEngland.
minion.
Hlon. Mr. DANDURAND.

MAY 15, 1909

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BUWELL-If thie
theory -expreesed by the hon, gentleman
who has just spoken le ta be admitted,
there is no necessity for this House, and
we had better adopt the suggestion of thase
who advocate having but one lieuse of Parliament. -We constantly hear, when there
aesny desire to gel a Bill Ilirougli the
-s
House, the remark ' Oh, it passed the Gommons alter due consideration.' These Bille
are sent here for revision, and it is no
valid argument to tll us when we find objectionable clânses ln the Bill that because
it was adopted by the Gommons we shouId
pase il. We are constantly arnend.ing the
Bis that corne from the Gommons, and I
would suggest to those who use that expression bo abandon it, because inferentially it
means that there is no necessîty for this
The hon. memiber from Ottawa
House.
(Hon. Mr. Belcourt) argues that because
the Quebec legisiature gave this associalion the riglil to use the word ' Royal,' we
ahould net interfere with il; but they corne
here for additianal powers and conoessions.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Tbis ie not one
of them.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They
corne here for a Dominion charter. They
avail thernselves of Dominion legielation
te acquire privileges le conduct a business.
that lias been in the past confined te the
province of Quebec. They corne here and
ask us to extend those privileges le the
whole Dominion, and lhey ask for certain
powers and privileges beyond those they
have enjoyed in the province of Quebec.,
Surely, under the circuxnstances, we have
a riglit te say that wliile we have no objection te giving them power to extend their
business, we decline te confirm. the name of
the company simply because il was obtained two or three monthe ago from the
Quebec authorities. We do not propose te
interfere with their use of the naine 'Royal'
in the province of Quebec; but when they
ask bo have it ext.ended ta the Dominion,
we surely have a riglit te say: «We decline to
grant your request, and you muet nol adopt
a name which is oppoeed to the policy of
the government.' A friend behind me intimated that this was the first occasion.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-In six years.
37J

1

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-If my
hon. friend had been on the Committee on
Bankxng and Commerce, in which we deal
with insurance Bille and corporations of
this kind, lie wau]d know Ihere lias nol
been a sessioni in the last six or seven years
in which objection lias nal been taken to
thie tilles under which companies desire
te be incorporated. If Ilim Billisj paseed
wilh the change recomznended in the report
il wlll have te go back te the Gommons.
Hon. Mr. GASGRIN-The Commone wil
have te cancur in it.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In
view of the declaration of the goverament,
and whal we know ia the policy ai parliament, at least s0 far as 1h.s Hous je concerned, the easiesl way te gel aver the
difficulty withoul losing the Bill is ta
change the name ai the company. I miglit
remind my hon. friend behind me (Hon.
Mr. Cloras) that il je only this morning
we eliminated fram, a Bill which we were
asked la report te the Hous. the word
aRoyal.'
Han. Mr. GLORAN-A new Bil.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
does nol make any difference. Ba fer as
the Dominion legislalion is concerned, Ibis
Bill is as new as the allier. Unlese the
pramoter ai the Bill desires te rua the
rlek ai losing il, lie had better consent te
changiag the tille.
Han. Mr. CASGRAIN-We would rather
lace the Bill than the niame.
The motion was agreed te.
The Senate adjourned until to-morrow at
Il a.m.

THE SERATE.
OTTAWA, Saturday, Miay 15, 1909.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eleven
o'clock a.m.
Prayers and routine proceedin.gS.
ONTARIO>

MICHIGAN POWER COMPANY BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Mr. WATSON, irom the Committee
on Railways, Telegraplis and Harbours, re-

SENATE
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
ported Bill (34) «An Act to incorporate the
Ontario and Michigan Power Company,' would sugg.est to my hon. friend that confiscation is taking property without comand moved the third reading of the Bill.
pensation. 1 do not think that is proposei
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I object to the to be done hy this Bill.
suspension of the rule.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELI-If they take propHon. Mr. WATSON-The rule haa been erty, they have to pay well for it.
suspended.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Confiscation is a
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This is a Bill general term. It is not -a term which
the object of which is the 4cquiring of ineans that no compensation shail -be made;
lands, easements, privileges, water and but is rather associated with the idea of the
water rights on the Nipigon and Pigeoni exercise o! the sovereign power of taking a
rivera in the District of Thunder Bay. It right which cannot satisfactorily dbe securel1
is particularly an expropriation Bill. It is by private negotiation.
In this Bill wc
something novel in that regard. It is based have embodied ali the terrus o! the Railway
upon parliament exercising what one mighit Act. If the hon. gentleman will look at
regard as the extraordinary powers vested clause 17 he will find that all the machinin it o! primarily granting to private ery and provisions of the Railway Act have
parties the power o! expropriating private been applied, so far as expropriating landI
and publie property. We have the principle is concerned.
of expropriation embodied in the Railway
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middlesex)-Read subAct. and 1 invite the attention of hon.
gentlemen te, the principle which I desire section 4 and see the limitation:
Wherever in the Railwav Act the word
to dwell upon for a moment-that the
it shahl include
power of parliament is only exercised on «land' occurs required by the any privilege
or easement
company for
the general principle of granting powers of constructing or operating the works authorized by this Act, under, over or along any
expropriation when peculiarly accessory to
land, without the necessity of acquiring a
and incident to the carrying out of the un- titie in fee simple.
dertaking that the promoters o! the Bui
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wihl my hion.
may have in view. This is the fundamenfriend from Middlesex be good enough te
tal principle o! expropriation.
look at clause 5, in which it will be found
When that power is invoked by parliaexpropriation may be
ment, it is always done simply as an inci- that the powers o!
exercised as te water-powers on the Pigeon
dent to the central idea o! the scheme which
may be .embodied in the.Bili under consider- river, and under sub-clause (d) of clause 7
ation. But here is a 'Bill the fundamental it will be found that the object of the comfeature o! which is that of expropriating pany is to:
(d)
such lands,
private and public rights, and the other leges Aoquireand water rightaeasements, priviwaer
as are necessary
are simply incident for the purposes o! its undertaking: Providprovisions o! the Bill
to that central idea of expropriation; or, ed thnt under this section, the company may
acuire or develop water-powers on the folin other words, this is a Bill asking parlialing rivers only, namnely the Pigeon river
ment to empower a company to practically in the province o! Ontario and state of Mindistrict
nesota, and
eonfiscate valuable property and at the sanme of Thunder the Nipigon river, in the Ontario,
Bay, in the province of
tirne gaive them the other incidental powers and at one place only on each of thse said
of a corporate 'body for the purpose of carry- rivers.
ing into effect the extraordinary feature and
Hon. Mr. RObd (Middlesex)-Only one
principle o! what practically approaches place for the purposes of the company.
public confiscation.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, this is a
Hon. Mr. ROSS (1Middlesex)-Where does company possessing powers of expropriathe hon. gentleman find that power in th- tion upon the Pigeon river and the NipiBill?
gon river, and with the right of expropriatrefer to clause ing water-powers upon the Pigeon river,
1Hon. M.ir. LOUGHEED-I
and the anxietv o! the government tliat
Hon. Mir. WATSON,

MAY 15, 1909
these powers should net be exercised to an
extraordinary degree is made manifest in
subsection 6 of clause 17:
The raid expropriation powers shall net b.
exercised as te any dams or atorage now existinq, or any dams or other works for storaire (or any storage) hereafter created, with
whieh such dams or works for storare might
interfere.
That is te say, we are te presuppose
from the reading of that section that there
are now. certain works on these rivers in
the shape cf dams and storage which are
net te be interfered with by these parties
in exercising the extraordinary powers
given them. It seema te me the main
objection te this Bill lies in this fact; there
has been a pretest made against the granting ef this legialation. The Prime Minister
of the prevince ef Ontarie has protested
in the atrengest possible language againat
this legislatien being granted. As I peinted
eut the other day, Ontarie has a well defined policy with respect te the development cf its water-powers, and that gevernment has undertaken te carry that pollcy
ont te the manifest advantage cf the people
of the province.
As te the desirsbility
cf the pehicy being carried eut in-its integrity, I wenld direct hen. gentlemen te
the speech of the Prime Minister cf the
Dominion, made on this Bill while it was
under discussion in the Heuse cf Commens last week. On column 6122 cf «'Hansard ' will be found these remsrks made
by Sir Wilfrid Laurier:
I stated a few days ago that, s0 far as 1
wss eoncerned, I thought we should remember that the gerernment of Ontario has insugursted a policy which seems te b. acceptable to the people of that province. that they
weuld res-erve their water-powere te be
dispeeed of in a certain way. I stated
to my hon. friend that we could net.
censistentlv ivith what we owe te ourselves arîd to, the feeling of the province of Ontario. interfere with that policy
and th.-t if by tak-ing Crown land we were
interfering with that policy we should net
do se. 1 niaintain the -.ame position, I say
te iny hen .friend that we should net sttempt
te takze Crown lands. That is the view emtertained bv the Minister cf Railways (Mn.
Grabain> also. The Bill does net eontemplste and 'the niinister said he was not in
faveur cf any pewer being gîven under this

Bil1 to expropriate the public land of the
province of Ontario.

Se far se good.

That

is te sav the province of Ontario will be at
libenty te carry eut its policy sud ne'thing
that we do here, sheuld bo any obstacle te the
carrying out cf that po]icy.

Notwithstandîng this language nttered
by the Prime 'Ministen during the censider-

atien cf the Bill in the Honse cf Commons,
he apparently voted for it, incerperating
into it the pewer te expropriate the public
lands of the province cf Ontario, a power
which he unequivecally cendemxied.
I
have befere mue a telegram sent by ,the
Prime Minister of Ontario, eaying:
Please attend Senate oommittee to-morrow
and oppose Conmee Bill. which provide. for
the expropriation cf provincial property.
We new have before us on oui table a
Bill sent down by this gevernment with
reference te the conservation of oui natniai resources, a result cf the North Amenican Conservation Conference, which sat
in Washingten a few menths ago and attending which were three representatives
cf Canada, the Hen. Messrs. Fisher and
Sitton and Mr. Beland. I find, according
te the repert made by that commission.
and apparently accepted by the Deminion
cf Canada, the fellowing language:
W. regard the manopely of waters, and especially the monopoly cf water-power, as
peculiarly threatening. No rights te the use
of water-powers in streamas should hereafter
be granted in perpetuity. Bach grant ah >uid
%l condition4d upen

prompt

developmnut,

contiuued beneficial use, and the payment cf
proper compensation te the public for Ie
rights enjoyed; and should b. for a de1laite
period only. Such period ehould be ne
longer than is required for reasonable safety
of investment. The public authority should
retain the right te readjust at ststed periods
the compensation te the public sud te reinilate the rates changed, te the end that undue
profit or extortion may be prevented.
.In the face cf this recognition cf the
principle that the water-powens of this
Dominion sheuld be conserved, and in face
of the general polîcy cf the Ontario gevernment, a policy most cemprehen8ive in
its nature, as te the development cf the
water-powers cf that province, we have this
government s party te giving a private corporation the nîght te enter upen the public
demain ef Ontario and te expropniate that
demain as wvell as te expropniste the property cf private parties in the Thnnder Bay
district. For what purpose is this donc?
For the purpese of breaking down, if possible, the general policy which has been
entered upon by the Ontario gevernment
and embannassing that govennment and province in every conceivable way.
For the t-vo previeus sessions, the Senate
expnessed its disapprobation et thîs Bill, or
a similar Bill, promoted by the same parties3.

SENATE

The frîst Bill proposed that the applicants
should be entitled Vo enter upon the public
atreame of this Dominion and expropriate
practicaHly ail the water-powers between
Lake 8uperior and the Rocky mountains,
and there were gentlemen who were prepared ta give this company that extraordinary power. Hon. gentlemen will remember
that that Bill was discussed in the Railway
Committee and met with considerable support, but the better intelligence of this
House revolted against investing a company
like the one proposed with the extraordinary powers which they were then asking,
and the Bill was defeated. The Bill camne
back another session with reduced powers.
and we emphasized the principle which we
had before recognized. and refused ta paso
IL. Now, apparently, parliament considers
that this company je' entitled, on account of
the alleged modesty of ite requeet. to at
least one water-power upon the Pigeon
river and the pole righte along the Nipigon
river. Can any hon. gentleman defend the
principle by which a group of promoters.
flot owning any interest whatever upon
those rivera, so far sa the evidence appears,
-can came Vo parliament and obtain the
right ta expropriate water-powers in the
Thunder Bay district, water-powers which
manifestly are of very great value, in defiance of the proteet entered by the province
of Ontario and the province of Quebec, the
two great provinces of this Dominion, and
in defiance of public intereet. And'ail this
is approved by this parliament, notwith-'
standing the general policy of the government of Ontario, notwithstanding its two
and a half million people with ail the machinery of government, and 'with an executive protesting againet the granting of
those rights.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Will the hon. gentleman pardon me; he speaks very strongly
of the popular sentiment. It is somewhat
remarkable that the hon. gentleman who
promotes this Bill, and who promoted the
previaus Bills has been elected by the
people of the very district where this monopoly ie to operate.
Hon. Mr. IOUGHEED-I would coinmend Vo my hon. friend the perusial of the
evidence which was taken before the election courts of that district, and he will
Hon. Mr. LOTJUGHEED.

probably appreciate how that gentleman
came to be elected. That is neither here
for there, though.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It ie. The hon. gentleman.taiks about the public sentiment,
and I think it ie right there.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If puerile consideratione of that kind will influence my
hon. friend from Halifax with reference to
setting at defiance the protest of the Ontario government, and also popular opinion in the province of Ontario, then -I
say he is recreant to hie duty in this
I was about to say to hon.
Senate.
gentlemen that' no more extraordinary
powers could be given to a company
ci promoters than are embodied iii
this Bill. Public opinion in the olden
daye revolted against the letters of marque
which were issued by the different governments of Europe permittingHon. Mr. POWER. Privateers.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, I was going
Vo use even a stronger term-permitting
privateers to go upon the high seas with
the imprimatur of the government upon
letters of marque ta seize the merchant
shipping of the enemy
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Filibustering.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In tact the
policy of filibustering at that time was
recognized by the different states of Europe
and seeme lately-to have been imported into
Canada.. Can the hon. gentleman point out
to me any dietin?ýtion between this Bill and
the letters of marque which were issued
in former days by the etates of Europe,
permitting privateering? The province of
Ontario je protesting against parliament
granting such rights as are asked -by the-se
promoters. Yet, in defiance of the public
sentiment and of the written proteste
lo.dged with this government by the province of Ontario, we are to issue this leg-islation as letters of marque permitting these
promoters Vo go into the province of Ontario and to seize the private and public
rights of that province. 1 say it is revoiting to common sense and revolting Vo one's
sense oi justice. If there has been one
principle which has been maintained in al
its integ-rity in the Britishi Dominions from

MAY 15, 1909
almost time immemarial, it is the protection
ta whicli private rights are entitled. Until
recently men believed that if tliey owned
a property they were entitled to hold it
and to inake what disposition. of it they
chose. Until recently provincial governments believed that if they owned certain
rights in the publie domain, they had a
riglit te promulgate a policy as ta the development of those natural resources and
rights, and ta have them maintained in al
their integrity. But friends ai this government, apparently with impunity, think they
have the right to corne ta parliament aind
ta enlist the service af the machinery of
'the federal government in 'giving thern
extraordinary powers of privateering over
the public domain. Against this principle.
hon. gentlemen, 1 protest, and I move that
this Bill be not now read a third time,
'but that it be amended bv striking out
section 17 ai the Bill. Will hon. "-'.tlemen pardon me if 1 make another remark'
A letter has been written uvy the Department of JTustice, and I omitted te point it
ouit, taking objection ta subsection 6 af
section 17, in which it states:
6. The said expropriation powers éhail not
be exercised as ta any dams or storage now
existing, or anv dams or other works for
storage (or eny storage> thereafter craated,
with which such dams or warks for storage
might interfere.
That appears ta be unintelligible. The
Minister ai Justice wrote a letter ta the
representatives of certain lumber campanies operating upon Pigeon river.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-One
pany.

lumber com-

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Well, one Juinber company. It was read before the committee last night, in which it was stated
that the promoter ai the Bill, Mr. Conmee, had agreed ta an amendment ai this
section ta makze it intelligible. The motion was maved in cammittee last niglit,
but was not carried. Far the purpose ai
properly amending that subsection (6),
which must, in my judgment, lead ta litigation, I therciare, instead ai nioving ta
strike out sectian (17) would move that
the Bill be not naw read a third time but
that it be amended by striking aut the
last ten wards ai subsectian <6) of section
(17).

Hon. Mr. POWER-I rise to a question
ai order. One ai the rules of our House
pravides that no amendment can be moved
te the third reading ai a private Bill, unless notice lias been given. The han. gentleman can move the six month's hoist
but lie cannot move to amend a clause in
the Bfi without notice.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--I was
under thie impresaion tliat tlie rules affecting thua Bi.u had ail been suspended.
Hon. Mr. POWER-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I may
be in error, but my impressiuin was that
the motion ai the hon. gentleman from
Killarney was to suspend ail rules affecting the passage ai this and another Bill.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I did not make the
motion witli regard ta this Bill; it was My
hon. friend. from Portage la Prairie.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Well,
it does nat affect the fact.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Thie rules tliat were
asked te be suspended were specified in
tlie motion. I did not move ta suspend
any rule whicli would prevent an amendmient being made on the third reading.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
I stand corrected. I certainly waa under
the impression that all rules affecting the
passage oi tliis Bill liad been suspended.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If my lion.
friend's contention is right, thiat tlis cannot be doue I can do this: Rule <130) lias
not been suspended; it reads as follows:
'No important amendment may be proposed
ta any private Bill in a Committee af tlie
Whole or at the third reading af the Bill unless notice of the samie -- allliave b-eu giveu
h
on a previous day.
That has not been suspended, and, consequently, I have the riglit ta give that
notice, and I accardingly give notice naw.
Han. Mr. POWER-The hon, gentleman
should liave given it before.
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-I couhd not give
it before the third reading was called.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-With the permission ai the Hause, I move the rule 130 be
suspended as were the other ruies.

b84

SENATE

The SPEAKER-The hion, gentleman
'will observe that there is a motion before
the House, and exception is taken to that,
as ta whether it is in order or nlot. You
cannot taiçe up another subject at the same
time.

it was out of order. I arn not so sure
whether the real technical construction of
the rule xnight not be enforced, but, as a
matter of justice ta those who oppose a
certain.clquse in the Bill, they should be
allowed to put the amendment on record.

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I submit that thii
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Il the hion. gentleman withdraws his motion I will be in is one of the cases where a principle carrnes
order te move the lurther suspension of with it aIl its accessories. By the mules of
the MHouse, when the Bill cornes from. a
all miles concerninq this Bill.
committee it cannat be submitted for its
Hon. Mr. POWER-The House wil] neot third reading unleas a clear day interbe green enough to accept that
venes between the reporting of the Bl!
Hon. Mr. YOU'NG-There is a point o! and the third reading. That rule haF been
order x'aised, jnasmuch as rule 130 was suspended, and the suspension of the mule
nat suspended in regard to this Bill, carnies with it the suspension of the accesthat the hon, leader of the opposition, ta sory rule.
be in order, should have given notice yes.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I withdraw the questerday, which hie had a perfect right to do, tion of order.
that hie intended moving a certain amendThe SPEAKER-I understand there is
ment ta the Bill.
no question of order before the Chair; anyHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I could not tili thing said on that line
je now withdrawn.
the report was brought in.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELL-I
The SPEAKER-The motion before the frankly admit that I have
no expectation
House is for the third reading of the Bill. that the amendment
will be carrîed. NeyerAn amendment has been moved to that. theless, feeling
strangly as I do on this
Exception is taken to that motion that the question I shall occupy
the time of the
amendment cannot be entertained because Senate for
a hitie while in order that I
notice has not been given.
mnay p]ace my views on record. To some
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You must flot extent those views are in accord with those,
overlook the fact that the report bas.iust cf the mover of the resolution. My hion.
friend has desît pretty ful]y with the quesbeen brought in, and has been
laid
table; consequently the one day's on the' tion of the po]icy of the province o! Onlnotic'
tario. There are gentlemen. who have opincould not bie given.
ions, I have no doubt quite as honest as
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thel my own, but their policy je not in accord
leader of the opposition could not possibly with the general intereet o! either the proknow in what shape the Bill woul be re- vince or of the Dominion. Froim that rolicv
ported from the committee. The Bui has I must. beg leave te diffcr.
It is well
been returned to the House, still contain- known that the powers sought by this Bill
ing the objectionable clause. The mover nre o! sucli a character as to interfere w
vith
of the amendment could not
by any possi- th'- ri-ghts af the province. We all remembility have known whether it would be ber that when this question was beforc the
necessary to move an amendment at the Senate a year Rga, the position that -was
third reading until hie heard that report. taken by the province of Ontario w'hioh
That is the point which should be con- was then in session. The premier moved
sidered by the Speaker in giving his deci- a somewhat strong resolution upon the
sion. If notice of the third reading had question of provincial rights; and the prinibeen given yesterday, and the mover of ciple involved in that resolution was acthe present resolution had fai]ed ta give cepted bv every meinber of the legfislature
notice of his amendment, the Speaker o! the province o! Ontario. 1 have under
would have had no option but to decide that, miv hand the resolution moved by the Hon.
Hon. M-r. POIRIER.

MNAY 15, 190
Tii. Hon. A. G. McRay's amendment was
Mr. McKay, then the leader of the opposiequally .emphatic on disputed points as to
tion in the Ontario House, %vho concurred juriediction.
so far as the principle wss involved, in
That question, I believe, is stîll under the
the resolution moved by Premier MWbitney,
consideration not only. of thie province of
and I shall take the liberty of reading the
W'ut a.lso of the sieter province of
amendment which was moved by Mr. Me- Ontario,
Quebec, which every member of the commitKay. So strong was the feeling throughout
-tee knows has taken an equally strong
the province against the interference inx
ground and has entered an equally strong
the manner proposed, with the rights of protest
against the
of the federal govthe province that both parties united in ernment in grantingactionpowers asked for in
the
a general condemnation of the action
the legialation now before the House, and
which was being taken by the federal paras has been suggested. while the governliament, and Mr. MeKay, supported by ment of Ontario is at the present moment
every member of the legisiature, nxoved an controlled by the Conservative party, and.
amendment to the resolution condemni ng the province of Quebec is controlled and
the action taken by the Dominion Parlia- governed by the Liberal party, showing the
The statement lie made was re- unanunity there is in ail parties in the
ment.
ported as follows:
different provinces from the Pacifie to the
Mr. MeKay foresaw- difficulties ini the way
of the Act. If municipalities lied acquired
vested rights under the agreements referred
to, the Bill woud wipe them out. Tii. Houa.
but confiscating.
would net b.e%islating,
and4 thus 1 oing b.yend their powers. It was
giving a gangerous power to the lieutenant
governor.
I may as well admit that the Bull before
the House is flot as objectionable as was
the Bill to which the local legialature of
Sa
Ontario was referring at the time.
strong has the feeling grown since, that
we find the lending journals in Ontario,
on both aides of politics, united in the
condemnation of what is being don. at the
present moment by parliament. It may
b. conwidered strange that one .occupying
the position that I do and the party to
which 1 belong should be quoting from the
leading Liberal paper in opposition to
1 franly admit that
this measure.
there are sonie lucid moments in the
mind of the editor -even of the Toronto 'Globe.' and upon this occasion
I amn quite iii accord with the sentiments which lie uttered. On the Ist of
April, 1908, referring to the aetion of the
Ontario government, a leading editorial wifl
be found , part of which reads as follows:
The Premiier's resolution condemned this
enieroacliment iii the strongest terms. and
cited aitier federal encroachments on provincial jurisdiction. but was overruled by extravagant partisan reflection.
Then lie goes on to refer to the action
of the leader of the opposition in the Ontario leg-islature and says:

Atlantic in protesting against the interference with what is legitimately, and they
believe constitutionally provincial righta.
Speaking then on the duty of the Liberal
party and their history, the ' Globe ' goes
on to say:
The Lihera1s have -a generation of fightinz
to their credit in opposing federal encroachment on provincial authority. And when
tbey fought for territory and rights agrainst
the. party of centralization they Met nOt 0111Y
the. enerny at Ottawa, but opponents in the
province, who put party abore ail consid'erations of public advantage. Both Hon. A. G.
MacKay and Hon. Richard Harcourt pointed
out that the Bill was promoted by a private
meier of the Senste, was in no sens. a
goverament measure, and was eppoeed by
preminent Liberal senators. Tiie situation
at Ottawa and' the solid opposition of both
parties in Ontario should insure the safety
O! the province against the. threatened aggression.
W. find also as late as the Iat April, the
organ o! the. Liberai party in this province
published a leading editorial which is so0
pertinent to the question at issue that I
shial take the liberty of reading the most
of it. The ' Globe ' says:
Althongh the legizlature divided on Premier Whitney's resolution and Hon. A. G.
MacKay's amendînxnt condemnîng the pro-

posed encroaciiment on provincial rights, it
wa not through any weakening on the principle or thie special issue, but hecause escli
was eager to lead in taking the strongest possible attitude. Tiie Conservatives in the.
legisiature have a bad reputation to live
down, and consequently the Premier waa unusually sensitive as to criticism. H. was
eager to shiow that he had moved in opposing
tii. objectionable Bihl when its introduction

in the. Dominion Senate was announced and
before the generni cendemnation b! the. LiliThe. measure proposes to enfran-

eral press.

SENATE

chise a company to expropriate land and
water-powers ini the Thunder bay district,
and is clearly an encroacliment on the rights
of the province. It also gives authority for
the carrying on of various local industries
and entel-prises naturally under provincial
jurisdiction. A small part of the enterprise
enfranchised by the Bill is on the Pigeon
river, the international boundary, axid that
seems to be the excuse for an attempted encroachment on provincial rights.
The
renrs
resclution condemned this
ercment in the strongest ternis, ankd
cited other federal encroachments on provilieial jurisdiction, but was overloaded with extravagant partisan reflections. HIon. A. G.
MacKay's arnendment was equally empliatie,
but cited the struggle cf previous Ontario
governments against similar aggression. The
ansendment also contained a valuable suggestion for a conference between the Dominion and the provinces wîth a view to oettling
dîsputed points as to jurisdiction.

te control the resources cf the United
States in streams and water-powers was
that ne company or individuai should be
permitted te hold in perpetuity or for any
length ef time the water-powers cf the republic. »These who know anything cf Mr.
Roosevelt's character know that he neyer
minces matters when he has any publie
expression te make. He said, speaking cf
the application cf these water-powers te thse

Therefore the policy cf the gevernment
in connection with this question was concurred in by all parties ini the 1egislature,
1 may be told that this occurred when an.
other Bill was under consideration, and
that the present Bill does net centain the
saine objectionable clauses. 1 have ahready admitted that fact, but this Bill does
centain clauses which give the pcwer cf
expropriation over lands cf the government as well as cf private lands. If tisa
principle cf expropriation be right, why is
the company excluded frcmn the power cf
expr~opriation on the Nipigon river? The
Nipigon is over 150 miles frcmn the Pigeon
river, and is an exclusivehy provincial
stream. The company is given ne power
of expropriation on that river, but. is given
the right te exprepriate on the Pigeon
river which is on the international bouridary. I see ne reason why this distinction
should be made. The property on the
north side cf the Pigeon river is in the province cf Ontario and just as coxnphetely
under the control of the provincial authorities as the property along the Nipigon
river. We ail know that the constitution
gives te each province the property on
the banks of rivers, and te the centre of
the river, ail the varied i-ights pertaining thereto. Let us compare the policy
cf the neighbouring country with that cf
our own; we find that they are identical.
I read last night an extract from a dehiverance made by the late president of the United States. I pointed out that the pelicy
laid down by Mr. Roosevelt in reference to
the granting cf powers to private parties
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

pcwer a controlling factor in transportation,

generating cf ehectricity:
The peophe are threatened by a monopohy
far more powerful, because in far dloser

toucli with their domestic and industrial life.
than anything known te our experience. Â
single generation wilh see the exhaustion of
our natural r»sources of cil and gas, and
such a rise in the price of coal as wihl make
the prices of electrically-transmitted waterin manufacturing and in household lighting
and heating.
He hooked forward te the time when the

coal and cil resources cf the republic would
be exhausted, and the peophe weuld have
te rely upon electricity for light, heat and

power.

Hence hie pointed out te has fel-

low citizens the necessity of the

country

keeping possession and control cf the waterpewers. If that is thse case in the United
States, which, bas net half the water-power
that this country possesses, how mucis more
important is it that we should reserve our
rigaht in and control cf our great waterp3wers in the interest cf future generatiens?
Mr. Roosevelt warns his fellowcountrymen that:
A pcwerful trust planned to control, thse
water-power cf the country. A group cf
cnpitalists fore6aw that as the coal areas became exhausted these liquid sources of motive
enlergy would have enormous value. They,
therefore, began the work cf organizinz te
secure control. President Taft lias now taken
up the question. The geologioal survey has
been instructed te ascertain the extent cf the
national heritage in water-powers. If thse
administration finds that it lacks full control
of the situation, it wihh ask congress for the
neessary additionah. authority.
That is the policy of our neighbours.
What are we doing? There may be no
wvwerful combination in this country te get
,.ssession of our water-powers, but when
*cu look at this Bill and at the namnes ef
mne incorporators, you find among them
some cf the wealthiest citizens of the
-nited States acting- in conjuniction with
'hose in Canada for the purpose of getting
control not only cf intern.ational strnams,

MAY 15, 1909

but of powers on rivers, like the Nipigon,
*which are wholly within the Dominion.
The Nipigon is a considerable river which
flows from Lake Nipigon into Lake Bup.erior. Its tributaries rise at the. height
%! ]and north of Lake Nipigon, in the
country through which the National Transcontinental Bailway is ta run. 8o that the
abject is that 'this is the initiatory step
'to get control of all the powers for the
purpose of enrichipg tbis combination at
the expense of the country. If the policy
of the United States and of Canada be o!
a like eharacter, it should be for th. sole
purpose -of preserving the wealth cf the
country for the benefit cf the people. Even
if we had the power-and I presumne i-e
have just nai--to enact certain partions
of this Bill, is il a policy that the Dominion shauld adopt and that the people of the
Dominion should support? It is not a
policy that is approved by either party
in the province from which I corne. Il
la our bounden duty to preserve the wealth
of this country for the people as a whole,
-and not hand it over to privaI. corporations, by which ln th. future, perhaps not
at the presenî moment, il may be control.d ta such an extent as la affect materially th, intereat cf th. cauntry financially, politically and natianally. These are
th, vifews I hold upan Ihis question and
the reasons why I propose to vote for this
motion for the purpase of putting myseif
upon record.
There is s.nother point againat this Bill
which, when this amendrnent is defeated,
i-e il
present. I do net know thal I
need readf the letler from the Minister cf
Justice upon that question until il came3
before parlisment. Hai-ever, in order ta
avoid wearying the House with any further remarks upan this subject 1 will cernplet. i-bat I have ta say naw. The question was asked i-bat the meaning of certain words in the Bill i-s.
The chairman, whom we ail know is aomewhaî cf
an astule and critical lai-yer, the hon.
gentleman from De Salaberry, asked the
gentleman i-ho was supporting this Bill,
and i-ha ias trying to convince the cammittee cf its canstitutionality sa fan as
the Dominion is concerned, what was the
meaning of subsection 6 of clause 17, which
is as follova:

6. The said expropriation powers shail not
be exercised as to any dam" or storage now
existing, or any dame or other works for
storage (or any storage) hereafter ores ted,
with whioh such dams or works for storage
might interfere.
The chairman very pertinently asked
the question 'What does that mean?' Mfr.
Carveli, who wau aupporting tbis Bill and
assisting ini its explanation, frankly said
'I do not know,' and the general impression was ' nor does anybody else.' -Upon
this point the Minister of Justice wrte to
Mfr. Harold Fisher who represented one of
the lumber companies affected by this Bill,
as follows:
The Pigeon River Lumber Company mailsa at
Port Arthur, Ont.
Grand Ra.pids, Wis., March 27, 1909.
Mr. Haroid Fisher,
Ottawa, Ont.
Dear Sir,-We have your favour of the 24th
inst., relative to Mfr. Conmee's Bill and in
caue the Bill ie likely to paSs and if the
clause propoeed is insertedl as mentioned in
your latter, it will be satisfactory to us.
With regard to improvements we have on
the Pigeon river, the Ârrow river and TJributaries Slide and Boom Company have expended $M6,36016 in improvements and the
Pigeon River Improvement 81ide and Boom
Company have inveeted $40AU.62 as per state>ment of October 31, 1908, sent from our Port
Arthur office.
.One of the dams i-as damaged by 6ire last
fanl and this js now li3ing rebuilt and the
fs.U and this is nai- being rebuiit and the
expense will be eeveral thou3and dollars. We
dition ta other improvements, cleaning
streame, wing dams, &c., blasting out rocks
from the rapids. The total expensee of improving the Pigeon river and Arroi- river,
if figured up this spning, would b. about
tours truly,
(Sfigned)
TillE PIGEON RIVER LUi1MBER 00.
D. J. AiRPIN.
cOPY.
Ottawa, May il, 1908.
-Dear Gir,-I have your letter of the iOth
înst. with regard to the clause in which you
are interested in the Ontario and Michigan
Power Company's Bill.
:I agree that this clause as adopted seMa
unintelligible. I have to-day pointed this
out ta Mr. Conmee telling him that there
aught to b. no objection ta it being worded
as to carry out the intention end he is willing ta have the last lino etruok ont altogether, and iby the words following:
,.By any persan or company on the Pigeon
river.'
6o that it will read:
'The eaid expropriation pai-ers shall not
be exercised as ta eny dame<or) for storage
now existing, or any dams or other work

SENATE
fer storage i(or any storage) hereafter created
by any person or oompany on the Pigeon
river.'y
The. powers conferred by the Bill on the
Ontario and Michigan Company de net extend, as I understand it, te any tributaries
of the Pigeon, se that the clause ae above
worded would seem te prgtect from expropriation any storage workas cf your Company
ncw existing or which may hereafter be
bult.
Mr. Cenmee oalled attention te the fact
that the word 'or,' in the second lineocf the
clause, where it firet occurs in the clause,
ought: te b. ' for.!
I remain. yours faithfufly,
(Sgd.> A. B. ÂYLESWORTH.
Harold Fisher, Esq.,
Central Chambers, Ottawa.
Note.-This is not correct and I se advised
the mînister. The Bill is richtin this respect. The word should be 'or' not 'fer.'
H. F.
Netwithstanding the declaratien of the
Minister of Justice that Mr. Çonrnee, who
was premoting this Bill, and I presume
must have an intereat in it, was willing
te have these ebjectionable iwerds atruck
eut, meaning as they did something which
neither the Minister of Juatice, the chairman of the ccmmittee, nor the gentlemran
who were supperting the measure ceuld
understand, what possible objection can
there be te striking eut the clause? The
objection urged was 'Oh, if yeu amend the
Bill it will be defeated, because we wiil
net have time te send it back te the Cemmens fer apprevai and ratification.'
If
that is te be the principle that is te guide
the legisiation of the. Senate, the sooner
the Senate is abolished the better, because
here Nve have at this late heur cf the session probably seme cf the most important
mensures that have been present-ed te parliament fer years past, and a large number
cf other Bis cf net so great importance,
presented te-day. We get over a difficuity
with Bills that are net very contentieus by
suspending aIl the rules fer the time being,
and if we are te lay down the principle
that an important Bill affecting important
interests in the country is net te he deait
with, altheugli it contains rîdiculeus pro.
visions which are net understoed, and that
ne one is capable cf explaining, the sooner
the Senate ceases te legisiate upen questiens the better, or we had better adopt a
new poiicy and when we corne te the close
of the session suspend all the miles that
guide the deliberatiens of the Senate. ind
lion. Sir MA,--CKENZIE BOWELL.

pass ail the Bis without the slighteat consideration. There is no use of our wasting time in discuasing measures and pointing out absurdities which these BUis contain, or pointing out the injuries which
may arise te the community by their passage without amendment, if the Senate iis
te be muzzied by a policy of that kind. 1
say it respectfully, that it is net creditable
te the Senate. I hope I arn net touching
anybody's peculiar sensibilities when Î
say so. I find that men whc' have been in
this Senate 20 or 30 years, experienced
mien, when they want to get in objectionable clauses in a Bill, are ready te cal!
eut, 'Oh you wilI kili the Bill if you
amend it.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-WVhat
surprised me more-I should net say that,
because it would be net truthful, as far
as my opinion is ocncerned, if I were te
say that I was surprised at the 'hear,
hear ' and approvai cf what I said by the
lion. gentleman who has juat expre8sed hlmself, because if there is any senator in
this House-and ta his credit I say itwho is more particular in pointing out the
littie inequalities or peculiarities, or any
grammatical blunder, it is the hion. gentleman who called eut «'hear, hear.' It is
eue of his characteristics; it is a quality
that very few of us possess, and net only
here but in ether places, in discussing the
merits and demerits cf different members
cf this House, I have always peinted te
that hion., gentleman as an exemplary member cf the Senate in this particular. Soe
will say that hie is pernickety; in Feme
cases it rnay be so, but it is a safeguard
for our legislation on ail measures breughlt
before us, and I rnust express some lîttie
surprise that hie should take a different
position on the question new before the
House. I apologize for having occupied the
time of the House, but xny excuse is, as
1 indicated when I rose te rny feet, that I
desire te put my views fully upon record
in order 'that hereafter if the question
cornes up when I get a littie eider, sorne
tWenty or thirty years hence, that I can
point to the position 1 arn nowv taking. I
have ne doubt that I shall continue, as I

MNAY lài, 190)9
arn soinewhat consevative in my opinions, tion as ta expropriation raised then, nor
to hold the saine opinion as long as I amn was there any objection taken to the jurisin political life.
diction of parliament ta pass the Bill,
although the situation of the property wvas
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I shall not entirely within the .province of Ontario.
trouble the House at any great length; In thiis case, the property is partiy within
stili some observations have ibeen made by the province of Ontario and partly on the
the leader of the opposition and by the boundary; snd in the other case the Welhon. memnber from Hastings should not land river is entirely a river within the
pasa unchallenged.
When this Bill waq province of Ontario. and parliament then
submaitted to the House last year, it wai saw fit ta do what it did, to pass thp. Bill
submitted in such form that did not meet with powers sornewhat similar ta.those conivith my approval, and w~hen it was re- tained in this Bill, aithough flot ao comjected by the Committee on Railways, prehensive, and the courts, as I have said,
Canais and Harbours last year. I thought on an appeal ta the Privy Concil, mainthe committee had acted within its right. tained that that Bll was within the cornThe Bill as submitted this year, however, î>etence of parliament. Bo that the
riglit
has Ïbeen shorn, to my mmnd, of ail its as to expropration af lands, and as ta the
objectionable features; in iset, upon every righlt of par]iament to incorporate a comscore to which objection could be taken pany with these powers, has already been
last year, I think the House may rest con- scttled in the highest court ai the land.
tent-I at ail events have assured myseif It xnay be possible that the provincial govby very careful study and exainination of erniment has concurrent jursidiction; it
the Bill that I can support it as it rnay be possible within certain limitations
is now presented. I rid my conscience that a Bull like this could pass the legisof ail violation of provincial rights, lature of the province of Ontario. I have
and of the other principles which the no doubt with regard ta the Nipigon river
hion. senator frosn Hastings said weïre it could very properly; but as ta the other
s0 dear to the Liberal party, in sup- powers, that is the power ta expropriato
porting this Bill. Perhaps it would be or to develop hydro-electric power on an
better at this stage to confine ourseives to international river, and to sell that power
the exact terras of the amendment o! the or ta export it, is entirely within the jurishion, leader of the opposition. The senator diction of this Houseq The Minister of
from Hastings has gone over the Bill in Justice, speaking in another place on that
its various phases, but perhaps it wilI point, said:
serve our purpode better at this stage to
I think it goes without saying that no
confine ourselves to the amendment. The provincial legislature would have power to
inoprte a oompany, with a right ta do
main objection taken by the leader of the
opposition and by the senator from Hast- the business defined in this Bill.
Everybody muet admit that the opinion
ings is, as regards the expropriation
of the Minister o! Justice should *carry
clause;. first, general expropriation and
weight.
perhaps, secondiy, expropriation of Crown
do not think any one would contend that
lands. This House passed a Bill in 1903, a Iprovincial legisiature had that
power. If
I think, g-iving an electrical company power any one does so contend, I can only say that
it i. entirely contrary te mny opinion of what
ta expropriate upon the Welland river, and
'the British
'in plain
ta generate electricity and to dispose of words, states. North Amnerica Adt,the British
I think that, under
the electricity by sale ta the United Statea; North America Act, no provincial legishature
bas
inoorporate a
and il was then held, and the courts have whosethe power taundertakings are oompany
works and
intendea
since held, as I may show later on if I to extend beyond the limîts of the province.
%vould not weary the House, that the
That is his opinion.
lis opinion is
powers given by the parliament of Canada sustained by the judgment of the Judicial
for the incorporation o! the electrical corn- Committee o! the Privy Council in the case
pany, estaiblished on the Welland river, of the electrical company to. which 1 have
were powers perfectly within the compe- referred that estabhished a plant on the
tence of parlian)ent. There was no objec- Welland river. The opinion of the Min-

SENATE
ister of Justice, sustained by the opinion cf
the Privy Couneil, ought to be conclusive
as te the jurisdiction cf this House.

I

would be as careful, as I think any hon.
member cf this Hause would be, te see
that provincial rights were net encroached
upon.
I agree with the hon. gentleman from
Hastings

who,

perhaps

late

in

the

day,

bas found that the Liberal party was the
party that defended provincial rights. May
1 be perrn&tted te say that at one time ha
was net se strong an advocate of provincial
rights as he is at the present time. Ther.
was a time when we were on opposite
aides, when the Liberal party were battling
for the rights cf Ontario, and for the
boundaries cf Ontario. He held then that
we were wrong, but he new adrnits that
we were right. He bas shifted bis ground;
he is where ha ought te have been thirty
years age. It has taken him ahl that time
to reach bis present exalted position witb
regard te provincial rights. The Premier
of Ontario is the leader in that province cf
the saine party, and the leepard bas not
changed bis spots in that respect, only as
a matter of public convenience. He bas
been forced into this position by the pub.
lic opinion cf Ontario. The premier of
Ontario cornes eut

now as a full-fledged

advocate cf provincial rights. We are glad
that he bas reache'd that cenviction-glàd
in the intereasts of the province cf Ontario,

irrespective of ahi political feeling, that the
premier of the province cf Ontarie stands
to-day where the Liberal party did in 1882,
1883, 1884 and 1885, when we were battling for provincial rigbts and placed thern

in such a position that they shaîl net be
encroacbed upon.

But it doas net rest with

the premier cf Ontario, te advise, instruct
or direct the Liberal party in Canada as
te wbat their duty is on the subject cf previncial rights. We know it well, and hope
te be found faitbful ta it now, even as we
were in the early days cf our history.

te certain organizations. You cannot build
a railway without conferring upon the cernpany expropriation rights. You cannot incorporate a telephone or telegraph cernpany without granting such power. Whatever power is incident to the execution of
a certain work, expropriation is a power
that naturally ought te be conierred upon
the cornpany undertaking the work. Il
this ccrnpany could nlot fufill its functions
without the right of expropriation, then
it is the duty of parliarnent to give it every
power which is incident te that duty. That
is a law as old as the reign of Queen Elizabeth. It is part of the common law of
England, of the United States, and of every
country governed by a constitutional. gevernrnent. Now, the right of expropriation,
against which the premier of the province
of Ontario contends, is a right which the
governrnent of that province has exercised
over and over again. We gave to a cernpany that wanted to develop a water-pewer
on the Kaministiquia river fifteen or twenty years ago preciaely the rights of expropriation which this company seeks. There
was no objection to it on the part of the
Ontario government on that occasion; nor
was any objection taken by the parliarnent
of Canada to the right of expropriation
given Borne eight or nine years ago to the
electrical cempany on the Welland river.
But if the province of Ontario bas such
objection to this House granting rights of
expropriation, is it nlot a rernarkable thing
that in 1906 a Bill went through: the legislaturé ci Ontario giving to the Hydro-EIthis extraordinary
ectric Commission
power:
The commission shall have power te acquire by purchase, lease or btherwise, or
without the consent of the owners thereof
or persans jnterested therein te enter upon,
take and use the lands, work, plant and
property of any company or person owning,
using and developing or operating lands,
water, water privîleges, or works, plant and
machinery for the development of any water
priv~ilege or water-power for the purpose of
generating electrical power or energy or for

There ii a great ado made about tbe ex- the transmission thereof in the province of
Ontario, and ta develop and supply electrical
propriation clause which this Bihl is said power or energy.
ta contain. There was ne objection raised
And in section 12 we find the following:

te the expropriation cf electric power on
tbe Welland river sorne years age. This
Bill does net centain any larger power;
but the expropriation rights are incident
Bon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

Whenever the Lieutenant Governor in
Council shahl authorize thoe commission ta
enter into, take, use and expropriate, the
lands, works, plant, machinery, poles, wires,
and other property and appliances of sny such

MAY 15, 1909
compaIlv oi person, or te take or expropriate
the product of the works of any such company or, person as aforesaid, or any portion
thereof, the commission shall have the powers
and shahl proceed in the like manner as is
ovided in the case or property for
v orks taking lands of the. Minister cf Public
the public uses of t he province of Ontario, and the.
provisions of the Public Wonks Act sail,
mutatis mutandis, agply to the. commieslion
acting under the authority cf the. Lieutenant
Governor in Council in suob behaif.
There you have expropriation powis
given te n commission te take every viaterpower in the province of Ontario under
its control, as a publie utility I admit. It
could take possession of the 'water-powers
at the city of Ottawa, take possession cf
the lands and every particle cf property
that the companies here possess without
saying ' by your leave.'
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-But those landa belong to the province of Ontario, and Ontario la free to do as she pleases with her
ovin property.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I amn
speaking- novi of extending it to the property of private individuals.
Hon. Mr. .POIRIER-Even
then, the
eviner cf the land may give it away or
misapply it. There la a difference between
our giving away the lands cf Ontario, vihich
belon.- te the province, and Ontario giving them away.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-The hon.
gentleman is mistaken even there. They
viere given peower to take possession witheut the consent of the individual, cf everything they wanted fer the purpese cf deve]eping electrical energy. Tint is a swing
cf the pendulum f ar beyond anything contained in this Bill. It la hardly in the
province cf those whe are oppesed te expropriation te quote the action cf the
premier cf Ontarie as an illustration cf
wint is fair and just te the owners cf
private preperty or te the ewners cf viater
privileges.
Following tic thought suggested by my hon. fri'end, it may Ibe said
that tuis is te be donc as a public utility
or ini the public intereat. Here Is a point
which hon. gentlemen do net appear te
notice: This is net an enterprise for the
exclusive benefit cf private individuaha.
This la a public utility. let that -be perfecthy clear-it la property wich is te be

591

taken and exploited, up to a certain extent, no doubt, for the benefit of the oviners.
thereof, but notice the following provision:
12. In case of any dispute or difference as
to the, price te be charged for power or electrical or other energy,. for any of the purposes i. this Act menticned, in use or to be
provided for use upon the Canadian side of
the international boundary, or as to the,
methode of distribution thereof, or as te the,
time within which or as te the. quantityt
b. furnished,- or the conditions upon which
it shall b. furnished for use, such dispute or
différence shail be settled by the, Board of
Railway Commissioners for Canada on the.
application of any user of or applicant for
ovwer, company, or other energy produced
y the electrical or upon the application of
the company.
That is to say, they cannot charge monopoly prices. Their rates are to be subject
te the Railway Commissioners, viho are appointed by the government of Canada for
the protection of public rights in connection with railway, express and telegraph
charges. They are invested with the power
of saying to this company which vie are
chartering to-day: 'You shall not overcharge or impose upon the people.' It is
pracetically a water-power developed in the
public interest; a development of the latent
resources of the province of Ontario in the
public interest, and by a company that i%
prepared te invest $5,000,000 in doing it.
My hon. friends opposite say that
the goverment of Ontario has a policy in regard te water-power development. I admit they have a policy.
We
established that policy fifteen or twenty
years ago. We eaid that no0 vater.
powier should be taken possession of
by anybody without paying a rentai or
royalty to the people of Ontario, and in
that way we protected the public interest.
The present gevernment have gone a littie
further, and now the parliament of Canadaà
is authorizing another company to corne
in and develop still more the latent resources of Ontario, taking up -water-powers
that to-day are running waste without profit
to anybody, putting -their ovin money into
the enterprise, submitting- themselves to
the conditions imposed by the law of thig
country as te the reggulation of rates, and
putting themselves in the hands of parliament entirely. Who la to be hurt by
that? What are they expropriating for
thnt prriose? On the Ninizon river. nothing. On that river there are 250,000 horse-

SENATE
power available. There are six points at company with aur own xnoney for whatwhich electrical energy could be developed. ever water-powvers or land we may consider
On the Nipigon river they are limited to necesaary for the purpose of carrying out
one power, or about one-sixth of the entire aur enterprise. What are w9 going ta do
water-power on the river. Therefore theze on the Pigeon river? We are not exprois no monopoly. On the Pigeon river there priating anything beloxiging ta the provis 34,000 horse-power. On that river they ince of 'Ontario. The province does not
are limited to one power also, and, there- own a yard of the front of the Pigeon river.
fore, there is no manopoly. If the prov- It is private property. They can buy it
ince of Ontario wished to develop the other if the owners will seil, or exprapriate it il
five-sixths of the powera on the Nipigon necessary. But if they do expropriate it
or the Pigeon rivera, the course is open for and estab]ish an electrical industry, are
them. Instead of opposing this -Bill, 1 they free ta do as they please? No. they
think the Ontario gavernment would be « arestill nnder the Bailway Commission
acting- within its duty to see that this coin- and cannot exact excessive pricea. They
pany is given every opportunity to go on. must gccept the terms of the Railway ComWe are developing our powers as fast as mission as ta the prices they may charge.
we can, or taking powers which the pre- Now, these are the powera of expropriaThe
vious government developed, and exercie- tion. What do they expropriate?
ing them, and if there are any powers on Privy Council has aid that a company
the French river or Sturgeori river, or any may exprapriate the Crown lands of a provother river you can get money to develop. ince. The contention of the Ontario govgo on and develop them. It is in the in- ernment, which is endorsed by hon. gentletereat of the province of Ontario that you mien opposite. is that a private campany
should do so. Suppose the company put shauld not he given power by thia p.arlia$5,000,000 into this enterprise, what have ment ta expropriate banda if they are vested
we to show for it? A largeinvestment of in the Crown. The Privy Council has said
capital is an important enterprise, large that the parliament of Canàda has the
purchases of supplies of ail kinds, the em- right ta give powers ta exprapriate Crown
ployment of a great number of people in lands, even -when those lands are held by
manufacturing- paper and pulp and elec- the province. But in thia instance, we are
trical machinery. la this House going ta> flot giving pawer to expropriate Crown
say to thîs camp any with its $5,000,000: bands on Éither the Nipigan or Pigeon
' You cannot place your plant on the Nipi- rivers, but only lands for the transmission
gon river; you cannot buy out any owner of aur wires and the setting up of pales.
of property; you cannet inveat in the prov- That is really expropriating post-holes in
ince of Onta.rio; you must go to the 'city of which ta place pales for the transmission
Toronto and accept terms from the pro- of ebectrie energy, and this House is asked
vincial government, when you have a per- in its might and dignity ta say ta this
fect right ta corne' ta the parliament of $5,000,000 company. You cannot expropriCanada for this privîlege and the parlia- ate a poat-hole.' That is indefensible and
ment o! Canada has been declared to be unworthy of bon. gentlemen opposite.
the authority to gîve you these rîghta.' Those who are interested in the conservaWe would be stultifying ourselves if vie tion of aur resources, in the protection of
did that, lacking in our duty to the prov- our foresta and the develapment o! aur
ince of Ontario if we stayed aur hands one wvater-powers, and who wish ta see this
nmoment and said to the campany: ' You country develap, etand up here and demust flot put your money into this; you liberately say, though we have the power
must accept the terms that you can get ta give thia company the right ta exprosomewhere else; -ie cannot prevent it if priate property for the transmission of electhere is loas of time and the resources of trical energy, they shahl fot have it, though
the countrv remain undeveloped.' Let it they might utibize hundreda of thausands
boe clearly understood we are not granting of horse-power which to-day lie usehess
power ta exprapriate anything- on the Nipi. and undev,,ýoped and may remaLn idie
gon river. We are paving-speaking for the until the crack of doom. The capitalistq
Hon. Mr, ROSS (Middlesex).

593

MAY 15, 1909

behind this enterprise are urgent to corne
into this country, and are ready to cornmence operations as soon as this legisiation
is passed. If there was any violation of
provincial rights involved, I would say,
hestitate rather than venture upon this
project. Inviting though the prospect ii,
I would say to this company, go to
provgo
to the
the right court;
ince of Ontario to get these powers.
But when we have the right to give them
these powers, and when they are wait.
ing for these powers in order to proceed to
business, I think we should flot hesitate.
There is another provision in this Bill of
which notice might be taken. Under the
charters given to the electric companies in
the province of Ontario, they 'were allowed
the right of exporting one-half of their electrical power to the United States. I do
not know that that privilege 'would be extended to them in the charters we grant
now. They were given* in the early dayé.
when we were anxious to establiah that inidustry, and we had to accept such terme
as we could make; but under this Bill
they cannot export ;one horse-power of
electricai energy, except under the Electricity Inspection Act of 1907, and under
the Act regarding the expropriation of electricity.
Tlhat is to say, if they dcvelop
30 or 40 or 50 thousand horse-power, that
mnust be disposed of in Canada and no
part of it can be exported to the United
States. That is another restriction, making it stili more a public utility and na<ing it stili more agreeable for us to accept
it. Let me read a remark made by the
leader of the opposition in the other House
on an important point. The objection
made here and in the other House to this
Bill is, that it is a monopoly. Mr. R. L.
Borden said, when the Bill -%as under
consideration:

way Commission. How can there be a
monopoly? It is restraîned from exportation by the Electricity Act. How can it be
a rnonopoly? There are 200,000 horse-power
lef t on the Nipigon river and 50,000 on the
Pigeon river which. they are not taking,
and how can it be a monopoly? Therefore, on the statement of thse leader of thse
opposition in the other House, this Bill
is absolutely satisfactory and should meet
I amn sorry I cannot
with our 'approval.
argue the constitutional phase ini tise way
I intended, I will have to content myseif
with- viat I have said.

If rny hon. friend from Thunder Bay and
Rainy River can conv~ince me that the Bill
is not intended in aay way to create a monopoly, then I think his Bill in every respect
is absolutely reasonable.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
a short amendment I desire to move, not
with any intention of making a speech,
I move .the adjournment of the debate to
the next sitting of the House.

I have shown clearly it is not a monopoly, that there are five other powers on
the Nipigon, and five on the Pigeon river.
HqwV can there be a monopoly? The prices
to be charged are controlled by the Rail-

The House divided on tise amendmnent,
which was lost on the following division:
Contents:The Honourable Messieurs
Lougheed,
Baker,
McLaren,
Bolduc,
Perney,
Boucherville, de
Wood.-8.
Bowel
(Sir Mackenzie,
Non-Contents:
The Honourable Messieurs
Beleourt,
Bostock,
Campbell,
Cartwri ht
(Sir ichard),
Chevrier,
Cox,
Davis,
DeVeber,
Douglas,
Fiset.
(3vdbout,
Jaffray,

Power,
Ratz,
Robertson,
Rosel (Halifax),
Ros% (Middle-ex),
bcott,
Talbot,.Tbompson,
Watson,
Yeo
Yo ng.-25.

Hlon. Mr. POIRIER-Wlith the permisMion of the House I beg leave to have my
name cancelied, as I was paired with the
Hon. Mr. Mitchell, and, not rememberine
niy pair, I unwittingly broke my piedge.

Tise motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned at one p.m. until
three p.m. this afternoon.

'P.EVISrD ET)TTION

SENATE
SEOOND SITTING.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock.
Routine proceedings.
ONTARIO

AN'D MICHIGAN
COMPANY BILL.

POWER

TIRD READING.
The order of the day being called:
Resuminq the debate on the motion for the
third reading cf Bill (No. 34) An Act te incorporate the Ontario and Michigan Power
Company, and Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell'a
motion in amendment.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
amendmient is very simple. In reading the
5th subsection of section 17, we find that
it deals exclusively with expropriation
The clause reads:
5. The expropriation powers hereby conferred upon he company shail not be exerciaed by it until the plans rnentioned in section 16 cf this Act have received the approval
therein provided for; and with respect to any
land upon the Nipigon river shail not b.
exereised, exoept as to such lande as may.b.
purposes cf its
reqired for theshall not apply totransmission
any waterlioenly, and
powers upon the Nipigon river.
That is the clause as it stands in the
Bull before us. I propose ta strike ont the
word 'river' in the 19th line cf this clause
and insert 'and Pigeon river ' and make
At rend 'And with respect to any land upon
the Nipigon and Pigeon rivers,' &c. This
i. for the purpose cf placing the cornpany
ini precisely the saine position when dealing with provincial or prîvate lands on the
Pigeon river, as is provided in reference to
the properties cf the government or private
property on the Nipigon river. I strike
eut the word ' river' and substitute therefor the word 'rivers' s0 that it will apply
ta both.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Before his honour
puts the question, I suggest that the hon.
gentleman should move for the suspension
cf the l3Oth rule.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I move
the suspension of that rule.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In seconding the
amendment proposed by my hion. friend
from Hastings, I do net propose te occupy
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

the tiine of the House at any length, except to make a few observations with reference to the impression left upon the
House by my hon. friend fromn Middlesex,
in speaking upon the motion this morning.
The impression seems to exist in the
niinds of some hon, gentlemen that there
has been an uncompromising opposition te'
the exercise of any jurisdiction of this
parliament with reference te this Bill. It
seems to me that the constitutional question is not necessarily involved in the diacussion of this matter in the different
phases which. it may present to one's mind.
If this cempany had made application to
parliament for the exerciae of the jurisdiction which mnanifestly belongs to this parliament and had omitted the clause respeeting expropriation, there could be no
possible objection to the exercise of the
powers of the Dominion parliament with
reference to the incorporation of this cornpany. But to say that parliament must necassarily exercise its jurisdiction in a question
cf this kind, to give practically the extraordinary powers which are vested in
parliament because of that application, 19
untenable, snd, it seems to me, not in the
public interest. My hon. friend fromn Middlesex laid considera:ble stress upon the
fact that no expropriation powers were asked
upon the Nipigon river, and it was pointed
out that it was desirable to develop certain water-powers on that river. If this
application had been confined to granting
powers of expropriation for transmission
or pole lines alone, I 'do not thin< that parliament would have raised any serious
objection te such application. Had the province not protested it, it would have appealed to the minds of many hon. gentlemen that if private individuals owned
water-pewers upon the Nipigon river, it
would net be an extraordinary exercise
of the jurisdiction of parliament that they
should assist private parties in developing and carrying to a successful conclusion and undertaking of this nature in the
absence of protest. But this Bill goes far
beyond that. This Bill asks that the company be permitted to expropriate 'waterpowers upon the Pigeon river, and the con1
tention is urged that it became necessarý
for the company to appeal to this parliament to secure such powers with a view

MAY 15, 1909
cf carrying out the enterprise which they
had in view. I point out the tact, wi.th
which every gentleman is tamiliar, that the
one achemne for the deveiopment of waterpower upon the Pigeon river in no way
seems ta.' be germane ta the acquiring ef
water-power by expropriation upon the
Nipigan river, and the development cf that
scheme. As I understand'it, the one river
is at a distance of some sixty or seventy
miles from the other.

595

leave the matter ta be deait with by the legislature of Ontario, a province that is s0 materially intereated.
The Niagara river is both an internation'ii
and a navigable strean, yet the Canadian
Nia gara Power Company was incorporated by
the 1e&islare of Ontario and derived ail its
powers from that body. The promoters of
that company considered very carefully the
question of jurisdiction and came ta the conclusion at the time that the power was vested
in the province of Ontario to incorporate the
oompany and ta invest them. with t he powers
they now exercise.

The circumctanoes
a stream
an interHan. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is national etream, it that submitted, isgives the
is
over one hundred miles.
parliament cf Canada ne juriadiction over the
stream. nor dos it deprive the province of its
Hon. M.Sr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend juriaiction; neither the Dominion nor the
province has complete jurisdiction for ail purtram Hastings says that iA is over one poe s over .8uch a stream, and that of the
liundred.
It cannot be seriously enter- Dminion is no greater than that cf the
except. indeed, possibly with
tained that the undertaking ut this com- province,it. Âltheugh a river may be reference te
interpany as iL was primarily was ta develop national it still remains, so far as it is Canadian, a part of the province through which
the interests Which the promoters may at
the present time have upan the Nipigon flows. and snbject ta the jurisdiction of that
province.
river, and I do not think that' any hon.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That campany does
gentleman will be seriously affected by the
net propose ta dam the river.
statement made by the promoters that they
propose exporting electrical energy tram
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That company
the Pigeon river, and that the Bill, there- lias ail the powers that this company asked
fore, becomes one peculiarly within the ex- for, and, as 1 ianderstand, is one of the
clusive jurisdiction of the parliament cf Iarest operating companies in exparting
Canada. Where will these gentlemen ex- power that we have in Canada. I would
pert their electrical energyP We cannot reter also to the Minnesota Power Comfor a moment conceive that it is their in-. pany. That company obtained legisiation
tention te export it acroas Lake Superior, tram the province of Ontario-obtained al
or inta the wilds cf Minnesota. It appeais its powers of expropriation trom what is
ta niy mind that this was simpiy prejectei termed an international stream, and under
into the Bihl for the purpose of establish- these powers cf expropriation carried out
ing somne ground" ta invoke the power of its enterprise. It came to this parliament,
parliament and get more extraordinary not ta ratify its powers of expropriation or
rights than they couid have obtained from ta secure powers such as are incorporated
the province. Those gentleman cauld have in this Bill, but ta secure more favourabie
got that power tram the Ontario govern- fin ancial powers than couid be obtained.
ment. I would direct the attention et the tram the legisiature of Ontario.
Hou se to what is apparently a state paper
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-With reference to
laid upon the table et the Hanse of Commens during the discussion on this Bill. the two companies mentioned, does my hion.
Pnd being a communication tram the At- triend know if the works extended across
tarnéy General of Ontaria ta the Minister the stream from one aide ta the ether?
of Finance. In it he makes the statements:
Han. Mr. WATSON-No.
Even if we asqume for the moment the jurisHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They transmit
diction of the parliament cf CAnada to incarcompany we neverthele'q cantend the power.
porate this
that it bas not an exclusive jurisdiction, and
that it ic aiea compentent fer the legislature
cf Ontario ta deal with thp matter. and thit
the campany being one with local obiectq. snd

Hon. Mr. WATSON-There is ne dam.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They have as
prepasing ta deai with inatters which affect much poker as this company is given.
the property of the provinces -of Ontario. the This campany is net empowered ta build
parliament of Canada shauid etay its band and
381

SENATE
a dam across an international stream. The
Dominion parlianient could not give any
such power. The company must get complementary powers from the United States
authorities. However, let us assume for a
moment that the constitutional question
ia as involv'ed as that whichbhas been presented for our consideration. Does it fol.
loi~ that ini view of the protest of the province, when that proteat cornes from the governiment of the province, that pariament
must exercise its jurisdiction to the extreme limit because of an application?
Does it follow that parliarnent should not
give proper consideration to the representations made by a province upon
so important a question as this, and
particulari'y when that protest is reinforced by a protest f rom the executive of
the province ci Quebec? We have been
discussing for the last two or three sessions
the origin and value of the Senate as a
deliberative and legisiative body, as a body
in which the provinces of Canada inay impose the utmost reliance as to the protection of their constitutional rights, and 1
think every speech o! menit that has been
made upon this very important question
bas laid very considerable emphasis on
this censideration: That the origin very
largely of the Senate lay in the suggestions
of the fathers of confederation at the time
our constitution was adopted; that it became necessary for the protection of the
rights of the provinces as against the
natural aggression of the popular body in
the Gommons that the Senate should be
calied into existence for the purpose of
protecting- the rights of the variens provinces in the confederation. That is a necognized pninciple; it i3 fundamental, and
in addition to that it is possessed of a
potentiality which bas neyer been denied."
which is a necessany part and parcel of our
parliamentary system; yet when a large
question of this kind is presented for the
consideration of the Senate, littie or no
attention is given to it. No matter how
enthusiastic hion. gentlemen may have beexi
te pretect the rights of the federal parliament in exercising its jurisdiction in f+b,
and kcindred questions, yet it cannot be
seriously contended that we have given
sufficient consideration to the protests
raised on an important constitutional riLht
lion.

!Nr. LOUGITEED.

by the two great provinces of Ontario and
Quebec. In this class of legisiation, therefore, we should pause and not exencise tha
constitutional strength o! which we are
possessed, but rather the constitutional discretion which should chanactenize the deliberations of the 8enate and flot the
exercise of its power and strength. It is
not for the strong man te boast of his
strength or to exercise his streneth on
every occasion; it is for him to consider
whether he cannot best use it to deal justly
with those who are weaker than himself.
Now, my lion. friend from Middlesex,
laid no little stress upon the desirability
of exploiting-I will put it that way nather
than developing-our water-powens, and he
pointed eut the policy which had been pursued in the past in granting those waterpowers to private corporations, and dwelt
with considenable eloquence-and it was a
pleasune to hear my hion. friend elaborate
on the subject-the deep interest which the
Liberal party bas always taken in the protection of the rights of the minority. and
particularly that of the provinces. This
is not a question upon which recrimination should be indulged in. It is flot desinable to introduce 'party acrimeny into a
discussion of this kind. It is not a question of wbat the Liberal party bas done in
tbe past, or wbat tbe Conservative panty
bas done, it is a question of deliberation
for us, not as a political or party body,
but as a patrietic body, as to what is in
tbe best interests cf the entire Dominion,
for the protection of such rights as these
which we are now considering. Wbat -wa s
done by either .party respecting natural
nesources cf this nature twenty years ago
or even te'n yeans ago, is net at all applicable te the situation to-day. The development cf water-powers, and their value ba,;
become a question entînely modern. Only
during the last four or five years has the
importance of this subject obtruded itself
upen the public mind, and what may have
been a geod pelicy ten years ago in regard
te such resources as these, would be a veny
unwise and very defective policy 'te-day. 1
fancy there is not an lion. gentleman in this
Chamber who is net familiar with at least
from haîf a dozen te a dezen men who have
bui]t up within the last four or five years
colossal fortunes in acqininc and exploit-

MAY 15, 1909
ing water-powers in this Dominion, and I
doubt if in any part of Canada there is a
larger group of men wbo have thus profited
than is to be found within -the city of Ottawa. I could point to men to-day who ten
years aga were nlot worth one dollar, who
are millionaires to-day on account of the recognition which has taken place in modern
commercial and industrial ie within the
]ast few years, of the inestimable value
of water-power. My hon. friend from Middlesex boasted of the policy of the Ontario gcvernment, ten or fifteen years âgo,
in giving to the Kaministiquia Companyf
those valuable concessions in the Thunder
Bay district, which have been developed
and which we w'111 concede have resulted
in large organized industries. But spesking of the policy of the Ontario gevernment with reference te Ibis particular company, 1 read te Ibis House an editorial
which appeared ini the Toronto ' Globe'1 f
a week ago, 1 think it was last Monday,
in which that influenlial journal made this
statement regarding that same Kaministiquia power. The editorial reads:
The Ontario government'made a serious
bluader in allowing the Kaministiquia paver
to pass int private hands, and this blunder
ehould not ho repeated by the Dominion parhiantent. There is no, chance now te plead
îgnorance of the importance of water-powers
in connection with te production of electrîc
energy, and nothing is more certain than
that the primary alienation of waterpoweru will hoa subjeet for unavailing regret before many years have passed.
Netwithstanding that strong statement of
the 'Globe ' newspaper on Ibis very quealion, I regret to see that we have my hon.
friend from Toronto (Hon. Mr. Jaffray)
the president cf the ' Globe ' newspaper,
voting in faveur cf alienating Ihoae very
important and natural resources from
either the gevernment cf Canada or the
Ontario government, as the case may be,
and placing them in the hands cf private
parties. 1, therefore, submait with ail due
deference, and particularly te my right
hon. friend, Ihat the government cf Canada
te-day should have a well defined policy
with reference te the conservation cf our
great nalural resources, such sa are le be
found in the water-powers cf the varieus
streams cf Ibis Dominion. 1 hesitate ta
repeat se often w.hat I have said before,
but il seems te me te be apropos of Ibis
occasion fer me te make reference te this

Bull for the conservation of our nalural
resources, which lies upon the table. I
cannot f ail ta say that itlai a strange
irony that associates the passage cf Ibis
power Bill with the consideration, probably.the very neît item on our Order
Paper, of the .govemnment Bill for the conservation of our natural resources. Surely
this is a malter aufficiently large for both
parties te stand on a commun platform, and
te say that, entirely irrespective cf parties,
entirely irrespective cf the party feelings
which may be engendered upon questions of
this kind, that we are sufficiently patriotie
ta conserve te this Dominion 'the great resources which we possess, se that when we
develop mbt the nation which we are
bound te become aI a very early period,
the people cf Canada may be pessesaed cf
these enormeus reseurces which are desIined te make lhem. great and presperous.
Under these considerations we shouid eliminate ail parly feeling with reference to
Ibis Bill, and while parliament should express a wiines te give le Ibis cempany
ail the machinery and powers whlch they
require for the purpose of csrrying eut a
legiîimate enterprise, we ehould certainly eut from the Bill aIl those powers
which deal with the expropriation cf public prcperty. and particularly properly
vested in the Crown as represenled by the
government cf Ontario, a protesting parby
against the legialalien now before us.
Hop*. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex>-I shahl take
the last observation cf my hon. friend for
the first tapic of discussion. He objects
te Ibis Bill because, as he alleges, il is
opposed te the principle cf conservation cf
our natural. resources. May 1 be allowed
te say thal I support ib for the very mcason thal il is in a line with bbe development cf cur natural resources? What are
the factsP On bbc Pigeon river, a boundary river; and Lake Nipigon, on which
there are lhirly-five thousand horse-power,
and on Nipigon river on which there are
two hundred and fifty lhousand hersepower that bas been lying idhc since the
dawn cf Ibis world's existence-and Ibat is
a great many years ago geologisîs sayil is now proposed te build works aI a cost
cf five million dollars which wilh dcvelop
t.hese natural resources. What does the
hon. gentleman mean really when he says

SENATE
that this Bill is opposed to that policy? erty on the Pigeon river was sald. It is
Has he anything to substitute for it? The naw in private hands. We exprapriate
province of Ontario may or may nlot au- there, nlot the property of the Crown but
thorize or incorparate a company to do the praperty of private owners.
this very work. There is no such proposiHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
tion before the government or the legisiature of Ontario; therefore they have not to whole length af the river.
do with it. The proposition is before us
Hlon. Mr. ROSS <Middlesex)-As f ar as it
here and now, and we are asked to deal is proposed «ta use any of those waterwith it. If we reject this Bill, then what powers.
rny hon. friend is sa very anxiolis to see
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thero
done, namely, the development of our
natural resources, or their conservation, tz is no restriction in this Bill as ta the iengtli
use, perhaps. a better word, will be set and the distance.
aside and there will be no conservation
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middiesex>-We would
or development. My hon. friend says we
not expropriate a part of the river in which
are alienating a great natural resource. there was fia water-power.
As far as the
WVe are neot ahienating it at ail. My hion. water-powers go,
this expropriation, of
friend has not studied the Bill with his course, will be exercised
and fia further,
usual care. He is a lawyer of great abiîity, and the property is in
private hands. We
and usually very fair and accurate in his are nat there expropriating
the property of
interpretation of Bis hefore this House. the Orown. Hon. gentlemen
have shifted
He forgets to say that while we give power their ground a littie
since this debate
to thia corporation to do this work, we began. In the first place,
there was soe
contrai the, corporation from start to finish. objection taken ta
this Bill because it was
We control them upon the rates they can proposed ta transmit power
over Crawn
charge upon teiegraph and telephone lines; land; but my hon. friend seems
ta yieid
we control the rates they can charge upon that paint now; I am glad
hie does. We
the water-powers; it is under a Board of are getting a little nearer te
close quarters.
Commissioners authorized by the parlia. But while he has yieided the right
of the
ment of Canada, and while it is alienated company ta expropriate for the transmiain the 'sense that the property is trans- sien lines ove- Crown land, he
ia nat willferred from the présent owners ta the cor- ing ta exprapriate water-powers
on Crawn
poration, it is not placed beyond govern- lands. But we are
not daîng that. Tho3
ment control any more than the publie Bill does
not propose ta do that; so that
utilîties in the province of Ontaxio are -be- his second
objedtion falis ta the ground.
- yond parliamentary
control. It is under a Then my hion.
friends at one tiine seemed
Board of Commissioners, a board of our
ta have daubts as ta whether this parliaown constitution, and if we should have ment
has jurisdiction.
Naw they have
confidence in any board at ail that justice
came nearer ta us again, and admit this
would be done, we ought ta have confidence parliament
bas juri8diction. I go further
in that 'board which is dealing with such and say that
fia other pariament has Jurisvast concerns, and up ta this moment has
diction. The case of the Niagara river is
deait with them sa fairly. Sa the two ob- nlot one
in point. The gavernment of Onjections raised, ta which I have already tario, fifteen or twenty years ago, gave a
referred, are bath invalid and inoperative, right to the Niag-ara Power Company ta
first, that we are acting in opposition ta the establish electrical works at Niagara Falls,
development of aur natural resources, and, but they did not, in giving them that right,
secondly, that woe are alienating them. interfere with any part of the praperty of
My hion. friend hints, or perhaps daes not the United States. The province of Onhint but says, that on the Pigeon river we tario awns the bed cf the Niagara river ta
are expropriating the property of the the middle of the stream; we own the
Crown. The fact is that the Crownl has no property along the river from Niagara Falls
praperty an the Pigeon river. As long ago ta Buffalo; the riparian rights on propas 1856. and before confederation, the prop- erty in the land gives us ownership in the
lion. .r. ROSS (Middlesex).

MAY 15, 1909
river to the middle of the streain. We have
establjshed those electrical works on our
own ground. We did not need to go to the
United States for power; the ri-ght to transmit that power to the United States is
another question.
Hon..Mr. BELCOURT-And did not need
to, go ta the Dominion government.
Han. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-No, there
was no need, for it was our own
property; we only used oui own property.
But take the other case, the case of the
Canadian Power Company on the Welland
river; this oompany wanted ta, export its
power to the United States; that company
came here. The validity of its charter was
questioned, and an effort was made i
The
the courts to rescind their charter.
first movement was made in the Court of
Appeal in the province of Ontario. The
Court of Appeal in the province of Ontario held that the parliamient of Canada
had jurisdiction, and had the right to give
the charter incorporating the Canadian
Power Company, There was an appeal
taken froin the -Court of Appeal in the
province of Ontario te the Supreme Court.
In the Supreme Court Judge Davies said:
.Tt seems clear te me that the legislatures
could net grant a local power te connect its
wires with those of a local company in a-ny
of the, other provinces. If it could. each
company would cease te be one of a 'local or
private nature' and beeome interprovincial
and general. How then oould the lefl*slature
grant power to conneet the wires o! the cmpany it was ereating with those of the cernpanies of a foreign country? The local or
private comp any, on sucli connection taking
place, wouid at once cease te be 'local or
private' wîth the British North America
-Act and become international.
We hold two things: first that a company incorporated by a province could not
export its electricity or connect its wires
with a company in another province except by Act of parliament; a fortiori it could
nlot connect itg wires with the wires of a
company in a fore-*gn country. He goes
on further to say that not only bas the
parliament of Canada the power to give
this authority, but that it is the only
authority which could give it, so that the
Michigan Power Company is here to, get
what it could not obtain anywhere else,
according te the judgment of Judge Davies
of the Supreme Court. The company is

599

hers applying te the proper source., The
lion. gentleman says, why shouldthey mot
go to the province of Ontario? The Nipigon river has no connection with the PigeThat is true. The company
on river.
could get a provincial charter to build at
the Nipigon river. Then the same campany could get a charter from the Dominion parliament ta develap power on the
Pigeon river, that is the company would
have ta get charters from two governments.
Would it not be absurd for them, te do
-this? Why ask them te go te the two
governments when they could get a charter for both rivera from one governmentP
Supposing my lion. iriend %vere the applicant in this case, and that he wished te
incorporate a company for the purpase of'
developing water-power on the Nipigon and
Pigeon rivera. He 'would. éay ta hiinself,.I
can form a company with a capital of five
million dollars ta develop these pawers. I
can go to the province of Ontario and get
a charter for the Nipigon, but nat for the
Pigeon river. I can go ta the Dominion
parliainent and get a charter for both
rivera.' What would he do? He would'at
once go te the parliament that has power
te give the necessary legisiation ta caver
bath rivera. We are not encroaching an
any privilege o! the local legislature. My
hon. friends admit that now, except sa ta
the powers o! expropriation, and they will
admit that before long. It cames.down ta
a mnatter of policy whether we should
grant thia charter or not. There is no
question of jurisdiction and no question
as ta the right of expropriation, and there
remains but ane point which. is not conceded, and an that their opinian la unsound; they contend that we cannat grant
powers of expropriation in the case of
Crown lands as vested ini the province.
There is no difference between hion, gentlemen opposite and myself except an this
anc point. The question is, 'whether it is
good policy ta give this charter. That ia
ail that remains of thîs long, persistent
argument in another place snd here. If
the House agree with me, they will say
that it is a question o! policy which we
should adopt, and adopt with the utmast
readiness. I would be prepared te grant
charters ta ail capable campanies passess-

SENATE
ing the means and resources to develop
the water-powers of this country, so long
as the parliament of Canada has control
over them. If it were proposed to grant
a monopoly beyond the control of this
parliament, they wouid not get it with my
consent. I would grant it so long as this
parliament retains control and bas the
right to review their tariff and approve
their plans. The hon. gentleman, speaking
of the case of the Niagara Power Company, asked why does not this company
go to the Ontario legisiature as the Niagara Power Company did? There is this
difference between the two cases: the Ontario and Michigan Power Company not
only eeek the right to expert power, but
aiso power to construci a dam across the
river. The Ontario legislature gave no
such power to the Niagara Power Comnpany.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
is nothing in 'this Bill about constructing
a dam.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middesex)-In the case
cf the Niagara Power Company, the Ontario
government simpiy gave them rights on
the shore of the Niagara river, and the right
to use the water of the river, and the only
thing that might interfere with the United
8tates rights was that they might take
more than their share of the water. It is
proposed to place that under the control
of the Waterways Commission. This Bill,
so far trom interfering 'with the rights oi
the United States in the Pigeon river, provides that the Waterways Commission must
be consulted to sce that no wrong is done.
On every side it is fenced, guarded and
The neighbouring country is
protected.
protected in case the company should attempt to take more of the water of Pigeon
river than it êhould. The manufacturing
industries are protected, because, under the
Electricitv Act, they cannot exnort with.)ut
the consent of the governinent. In the
matter of charges and tolîs, the people are
protected because the company is subject in such matter te the Railway ComI neyer knew a Bill which is
mission.
more hedged and guarded se far as the
publie interest is concerned, and I fail to
see any injustice done te anybody. In the
case o! the Kaministiqia river, where there
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

is a considerable water-power, the Ontari,)
governinent many years ago gave the right
to a company to develop that power for
electrical purposes. I think that is a pri.
vate right. I do not-think the country is
guarded in that case, as it is in later charters. That was done a good many years
ago when electric power was a new diecovery, practically, and it was very difficuit to
get capital to invest in that industry at aIl.
I do not think any governiment would make
the saine sort cf a bargain now, but it was
the only thing that could be done at that
time. I do net agree with the 'Globe ' that
we committed a blunder; there are many
things that we see were blunders in the
light o! subsequent events, which could not
have been so characterized at the time. We
had te begin and we began that way. Take
the case o! the development o! electricity
at Niagara Falls. In the first charter, we
bound ourselves that we would not give
a charter to sny other company to establish
an electric plant at Niagara. That policy
was agreed te on both aides, Sir Wm. Meredith, leading the opposition, agreeing with
us that we would do well if we got electricity developed, even though we gave a
monopoly to secure it. Afterwards, when
the company negotiated for other teris,
we insisted that the monopoly should be
broken. It was broken, and two other coinpanies were formed to develop water-power
at the falîs, but at the time we made that
bargain we did the best we could under
It was the saine
ail the circumestances.
with the Canadian Pacific llailway. If we
were building that railway to-day we
would not give the company 25,000,000 o!
acres-we would -not give thein an acre of
land. We did the best that could he done
at the time. In tact, the government was
glad te have such a bargain as that made.
it was not a blunder under ail the circumstances, and I do not know but the resuits
have justified what was considered even
then te be an improvident bargain. We
rnav caîl it a blundei now in the light of
subsequent events, but we cannot cail it
a blunder in the ligcht of resuits. Then, as
to the Minnesota power, we gave that company the right to develop electrical power,
but I do not remnember that we gave thein
a rigýht to -dam the river. I am n ft aible to
speak definitely as to why they came to

MAY 15, 1909
this House for ]egaislation. They came to
parliament for some purpose or other, and
'we gave them the right to develop, electricity at Fort Frances, and the peoplethere and in the surrounding country were
very anxious ta get the electrical development -in any ternis. No complaint has been
made since, and there is no remonstrance
from Washington as to what we have done.
The people in that locality are very wel
pleased that the company was organized
and that it is in operation. I think it is
clear, first, that there is no monopoly, for
only one-sixth of the power is taken. The
question of jurisdiction is practically admitted by the other aide, and the right of
this parliament to grant powers of expropriation for the construction o! the transmission line. There is no expropriation on
the NiT1iqof river. where the lands are private. The Crown is not affected in any
way except by the transmission of electricity, and on thal point the hon. gentlemen have abandoned their position. There
is nothing to do but, by unaniznous consent
of both aides, ta pass the Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
whole speech of the hon. gentleman had
no reference whatever te the subject befor the House, except during the last two
minutes. The only proposition made was to
place the power of the company to, expropriate property, whether of the Crown
or private persans, on the Pigeon river, on
the same footing as in the case of the Nipigon river. That is the only question befor the House; but the remarke made by
my hon. frîend who sits in front of me,
gave the hion. gentleman an opportunity of
repeating an old speech, and we are always delighted to hear the eloquent maniner in which hie can deliver himself upon
any subject, no matter how far or how
much o! il. may be in contradiction
o! the principles hie advocated same time
ago. The lion. gentleman paid us the compliment of saying it was nonsense and not
cc'mnion sense for any one ta suggest ta
place the company in a position by which
they would have ta apply ta the two governments for power ta carry on their work.
The hon, gentleman knows, or ought ta
know, that the Minnesota acheme couic]
not be carried out until they obtained the
same power and authority from the Unitcdl

States government that they obtained froin
the Canadian governiment, and hie ought
to, know also that this company when it
commences its operation and attempta to
do that to which the Bill does not refer in
any w4y, build a bridge across the Pigeon
river, they have no power to go on witb
their worka beyond the centre of the stream
which belonga to, Canada, and they would
have to obtain equal power either from
the state legislature or from Washington
to enable i.emi to, complete their dam
across the river and the samie reasons
'would apply to the extension of the wires,
which would have to be continuous from
one aide to, the other. In dealing with
the international river, hion. gentlemen
ought to, know that it is neither nonsense
nor is it unreasonable ta point te, the
f act that neither government has the
power, right, or authority to- give permission to construct a dam or anything whiclconnects one aide of a navigable stream
'with the other, belonging te the two nations. We have that in every case. We
know what 'we had te do at the Detriot
river. Even the tunnel under the river
could not be built until power was obtained
from the United States government te, enable them te complete the work. We gave
the company power to do certain things
but it was subject te, the action of the United States government. When the hon.
gentleman talks about its being nonsense
to apply for two charters, one from one
government and one fromi another, or from
the two powers in Canada hie is using an
expression he might just as well not have
used. Those who are not taking the position we take to-day may not have aIl the
common sense the hion, gentleman has. I
arn quite willing te concede that.
One
thing 1 do know is that they do not possess the eloquence of the hon. gentleman,
but so long as they possess a little common sense of their own, and are able to
express it in the ordinary way they are
entitled to just as much respect as a gentleman who speaka for half an hour on a
subjeet nlot relevant ta the question before the House. He is too old a parliamentarian, and bas betn too long in public
life to indulge in fancies and fictions of that
kind. However unsound the opinions of
those who differ from him may be, they

SENATE,

are opinions held juat as honestly as those
which he holda himself and that being the
case they have a perfect right, and it is
noit only a constitutional right but an individual right, to express those opinions and
enforce them as far as they are able te do
s0 upon the minda and understanding of
those who -are listening to them. I am net
going to discuas the question which
he raîsed, because I fully agree in
those remarks, that what we may have
done 10 or 20 years ago could not
and would not with impropriety or in
the interests of the country probably, be
repeated to-day, and when the hion. genLeman was in the Ontario government, or
at any rate a member of the legisiature
which granted t.hose powers and concessions to the Kaministoqula company, tihey
thought they were doing that which was in
the interests of the oountry, simply because
the developinent of electricity as a source of
light, heat and power was not understood
in those days as it la to-day. My hion.
friend said that we desired to take froin
the ca(mpany the power of utilizing Crowii
lands or private lands for the consîtruction of their transmission lines. Now there
is nothing of the kind. The hon. leader of
the opposition pointed out that that power
was not interfered with. The Bill gives
them that power. My motion does not interfere with it at ahl. Neither la there
any- desire on the part of those who are
opposing the proposition that certain po'wers be given to them to interfere with them
or do anythinz which wull interfere with
thieir entezprises. I simply desire to pl1ace
this company in precisely the rame position relative to the Pigeon rirver a- it occupies towards the Nipigon. It is for the
House to say whether they will place them
in that position or not. We propose to put
ourse.lves upon record upon that question,
so as to show to the country when the
question is discussed hereafter, that while
the country and the legisJature xnake restrictions as to their powers upon a river
that is exclusively in Canada, that the
sazne power should be given and no more
on a stream which. la international in its
character.
Hon. Mr. WATSON It ia very refreshing te get one of those usual scolds from
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL

our hon. friend who objecta to an hon. gentleman saying anything outside of the question; but he proceeds te discuas the whole
Bill when Jecturing other gentlemen for departing fromn the particular question which.
is mentioned ini hie amendmnent.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I did
flot discuss the 'whole Bill, if the hon. gentleman refera to me.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I will not diacuss it
any more.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Better
stick to the jacta.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I will not get any
farther from the subject than the honi. gentleman, and 1 hope I will not be out of
order. I trust the House will flot see fit
to adopt this amendment, because it will
effectually kill the Bill. I have an idea
that some hon. gentlemen in this Chamber would like to kill this Bill by any process, and this is one of the processes which.
would most efiectually aecomplish that
object. 1 rose to' eal the attention of the
hon. leader of the opposition te the report
to which he has paid so much attention,
that of the North American conservation
conference, held some time ago, which
was attended by some of the ableat men
in Canada, the United States and other
countries, for the purpose of suggesting
methoda by which the natural resources
of this continent, in fact of the whole
world, might be conserved. He also referred to the fact that we had a Bill before
us, probably the next order, for the purpose of appointing a commission to take
charge of the matter, or direct the public
as te wbat might be done to better conserve
our resources. I think the point raised by
the hon. gentleman froin Middlesex is well
taken when he suggests that we cannot better conserve the natural resources of the
country for future generations, than by having the water-powers that are going to waste
to-day developed, because by the development of water-powers we are genexating a
power which would obviate the use of wood
and coal that we shaîl require as fuel
for the future. 1 arn sure hon. gentlemen will admit that if water is running over a faîl and going to waste,
and capital can be induced to convert that

MAY 15, 1909

waste into power, and by that xneans you
are going to preserve the deposits of coal
for future generations, you are doing a good
thing towards conserving natural resources.
My hion. friend referred ta what these gentlemen recommended, and this apphies particularly to the very amendment before the
House. The hion. meurber read a portion
of this report of the commission with regard ta the monopoly of rater, and especially the monopoly of rater-porer:
No right to water-power of etreams shahl
hereafter be granted in perpetuity.
We have not got that far.
Each grrant shaîl be conditioned upon
prompt development.
We have gone that f ar; they must develop in thxee years.
Payment and proper compensation te the
publia for the rights: enjoyed.
I maintain that the public are getting,
campensation for the right ta utihize this
public utility. They are getting it in the
fact that in this very Bill we control
the rates and prices this company shal
charge for the disposal of that property.
This commission reaommended that compensation should.be paid, and by keeping
control af the rates that may be charged
for the distribution of this parer, we provide for it.
And it shaîl be fer a definite period only.
We do not limit it.
The period shaîl not be longer than required for reasonable safety o! inve6tment.
I think we are doing that. In granting
this power in perpetuity. these gentlemen
have sufficient difflculty in securing an investment.
To the end that undue profite and extortien may be preventied.
WVe are complying with that. The particula.r clause I rant ta refer ta, my hion.
friend must have read, and I think it was
rather unfair to hon. gentlemen' when hie
called attention to this report not to havP
Tread it ta this House. What does it say?
Dealing with the very question now befor2
us of this amenament:
Where the construction cf works ta utilize
rater bas been authorized by publia authority, and suab utilization is neceary for publia welfare, provision ehould be made for the
expropriation of any privately owned land
and rater rights required for such construction.

That is the recommendation of these
gentlemen who sat in conference at Washington, and placed this report before the
representatives of parliament, on which we
are going to base an Act to-day, and that
applies .exactly to the particular clause
that that hion. gentleman wants to amend
to-day, where they recommend that authority be given to develop power; that
authority we propose giving in this Bill.
We are putting ail the restrictions these
gentlemen suggest could be put on that
authority. Then this commission says:
When that authority bas been given you
shahl give that conpany power to expropriate
either water or land for the purpose of proceeding with the undertakîng.
It seems to me, with that explanation, if
the hion. gentleman fias any confidence in
these gentlemen who, no doubt, have
studied this matter and given it a great
deal of thought, hie shouhd not second a
motion which, if carried, wouhd mean the
My hion. friend, in a
defeat of the Bihh.
very sympathetic manner, appealed ta us
that we should not interfere with the rights
of Ontario. I do flot think we are interfering with provincial rig-hts. I do flot
think they have the right to control certain international streams. We shouid
have the right here to give authority to dev.elop water-powers, even on the Nipigori
river, because while it is in the province of
Ontario it is a navigable stream, anid therefore, under the jurisdiction of thîs parliament. We find that the province of .Ontario is flot sa particuhar abouit interfeting
It is
with the rights of the Dominion.
admitted that Nipigon lake, which is ahmast s large as Lake Ontario, is a
admitted that
It is
navigable lake.
the federal parliament alone bas the
right ta control navigation in those
waters. I hold in my hand a copy of a
communication sent by the Minister of
Lands and Mines of Ontario ta Mr. Flaherty, a gentleman who bas a steamnboat
operating on Lake Nipigon, which reads
as folhows:a
Port Arthur, Ont., October 20. 1908.
Robert Flaherty, C,E.,
Port Arthur.
Miy dear Mr. Flaherty,-I understand that
you have a steamer on Lake NipiÏgon and have
been asked to charter saine. You a re prabablv au-are that before a steamer can be
used on Lake Nipigon, which is in the forest

604

SENATE
SNA1

reserve, that a speeial license or permit must
be obtained fromn me. Therefo'r, 1 request
that before eam. is used my permission must
be obtained with rossons for use. Till then,
I must notify you that the use of same is improper and forbidden.
Yours truly,
A. J. McCOMBER.
F. Cochrane,
Minister -of Lands and Mines.
Surely these gentlemen are not so particular about interfering with the riglits of
the federal government when they undertake to say that a man owning a steainhoat
on Lake Nipigon cannot operate it without
permission fromn Mr. Cochrane, the Minister
1 only introduce this incidentof Mines.
ally; but it seems to me that gentlemen in
the province of Ontario should flot receive
the consideration suggested by my hon.
friend. The Fort Francis water-power bas
been referred to. W.hy, it bas been said,
did not these gentlemen secure a provincial charter to dam the Rainy river at Fort
The legisiature had power to
Francis?
grant it, but the company found that the
powers they would get from the province
were not sufficient to warrant the expense
of damming the river, and they had to come
to the federal parliament.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL :-The
bon. gentleman surely does not say t.here
was any power given to dam the Rainy
river at Fort Francis? It is navigable from
the Lake of the Woods down to Fort Francis, and thlen there is a natural f ail there.
1 do not know how fax, 30 or 40 or 50 feet.
It is where the fainous canal was to be dug.
They neyer contemplated building the dam,
but asked for power to build a bridge.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-My hon. friend must
know that they have done at Fort Francis
what tliey have doue on the Ottawa river
in the Jst few years. You may eaUl it a
dam or not. They have built a dlam and
raised the water a eufficient height the
sanie as in the Ottawa river above the
Chaudiere f aIls. At Niagara falis no sncb
thing ws done. They did not idam the
river. The company built a wing dami on
the aide to accuxnulate 'water for their
powez, but t.hey came to Ottawa to get authority to do so. My hon. friend knowB the
explanation we received last night from al
very able gentleman with regard to this'
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

comnpany. This is an electrical deveiopment company. The intention is to gener.
ate power on the Nipigon river, and also
on the Pigeon river, and transmit that powerT by wire te consumera, and as it bas te
be a féderail work, tliey require federal
legisiation, becauise the moment you go outaide of Ontario either to the Unitetd States
or any other province, you have te corne
heTe for legislation. That lias been olearly
demonstrated; therefore, in thia case we
are not inLterfering with any riglits of the
province of Ontario. We are not giving a
monopoly ta this cornpany by giving thia
charter. I understand that within some 45
miles of Nipigon laite the fall of the river
is some 480 teet. Noue of the powers which
will be generated there will have more than
50 feet head. This company are taking
onily about one-ninth of the power available on the Nipigon, and the same proportion applies on the Pigeon river, I unThe company cannot extend
derstand.
their line into Fort William or Port Arthur
without getting permission by a vote of the
people. While the governmenit of Ontario
have adopted a hydro-electrlc power scheme,
sud have practica.ly said: <We are goiug
te inonopolize the dist.ribution of power iu
Ontario,' many thinking men in the province beliéve that the governinent are making a mistake. I do net live in Ontario,
but from, what knowledgé I have of such
undertakîngs by government. 1 also believe
they are makinig a mistake. I think it is
a miatake to restrict ludividual enterprise in developing ouri natural resources.
I believe that when you give a franchise,
and grant any riglits, they shouLld be under control se that the public intereat may
be protected and gnarded, I be:ieve also that
the people of Onitario, through the legisiature have made a fatal mistake in adopting
the electric power policy, becanse they are
actually frightening capital away from
the province. No individual wii undertake te 'develop a power if lie knows
that in a short time the policy of the
government may be to take the public
moneys and enter into competition againat
him. It is not fair to capital te discourage investment in such enterprises, but the
goverument shonld retain a controlling or
regulating power. By doing that, I helieve

MAY 15, 1909
the publie wjil be better served, will get
cheaper power because individual enterprises can develop and manage undertakings of that kind much better than a gov.
ernment, and if parliament retains contro>l
of the rates I believe the publie will get
the benefit. I do neo wish ta take up further time. Mv name is attached to thîs
Bill, and the hion. gentleman 'who moved
this amendment is satîsfied that if it is
carried it will effectually kill the Bill.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE
Why woiild it kili the Bill?

BOWELL-

Hon. Mr. WVATSON-Because iL would not
be.worth the paper that it is written on
ta the gentlemen who are asking for the
franchise. They are asking this for the
purpase af developing power; there is na
rnonopoly; they can only develop ane power
in the Nipigon river and one in the Pigeon
river; there are lots af other powers there,
and surely the Ontario government are flot
afraid that the gentlemen -who are associated with this Bill are gaing to, manufacture power and distribute it sa cheap that
it will put the government-owned power
I don't know why the
out af business.
Ontario government did it, but they chartered companies at Niagara, and 1 arn informed that they contracted with a power
oompany who were ta receive their charter
at Ottawa. They we.re flot satisfied with
the conîpany formed under a charter of
their awn granting ta develop power at
Niagara. Whether they wanted ta be saLisfied. they were dealing with a better and
stranger company 1 don't know; but they
actually nmade a contract wvith a cornpany
who had a federal charter for the power
they are distributing throughout the province af Ontario. 'Surely they did flot think
that the gentlemen wlio gat that charter
at Ottawa were infringing on provincial
If they did, they should 'have
righlts.
boycotted the campany and said: 'We shahl
deal withi people holding a charter frarn
aur own legisiature.' I do hope this House
wihl nat accept the amendment maved by
my hion. friend.
Han. Mr. BAIRD-This subject has been
before parliament a number ai times, and
as hon. gentlemen are aware, last session

we defeated a bill ai a somewhat similar
character in this Hause. I take a different
view on this subi ect from most af my calleagues in this Chamber. I behieve that all
water-pawers should belang ta the peaple.
I mea-n by that, the franchises are wortli
something, and these campanies should not
be allowed ta obtain charters and develop
power for nothing. There oughit to be a
tax put upon them; they are certain]y worth
money to a company ta hold the right ta
these powers for ahl Lime. Take the case
of a man who erects a ateami miii. He goes
ta a very large expense. I presume that
an those rivers there will be a considerable
quantity of lumber manufactured. That
being tihe case, it is necessary that there
ahould be dams erected so as ta hold the
logs and timber, and in that case the man
who builds a steam mill has ta go ta about
the same expense in building a dam as the
men who buihd dams ta generate electrical
power; and see thse advantage the power
company has aver the man who runs his
rnill by steam. I dlaim that there ahould
be a tax levied upan thse owners of waterpowers; that sucis priviheges shouhd be either
sold at public sale,or thse government shoud
reserve the riglit ta put a tax upon these
powers, ta be paid by the parties who acquire them. Tise powers belong ta thse public. I have nat been able ta make a study
af this Bilh because ai thse condition af my
health, but as I understand it, the land ta
be expropriated upon thse Nipigon river as
well as on the Pigeon river belong ta private -individualsHon. Mr. POWER-On the Pigeon, yes.
Han. Mr. BAIRD-Is iL the province of
Ontario that owns tise land on Lise Nipigon
river P
Hlon. Mr. POWER-On tise Nipigon river, yes.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-But thse company
have no rîght ta expropriate Crown lands
on tise Nipigon.
Hon. Mr.

BAIRD-Why

did you give

them the rialht ta expropriate private lands?
Hon. Mr. POWVER-On Lise Pigeon river.

SENATE
' Han. Mr. BAIRD-It seems to me to be
inconsistent. I do not see why, for the
purpose of this Bill the conipany should
not be aflowed to expropriate the lands cf
the Crown as well as those cf private individuais. I believe ail these properties should
be required to pay an snnual rentai. They
belong to the people. Under thie Bill the
people get nothing. The revenues of the
province are graduaiiy decreasing, and
when the timber eupply is exhausted the
province will have to corne to direct taxThis heing
tion to maintain a revenue.
the case, we ought to impose a tax on
power properties which were taken away
from the people.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The province can assesa the property.
Hon. Mr. BAIRD-Yes, they can asses
it; stili they shouid demand a price for
it ini the fiast place when they give it over
ta a corporation.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-They have
a right ta tax ail corporations in addition
ta the assessment.

erals were the great advocates cf provincial
rights when they were in power. in Ontario, but now the Conservatives are the
champions of that policy. There bas been
a change. But we are not consistent, for
the reason I have stated.
The Senate divided
which 'was rejected.

on the amendment,

Contents:
The Honourable Messieurs
Baker,
Lougheed,
McLaren,
Bolduc,
Ponley,
Bouchervîlle, de
Wood.-8.
Bovel
(Sir Mackenzie),
Non-Contents:
The Honourable Messieurs
McHu gh
Belcourt,
MeMu len,
Bostock,
McSweeney,
Campbell,
Power,
Cartright
Robertson,
(Sir Richard>,
Ross <Halifax),
Chevrier,
Ross (Middlesex),
Coi,
Scott,
Costi gan,
Talbot,
DeVebr,
Thompson,
Douglas,
Watson,
Fiset,
Yeo,
Godbout,
Young.-25.
Jaflray,

Hon. Mr. BAIRD-But as an initial tax
they ehouid be reqtiired to pay a certain
Hon..Mr. BAIRD announced that hae had
amount for the power. This is dane in the
paired with Hon. Mr. Ring. He would have
province of Quebec.
voted for the amendment.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think the lion. -genThe Bill was then read the third time, and
tleman would find it very hard to bring
capital into the country to start enterprises passed an a division.
uinder such conditions.
ROYAL GUARDIANS BILL.
Hon. Mr. BAIRD-Capital cornes into
the country ta buiid steam milîs.
THIRD READING POSTPONED.
The order cf the day being calied:
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middlesex)-Saw miii
men are flot regulated as to the price they
The t.hird reading of Bill (Na. 95) An Act
shall seil their lumber at, but this com- ta incorparate the Royal Guardians, as
pany is reguiated in the price they shail amended.-Hon. Mr. Casgrain.
eil their power at.
Hon. Mr. POWER moved that the Bill te
Hon. Mr. BAIRD-It has somewhat read the third time.
amused me to see the attitude of the members on bath sides of the House in regard ta
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
provincial rights. It depends on who is shouid like ta inquire cf the leader
puomating the measure. I know men who af the House, what are the intentions
are strong advocates of provincial rights af the gavernment in reference ta this
When the third reading was
during one session and in another session Bil
if parties friendiy ta the government are proposed the ather day, it was intiasking for a charter, I notice that pro- mated that the gavernment were opvincial righters seem to drop out. The Lib- pased ta the titie af the Bill, that is ta
Hou. Mr. P>OWER.

MAY là, 1909

the word ' Royal ' in the tithe. lie gave a
very good reason for his objectian. Under
the circumstances, unhess the govemnment
withdraw fram the position taken when the
the third reading was praposed, a motion
shouhd be made ta refer the Bill back ta the
committee for the purpose ai changing the
namne of the company. If we act upon the
intimation given by the leader ai the governmnent, we shahl have ta vote against the
Bill because of the use af the word 'Royal»
in the title. The company has adapted a
naine which is objectionable flot oniy ta the
imperiai government, but opposed ta the
policy ai the Dominion gavernment and ai
The committee rejected the
this House.
word 'Royal,' and then maved another motion in which they adopted the word
'Guardians' without saying anything about
the word 'Royal.' I know that some members ai the committee did not understand
That is how
what it meant at the time.
they retained the word 'Rayai.' I calied the
attention of the committee, and also of this
House, ta the fact that even in the United
States and in the West Indies people have
been taking out policies li this company.
under the impression that it was the aidestabhished and rehiable Royal Insurance
Company ai Engiand. Should we allow any
company ta pilier a namne that has a reputation through the whole world and deceive
people seekîng- insurance? The reply snay
be that they ahauld know what they are
Unfartunately there are too« many
doing.
unscrupulous agents who are resdy to say
anything in order ta get business. I am
glad ta knaw that is not the character af
agents as a whole. But there are some of
that class. The promater af the Bill told us
the other day that the company would rather hase the Bill than hase the name. Then
let themn hase the Bihl and confine their operation ta the province of Quebec.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTUnder the circumstances, and in view ai the
appeal made by the promater this Bill had
better stand aven. I do not think we shouhd
tske any action upon it in his absence.
Hon. Mn. POWER moved that the orden
be dischanged and that it be piaced an the
orders ai the day for the second sitting
an Monday next.
The motion wvas agneed ta.

607

POST OFFICE ACT AMENDMENT IBILL.
SECOND AND THIRD REÂDINGS.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT moved the second reading of Bill <No. 136) An
Act to .amend the Poat Office Act.
He said: The only effect of this Bill is
to add some twenty-five cents per diemn te
the salaries of the several grades li the
Post Office Departmnent. The department,
after giving the matter very f ull consideration, think it would be ini the interest of the
service to make the increase. They say
they have very great difficulty li obtaining
in the lowest grades a sufficient number
of qualified parties and that they are obliged to promote themn almost immediately,
which they abject to do, and if they can
only get mnen at the figures named to start
with, it is better than to go through the
iormality ai appointing them. to one grade,
and in a very few days advancing themn to
another.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
passed through its final stages under the
suspension of the miles.
CIVIL SERVICE ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
SECOND AND THIIRD READINGS.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT moved the second reading of Bill (No. 137) An
Act to amend the Civil Service Act. He
said: This refera simply to the Post Office
stampers and sorters, giving them. a small
increase over and above the* salaries provided for them. in the aid Act.
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
passed through its final stages under suspension af the rules.
CONSERVATION 0F NATURAL RESOURCES BILL
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT moved the secand reading ai Bill (159) an Act
ta establish a commission for the conserHe said:
vation of naturai resources.
WVith respect ta this Bill, I think there will
probably be a consensus of opinion that the
abject is a very desirable one, aithaugh, of
course, there may be some question as ta
the method adopted, and judging from somie

SENATE

remarks which have f allen from my hion.
friends opposite, I fear they may be disposed te say that in some cases we are caref ully locking the stable door alter the steed
has been stolen. But there are a great
many steeds in the Canadian stable, and I
think when hion. gentlemen come te examine the details, they will see that if the
various provinces co-operate, as I hope and
think they will in this matter, some valuable results may be attained. 0f course,
hion. gentlemen are aware that this subject
has attracted a very great deal of attention
in the United States, and that ex-President
Roosevelt, before hie departed on his Afrncan campaign te astonish the lion, as hie
seems te have dune already, held a very important conference at the White House,
which was attended hy two or three delegates from Canada, and also by a number
of the most distinguished men in the United
States, including many emînent scientists.
I think they are waking up aIl over the
continent te the fact, whicls is apparent
enough. that we have been rather improvident in the management o! our natural
resources, particulanly in the direction of
squandering our forests. Perhaps my hion.
friend the senator from Hastings may remember-I do not think hie was in the original parliament of the two Canadas-

first instance and a very great advantage
would have accrued to the community at
large. I have always feit, and I have
tried-though flot altogether with successto induce the various governments, whether I was in opposition or was a member
of them, to take up in serjous earnest the
question of Crown forestry in this country; I believe it might be made a means
of relieving the taxation of the people to
a very great extent, and this I feel is a
move in the right direction. The details
of the Bill may be discusaed in committee.
They are flot very numerous, and the Bill
itself is not a very long one.
The motion was agreed and the Bill was
read a second time.
The House resolved itself into a Committee. of the Whole to consider the Bill.
(In the Committee).
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I ask what
the views of the government are as to the
It is an
personnel of this commission?
honorary commission, and it seems to me
it should be selected entirely irrespective
of political complexion.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThat was our desire. I think I may anis
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My swer safely for my colleagues, that it
not intended to be a partisan commission.
hion. friend wll remember that we entered
the political field the eame year. He was We are earnest]y desirous of getting the
successful in being elected, and I was de- best informed men we can -obtain to sit
feated, but the next election I was success- on this commission-they will flot receive
pay-irrespective, I was going to say, o!
fui and came into parliament, in 1867.
creed or color, at any rate the bes»t men
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- we can obtain.
It ia only a reminiscence, but not without
interest; I remember very well that my
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As there is to be
late friend Sir Alexander Camnpbell, who ne compensation, possibly nXy hion. frien-l's
was at that time Commissioner of Crown political friends will not importune the
Lands in the old parliament o! Canada, government for an appointment, as they
had, prier to confederation, elaborated a otherwise miglit.
scheme not unlike this, althoughi after confederation the matter passed entirely out
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
of his handa, for the conservation of the thînk that is extremely likely.
forests o! that day. It is a great pity it
had net been carrîed out. If forty-five
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
years ago a reasonable number of Crown suppose the personal expenses attendîngforests ihad been set apart in Ontario, and meetings are provided for?
in one or two o! the other provinces, a very
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTgreat difference would have been made te
in the Yes. clause 9 deals with that.
the revenues of those provinces
lion. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MAY 15, 1909

On clause 3,
3. The Minister of Agriculture. the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Mines
and the member of each provincial government in Canada who is charged with the administration cf the natural resources cf such
provinýce. shall be ex-offieio members of the
commissioni.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-These
ex-officia members are in addition ta the
20 ta be appointed?

everything in the vessel that is worth
while, and leaving the huil as an obstruction to be removed by the goverument.
The clause was agreed ta.
On clause 2,

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTJust at the present there is no law ta compel the owner to remove a wrecked vessel.
This clause gives us power ta compel him.
CARTWRIGHT- It does not interfere with the right of the
when reWe have no con- minister ta take prompt action
quired.

Hon. Sir RICHARD
Yes. they are ex-affico.
trol over them.
The clause was adopted.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Have
authority by process of law?

you any

On clause 4,
4. 0f the members appointed by the GaverHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTnor in Council, at least one member appointed f rom each province shall b. a member of This is presumed ta give it. This directs
the faculty cf a university within euch pro- that the man shall, and he shall be guilty
vince, if there be such university.
of misdemeanour if he declines ta comply.
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON-In reference 0f course the minister can proceed ta reta this clause, I observe that where there move the wreck anyhow.
is a university in any province there wi!l
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can my right
be a member appointed. In the case of a
province which has no university, but a hon. friend say as ta what exiten*t these
wreclvs .pay' for themselves where the incollege, how will it be?
tervention of the government takes place
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-We and the wreckage is removed and sold at
have the power to appoint. The govern- auction by the government?
ment, no doubt, would take that inta conHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-As
sideration.
a rule, we generally manage ta make the
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL, from the commit- small vote taken in the estimates do. If
tee, reported the Bill without amendment. I rememaber right, the vote is three or four
The Bill was then read the third time and thousand dollars, and I think it has been
found-sufficient heretofore.
passed.
The clause was agreed to.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READOn clause 5,
INGS.
Hon. 81r MACKENZIE BOWELL-In a
Bill (GGG) An Act for the relief of Annie
previous clause there is provision miade for
Bowvden.-(Hon. Mr. Campbell).
adding the words 'partially qu.nk' vessel.
One can quite understand why that change
NAVIGABLE WVATERS PROTECTION
BILL.
wvas mnade. While the operatian of the Act
applied only ta vessels that were sunk, the
TRIRD READING.
danger ta navigation very often arises
The House resolved itsehf into a Com- more from a partially sunk vessel than
rnittee af the Whohe an Bihl (No. 152) an from one that had gone ta the ibottom. I
Act ta amend the Navigable Waters Protec- notice this clause says:
tion Act.
When any vessel or other thing is wrecked.
(In the Camrnittee).
sunk, lying ashore, &c.
On clause 1,
Why shouild nlot the eame words be adHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The ded, af*ter the word 'sunk' or 'partially
abject of this clause is ta prevent the pro- sunk?' There must be a reason, and that
prietor af a wrecked vessel frorn getting reason mnust have been for what I have in-ý
InEVIsED EDIrION

SENATE
dicated. Why are nlot those -worrds just think that would have a salutary effect
as applicable in the fifth clause as they upon those who do not deem it their duty
to remain here. Unfortunately, the proviwere in the other?
sion in the present Indemnity Act, giving
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I 15 days' grace in which each member can
do nlot objeet.
be absent without any-reduction in his inClause 5 was accordingly amended, ad- demnity; results in what we have seen toding the words 'or partially su'nk' after the day, and what probably might be still mor,
forcibly thrust upon us on Monday and
word «sunk.'
Tuesday. While I would not suggest the
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK, from the commitiepriving of a member o! the riglit to be
tee, reported the Bill with one amendinent. absent for some days during the session,
and what I suggest is that at lest during the
The Bill was then read a third tie,
ten days previous to prorogation there
passed under suspension of the rules.
should be a penalty for the absences of the
character to which I have called the attenBILLS INTRODUCED.
tion of hon, gentlemen. If that were Joue,
Bill (No. 103) An Act reapecting the NaI think I might safely vouch for a sutional Accident anid Guarantee Comnpanyficient attendance during that tiine ta
(Hon. Mr. Ratz).
transact the business of the country, with a
Bill (No. 154) An Act respecting the Har- legal quorum to enable us te proceed. 1
bour Connnissioners of Montreal.-Hon. have no doubt, because I have been there
Sir Richard Cartwright).
znyself, that it is very acceptable for ministers o! the Crown when they are conductVACANCIES IN THE SENATE.
ing businesa, as they have been to-day, to
BOWELL-I have as little opposition as possible; hence
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
woiild like to ask the hon, leader of the there may be an objection to impose the
House, when the proposes to fill the vacan- penalty to which I have referred, in order
cies in Nova Scotia. I observe that a tele- that the government may be able to get
gram from Nova Scotia states that E. M. their measures through much easier thana
Farrail of the present House of Assembly is they 'would do if we had a full attendance.
to be appointed, or has been appointed to I make these suggestions in aîl sincerity,
the Senate. I should like to ask whether and I do not desire them te be considered
that report is correct? I wish also to cali at- as sarcasm. I do think honestly that some
tention to the absolute .necessity 'when you steps should be taken either to compel atconsider the attendsnce at the Senate -at tendance during the close o! each session
the close of every session, and more par- or let the absentees pay the penalty.
ticularly at this one, of the difficulty of
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-As
obtaining a quorum, that the vacancies be
filled in order to avoid this very great to the first question put by my hon. friend,
I I may say that, as uaual, the newspapers
difficulty and danger to legisiation?
have, during the preeent afternoon, on sev- are giving us information which we do not
eral -occasions counted the nuýmber of sen- possess from any other source. As regards
ators present, but I do nlot think it advis- the other, At may be taken into consideraable to place on record the resuit of that tion. I observe that there were 34 senators
count for fear someone miglit take excep- present on division, which, is, for a Saturtion te the legality of our legisiation, when day, not a very bad attendance. Touclipossibly there rnight not have been a quor- ing the general question as to how far a
um. I would suggest that the law reaating large attendance would facilitate the transte the indemnity of senators be changed, action of business, that might be a matter
and that a penalty of froin $50 to $100 be o! opinion; but it is, I admit, eminently
imposed on every senator who is absent desirable that there should be a quorum
during any one of the ten days' previous present. I do not crave earnestly for any
to the prorogation of parliament, to be more than a quorum during the last few
deducted from bis sessional allowance. I days o! a session.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MAY 17, 1909
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
eheuld like te assure my hon. friend that I
did net count the House when the vote
was taken. I think we could safely take
it for granted that whenever a party vote
would be, taken we would have a quorum.

611

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-i ask the hon. .gentleman to be magnanimous eneugh to &Irant
me a littie freedom of speech ini this Kouime.
Perhaps I might hurt hie feelings, but let
him be generous. I have a right to knowvý
what occurred on Saturday.

The Senate adjourned until Monday et
The SPEAKER-I beg to say that the
eleven o'clock a.m.
clerk who had charge of the preparation cf
the minutes did net discharge hie duty
until it was se late that it was not possible
te have the minutes printed for this monTHE SEEATE.
ing.
OTTAwÂ,, Monday, May 17, 1909.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I propose that this
The SPEAKER took the Chair et eleven
House do now adjourn until that part of
o 'eock.
the clerk's duty je perfermed. We have
Prayers and routine proceedings.
corne here te do our duty and are net able
te do It. What have we te do?
CONSTRUCTION 0F LOUISE BASIN,
Hon. Mr. POWER-We have to go
QUEBEC.
threugh the orders. ef the day which are
MOTION.
betore us.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT (in absence et Hon.
Bon. Mr. LANDRY-The orders cf the
Mr. Choquette) nioved:
day are always published in the minutes.
That an order cf this House do issue for
between the
a oopy of &il correspondence
Hon. Mr. POWER-They are published
Vovernment and the heirs and succemsrs of
Mir. Etienne Dussauit, contracter, Levia, here.
Que., relating te the coat cf construction at
Hon. .Mr. LANDRY-Will the hon. genLâouime basin, Que.
tleman contend that that is the regular
The motion was agreed te.
wey te publish them?
MINUTES 0F.PROCEEDINGS.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn net conitending
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the orders of at ail. -I amn simply stating the tact.
the day are called, I should like te knew
Hion. Mr. LANDRY-The hon. gentle'where the minutes of Saturday's proceedman had 'better net contend that that je
inge are te be foundP I desire te sec them,
the regular way. One of our rules says
and that is my privilege. Relying upon the
that business wbich remains over from a
rules cf this House which provide that
previeus day shall be placed on the orders
when the Hous adjourna on Friday it
for the following day. I desire te ace what
stands adjourned until Monday at tbree business remains te be dealt 'with, and I
o'clock, I went away.
cannet sec that without the minutes, beMr. WATSON-Oh, ne.
cause I cannot ascertain from the or-der
Hon.
paper cf Saturday what -was dealt with on
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I vent away, yes. that day and -what work remained unA sitting ef the Houe was held on Batur- finished. How are 'we te know whether
day; I vent te knov vhat occurred.
these orders of the day are correct or not?
WATSON-We pessed the Con- As a member of the House, I think I have
Hon. Mr.
a right te sec that the rules shall be obmec Biîl
served, unless ail the rules are te be exHon. Mr. LANDRY-Where are the punged. If they are te be dispensed with,
minutes? If my hon. friend, who bas great we should be informed of it at once. Âs
power in this House, yull keep quietlong as we have rules I think we ehould
te
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I arn giving the bon. follow thern. The rules are a protection
the minority. If the majority can io as
gentleman information.

SENATE
-they please outside of the rules we have
-no rights at alI. If it is te be hield that
practice ehall supersede our rules, we do
net require any rules. I think it ia unfair
te proceed without having before us what
the rules oblige.
Hlon. Mr. WATSON-The hion, gentleman
should quote the ruie rather than give his
opinion.

Does hie expeet that we 'are going to go
through that Bill in two or three hours?
If the Bill on insurance cornes before us
we shall make a thorough study of it.
Seme hion. SENATORS-Hear, hear, that
is xight:

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-' Unless senators
direct etherwise, ordera of the day take
precedence according te priority as follows:
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hion,
gentleman first, orders cf the day for the -third readIcnows se littie cf the mules, that he thinks : ing cf Bills, and the order for the day
'I will bluff him; I will make 'him quote which at the time cf adjourninent was
the mules. I wilh ask him the mule.'
under consideration.' Where is that te be
Hon. Mm. WAT8ON-I would like te have found. I must know what teck place oui
Saturday te kncw what sheuld be allewed.
another mule if I had the power.
Hon. Mm. LtiNDRY-There is ncthing ini
this bock that concerna the 'Power House,'
because when the mules weme made, what we
eall number 17, or the 'Power House,' did
net exist, and the gcvernment used te corne
heme, and what the gevernment wanted te
pais they asked the House te do it, and the
House did it, but to-day when the govemfiment cornes here with a motion, if the
Power House is net consulted beforehand,
nething is te be done.
Hon. Mm. YOUNG-Turn te rule 98; that
refera te the minutes, and that is the only
thing I can see.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Rule 98 saya: *'A
ecopy cf the Minutes cf Proceedings, certified by. the Clerk,- is te be transmitted
dàily te the Governor General.' Is that
the rule that applies?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Thiat is the nearest
we can get te it.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that ahi the hion.
gentleman can find?
Hon.
Hon.
do?

Mr. YOUNG-Yes.
Mr. LANDRY-Perhaps 99 would

Hon. Mr. WATSON-The lion. gentleman
is skating on thin ice.

Hon. Mr. POWER-De
net the hon.
gentleman think it was his duty te be here
and attend the meeting cf the House.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It was none cf my
duty at aIl. I was net obliged te be here
on Saturday, because there is our standing
order which says that when the Hcuse adjourns on Friday it stands adjouùrned untii
three o'clock; and if I arn here at half-past
eleven, it is by zeal, because I arn net
ebliged te be here. «Orders cf the day
which at the time cf adjcurnrnent hiad net
been reached.' Hew can I find that the
orders cf the day are. correct, if I have
nlot befere me the minutes cf the preceedings that teck place at the last sitting?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I always theught that
it was the clerk cf the House and the
Speaker whio had te take charge cf the
orders cf the day.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If that be se, why
de they net give us orders cf the da ' ?
Will the lion. gentleman just take the
verbal report cf the clerk or Speaker. Th'ý
hion. gentleman quoted rule 98. Did the%
send that copy te the Governor General, as
the rule calls for?
The SPEAKER-Ne.
Hon. Mr. LANDRWf-Wlie is at fault?

The SPEAKER-I do net know about
Hon. Mr. LANDRY- Dees the lion.
gen- that.*
tleman suppose that parliament is gcing
te prerogue on the nineteenth with the InHon. Mr. LANDRY Thien there is somesurance Bill that the House teck two or body at fault in this case, and I want the
three years te study still te be reached' efficer vrho is responsible for the fault te be
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

M-NAY 17, 1909
deait with by the clerk of the House. It EXOHEQUER COURT ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
is time we should cease to suifer by the
conduct of some of our officers.
DEBÂTE CONTINtTED.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-There is nothing beThe order of the day being callcd:
fore the Chair.
Resuming the adjourned debate on thie
for the. third reading (Bill 98) An
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There is a question motion amend the Exciiequer Court Âct, and
Act to
of privilege. It is xny privilege to raise this mi the motion in amendment of the hon. Mr.
be net
That the said
question, because it relates to the businesa Mr. Beloourt, time, but that itBill amendednow
by
be
read a third
of the House.
adding the following clause thereto:
5. The Judge of the Exchequer Court may,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I fail to see any privi- froim time to time, and either temporarily or
permanently or for special cases, with the
lege in it.
approval of the Governor in Council, a ppoint
arn here in the ex- as deputy judge any persan having *the reHon. Mr. LANDRY-I
Section
ercise of my righit when I ask for the quisite qualifications mentioned in whenever2
hereof, provided such appoine
day. called upon to act as suc h deputy judge in
minutes containing the orders of the
I arn told they are flot liere, and that it ia the, province of Quebec and Manitoba, is prolanguages, and such
two
due to the negligence of aur afficers. I ficient in the shall officiai and exercise ail such
have
deputy judge
want that officer to bejurisdiction, powers and authority as are
-possesed hy the, judge of the Exchequer
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Court rnartialed.
Court.
<a> The appointmeat of a deputy judge shall
Han. Mr. LANDRY-No, I wvant to hear not b. deterinined by' the occurrence of a.
vacancy in the office of the. judge.
his defence.
(b) The judge of the. Exciiequer Court mayHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-That with the. approval of the Governor in Council
time revoke the. appointment of a
there has been neglîgence, or some sort of at any judge.-(Hon. Mr. Belcourt.)
deputy
I was with the clerk
a blunder, is obviaus.
on Saturday night when lie called the atHon. Mr. BELCOURT-I do not intend
tention of the officer whose duty it was to to take up the time of the House in makattend to this matter, to the fact that the ing any furtiier rernarks on the motion.
papers were flot ready, and told hirn that Whiat was said thc other day pretty wcll
lie would bie held responsible if there was covers the ground. I would beg once more
any delay, intirnating that dismissal woul ta remind hion. gentlemen that this clause
follow. I niake this statement in justice is ahnost verbatim tlic section which is
to the clerkz, because I thought frorn some found in the Adrniralty Court Act.
words which fell frorn my hion. friend that
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I wish ta raise
the blarne was attached to hirn. Having
heard the interview between the clerk and a point aio order. I have no desire ta inthe officer in question, I know that the terrupt rny lian. friend in .discussing this
clerk is not to blame. I may say in refer- question; but as it is a matter whicli may
ence to the ofFicer whose duty it was to lead ta very considerable discussion, since
attend to the miatter, lie assured the clerk it involves a vcry important question, the
that the papers would be ready in tirne for appaintrnent of deputy judges, &c., I arn
the mneeting this rnorning. They are xiot of opinion that this Chamber bas no
authority ta grant this legisiation-that At
here. however?
under Appropriation and TaxaHon. Mr. LANDRY-I had no thought o! would corne
tion Bis. I would refer my hion. friend te
casting blame on the clerk, but if his orders
have flot beeni obeyed wve should ascertain Bourinot, page 626:
whv.
general rule, public Buis may originAs
ate iaa either Hocuse, but ivlienever they grant
any kiud, or involve directly or
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I. supplies ofthe levyiing or appropriation of any
iiidirectly
arn not conversant with the details, but 1 tax upon the people, they must be initiated
should suppose our clerk might read for in thie popular brauch in accardance with
practice. * l* If
the information of the lion. gentleman the law and constitutiontil
any of thase Bis are sent dowil with clauses
sunirary of proceeding-s which should be involving public expenditure or public taxation, the Commnous cannat accept them.
subrnitted ta the Hause.

SENATE
1 would refer my hon. friend te the principle involved in the proposed ainendinent,
namely, the appointment of deputy judges.
That certainly involves expenditure inidirectly, if flot directly, and certainly would
corne within the text of the authority 1
have just read. I would invite my hion.
friend's consideration te, that feature cf
the amendment, and ask the ruling of the
Speaker.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I do flot question the principle, and I arn quite aware
of the authority which my hon. friend
quoted. Every one ini this House knows
the rules. but we do not agree on the facts.
My hon. friend assumes that this directly
or indirectly implies an appropriation of
public funds. I submit that it dees net.
There is nothing on the face of it certainly
te point te a direct application cf the priaciple, and there is nothing whatever te
show that indirectly there is going te be
a call made upon the publie treasury. As
* matter of fact, the werk which is asked
to be done here by the appointment cf a
deputy judge, is work which bas been, in
the past, done by the registrar cf the Exchequer Court and it is in the contemplation
-in mine et ail events and in the contemplation cf other hion. members cf this House
-that the work cf the deputy judge ehould
be performed by the registrar. He has
acted in these cases, and is willing te nct
as in the past, 'without remuneration.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would point
out te niy hion. friend that the duties cf the
registrar in the instances alluded te have
been exerciaed at the instance of the judge
of the Exchequer Court; but my hon.
friend proposes that the Governer General
may, cf his ewn motion, appoint deputy
judges te act in the office indicated. Surely
the hon. gentleman is scarcely credulous
enough te believe that lawyers will ho
found te act in that capacity at the instance cf the government without emolu.
ment.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I repeat, and I
say it advisedly, and after conferring with
the gentleman, that if he is appointed
deputy judge, as it is in contemplation hie
should be, he is going te perforrn that
work without any remuneration.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You do net limit
it te one particular officer.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I do net.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You give a wide
power te the Governor in Coundil.
Hon. Mr. BELCOtJXT-I point eut a wsy
in which my amendinent can be worked
eut without the expenditure cf money. If
this motion is carried, and the registrar cf
the court is appointed deputy judge, I say
that there shall be ne expenditure cf
rneney. I therefore show, in one way at
Ieast, why the principle is net applicable
te this case. Se that neither directly nor
indirectly, dees the motion imply, at the
present time, an expenditure cf meney. I
do net think the objection is well taken.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt appears te me that the position taken
by the hon, leader cf the opposition ia
seund; that undoubtedly, a charge wiil be
indirectly placed on the publie exchequer,
and it ia ne anawer at ail te say that the
government might get along by causing
the present registrar te ho made deputy
judge. The government could net bind
themseîves te de anything cf the kind, and
if they appoint a deputy judge, there ia
ne doubt hie will have te be paid.
Hon. Mr. BELCOUJRT-I arn net asking
my hion. friend or the goverament te apptint a deputy.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt is perfectly clear that indirectly a charge
rnay ho placedon the public funds if this
amendment should be accepted.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I can only repent
what I have said. I have pointed eut a
way in which thia amendment, if carried
by this House, can ho given full effect te
without any expenditure cf money; and
that is by the appointment cf the regiatrar
as deputy judge, se that I say, and I think
I arn quite -ithin logic and truth, that
there is net any neceasary expenditure connected with this. There rnay be. It might
ho made an occasion for spending money;
but it cen be carried eut without any expenditure. Therefore it does not infringi,
upon the principle.

MAY 17, 1909
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- give a answer definitely, I think it shonld
Therefore I cannot follow my lion. friend be postponed ta give him Lime to study the
there.
maLter a littie further.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I think
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-To have the question completely before the House I will the principle of interference with the expenditure of public money by the Senate is
again quote fromn Bourinot:
well known and defined, that the Senate
If any Bis are sent down from the Sonate can express an opinion which would be
with clauses involving pblic expenditures
or publie taxation, the &Gomons
cannot ac- an advice ta the government, though it
cept them. Such Bills, may b. ordered to be might involve an expenditure -by the govlaid aside. The sme practice is also- strict- ernment if the advice were accepted. is
ly carried out in the case cf ainendments
made by the. Sonate to Commons Bills. quite clear. I think that question has often
Latterly, howeyer, it is not; always usual ta been discussed and decided in the Hanse
lay snob Bills imrnediately amide, but ta send of Gommons,
and iL is more applicable t?
thein back to the Sonate with reasons for disagreeingL to such arnendments o that the this Hanse than the Gommons. My hion.
Upper Hlouse may have an opportunity of friend's motion expresses an opinion that
withdrawing them. As an illustration of
the trictness with which the Gommons ad- sncb and such a thing shonld be done, that
here ta their constitutional privileges in this would be tantamount ta advice of the Senrespect, it may be mentioned that on 2Srd
That might be
of May, 1874, a Bui was returned from the ate ta the gavernment.
Senate, with an amendmnent providing for an affirmed or rejected, and that would be
increase ini the quantity of land granted ta strictly within the rights of parliament;
settlers in the northwest. The premier and
ot.her ipemubers doubted the right of the but when you propose a resolution which
Sonate to increase a grant of land-the public in itself, if carried, involves an expendilands being, in the opinion of the House in Lure becanse iL is directory ta the governthe saine position as the publio revenues.
The amendment was cnl adopted with an ment, instead of being advisory, it seems
entry in the journals that the Commons did ta me it is clearly out of order. I know
nat th!ink it necessary at that late period cf
that the question was discnssed in the
the session.
Hanse of Gommons over and over again.
That seems ta indicate that it is mnerely It was discussed on one occasion when I
in the power of the House ta accept or not mnoved the resolution, althongah at that time
accept what the Senate may suggest, leav- iL was only for the purpose of expressing
ing the Senate at liberty to suggest any- an opinion that such and snch a tbing
thing they please, and I think that is what shonld be done. Bourinot, at that Lime, taok
is done freÉiuently when a Bill originates exception ta it as being ont of order. Howin this House, or a Bill ls ainended ini this ever, upon subsequent thought, he .seknowHanse, impoBing a fine or penalty. That is ledged that hie was wrong; that parliament
lef t in blank, and the Hanse of Gommons bas the right ta express an opinion which
fills it in. In the present instance, if there .is an advice ta the government, because
is Bomething ta be paid ta the officer men- it involved na expenditure. But if the resotioned in the ameudment, the salary is luti ,on can be so construed, and really does
not even mentioned and it is not in- involve an expenditure, iL is clearly beyond
volving any expense at all. WhyP Be- the province of this Hanse. I know it is
cause hie cannat be paid, unless other sa in the Gommons, but particularly so in
arrangements are made, aind the Hanse the Senate.
of Gommons in its Bill of subsidy bas
Hon. Mr. GLORAN-It wauld be a matter
voted the money for that purpose.
No for regret if this motion should be thrown
payment will be made if it is not ont on a technicality.
authorized either by the statute itself or
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It 14
by the Appropriation Act, and, as there
not a technicality.
is nothing in the statute, where is the
anthority ta pay? If there is no expendiHon. Mr. CLORAN-Well, an the point
ture possible, why shonld we say that there of order which has been explained by the
is one in passing sncb an amendment? lion. gentleman from etadacona, and rendIf the riglit hion. gentleman is not able ta 1in- fully, not partially, the rule from Bauri-

SENATE
not, according to that authority this motion
is flot out of order. The latter part of his
opinion in regard to these matters fully
bears out the stand taken by the hion, gentleman fromn Ottawa, and the objeet of this
motion is one that has commanded attention in the province of Quebec and else'where, where the rights of the people are
set aside by the gentleman who is now
Exchequer Court judge, and the people of
that province do flot intend to tolerate such
a condition of things any longer. That is
plain, and it is the fact.

AIl aida and supplies granted to Hler Majeety by the parliament of Canada are the
sole gift Of the HOuse of Cornmons, and all
Buis for granting suoh aids and supplies
ought to begin with the Houa., as it is the
undoubted right of the Houa. te direct, limit
and appoint in ahi such Bills, the ends, purposes, considerations, condittions, limitations
and qualifications of sucli grants, which are
flot alterable by the Senate.
Now, there comes down from. the House
of Commona a Bill to amend the Exchequer Court Act, and we propose attaching to that Bill an amendment creating a new office for the appointment by
the Governor in Council of deputy judges.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would point out
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Wjthout salary.
to my hou. friend that hie is not dealing(
with the question of order. He can apeak
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hion. friend
to the question of order, but flot to the
from Ottawa is too good a parliamentarian
merits of the proposition.
to insert in hîs amendment any such proHon. Mr. CLORAN-I arn explaining the vision as that, ' without salary.'
object of the motion, and I say it would be
Hon. 'Mr. BELCOURT-Where is the apa. pity to have it thrown eut on a point o!
order. 1 aay it is not well taken, accord- propriation of one cent of public money?
in." to Bourinot, and as explained and read
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-When we proby the hon, gentleman fromn Stadacona.
On a full reading of Bourinot, not partial, vide in a Bill for the creation of an office
not hiding the meaning of! Bourinot, the by the Governor in Council, and particuobject o! the Bill is one that justifies the larly o! judges, there is enly one inference
Senate in taking action in the rnatter. It to be drawn fromn it, that that office carla one that appeals to a large sectir.n. of ries with it an emolurnent.
our people in this country, and I simply
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I have answered
express their views and wishes in the mat- that.
ter, that it would be a matter of regret to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My .-hon. friend
retard legisiation of this kind for anether
does not provide for that in his motion.
Year or two years, and prevent people obtaining their rights under fair and impartial If my hon. friend puts that in his motion
circumastances in the law courts of eur coun- it becomes a dîfferent proposition.
try. We are flot dealing with the merit3
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I have shown my
of the amendment. 1 arn not entering upon hon. friend that
the inference is altogether
any discussion, or expressing any dis- imaginary.
paragement whatever of the amendment;
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But the inferenco
but this la a matter of law, it is flot even
a matter of practîce. It is a inatter pro- is, if you create an office for the performvided for by the British North America Act, ance of officiai duties o! this character, it
scin53, which says:
involves an emolument.
Bills for appropriating any part of the
The SPEAKER-Had I understood that
publie revenue or for imposing any tax or
impoat shall originate iu the Hlouse of this question would arise I would have
Coliimons.
taken more pains te investigate it further;
but as a matter of interest I looked into it
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-What is there in
this Bill appropriating one cent of moneyP -%ith a view of seeing how the law stands
on the subject, and I met a fairly instrucHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I will corne to tive case on the subject which seems to me
that. A standing order of the House of gave a point to the objection which has
Commens declares exp]icitly:
been taken to-daNr. In order to put myHon. Mr. CLORÂN.

MAY 17, 1909l

self right, on reference to the British doubtedly remain niost unsatisfactory. The
judge is absolutely dependent upon the
North America Act, it will be found in sec- ministry of the day for the psyment of any
tion 100:
salary, and has to corne before parliament as
Salaries, allowances and pensions of the a suppliant to ask that a salary be gis-en him.
judges cf the superior, district and county It is diBolult to conceive a position of a.
judge so placed
courts <except the courts of the probste in greater dependence. .No
Nova Sootia and New Brunswick) and of the could indeed properly exercise the duties of
admiralty courts in cases cf the judges there- bis office.'
of are for the time beling paid by salary,
Those observations appear to me to give
shah bhofixed and provided by the parliament
That
point to the issue now before us.
of Canada.
being so, it appears to me that the -words
In addition te that, we have the provis,from Bourinot, which have been quoted,
ion in section 96:
should have application to this clause. It
The Governor General shall appoint the
judges cf the superior, district and county is laid down more strongly in May than
courts in each province, except those cf the it is set out in Bourinot. The question 15
courts of probate in Nova Sectia and New discussed at page 5î4 of the llth edition
Brunswick.
of May. .It is pointed out there that this
From 'this it will be seeu, first, that the
rule in reference to the property of interprovision respecting payment cf judges is
fering by legisiation applies not merely
vested in the parliament cf Canada, and
to the initiation of legisiation, but to
the obligation rests there; and secoudly,
amending clauses introdu'ced in the Bill
the appointmeuts mnust be made by the when they impose a burden on the people.
Governor General. That beiug the provisMay says:
ion cf the British North America Act, cf
and usage based upon that
By the
course it. goverus. Then passing on te the resointion,practice
the Lords are excluded, not only
question whichi has been raised directly from the power- of initiating or amending
with public expenditures or
here to-day, we find it laid down as one Bills dealing also from initiating publie Bills
revenue, but
cf the princîples, practically a principle cf which would create a charge upon the people
justice, that the provision for payment of by the imposition of local and other rates,
with
or which
judges shahl always be provided for by the ernploymentdeal those the administration or
Bis which
charges.
of
government befere or at the time of the thus infringe the privileges of the Gommons
when received from the Lords, are either
appointment, and that may be regarded as
laid acide or postponed for six monthc.
anl essential for the purpose cf assuring
It follows, accordingly, that the Lords msy
the indepeudeuce cf the judiciary. The not-amend the provisions in Bills which they
with the
from the
case that I have seen most instructive on receii-e mentioned Gommons dealing to slter
subjects, so as
above
that is a case ef the judicial committee cf whether by increace or reduction, the amount
the Priv.v Council, Buckley vs. Edwards, cf a rate or charge-its duration,. mode of
41;essient. levy, collection, appropriation or
(Law reports, 1892, appeal cases, 397). mnageient; or the persons ivho pay, rewhere the question came up as te the pro- ceive, manage or control it; or the limita
forms of
is leviable.
priety, or regularity, or legality cf the ap- within which itthe Lords have Other been held
also
amendment by
pointment cf a judge made in New Zes- to infringe upon the privileges of the Gomand, ne provision having heen made for mons, such as an addition of the clause p 'oviding that payments into snd out of the
hic salary, and in the course cf the judg- consolidated fund should be mnade under the
nment 'on that, Lord Hersehieli gave a judg«- samne regulations as were applicable by l'tw
to other similar payments; of provisions for
ment in which thiese words occur:
the payment of sala rie; to oifficers of the
Their lordships need not dwell upon the court of chancery out of the suitorc' fund;
importance of înaintainiug the independence and alterations in a clause prescribing the
cf the judges; it cannot be douhted that, order iu which charges on the revenues of a
whatever dissdvantage msyý attach to such a colouy should be paid.
system, the public gain is, -on the whole,
It is clear that the initation of a Bill or
great. It tends to secure an impartial sud
fearhess administration cf justice, and sets amendment or clause is g2overned by the
as a salutary safeguard sgainst any arbitr- general principle. 1 do not feel very
ary action of the executive. The mischief
likely to result if the construction contended strongly on that point, but I am inclined
for by the respoudeut be adopted, iq forcibly to think that this ameudment infringes the
pointed out hy one of the hearned judges, who mile, and so I hold.
held the appointment now in ques~tion to be
valid. He eaid: ' In the present caqe, until
Honi. Mr. LANDRY-It rests with the'
such time as the matter may be in.ally dealt House to say wvhether a Bill shall be acwith by parus nient, the pofitioli w 11 uni-

SENATE
cepted or rejected; but on a question of
order I do flot see anything that justifies
the Speaker in ruling the amendment out
of order. Where is the ruie we infringa?
It may ha a question of policy or privi.
lege.

flie House se that the right hon, leader
of the House may have an eppertunity te
ascertain the feeling et the government
towards the amendment in its prasent form.

Hon. .Mr. BELCOURT-I arn agreeable.

The order was pestpened until the neut
Hon. Mr. POWER-If 1 understand, bis
sitting ef the House.
honour bas ruled that this amendment is
beyond the power of this House te make.
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I stand upon this
SECOND READING.
ruie:
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
The Speaker prserves erder and decides meved the second readingc of Bill (Ne. 106)
to appeal froin the
of order subject
§ueetions In explaining a point of order or An Act to amend the Railway Act.
Ha
nate.
practice h. states the ruie or authority appli- said: The nain provisions of the Bill are
cable te the case.
with reference te the levai crossings which
I arn asking where is the rule?
we had under discussion for such a length
Hon. Mr. POWER-His Honour bas ef time in this House, and aise te make a
grant of oe million dollars, divided inte
given the authority.
fiva sums of two hundred thousand dollars
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Where is the raie? a year, for the purpose of aiding in the
construction o! such protection at varieus
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I accept the decrossings as may ha recornmended by tha
ciuion of the Speaker, and I propose now to
Boarxd et Raiiway Commissionexts.
eliminate fromn my motion ervery possible
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
vestige of an expenditure of public meney.
there anything in this Bill othar than givI therefore move:
That the Governor in Council may, upon ing them power te borrow monay to pay
the recommendation of the Judge of the the dabts coming due?
Exohequer Court from time te time, appoint
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTtihe registrar of this court as deputy judee, There are soe miner clauses, but thay
provided the said registrar has the qualifications required by this Act and is proficient chiefiy regard the question ef levai crossin the two official languages, and such deputy ings as te which we had a long discussion
judge shall have and exercise ail such jurisdiction, powers and authority as are possess- in this Ho use, and I may observa that the
ed by. the judge cf the Exchequer Court.
amendments made by the Sanate saem te
In changing the wording cf my motion, 1 have baen substantially adopted. We"could
have wholly eliminated every shadow of discuss the clauses better ln committea.
contention that there la any expenditure cf
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
publie money in view. My motion, as now
is a clause which deals with the question
framed, would not be open te objection.
of hevel crossings.
Hon. *Mr. ROSS (Haiifax)-Dees flot my
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHThon. friand dictate te the gevernment what Yes, and the special grant of $2W0,000 a
appointmant they should maýke? That is year.
a matter which the government have te deThe motion wvas agureed te, and the Bill
cide for themselves. They should net be
dictated te by this Heuse in making ap- wvas read the secend tinie.
pointments.
.The House resolved ît.seif into a Cernmittea et the Whola on the Bill.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-There is ne dictatien; it is simply giving power te make
the appointment.

(In the Committee).
On clause il,

Hon. Mr. POWER-I respectfully suggest
il. The Railway Act is amended by adding
the prepriety ef letting this order ot the thereto the following section:âSL.
The provisions et this Act shaîl apply
day stand over until the next meeting ef toHon. Mr. L.INDRY.

MAY 17, 1909
(a> any and ail raiiway companies incor- and litigation. There must be aomne conporated elsewhers than in Canada and own- crete case ini view that the govern<ment deing, controlling, operating or running trains
or rolling stock upon or over amy line or sires to reach in passing legisiation of this
lines of railway in Canada, oither owned, kind. Very comprehensive powers are encontrolled, leased or operated by such rail- acted about some isolated case. It would
way company or compames, whether in
siter suh onerhi, control, or oper- be desirable to know the conditions which
ase
ation la acquired by purchase, lease, agree- have given nuse te this legislation.
ment, control cf stock or by any other means
wýhat.oever;
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT<b) Âny and ail raiiway companies operating or running trains from any point in the The special case is in reference te those
United States to any Point in Canada.
ronds which cross the Ontario penlusula,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Has my right more particuiarly the Michigan %Southern
hon. fniend amy information on that point? Railway.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Of course, if it
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTwere operating its railway between the
As to the number o! ronds to which it 'will
United States and Canada. I then could
applyp
appreciate its application; but as it deals
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, and as te oniy with controlling, opernting and runthis phase, that *possibly might arise; there ning trains or rolling stock upon or
might be a railway whose cars were used over any lime or lines»of railway in Canon a provincial rond and would flot be ada, I cannot very well appreciate its apwithin the jurisdiction cf the parliamnent plication through. the language s0 exof Canada. This section apparently is Bo pressed.
Possibly if my hon. friend had
cemprehensive as flot to permit cf any dis- an opportunlty of seeig the Minister of
tinction being drawn between nailwaya Railways, he would ascertain what gave
within the juriadiction cf the panliament cf ri.se te that particular clause.
Canada and the nailwayd within the jurisHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTdiction cf the provinces.
In that case, we can put the Bill through
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTthis stage, and, perhaps, have the inI have ne particular information about that formation for my hon. friend on the third
beyond the fact that this was intended te reading. My. hon. friend's remarks refer
cover the case cf foreign railways operat- simply te the case of foreign railways opering in Canada.
ating in any form or ahape in connectic)n
with a Canadian railway.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, operating
wl observe that it applies te foreign railway companies owning, controlling, oper- rolling stock on a provincial road. It will
ating or running trains or nolling atock be observed that the section which. we
upen or ever any line or lines ef rnilway amend simply applies te ail railwnys within Canada. It is intended te reach rolling ini the legisiative authority of the parliastock of cempanies, and that rolling stock ment o! Canada, other than government
might possibly be confined te provincial rnilways, and these restrictive wordsfound
roads.
in the original aection-that is section 5
of the Railway Act-do net seem to apply
Hon. Sir RICHARD OARTWRIGH-T-I
to this subsection. If those words were
have ne speciai ' information, but I can made applicable te this particular subobtain information on any peint the hon. section, then it would. be quite proper,
gentleman desires. I understand the in- namely, rniýlways within the legisîntive autention was te bring ail these foreign com- thority of the parliament of Canada. But
panies under our contrel, ne matter on those words do not seem te npply te,
what rend they eperate.
those two metions.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems te me
if that is net limited te railways within Does the hon. gentleman suggest the inthe juxisdîctîon cf the parliament cf Can- troduction of an- words in eiather subada, it may possibly give rise te cenflict clauses <a) or (b)?

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If those words
were added 'Within the legisiative authority of the parliament of Canada,' I could
understand it very iveil. It would then
give jurisdiction.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The
ready used in clause 8.

words are al-

Hon. Mr.LOUGHEED-Yes, but it woulcl
not apply to this. My hion. friend will observe those roads mentioned in sub-clause
B are rnfnifestly under the jurisdiction of
the parliament of Canada, without mention
heing made of the fact, because automatically they corne under the British North
America Act.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIf an ernendation were made, it would probably require to be made in line 18, «Controlling, operating or running trains or
rolling stock, upon or over any line, or
lines of railway in Canada under the jur.
isdiction of the parliament r-f C.-oa'la.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, or to use
the expression already in the Act, 'Within the legislative authority of the parliament of Canada.'
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYes: The introduction of those words
would meet the case the lion. gentleman
speaks of. I will takie a note of it.
The clause was adopted.
On section 13-Rate of speed at certain
crossings.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
this section is agreed to, I wvish to say I
amn of the opinion that the Senate lias
cause to conmrratulate itself on having
secured the adoption of the principle laid
dowii in the resolutions which they passed
in reference to level crossing-s, and the rate
of speed at wvhich trains should go over
theni.
H-ad the goverrnment taken this
ctep before so much trouble hiad arisen
betveen the two Houses on this question,
ill this controversy might have been
avoided. We had the leader of the govemnment in the House of Commons, together
,with sorne of his colleagues, voting for what
is known as the Lancaster Bill, and wve had
afterwards the spectacle of their voting for
the amendrnents made by the Senate, beHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

]ieving that the clauses in the Bill as it
was originally presented were non-effective;
that, in fact, it would not have acconiplished the object which the advocates of
the principle of slow- trains at crossings
sought-had the government taiken the sanie
position we would flot have ha-d this discussion about the obstructive character of the Senate.
There is one point
in this Bill that seems to nie rather
incongruous. In this clause it provides
that the slackening of speed should only
take place at certain crossings, after somebody lias been ki]led. Lt seems to me that
in a clause of this kind the object in view
should be to prevent accidents taking place,
aind not close the door after the accident
lias occurred. It is necessary that provision should be made, but it should be
made, it strikes me, before an accident calis
for it.
Hon. 'Mr. MclSWEENEY-I think so, too.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-However, it is in a line with the policy adopted
by the Senate, and, therefore, to my mind.
should be accepted. There is a provision
iii one clause in the Bill by which I arn
led to the conclusion that there are expenses imposed upon municipalities under
certain circumstances which should not be
irnposed. I have always understood the
principle in dealing with questions of this
kdiid, where land is to be expropriated, or
m-here a change is- to take place, cr ini cases
where through the growth of population At
is necessary to make changes, that the expenses should, under certain circumstances,
be incurred solely by the railway coinpanies, and in other cases it should be
incurred parts-, if flot wholly, by the municipalities. For instance, if the road is munning through a portion of the country where
there is no population on the orig-inal
construction of the road, thiere is no necessity for providingc protection; but afterwvards, wvhen the country has become populated and it is necessary thien to make
crossirigs, in that case it seems to me the
expense should be borne by one party, and
whien the road bas been buiît where population existed at the time of construction,
it should be iniposed upon the other. However. that question was fully discussed,
and I arn not raisin,« it now; 1 arn merely

MAY 17, 1909
giving expression to the opinion as to what
I think the law should provide. On the
whole, I arn very glad that the views of the
Senate were to a very large extent adopted
by the governiment and embodied in this
Bill. To my mind it justifies the position
taken by this House ini rejecting an amendment to the Act which. they believed would
not effeet the object which the promoters
of it liad in view, laudable though it might
be.

6121

is altogether too fast. Nobody would be
allowed to drive a team o! horses through
a thickly populated place at such a rate
of speed. From my knowledge of what lias
occurred in the city where I live, most ac
cidents occur wlien trains run very slowly
in thickly populated places. People do not
take care in crossing railway tracks, or
the driver lias not been in a fit state to
look out for himself.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. gentleman
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I wvould flot make any from St. John lias given expression to an
remarks. upon this Bill if it were not for opinion which. was stated in another place,
0f that this amended provision adopted by the
the observations of_ my hon. friend.
course, the mnatter wvil1 present itself to dif- Senate was afterwards adopted by the
ferent minds in different aspects. The way House of Commons because, otherwise the
1 view this question, the Senate was in- Bill might not pass.
fluenced by the action of the House in this
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I was referring- sole]%,
matter. The Senate first rejected the Bill to the restrictions in the Bill.
and set itself up not only ag-ainst the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Something- of the
House, but ag-ainst the opinions of the
kind was said in the Commons, thereby
country and maintained that p.bsition
and uindeserved
until . it wa.s compelled by public opinion throwing a very strong
gentlemen on' responsibility on the Senate. In that conand hy the action of some
it is but proper to cali public attenthe floor of the Senate to do something, nection,
tion to this fact, that both during this sesnnd it passed an amendment which the
bouse
ana ]ast session, when tis
government has accepted; and I arn verv sion
deait with the 'Lancaster Bill, the position
glad, in order to get something practical
taken by those who favoured the amienddone, that it was accepted, although I
ment was that they were presenting to the
wvould rather have seen adopted the proa better measure than
position submitted by îny lion. friend from bouse of Gommons
the Lancaster Bill as introduced here, and
Marshfield. I would like to make this
that if the other bouse insisted upon keepfurther observation, that in the Hlouse of
th Bill as it passed in that House.
Conîmons there are a great rnany criticisrns
thnit would be the duty of the Senate ta
of the'Senate. I think any. man who would
with
write a review of the proceedings and the give wav and leafe the responsibility
That was the position 'taken
capacity and abîhîty of the House of Coin- the Commons.
other
nions, must be struck with the ease withi throughout by myself and by several
also the fact
fronm one side to the senators, and I may recaîl
which they swung
member front De Lorimier
other upon this question, and the govern- that the, lion.
îiot escape the honest published over his own signature a letter
ment itself could
Montreal paper after the'
criticisrn of hionest men in allowing the to that effect in a
returned
and Bill had been amended here and
legislation to ' o in the first instance,
to the Gommons for their consideration.
then corning back to the leg-islation adopted
infer that the bouse
here. 1 just state thiat as miv own view Therefore, we must
of Gommons adopted the amended Bill beof the situation that, on the whole. the
best mea]egeislation wvhiclh was broughit forward by cause they deerned it to be the
framed under the cirmy hion. friend from De Salaberry and sure that could be
adopted by this House is accepted on the cumistances.
principie that liaif a loaf is better than - Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Do I understand the
lion, gentleman to say that the bouse of
no bread.
Gommons really adopted the amendments
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I made to the Lancaster Bill by this bouse?
think the rate of ten miles an hour through
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-With some additions.
thickly populited cities, towns and villagei

in

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Does the hon, genHon. Mr. LANDRY-Did they take up the
tleman mean to say that those languages
amendment and consider it?
are on the samne footing as French?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-They did flot conaider our amendment, but they adopted
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There are French
Canadians in all the. provinces, but the
something similar.
numnhers"are so emall that no hon, gentleHon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. member man
'would consider it advisable to inwill find that subsection 3 of clause 13 is
troduce such an ameudment to apply to
word for word the amendment adopted by
aIl of them.
the Senate.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hon. gentleman
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The bon. gentleman refuses to accept
my amend.ment because,
bas not canghit nly point. What I askic l in Lis
opinion, there are not enough French
did the House of Gommons take up the in
Manitoba.
Why refuse it on that
amendmenta made by the Senate to the groundP la it the number
o! people in
Lancaster Bill?
a province that entitlps them to have thefr
rights respected?
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-No.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They
amendment word for word.

adopted

our

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Why not have it in
Ontario? We have a larger population of
French in Ottawa than in Manitoba.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Did they take up
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Because we are not
the message from this House and act upon
,obiiged to use the French language Ini
it? Did they accept or reject the amendOntario.
ments made by the Senate?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-French is flot an
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No, they have
officiai language in Manitoba as it la in
not taicen up our work. They have. adopted.
a Bill o! their own, which cornes te us, Quebec.
and we axe working concurrently on two
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It is an officiai
measures.
language in Manitoba.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-No.
On clause 14,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Why not?
14. Railway eompanies shall print in bothi
the English and French ianguages the timeHon. Mr. WATSON-Because Manitoba
tables and bis cf lading that are te b. used
along their lines within the limite of- the decided te do away with-it some years ago.
province of Quebec.
Hon. Mx. LANJJRY-In the proceedings
Hon. Mr. LANDRY moved that the clause
be amended by adding at the end thereof o! the House, but not i any other way.
the words 'and Ma.nitoba!' He said: We
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-Nor is the
have the same xighfs in Manitoba as in the French language spoken in the legisilature
province o! Quebec.
o! Manitoba.
Hon. Mr. POWER-But you have not the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Any litigant in the
saine population.
courts of Manitoba Las a right te be heard
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is it a question of in French.
population.
Hon.'lMr. POWER-Largely.

Hon. Mr. ROSS
courts of Canada.

(Middlesex)-In

the

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-At the outset the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-So minorities, have
right to use the French language was exno rights?
tended to Manitoba, but an amendHon. Mr. SCOTT-There are many lan- ment passed in 1891 gave the province
guages spoken in Manitoba, Russia-n, Ger- the right to regulate what language
man, Icelandic, &c.
should be used in their proceedings in the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

MAY 17, 1909
legislature, and it was decided that the only
language used should b. English. That
dees net, however destroy the ight cf the
population te use their own language in
the courts.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That iG neft the question befere the committe.
The amendment was rejected.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY, fromn the comrnittee,
reperted the Bill without amendinent.

Hon. Mr. LA1qDRY-I notice by the
order paper-the kind of paper which, has
been plaeed before us-because we have
not yet the printed minutes of Saturday'a
proceedings-that the notice of motion
given this a.m., whicx was placed in the
handa of the Speaker, has since been altered at the table.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Not thai I amn
aware of.

Hon. Mr. LAKDRY-I have the orders
of the day. and I observe that the motion
is that from new te the end of the session,
miles 24, 25, 30, 119, 120, 130 and 131 b.
SECOND SITTING.
suspended. That was the motion, notice
The SPEAKER took the Chair a.t three of whicli was given this morning, but thera
has been added in penci ' 23 F and 24 A.
o'clock.
B, C, D, E, F, G, and J and ruie 117.
Routine proceedings.
I think that is very irregular-at least it
appears that way te mne.
APPOINTMENT 0F INTERCOLONIAL
RAILWAY COMMISSIONERS.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The whole cf mule
24 was suspended.
INQUIRY.

The. Senate adjourned until three o'cleck
te-day.

Hon. Mr. TESSIER inquired ef the gevernment:
If the newly appointed coxumissieners of
the Intercolonial railway, te wit: Messrs. Pottinger, Tiffin and Brady are appointed for
one year or for a terra of years?,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTsio period is specified.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What about 117?
only
Hon. Mr.. DANDURAND-The
change that lias been. made, as I amn informed, is adding the lettera te mule 24.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There was a change.

Hon. Mr. DANDtJXAND-The hon, gentlemen objecta te specifying the subsecSUSPENSION 0F RULES.
tiens of section 24; it could b. 'dropped.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If we suspend mile
MOTION.
24, we wouid net require any subdivision
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND moved:
te the mule, but notice having been given.
That frein now on te the end
the session,
raies 23 (f), 24 (a), <b), <c), (d),of (e), (g>, (h> it should atand without alteration. That
and (j), 30, 63, 117, 119, 129, 130 and 131 be is according te the way that i the past
suspended in se far as they relate te Bis we have considered our miles; but now al
coming before the. Senate.
is changed. The rules exist ne more.
He said: Two motions have been carHon. Mr. DANDURKND-If the hon.
mied already, auspending the miles concerning the divers stages cf certain Bilas gentleman objects to a smail alteratien,
that were pmoceeding before the Senate. I whichi is cf no consequence, we can drop
have suggested that it would be better te it.
suspend ail sucli mules as would prevent
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I said I would acadvancing legisiation frein this on te the cept it. There is a motion before the
end of the session. Our werk may be Chair. I suppose I may be a.llowed te
sufficiently complet. within tue next 48 ventilate my opinions as te that mule and
heurs te allew us te separate, and if tuis to say what I think cf it.
motion were carried if, would expedite
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It would be a debusiness by allowing us te pass Bis witheut waiting for one or two days' notice partume frein the hon. gentleman's practice in the past if he did not.
as our mules provide.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I notice that there
have been ten changes in the motion. I
'want to prove- to my hon. friends that 1
do flot want to be an obstructionist, and I
move in amendrnent:
That ail words after the words 'session'
b. struck out and the following be substituted
therefor:
Ail Bis coming fromn the Bouse of Cornmons fromn now to the end of the session be
adopted without foliowing any rules, and
withont any consideration whatsoever, owing
ta the advanced stage of the eeesion and owing to the danger such Bis wouid encounter
of being passed, if possible amendments
ehouid b. adopted by this Bouse.

Hon:.- Mr. LANDRY-I arn serjous.
I
want every Bill that cornes here to go
through without following- any rules.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A motion of that kind
is not in accordance with the policy of a
delibeirate body. We oughlt not to make
a joke of the solemn business we are engaged in. It would make us ridiculous and
subject us to criticism in the press.

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-There is one very
important Bill to corne before us yet-the
Insurance Bill-and no suspension of the
rules should be adopted which. would fetter
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Does the hon, gen- this Bouse with regcard to that measure.
tleman mean to prevent discussionP
It bas been over two years before the Conamons and the committee of that Bouse
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes. Why discuss% has spent considerabie time over iL. At
a Bill if we cannot amend and send if. the eleventh hour of the session, it shouid
back to the House of Commons? Hon. not be expected that we are to consent to
gentlemen say: «Do not make an amend- suspend the ruies and raiiroad such imrment; you endanger the Bill.' It is very portant legisiation through the Senate. 1
dang-erous for us to suggest an amend- arn opposed to anything of that kind, and
nient. A1Bill arnended in this House might if the motion is adopted, an exception
go to the Commons, and they miglit not
should be made to that measure.
have time there to accept our amendrnents
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
or to pass the Bill.
may relieve my hon. friend's mind with
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-May I ask the hon respect to the Insurance Bill. There is no
gentleman if the motion of the. hon. gentle- intention of forcing iL through the Bouse
mnan from De Lormier is according to the against the wish of any number of mempractice in past sessions?
bers. If there are objections to iL, they
must be considered and the Bill xvii not
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Practice is supreme
be pressed unduly.
according to a recent decision of the SpeakHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
er. We do not require any rules; we are
going to establish this practice, and next original motion will have -precisely the
samne effect as the arnendment, except that
year it wiil be urged as a precedent.
the original motion does not prevent a
Hon. Mfr. DANDURAIND-I may assure consideration of a Bill, while the amendmy hon. friend that if hie moves any amend- nient xvouid. WVhile I hope my hon. friend
ment frorn now to the end of the session xviii not press bis motion, I mnust say it is
which seerna useful, I wiii certainly vote singuiariy unfortunate that it shouid be
for it, so that hoe will at ail events get a necessary, near the close of the session, to
seconder or one to support hirn.
suspend the rules adopted by the House,
LANDRY-But 'how could we not rnerely for the protection of the minHon. M-Nr.
ority, but to ensure ample consideration
better a Bill if we kil! it?
of ail questions corning before us. I know
Hon. 'Mr. DANDURAND The lion. gexi it lbas been the practice towards the end of
tieman certainly ean be huanorous, but lie the session to suspend the rules, and this
wili flot push bis jokie to the extcnt of is not the first tirne I have 1usd to object
pressing bis arnendinent in tlue hands of to such practice. I regret that it shouid
bis, honour the Speaker.
be necessary to take such a step in order
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Nobody shiouid put that prorogation may take place.
jokes into a motion; it is ag-ainst the ruies
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have been asked
of the House.
to withdraw mv airelidrnent.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

MAY 17, 1909

Hon. Mr. WATSON-I would rather have
the decision oi the House upon it. I think
the hion. member who takes such a position as the hion. memiber from Stadacona
has taken to-day shouid be exposed by a
vote cf the"Hous.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not altogether
differ in sentiment from the hion. gentleman behind me <Hon. Mr. Watson), but
hie must remember that aur Minutes vil
go down to future ages, and those who read
them may think we weîe in ea.rnest, and it
would net be to the credit of the Senate
in the year cf aur Lord 1909 that a resolution such as this amendment is should be
seriously moved and considered. The peopie would say in the year 2000, flot knaving that we were given to joking here, that
it wvas a curiaus motion. I hope my hion.
friend wiii not persist in objecting to the
xvithdrawal ai the motion.

before the second reading. I assume that
the right hion. gentleman who Ieads the
Senate has no objection to that.
Hon.
No.

Sir

RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-

Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-Is it the desire of
the House that the matter which. has been
discu-iged for the last haif hour shall be
expunged from oui debatesP
The SPEAKER-The motion bel ore me
is for the suspension of the rules.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think the best
way out of the difficulty is the «nethod
which. the lion. gentleman from Halifax
touched en passant, without discust3ing it
any more in this House. Why make a
motion te expunge it. If the hon. gentleman wants to press the motion by force
let hlm do so.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I think the matter
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The withdrawal of had better be left to the discretion of the
the motion viii net erase it from the re- hion. gentleman.
cord, because the amendment will appear
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Is it the desire of
in the « Debates.'
his honour the Speaker that any hion. ruemaHon. Mr. EDWARDS-I4 sympathize vith ber may expunge from oui debate-any
the views ai the hion, gentleman frem Hali- words that hie may have spoken in this
If so our debates should be
fax. It would be very undesirable that House'
The abolished.
this amendment should be pressed.
hion, gentleman has expressed a wish ta
The amendaient vas withdrawn and the
withdraw it and should be permitted to do
motion was agreed ta.
fia.
GRAND TRUNK PACIFIO LOAN BILL.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-In view of the opinHon. Mr. PERLEY-Before the orders
ion expressed on bath sides of the House,
I ask permission to vithdraw my amend- of the day are called, I want to make an
ment, because it recites the saine thing exiplanation with reference to what I inas the original motion, except in this way, tended to have done in respect to the Bill
that under the first motion we may dis- passed so veiy solemnly the other day, the
cuss and adopt, while under my amendment Grand Trunk Pacific Loan Bill. I intended
we may adapt without discussion.
ta have spoken in regard to it, and I
vati in my place for four different sittings
The amendment was withdrawn.
fromn the time the Senate opened tiil we
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do net wish ta take closed at night, and had not an opportunany action vhich would unduly prolong ity. Time vas occupied by procedure simthe session or prevent us froma getting ilar to that which we have had to-day. and
away at a certain appointed time, but I I became disgusted snd concluded I would
trust it is distinctly understaod that if an not speak that night but would do s0 on
important aneasure cornes up heom the the third reading; but to my surprise the
Commons it ahall net be read a second third Teading vas carried at the last sittime imrnediately aiter being brought in. ting cf the House. I intended to move the
but that the members ai this House shal adjournment of the House to-day to enhave an opportunity ta study the measure able me to speak, but I do not want
IlEVIED EDITION

SENATE
to detain parliament at this stage of the
session. and I propose ta let the inatter
drop. 0f course I would not speak 'with
the expectation that my words would have
any effect, because the governent can
pass Bis through this House anyway
Whatever the govwithout controversy.
ernment desire ta introduce, even if it
were a Bill ta build a railway to the
moon, it would carry, and it is a waste of
time, ta My mmnd, ta oppose it.

GANADIAN NORTHERN RAILWAY BILL.
FIRST READING.
Bill <No. 196) An Act respecting certain
aid for the extension of the Canadian Northern Railway was read a first time.

Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-Has my right
hon. £riend any knowledge as to whether
this is in the shape of a subsidy Bill or
will there be another?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
BILL INTRODUCED.
is flot a subsidy Bill at ail, as I understand
Bill (No. 147) An Act ta amend the Cold it. I think it is merely extending certain
Cart- powers the company possess under the deed
Storage Act.-<Hon. Sir Richard
of trust.
wright).

EXOHEQUER COURT ACT AMENDMENT HARBOUR COMMISSIONERS 0F MON1TREAL.
BILL.
FIRST READING.
FIRST READING.
A message was received from the House
Bill (No. 19-2) An Act ta provide for
af Commons with Bill (No. 151) An Act further advances ta the Harbour Commissioners cif Montreal was read a first time.
ta amend the Exchequer Court Act.
The Bill was read a firat time.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-To
what extent are the advances?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved that the Bill be.read a second time
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTat the next sitting of the House.
The purposes af this Bill is ta allow of the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can my hon. interest on the advances during the construction af works being charged ta capifriend say wvhat this means?
tal account, which it appears wvas necesHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- sary ta be provided for.
It is giving the power ta appeal ta the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is, advances
provincial courts in place of the Supreme
made up ta the present time? Can the
Court.
government say when we may expect the
AND PRINCE ED- Harbaur Cammissioners af Montreal ta pay
INTERCOLONIAL
interest?
WARD ISLAND RAILWAYS PROVIDENT FUND BILL.
lion. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTFIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS. They do pay interest.
Bill (No. 164) An Act ta amend the InHan. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is naw protercolanial and Prince Edward Island Railposed ta consalidate the interest and the
way Emplayees Pravident. Fund Act was
principalP
intraduced and passed through ail its stages
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTwithaut debate.
Only sa far as what is known as interest
on advanc'es While work is being canstructBILLS INTRODUCED.
Bilh (Na. 165) An Act respecting the De- ed. It is a coinmon provision, as my hon.
partment ai Labour.-(Hon. Sir Richard friend knows, in advances made ta railways, and notably to the Transcontinental
Cartwright).
Bill (Na. 174) An Act ta correct a cleri- Railway and of the ather portians of the
cal error in Chapter 63, ai the Statutes ai Grand Trunk Pacifie line.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is a bad pre1908, respecting Railway Subsidies.-(Honi.
cedent ta adout.
Sir Richard Cartwright).
Hou. Mr. PERLEY.

MAY 17, 190W
GOVERNMENT ANNUITIES AMENDMENT BILL.
A message was received from the House
of Commons returning Bill (B) An Act to
amend the Government Annuities Act, 1908,
with an amendment.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe object o! this amendment is simply te
allow husband and -wife, if they choose,
each te have an annuity te the extent of
six hundred dollars. I have no objection
te the amendment.
Hon. Mr. LANIjRY-I do not want te
object te it, but I want to understand it.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-In
the original Act, as passed by the House
last year, a husband and wife together
could only have an annuity to the amount
of six hundred dollars. The House of Commons thinks that the husband might have
an annuity of six hundred dollars and the
wi.fe an annuity of six hundred dollars, if
she chooses te psy for it.

62

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Has my right
hon. friend been able 4o get the information I asked for?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The Minister of Railways is of opinion
that the section is very necessary. It has
been found in practice that soins of these
foreign railways have possessed themselves
of provincial charters for the express purpose of evading andi disregarding the provisions of our general Act, and the Board
of Railway Commissioners have made formal complaint to the department of several
occasions iil which this has been done.
It is te meet this that the Bill has been
framed in the fashion to which my hon.
frîend called attention.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is my hon.
friend under the impression that the parliament of Canada can take jurisdiction
to itself in that way
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I think it can.

Hoýn. Mr. LOUGIVEED-We amended
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have to exthat provision this session. What was our press dissent to that proposition.
amendmentP
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- I think their jurisdiction extends to al
What I did was this: I aliowed the hus- those cases-at least that appeara to be the
band te divide with his wife, if hie saw opinion cf the Department of Justice. If
lit.- I did net interfere with the maximum. it la ultra vires, of course the courts will
Our maximum was six hundred dollars in deal with it.
the case ef husband and wife.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It will give the
.Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And the House of làwyers something te do.
Commons, instead of dividing, want to
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTmnultiply.
It has been proposed that subsection 1, of
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-No, section 208 cf the Railway Act be amended
they gave both powers. The husband can by adding thereto the following words:
divide his annuity if hie sees fit; likewise
that the. company shahl,
the husband and wif e can individually have to Provided further,the. compensation recoverthe. extent of
annuities.
separate
able, b. entitled to.the benefit of any insuranc. affected upon the property by the owner
The aniendrnent was agareed te.
thereof. Sueh insurance shall, if paid before
the amnount of compensation has been deTHIRD READING.
termined, b. deducted therefrom; if not s0
Bill (Ne. 95) An'Act te incorporate the paid, the policy or- pehicies shall b. assigned
to the company, and the. company may mainRoyal Guardians.-(Hen. Mr. Casgrain).
tain an action thereon.
I give notice that I shail move that this
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
be added, but as the matter is one cf some
THIRD READING POSTPONED.
considerabie importance I shahl postpone
The order cf the day being called, third the third reading.
reading Bill (Ne. 106) An Act te amend the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-'We have already
Railway Act.-(Hon. Sir Richard Cartamended section 208.
wright).
401

SENATE
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Ye8.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Does it apply only
to accidents by flue, or does it extend to
accidents by lightning?

who leads this House: These heases, 1 suppose, will be in the regular set form, because if the leases are drawn up by professional men and the regular charge made for
d.rawing them, the govern.ment will net receive ivery much revenue out of the wharfs
duiring the t.hree years.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Accidents by
lire. When the company is called upon te
pay compensation, and the property is inHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My
sured, the company dlaims it ehould be hon. friend has high ideas, but just cnes
entitled to so much of the insurance that I fear, cf the capacity of the profession to
ls collected.
charge.
The order wvas postponed until the flrst
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEED-If a gentleman
sitting to-morrow.
like Mr. Johnson, who is practising law in
Winnipeg, were permitted te establish a
HARBOURS AND FIERS ACT AMEND- tariff with reference te the heases, the srne
MENT BILL.
as be did with regard te certificates cf tithe
on the Transcontinental Railway, it would
THIRD READING.
absorb a large amount cf the rentals.
The House resolved itself into a CerHon. Mr. WATSON-I think the hast remittee of the Whodle on Bill (No. 89) An
Act to amend the Government Harbours mark requires a littie explanation. With
regard te Mr. Johnson, cf Winnipeg, who,
and Fiers Act.
rny hon. friend ays, established a tariff
(In the Cornmittee).
for charges for certificates cf tithe on the
Transcontinental, the hon. gentleman muet
On clause 1,
1. Section 16 of The Government Harbours remember that the highest officer in Maniand Piero Act, chapter 112 of the Revised toba, who je charged with the duty cf taxStatutes, 1906, je repealed and the following ing the fees which lawyers charge, said
je sbstituted therefor16. If the minister deems it advjsable to that Mr. Johnson's charges were fair and
loef to auy povincial government. munici- reasonable, as wehh as the charges of other
pal council, horbour commission, shipping hawyers in Winnipeg.
company, or railway company any wharf,
pier, or breakwater under the contrai of the
Hon. Mr.* LOUGHEED-That does net
minister, tenders by 'public advertisement for
suoh lease shall be invited by the minister alter the correctness of the staternent which
for a term not exceeding three years, and the I made, that it would absorb pretty much
Governor in Council may thereupon lease such cf the rentai the governrnent expect to rewharf, pier or breakwater upon snoh terme
and conditions as are agreed upon: Fro- ceive from thèse wharfs
vided that nothing in this section shah in
The clause was adopted.
terfere with the public use of such wharf
and provided further
On subclause 3,
pie or breakwater; wharf, pier or breakthat the hessee of such
water shail not; char ge wharfage toile or dues
3. The minister shahl hay before parliament,
in oxcess cf the telle and dues established within one month after the, opening of the
under the authority of this Act by the re- thon next session thereof, a statement cf ai
glations for the government of breakwatere, heases made under the provieions cf this Act
piers or wharfs in Canada as approved from and the conditions of such beases.
time te time by the Governor in Council.
Hon. Mr. POWER-With xespect te thi-3
Hon. Mr. POWER-The object of this hast subchause, that is quite right, but it
Bill, as I understand, je te provide that goes on te ssy: 'And the conditions of
the governrnent shall receive corne return such lease.' That would involve a .very
for the expenditure made in the construc- considerable amount cf labour, and I think
tien cf those wharfs and piers, and that it is hardhy necessary.
they may lesse the wharfs or piers te the
The clause wss adopted.
provincial government, municipal council,
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON, from the commitor iridividual or co>mpany. I notice there is
provision made for the making cf a lease. tee, reported the Bill without arnendment.
I throw out this suggestion for the conThe Bill was then rend a third tirne snd
sideration of the right hon. gentleman passed.
Hlon. Mr. LOtJUGHEED.

MAY 17, 1909

THE DEBATES 0F THE SENATE.
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE AMENDED.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS move*d the adoption of
the report o! the Committee on Debates
and Reporting. He said: An errer was
made in printing thie report which appears at page 603 and reads as follows:
Your oommittee recommend that the contract wjth Messrs. Holland Bras. 1cr the
reporting of the Sonate debates b. cancelled
at the end of the present session, and that
thereafter such reporting be made by a staff
oonuisting of one editor and chief reporter,
one junior reporter, one assistant in charge
of copy and three typewriters.
That the report, though not strictly verbatim, should b. substantially a verbatim
report with repetitions and redundancies
omitted, and with obvions mistakes corrected,
but on the ether hand leaving out nothing
that adds to the meaning of the speech or
illustrates the. argument.
That the unrevised edition cf the. debates
of the Sonate be issued to tihe public as is
now don. in the House cf Cominons.
In the first paragraph, aiter the words
chie! reporter,' should appear ' one senior
reporter.'

last session $8,000. according to the report
o! the Auditor General, but that was a
very long session.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That leaves out of
conuideration the cost of the mraterial altogethei. We will have to supply the
plant.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I may say to the
House, that the contract now with the
Messra. Holland is a contract price of $5,240, for the 'Debates' up to six huiidred
pages, and eighty-one and two-thirds cents
per page for ail over that.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Would the shortness or the length of the session determine
to the saine extent as now the cost of the
workP

Hon. Mr. WATSON-It would be a fixed
charge.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It would be $9,800
short or long.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-That je the estimate
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What je the
of the price. about $9,800. The length of
errer?
the session or the ahortness of the session
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Moat hon. gentlemen would not affect it. These persons would
will remember that the matter o! report- become, presumably, members o! the staff
ing the ' Debateâ,' and other matters re- of the Senate.
lating thereto. was before the House on a
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wliat would be the
previous occasion on the report of the
salary o! the chie! reporter?
conimittee, and the House was not satisfied with the report and re!erred it back.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Supposing hie started
Now this je the judgment of the committee at $2,500, he would probably gel. to 42;800
as regarde what should be done to iinprove 'within a reasonable time.
the reporte o! the ' flebates.'
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That je at the start.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Does thjs enHon. Mr. ELLIS-I could not say. The
large the staff or add anything to the exmemo. that I hold'in my hand, editor and
pense of the service?
senior reporter,
chie! reporter. $2,800
assistant in
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It involves a greater $2,500 ; junior, $1,600 ;the
charge of copy reading it over and fixing it
expenditure o! inoney.
for the press, $1,400; three typewriters, $500
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-To what extentP each.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-To anewer my hon.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That quakes .seven
friend !rankly, 1 think it will enlarge the offic"'s.
expense. but o! course the service will bc
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I do nlot know that it
better. Making up a rough etatement
there will be an editor in chief and re- je necessary to add anything more. Tbe
porter, senior reporter, junior reporter, committee made the report with the obone assistant in charge o! copy, and three jeet o! improving the ' Debates ' generally,
typewriters, and an eetimated expense of and having the work done more efficiently.
The Lylessrs. Holland were paid although there je very littie complaint, we
$9,800.

SENATE
admit. A reduction will undoubtedly tak4- Commons mnust have observed that they
edition
place 1 think, in the amount of printing, are far superior to the unrevised
of the Senate. It is because they have a
by leaving out the redundancies.
staff large enough to do the work, and the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That could be done necessary care is taken to improve upon
in the same manner now. If the reporters a verbatim report. It seems to me that as
now were Vo cut out ail the redundancies, we propose to issue the unrevised edition
the same reauit would be attained under to the press and the members of the House
the present systein. Nobody seems to have of Commons, we should ail be interested
the responsibility for doing that.
in having a competent staff and a competreport is sent out
given by ent editor to see that the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The figures
It is true that the
ini the proper form.
the hon. member froin St. John are $9,800. contract price is below $9.800: on the other
It would, of course, cover ail reporting. hand, every session we have been called
The staff would be employees of the Senate,
upon to vote a bonus to the contractors.
snd would do all the reporting noV only of This session the contractors have asked
the House but also ail committee work, that the contract price be increased to
and it would increase the capacity for that $ 11,000, so if we continue the present syspurpose, and enable the reporting to be tern we have td face the probability of the
done with more care. While the cost of
price being raised to $11,000, when we can
reporting would be increased over the presimprove the system by cancelling the conenV contract price, there would be a con- tract and ernploying a proper staff to do
The editor
siderable saving in printing.
the work.
would reduce the length of the report conexpense in
siderably, and noV only save
Hon. -Mr. CLORAN-Did the hon. gentleprinting. but improve the character of the man say that the proposed new staff will
reports. I amn sure we would be surprised be at the service of the different commitif we could obtain froin the Printing Bureau tees?
the expenditure entailed by the corrections
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Of course.
made for the revised edition.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That will be quite
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Is that expense
an advantage.
charged to the Senate?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-0f course it is a
great advantage, and the .three typewriters
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I arn safe in saying, will be at the service of the Senate and its
there is a regular charge for printing. The comniittees.
printing cost us $9,000 iast year.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Would the staff
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The report has to be
be in attendance on the committee and retranslated into French, and printed in
port the discussions?
French, and the volume is unnecessarily
bulky. If we had a competent editor, I arn
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-They would be reguquite satisfied that the size of the volume lar employees of the Senate, at the diswould be considerably reduced, and our posai of the Senate and under the eontrol
volume would be more interesting than of the Senate.
it is at present. Many redundancies and
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Would they be here
repetitions would be omitted and the style
would be very much improved. For my during the adjourninent of the SenateP
part I have no complaint Vo make of the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The salaries which
reporters; but there being only Vwo, they
have been mentioned, I understand, are
are uinable Vo give the saine care Vo the rethe saine as those obtaining in the House
porting that is given in the House of Coinand, the reporters are there
mons. In that House the speeches are of Commons.
edition; we propose during the whole se ssion, and they would
issued in an unrevised
be expected to be there during the recess
Io adopt that plan here. Hon. gentlemen
edition of the as well.
who have read the unrevised
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I think it is.

MAY 17, 1909
-Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is well to have
ail these matters underatood.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think we should
nlot proceed too quickly with this report.
It has the disadvantage of coming here ini
the last days of the session. We do not
know what the changes are to be, and they
will involve the ques~tion of the expenditure of public money. We 'were told a day
or two ago that we had no0 right to discuss money questions in this House, that
would impose taxes upon the*people. Now
we are told that the cost will be increased,
over that of the system at present prevailing.0
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-This is an
absolutely domestie matter with which we
are solely entitled to deal.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-A short time ago
my hon. friend irom Ottawa introduced
a matter in which there was flot a single
cent of money to be appropriated, but now
we are undoubtely asking an appropriation, and this muotion is said to be in
order, but the other motion was not. At
ail events, I want to lcnow a little more.
We have actualiy three reporters present
here. I sec three faces coming in.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Therefare three.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I see only one for
the moment, but he wiil be replaced by
ann3ther, and the second one by another,
Mr. Holland. That makes three. We have
actually three, and I do net know ail the
typewriters we have; but if we have four
in the future, with three typewriters, it will
net be a great change from what we have
now. 1 think they must- have three typewriters upstairs, and I want te know if
there are any complaints made against
the present sy .tem? If there are no comnplants why change P If there is going to
be a chief editor and chief reporter, what
will be the duty of the editor? Is he te
take a pair of scissor8 and cut eut ail the
redundancies which may occur in the «Debates P Is that ail he has te do. The work
is actuaiiy doue in a pretty fair way.
If that is the only complaint there is, I
do net see why the change is propoaed. I
am not ready to give an opinion. The
report may be in the right direction, but

we have not sufficient information before
us on which to take up the question. It
comes in near the close of the session, and
it is a ver serions change that is proposed. It is a new depsrture aitegether.
I think we should proceed siow.ly, and
consider the pros and cons before sanctioning such a move. If a change is to be
made, I should like te know if one of the
reporters wilil be a French reporter? I
should aise like te know if one of the typewriters who are te be employed wiil understand typewriting in French? We neyer
brought up these questions before, because
there wss a contract with Messrs. Hoiiand;
but if we are going to, make a departure,
I do not see why we French people shouid
be left in the dark. I shouid want te, have
a French reporter if that motion were going to carry. I do not want him necessarily to be a Frenchman, but I want him
to understand the French language. Whether he be French or English, I want to
avail mysei of the services of a French
operator. I want te have somebody who
,understands both languages. The two
languages are officiai, and at least we
ahouid have one 'who understands both.
What about the cancellation of the contract? Was there aome arrangement arrived at to cancel the contractP Is there a
contract between thxe Messrs. Holiand and
this House? If there is a contract, and
the -cancellation takes place, I suppose it
must be With the will of the contractora.
Hon, ,Mr. POWER-The contract requires
a year's notice.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Then we must give
the notice, and I suppose we cannot give
that before we have arranged what is te
take place in the future. Therefore, this
change cannot be made until next session.
Has the notice been given?
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-It would oniy
be given if this report carnies.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If it is not given,
what is the position in which we are placing our contractons to-day :If you pass this
motion, what are you going te do with the
contractors?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The contractors
wouid be notified, but if they want te stick

SENATE
to their contract they can continue their at ail. It leaves us in that respect just
as we were, and it may be that there would
work for next session.
be an occasional repetition struck -out of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And if they stick to the debates, but inasmuch as *very few
their contract, and continue their work people read our debates, I regret to aay.
until they receive proper notice, they will I do not think it is necessary to create a
not be noted in a favourable way. It will be staff or add to the staff no less than eight
said to thean: «You are an obstacle, and new salaried employees, for the purpose of
wlien -we renew the contract you will be put striking out these repetitions which. very
aside.' That might occur.
rarely oceur. As it is now. they are not
on our staff, and hon. gentlemen 'must reHon. Mr. DANDURAND-I understand member that if these gentlemen, and young
from one of the parties. this is subject to ladies, I suppose, become members of the
verification-that they are agreesible to this pernanent staff of the Senate, then if we
change.
should decide next sesdion or the session
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I did not see them. following to make a change in our system,
we cannot get nid of thern, and I fail to see
at ail.
that any substantial good is to be accomHon. Mr. DANDURAND-But that is im- plished by the change which is proposed. in
material, because they can always remain this report. I therefore move, seconded by
by their contract or abandon it if t.hey the hon, gentleman from Stadacona, that
the said report be not now concurred in,
please.
but tihat tihe question of a change in the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If they stick to their systema of reporting the deba-tes of the Sencontract, and have the right to stay -one ate be postponed until next session,
year more, I do not see that we ehould be and that meanwhile an arrangement be
in such a hurry.
made with Messrs. Rolland -for the reiportHon. Mr. DANDURAND-It will auth- in& of the debates next session.
onize the committee to make a beginning
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I have no
by giving the year's notice.
special objection to this amendment, beHon. Mr. LANDRY-There may be diffi- cause it does not contradict the report of
culties in the way, and I think a report of the committee. It simply adjourns the dethis importance should not be carried in cision which the Senate should make as to
one sitting of the House. We should have the particular change. There is an element
is
time to eee what we are going to* do our- in the last part of 'the motion which
somewhat necessary, although not very
selves in the matter. The report may be a
good one. It may be in the right direc- clearly stated. The element 1 refer te is
tion. Before I arn asked to give my sanc- that arrangement be made with the Messrs.
1
tion to the proposed change, I want to Rolland for the reports for next year.
take it for granted that this would conknow ail about the details.
stitute a sufficient authority to the commitHon. Mr. POWER-I think the hon. gen- tee to limit the contract with these gentletleman who has just spoken really struck men for the next twelve months, so that at
the nail on the head when he said that he the beginning of next session we may not
had not heard any serious complaint of be hampered by a contract which would
the way in which the work is done now, need to be denounced by a twelve months'
In fact, my impression is that some of the notice.
hon. members of the committee -who made
Hon. Mr. POWER-The committee meet
this report were loudest in their praise of
to-morrow and they can provide the details.
the way ini which the present contractors
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Do 1 understand the
did their work. Here is the point: A suggestion was macle which would. have given hon, gentleman to say that the committee
to the debates o! the Senate a better chance is empowered to notify the contractors for
of being read than at present. There is no the debates that at the end of twelve
such element involved in -this -proposition months the contract will cease?
Hon. '-%r. DANDURAND.

SMAY 17, 1909

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No, the amendment does not read that way; but I infer
that the committee may, under this authorization arrange that the contract shal
terminate at the end of next session; so that
during the next session wve may be fully
empowered to decide without having to give
notification to the contractors.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The actuai contract
provides that a year's notice must be given.

committ-e, as I understand, are to meet
to-morrow, and they wili, perbaps, have
more information than the House has, and
if they report in favour of giving notice,
a notice can be given, but juat now we are
not in. a position to say that.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I have suggested to the hon. gentleman who has
moved the amendment to add this phrase:
'That said arrangement be limited to the
work of next session only.'

fom he
undestod ierkof aieSente.
The amendment, with these words added,
undestoo clrk o th Sente.
frm th
was carried.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If no arrangement
were made to-day. then the contract would HARBOUR COMMISSIONERS 0F MONTREAL BILL.
continue, and it will continue until a notice
of a year is given.
SECOND AND THIIRD- REÂDI!R*S.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-So that if no
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
notice is given this year, it means the con- moved the second reading of Bill (No.
tract runs for two years, practicaIiy.
154) An Act respecting the Harbour CoinHon. Mr. LANDR'Y-Then the year's no- missioners of Montreal.
tice must always be given.
The motion was agreed te.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Yes.

The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole on the Bill.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Is it the intention
(In the Committee).
of the House te instruct the commitee to
notify the contractors that their contract
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTwill be cancelled at the end of the year?
This legislation is introduced at the reHon. Mr. DANDURAND-There is enough quest of the Harbour Commissioners of
Montreal, and I understand aiso the trade
in the a.mendment.
of Montreai.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Not sufficient. Is it
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What is the prinnecessary that the committee should be
given authority, or bas the conimittee au- ciple of this Bill?
thority itself? It is just as well for the
.Hon. Sir RICHAR~D CARTWRIGHTcommittee to know it. We might as weli
The principle appears to be te put the
have the thing done right now.
harbour of Montreal more completely unHon. Mr. LANDRY-I undersiand that der the jurisdiction of the Harbour Comnwe cannot give that instruction te-day, be- mi8sioners of Montreal than it is at prescause we do not k-now if the plan proposed ent. There has been a sort of mixed jurisis better than the one we have now.
diction between the authority which conHon. Mr. ELLIS-I concur"in the idea trois the port, and the authority which
that the notice had better be given, and controls the harbour. They are endeavourperhaps it had better be done now.
As I ing to divide that and give the Harbour
understand the contract, the time is Up, Cominissioners complete jurisdiction withI in the harbour. Heretofore they had a
and it is running along year by year.
think it would be bâtter for the House te, ve ry wide jurisdiction; this B3ill is restrictsay. It is subject te a year's notice, and ing their authority to the harbour.
thie notice had better be given now.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON, fromn the comHon. Mr. POWER-Unless we see some- mittee, reported the Bill without amendtaiing better in sight, I do not see why we ment. The Bill was read the third time
should give notice to the- contractors. The and passed.

634

SENATE

634

SENATE
small town oi Aylmer, some fine miles
albove, talks of emptying its sewage into
the Ottawa river, the cititzens of Ottawa
are immediately filled with indignation in
their protest, and go so f ar as to offer to
pay a very fair proportion of the cost of a
septic tank, if the city of Aylmer will 'put
it in. 1 think this shows the necessity
for legislation, and legisiation of a strinigent nature; but what form it should take,
or whence it should emanate I and the
committee are at a loas to suggest. We
hope next session to get to work earlier.
and to go into this subject more deeply,
and if we had two sound constitutional
lawyers, of whom I think there are quite
a number in this House, added to Our
number, it would assist us materially.

HEALTH AND INSPECTION
0F FOOD.
REPORT OF OOMMITTEE.
Hon. Mr. DE VEBER-In moving the
second report of the committee, I shall
not take up the valuable time of the
Bouse by any extended remarks. I have a
few figures that I feel constrained to quote
ia order te prove that 'public action is necessary. These figures are taken from staliistics published for the larger towns ini
America and Europe. They show the number of deaths fromi typhoid fever in each
one hundred thousand o! inhabitants in
each town. In Boston the figures are 32.6;
Baltimore 45.8; Cincinatti 52.4; Chicago 84;
Pîttsburg 91.7. Unfortunately 1 have mislaid the figures for Toronto and Montreal.
but I amn very sorry to have to informn the
B.ouse that they are very much in excess
of those already g-iven you. In the Hague,
in Europe, the figures are only 4.9; Rotterdam 5.8; Dresden 6.9; Vienna 7; Munich
7.1; Berlin 8; and in London 14. This oomparison is flot very favourable to the newer
cities in America; but very much in favour
of the old cities in Europe, where one
would naturally suppose, from the congested state of the population, they would
be a favourable situation for the occurrence of typhoid germs. Why is this so?
Simply because the people in the older
cities of Europe have passed through the
stage years agowhich we -are passing through
now. and have learned from unhappy exIperience that it was necessary to pass
stringent legislation, to take precautions
and care ; and these figures are the resuit of that legisiation, those precautions
and that care. I bave in xny hand a copy of
the ' Free Pressa' o! Winnipeg, o! M'ay l5th
last, containing a very strong editorial in
regard to river pollution, calling the attention of the citizens of Winnipeg to the
disgusting state of the Red and Assiniboine
legisiation
rivers, -and suggesting that
should be passed 'preventing the pollution
of theïse streams. Coming nearer hometake the city of Ottawa, which is emptying
the whole of its sewage into the Ottawa
river without any thoughit or care of the
people below, whio must, of necessity, take
that water for domiestic use; but when the
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON.
PUJBLIC

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have had the advantage of hearing only part of the papers
which were read before the committee, and
I must say that I was very much impressed with their importance, I entirely agree
with the remarks which have been made
by the hon. chairman of the committee,
and I think that the information elicited
before the committee ia worth editing and
publishing. It may be doubtful, on the
face of the report, as to whether the surn
mentioned, that $100.10 is for each of the
gentlemen mentioned, or the total expense.
Hon. Mr,. DEVEBER-That is the total
hotel and travelling expenses of the gentlemen who appeared before us.
The motion was agreed to.
SENATE REFORM.
DEBÂTE RESUMED.
The order o! the day being called:
Resuming. the further adjourned debate on
the motion of the Hon. Mr. Scott, that it be
resolved1. That in the opinion of the Senate the
time has arrived for so amending the constitution of this branch of parliament as to
hi ing the modes of &election of senators more
into harmony with public opinion.
2. That the introduction of an elected element, applying it approximately to twothirds of the number of senators would bring
the Senate more into harmony with the
principles of popular government than the
present systema of apointing the entire body
of senators by the (.rown for life.
3. That the terni for which. a senator may
be elected or appointed, b. limited to seven
years.
4. That the provinces of Ontario and Quebec be each divided into sixteen electoral dis.
tricts for representation in this chamber.

MAY 17, 1909

That the provinces ai Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick be each divided inta seven electoral districts, and the province of Prince
Edward Island into two electoral districts
for electian ta this chamber; and that for
the present, and until the four western provinces have ben given increased representatian in this chamber, that Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta bo oach one divided inta
three electaral districts, and that the province of British Columbia be divided inta twa
electaral districts, ail for the election ai candidates for representation in the Sonate.
In defiîiing the suid electoral districts,
duo regard being had. nat only'ta appraximately equalizing the population in each district, but ta convenionce, local intereats and
caunty baundaries.
5. That immediately aiter the said electaral
districts shall have been defined- and agreed
upon, a momber ot the oxisting Senate shal
be allotted ta oach ai the said districts, havresias practicable,
ing due regard, as faror ather reasons. ta
dence, local interesta
6. Thot as vacancies hereaiter arise in the
representation oi the said electoral districts,
the vacancy shall be filled by the electors ai
that district sntitled ta vote for members ai
the Hlouse ai Gommons.
7. That in ordor ta diminish the oxpenses
attending olections aver wide areas and ta
secure a larger and freer expression ai independent opinion, the systemi ai oompulsory
voting shahl apply ta ail oBlectians oi senators;voter eing required y exorcise his
levery ta the franchise, and bta ballot. under
right
a penalty ai ton dollars, ta be colleeted by
the returning officer and applied in reduction
ai electian expenses. Provided that any elector may bo excused from vating on produaing a medical certificate that his state ai
health did not admit of his attendance at the
palla, or au certificats from the local judg e
that important business or other reasonable
excuse prevented his exercisin g the franchise.
S. That the remaining oight senators in
each ai the provinces ai Ontario and Quebec ;
the remaining three senators in Nova Scotia
and in New Brunswick, and the two romaining senators in Prince Edward Island, and
th. remaining senator in oach of the provinoes oi Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta and
British Columbia, who had flot been allotted
ta any constituency, shall ho classod as senstars for the particular province at large,
and as a vacancy arises in that class, it shahl
ho filled by appointment. as at present, by
the Crown.
9. That in ordor ta mare nearly equalize
the standing oi political parties in the Sonate,
on the occasion ai a change in the government, the piciple laid down in sections 26
and 27 ai the British North America Act,
shaîl apply; that is ta say, the incaming administration may appoint an additianal number ot senatars, not exceeding nino if in the
opinion ai the Gavernar General, acting indopendently, ci the Pirivy Cauncil, the roquest is a reasonable ane, but not mare than
one ai the sonators ta be appointed. shaîl be
taken iromi an y one province; and that no
mare arisen; thus roverting ta the original
number ai senatars allottod to the said
province.
the
10. That the senators representing
sevoral different provinces be requested ta

3

meet and suggest the best mode of dividiug
into senate electoral districts, and also the
naine of the senator who will represont each
particular district.
Il. That the House of Commons be asked
ta concur in the proposed changes in the constitution of the Senate.
12. That the Sonate and House of Commons
adopt a joint address ta His Gracions Majesty
the King praying that the British North
America Act, and the Âcts under which.
British Columbia and Prince Edward Island
entered the union, ba sa amended as to conform to the foregoing resalutions and the
motion of the Hon. Mr. David in amendaient
thereto:
That ail the words aiter the word 'That'
in the first line bo struck out ta the end of
said rosolutions and the following words subthe oyant of a
stitnted ini lieu thereof :'in
change ini the present constitution of the
Sonate being deemed necessary and asked for;
by, among others, ail those prvnces who
were a party ta its original contiution under the Britishi North Amorica Act, 1867, the
moat practical and satisfactory way of doing
»o, wonld be, as new seats would be crested,
or vacancies ocourrad, ta have fit and qualified persans summoned for lite ta fi11 the same
as now, under the said Act; but leaving the
selectian of ans hialf af said persans ta the
provincial gaverninents of the respective
provinces entitled ta said seats. The right
of solecting snch persans beginning always
with the provincial gavornments and alternating thereaiter.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I do nat intend ta proceed with any discussion of details now.
1 have not, sa far as my individual lean.
ings are concerned, departed from the idea
that a parliament consisting ai one body
would be ample to adniinister the affairs
Perhaps in view ai the
ai the country.
tact that the Senate year by year is becorning less effective by reason oi its merely
following, as we observe here to-day, the
legisiation af the other brandi of parliament, does nat therefore take any particular stand on great questions my hion. friend
has introduced in the direction ai reforîn.
1 presurne the time will corne in the history
ai the country when that phase of the question will came vigorously ta the front, and
there will be a general expression of opinion by the people as ta whether they desire a change in tie constitution ai the
Senate or not. Wiat we have ta deal with
r.ow is the tact that the second Ciamber
exists, -and that it should be impioved. The
speech af tie hion. ex-Secretary ai State is
really a luminous speech in many ways.
He made some reflection upon the tact that
hie found it difficuit ta get a seconder for
is motion; but I honestly feit, while I
sympathized with bis efforts at reform,

SENATE

somewhat careless myseif about the situation, because I viewed it from the standpoint of what 1 conceived to be a Liberal.
My hion. friend knows that in the convention in 1893, the Liberal party laid down
certain propositions upon which they conveyed the idea that they wa.nted the country governed along particular lines, and
among them was reformn of the Senate. Sir
Oliver Mowat presided at the convention,
and 1 remember very weil that hie referred
to refori of the Senate as one of the inportant questions.
My hion. friend the
ex-Secretary of State, vigorous then as he
is now, was the leader of that part of the
programme. To him was intrusted the
proposition as to the reform. of the Senate,
and the resolution was adopted. There was
flot much talking over it. The days were
swelteringly hot, and it was almost imnpossible to keep up the diffcult work of the
two or three days we were in convention.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I thought they weîe
then in.the cold shades of opposition.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-But they were sufficientiy warm on inatters of this kind.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-To make it hot
for the other side.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Then a change of government took place; the hion. ex-Secretary
of State came here, posdessed of great power
in this House, and, as the leader of the
Senate during ail the time since 1896, hie
did nothing. If I feit cold about the matter,
when hie bronght forward his proposition
at last-having no longer any responsibility
and no power-it did occur to me that there
was no special reason for one who was not
particuiarly anxious in the matter to worry
himseif about it. I may be entirely wrong
in that feeling, and 1 amn willing to be
criticised for it, but that was how I feit
over the matter. As the hion. gentleman
made his propositions as to what could be
done, and proved the necessity for it, I feit
a good deal more sympathetic than when he
Several
*,çominenced his observations.
speeches that were made seemed to me to
be very excellent. I was sonry to see the
hion. member for Middlesex rather repudiate
the idea there was any neoessity for reform
cf the Senate. He see.med to throw cold
water over the general proposition, that life
Hlon. Mdr. ELLIS.

niembership shouid be set aside. Another
Liberal, the hion. gentleman from Russell,
suggested that men who did not believe
in the 111e principle, might go out of t.he
Senate ai1together. I do not think that a
good sound radical-as the hion. gentleman
has deciared himself to be-would propose
such a theory as that at aIL We shouid
meet the institutions of our country as we
find thein, 'and discuss the point whether
they should be improved or not. I can
imagine a country governed by some tyrant
who, objecting to a proposai of nef orm.
would put the would-be reformer out of
business. I do not charge my hion. friend
with holding that view, but it seems very
much like it. I do. flot intend to be led
into making a speech, further than to say
that 1 concur in the view that there shouid
be some reform ini the Senate. The coinplaints which my hon. fîîend brought le-rward, and which the lion. gentleman from
Wol.seley, who seoonded him, aise did-and
they are certainly wide apart as the poles
in some respects-were objections which we,
as Liberals, made againat the constitution
-of the Senate when we were not in powen.
There is no question about that. A paity
with great principles should stand up for
its vicws. If it does not stand up for its
views, what is the good of it? I will not
argue the question as fuily as I should have
done had I spoken earlier in the debate. I
might criticise the suggestions ccntaîned in
the various speeches mnade by the gentlemen as to how improvements might possibly be made, and along what lines the government, or what.ever authoiity would take
the inatter up, could work it out. It is impossible foi the Senate if it passed the
resolution of the hon. Secretaiy of State,
to do anything. If the amendment proposed by the hion. gentleman from Mille Ilies
(Mr. David) were ca.rried, nothing could be
I dispute the conrectness of the
clone.
principle 'which hie affirms. I agree with
the hion. gentleman from Acadia (Mr.
Poirier) that if any attempt is to be macle
at ail to neform the organization of the Senate, it should be made -by the provinces;
that is to say, they should have the right
to choose their own representatives alter
I thinl, the pow~er
their own fashion.

IIAY 17, 1909

of selecting- senators should be placed
That was the idea
in the provinces.
of the Hon. Mr. Milis, 'who either
moved a resolution or made a speech
on the question thirty years ago, that
the men selected should represent the
province from which, they came. 1 do not
agree with the view put forward by the
hon. member frem West Middlesex, that
there is no power to change the constitution of -the Senate unless ail the provinces
agree. I think that is about hiis proposition, at any rate that is embodied in the
amendment of the Hon. Mr. David, and
I amn oppo8ed to that. A great self-governing country such as Canada is te be,
and such as it is rapidly becoming, must
find its own way to amend its constitution
and to create its inâtitutions according to
the needs of the people as they present
themselves for the time bein-, and whatever technical difflculty ,nay exiat can
easily be got rid of, if the people are earnest, and determine to effect reform. The
party of which. I arn a suember, and the
party which is now controlling the destinies of Canada, were pledged in 1893 to a
reform cf the Senate. The conditions have
net changed, but there has been a reversai of power. I think the present administration has appointed some 58 members of this Senate, and while the appointmenta are excellent, rny hon. friend the
member for Westmoreland (Hon. Mr.
Wood) la.st year, or on the last occasion,
on which we discussed this question, threw
upon the government the responsibility of
the Senate itself, and that is quite a fair
thing te de; but my hon. friend came te
the conclusion that the gentlemen who
were appointed by the government were as
goed as could be get, and there 'was ne objection te the personnel ef the Senate. 1
concur in the proposition that it is net a
question of the individual, it is a question whether the principle which we are
working on is a sound one, and the hon.
Secretary of State in his reselutien, and by
his speech afflrms it is net; that the mode
cf appointrnent is net a good one; and
he opens up the whole question in propesing the change. The reselution which
I intend te move is, looking at the fact
as I said before that it is in accerdance
with the principles of the Liberal party

te reform the Senate, because they se declared seme 16 years ago-looking at the
fact that the Liberal party being in power
and quite able, I judge, in both Houses
cf parliarnent te carry any fair and rea&onable r eferm, that party censider the conditions oi the country demand, and to
work out sme plan that weuld best improve the existing conditions, conditions
which have been condemned by both parties, as represented by the hon. Secretary
of State and the hon. member for Wolseley.
There is a change geing on in the country. It ia very easy te sit here and try ta
make ourselves believe that we are satidfied
with present conditions, and say that
the country is also; but hon. gentlemen
must remember that there are very large
numbers of people coming inte Canada
who are net at ail acquainted with our institutions3, and who will form their own
ideas ef our gevernment by cemparisens
between it and the gevernment of the
ceuntries from, which. they corne, from. the
institutions they are familier with, and
there wilI spring up a new set of ideas
in regard te the future of Canada which
at the present moment is net actually apparent. Any person watching the changes
in the condition of public affaira, watching the drift of opinion, watching the desires cf the people in the west, and viewin& in many ways ail that is going on,
must see this Sens te as it stands te-day,
and as it is doing its work, cannot continue. It is passing any number of Billh
with very little consideration because the
time of prorogation is at hand, and it is
desirable te have those measures passed
without the critical attention given te them
which should be given te them; and. finding that the body itself dees net eriginate
or lead off, that it has practically ne leadership whatever in affairs-are things that
will strike the public mind and have their
influence and their effect upon public
opinion and on the tolerat ion they give towards the Senate itelf. I beg leave te move
in amendrnent te the motion of the Hon.
Mr. David
That the amendment be amended by striking
eut all the words in the second lino thereof,
after the werds - in lieu thereof ", and inserting the following:
This Hlouse is prepared te give careful consideration

to an proposition which

may bp

SENý1ATE
submitted ta it by the gorernment for the power. Now, the Liberal party is in power
ainendmnent and improveinent of the constitu- and if there is anybody who should retion of parliament.
f orm the Senate it is the government, and
We might pass a hundred resolutions this amendment to the amendment prehere, but we cannot improve matters with- .sents the only practi'cal way. We do not
out the support of the government, without admit that we need any reform. We think
their direction and what is the good of the Senate is the best constitution of a
moving resolutions until the gzovernmnent second Chamber that this country could
itseli takes the matter up? We cannot have. I would rather vote for the aboliforce them ta take action, as could be done tion af the Senate than for an elective
by the House oi Gommons.
Senate. If we had an elective Senate, it
would not he an independent body, as it
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-For my part I pro- is now. As a senator I arn neither Liberal
pose to vote for the amendment, and for nor Gonservative. I arn like a judge on
this reason-it would irnply that wve are the bench, who, whatever bis personal
in faveur of a change. We are not called views rnay be, is impartial in the disupon ta give an expression af opinion. It charge of his duty. That is what I intend
goes without saying that any measure to do here, perhaps more sa in the future
brought up by the government will re- than in the past. If the Senate ivere electceive due consideration by this branch of ive, we would very probably be of the sarne
parliament; but we are nat called upon ta political colour as the House af Gommons,
pass such a resolution as is now before and we do not want two Hoeuses ai the
the Hanse. I amn satisfied that the present same kind. It is very well for the Gomconstitution of the Senate is the proper mons to be elective because they represent
one, for the reason which I stated in the the people, but here we are a court of apremarks I made two years ago an this peal where we deal with questions on their
subi ect, and I shaîl vote against the merits, without considering from what
amendment ta the amendment.
source they corne. I should like to see
Hon. Mr. WOOD-My views are precisely the government or parties who would corne
the same as thase ai the hon. gentleman to mie sud ask me to support a measure
iroma De Salaberry. I shail not take any which. I did not consider. iii the interest
time in making remarks on the subject, of the country.
but shall vote against the amendment ta
Han. Mr. DOM VILLE moved that the
the amendment.
debate be adjourned until the second sitThursday next.
Han. Mr.- CHOQUETTE-My views 'are ting on
the very opposite of those expressed by
Han. Mr. LANDRY-Thursday will be a
the twa hon. gentlemen who have just holiday. Why not take Friday?
spaken. The amendment ta the amen.dHon. Mr. SCOTT-I should like to have
ment presents the only practical way ta
an opportunity to ssy something before the
dispose ai this question. It does nat cal
debate closes. I do not intend to occupy
for any refarm ai the Senate, but expresses
the time af the House many minutes.
the willingness ai this House ta give careHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
fui consideration ta any proposal that may
be submitted ta us by the gavernment. In motion is to be postponed, why not let it
1893, at the convention of the Liberal party, go aver until Mondsy next, sa that we
when we were in the cald shades ai opposi- shall neyer reach it?
tion, we mnade it very hot for the party in
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We might suspend
power, s0 hat that in three years aiterthe miles and set it down for Saturday.
wards they were out. At that convention,
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I have been a
a resalution was passed declaring that the
Senate should be reiormed, and at the patient listener to this terrible discussion,
to have
time it really did require reformatian. Who brought up by those who ought
was responsible for bringing that about? attended ta it before.
The motion was agreed ta.
The Liberal party when it came inta
Bon. Mfr. ELLIS

MAY 17, 1909

639

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I quite concur
BILL INTRODUCED.
with what lias just been said with regard
Bill (No. 97) an Act respecting Insurto this Bill. It seems ta me ta be an exance.-Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright.
traordinary one. The Exchequer Court and
The Senate adjourned until eight o'clock the Supreme Court are the two federal
this evening.
courts in existenice in Canada. By chapter
140, sections 82, 83 and 84, an appeal is
created frorn the Exchequer Court to the
THIRfl SITTING.
Supreme Court. In cases af $500 and over,
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eight there is an appeal permitted by any party
o'clock p.m.
In certain cases
to the Supreme Court.
under $500 there is also an appeal apperSECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
taining to a subject who is a litigant in the
Bill (No. 147) An Act ta amend the CoId Exchequer Court, and also an appeal to
Storage Act.-(Hon. Sir Richard Cart- the Crown in certain cases, by leave of the
Supreme Court. 1 take it that the abject
wright).
af the two Acts, the Supreme Court Act
EXCHEQUER COURT ACT AMENDMENT and the Exchequer Court Act, was ta create
faderai courts with federal juriadictian, and
BILL.
ta establiali throughout Canada faderai jurSECOYND READING.
isprudence. This is a very seriaus deparmoved the ture frose the principle or principles which
Hon. 'Mr. DANDUIRAND
second reading- of Bill (No. 151) An Act ta wcre sanctioned at the time ai the creation ai the Supreme Court, and later on af
amend the Exchequer Court Act.
He said: If any bon, gentleman desires the Exchequer Caurt. What would be the
to discuss the Bill ha can do so at the third result? It will be this, that yau will have
reading. It has the effect of allawing the a judgment ai the Exchequer Court, a fedCrown to appeal from any decisian oi the erai court, gaing kn appeal ta a provincial
Exchequer Court to an appellate court ai a court. The Court ai Appeal in Ontario will
sit in appeal on a decision given by the
province.
Exchequer Court, ta the exclusion of the
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon. gentleman Supreme Court. The resuit will be that
understands this Bill a great deal better you will passibly have a certain class ai
than I do, but it occurs to me that there jurisprudence; for instance, in the province
is sorne question as to whether there should ai Ontario on a faderai ýubject created by
be an appeal from the Exchequer Court, appeal or arising out ai appeal from-the
whiceh is a Dominion court, hig-her than any Exchequer Court, ta the Court of Appeal
of the provincial courts, to the provincial in Ontario, and on the ather hand yau will
Court of Appeal. I arn not asking what the have in the Court ai Appeal in Quebec say,
abject o! the measure is; I simply take the a jurisprudence of an entirely different
Bill as I find it here. It gives the Crown character, ail arising out ai the' faderai
the riglit ai appeal from a judgment'of the courts. It seems ta me ta ba a very marked
Exchequer Court to the highest provincial departure irom what was intended when
Court of Appeal. There is first the objec- the Exchequer Court was estahlished. Then
tion that it is a question whether there we will have this further resuit, that whule
should ba an appeal frarn the Exchequer the judgments ai the Supreme Court are
Court, which is a court higher than any conclusive and final, the judgrnent ai the
provincial court, ta a provincial Court of courts of appeal frorn the Exchequer Court
Appeal. The object is apparently to sub- will not be final and conclusive.
stitute this highest provincial Court of ApHon. Mr. ROSS (lMiddlesex)-It will be
peal for the Supreme Court of Canada. A%
under this Bill.
the Exchequer Court is a Dominion court,
Han. Mr. BELCOURT-I imagaine the abthe appeal would naturally be to the Supreme Court, and, consequently, I have my ject ai this Bill is ta enable the Crown to
,o from the C.ourt ai Appeal ta the Privy
doubts about the wisdom of this Bill.

640

SENATE

Council, a right which the Crown could
not exercise in an appeal fromi the Suprenie
Court. If the Crown were to appeal a decision of the Exchequer Court to the Supreine Court, the judgment of the Suprerne
Court will be final so far as the Crown is
concernied. Application might be made for
leave to appeal to the Privy Council, and
the royal prerogative might be exercised,
but it would onlv be allowed by the exercisc of the prerogative. But in the case of
an appeal from the court below, sitting in
appeal on a decision of the Exchequer
Court, there would be an appeal to the
'Privy Council as of right, which was cvidcntly not intended at the tume when the
Exchequer Court was created. I 'take it
that the Exchequcr Court Act, and the Suprerfie Court Act intcnded that the decision
of those courts should be final and conclusive alter they reached the Supreme
Court. The result of this Bill will be to
create another appeal fromn federal dccisions that does not exist to-day. I have
ne strong feeling as to whether appeals
should be made to the Privy Council or
not; but let us not adopt this Bill without
knowing what it means, Instead of dirninishing. it will have the effect of increasing appeals to the Privy Council. It seenis
te me it is a marked departure and one
which should reccive serious attention.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I recognîze in this
Bill a slight suspicion of the governmcnt's
I
anxiety to respect provincial rights.
would quite agree with my hon. friend from
Ottawa if the facts were such as he stated;
but on reading this Bill, I perceive that
the Minister of Justice is anxious that any
case falling under the civil rights. protected by the provincial legisiature, shaîl be
protect-ed by a court of the province, and
dccided upon.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-This provides for
an appeal on the part of the Crown only.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I feel that the move
is a gooci one, because if a case is taken
in the province of Quebac, ýwhose laws are
altogether different from those of other
provinces, a judge settles it according to
his own ideas of our law. If hie happens
to be a judge raised in the province of Que.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT.

bec and has studied the 'civil code and our
civil rights in the province, hie *may and
should be -able to render a judgment accordingly; but take a judge from Manitoba
or British Columbia, who has no idea of
our Civil Code, its nleaning and far-reacliing results, he will not be sable to give a
case the same accuracy of judgment. What
the governîment wants is, no matter who
the judge may be in the Exchequer Court,
.when in one province or the other, if there
is to be an appeal taken, it should be to
the highest court in that province. That is
a step in recognizing the rights of the provinces, and the people in the provinces. We
know -that very able and eminent Iawyers
are put on the Supreme Court bench, 'who
have very littie knowledge of the genius of
the French laws in the province of Quebec.
Naturally, they have superficial knowledge, but flot that profound knowledge
which is built up by education, which is
in the bone andl sl*Anew of the people of
our courts. They cannot syinpathize with
our laws. It is flot a question of ignorance.
that
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Midldlesex)-if
argument is good, an appeal to the Privy
Council would be futile.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The Privy Council iA
probably the best tribune on earth, because it acts not according to the strict
letter of the kaw, but very largely on cornmon sense and equity. The strict latter of the
law is sometimes the rnost tyrannical instru-ment that could be put in the hands of
a judge; but I arn proud to say that, in the
British empire, we have a court whose action is not determined by the strict letter
of the law. Law is not always justice but,
I arn proud toe ay, the Privy Council, in
the vast majority of its decisions has given
justice sornetimes against the letter of the
law, but always based on common sense,
equity and justice. I amn not in the secret
of the Mînister of Justice, and do not know
why hie introduced this new rnethod of
proceeding with civil cases; but 1 see here
his intention to gîve to the provinces the
right to regulate their own cases in their
own domicile, and if there is to be an appeal let it go to a tribunal which is aboya
and beyond all party relations in its judgment. I would rather go to the Privy

MAY 17, 1909

Council than te the Supreme Court on a
On questions of
question of that kind.
monatitution. 1 arn alwaya prepared ta go
te the Privy Council rather than to the
Supreme Court, because 1 feel that the
judgments of the Privy Council have always been fair, always aceording ta -the
manits of the question, and nlot aecordling
The men
bo the strict letter of the law.
uitting i the Privy Council judge the
cases as they stand on their merits, and
on a basis of equity and justice ta ail concerned; se that in this measure I do not
nee any grave departure that would infringe
on the riglita of the people of this country
in any province. On the contrary, 1 think
#i pute the niglits of the people of evary
province on a surer basis in the administration of justice, so that I would have no
go
objection ta having this measure
tbrough. Whether it be an appeal from
-the provincial appeflate court 1 arn not
going ta discus; but frein the menits of
the Bfi 1 sae a recognition af a riglit which
belongs ta each individuel province, and i
which aach individual appellate court is
better able ta deelde than the Suprame
Court of Canada.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Â strong argument
-bas been Irivan by the hon. member"froin
Ottawa against this Bill, in the fact that it
would tend to destroy unifonmity in jurisprudence. As f ar as'I arn concerned, that
would not be a reason sufficiant for me ta
move againat the Bill; but there'is anothar
neason, to whieh I 'would like te call the attention of this honourable House, and of
the hon. Minister of Justice. and in that I
do not agree with the hon. member fain
Ottawa. The right of appeal is given ta
the Crown against a judgment rendered by
the Court cf Exchequer aithar ta the Supreme Court as it naw existe under the Act,
or to the Court of Appeal in the provinces,
and it ia there I disagree 'wîth the hon.
member for Ottawa. If the judgment ia neversed by the Court of Appeal, there would
be no appeal from the Court ai Appeal unless the Exchequer Court Act gave the right
of appeal. There would be no appeal at the
request of either party.

641

from the Court cf Appeal t-o the Privy Council, because ail judgmants of the Court of
Appeal, where the amount exceeds five hundrad pounda, are appealabla as cf riglit to
the Pnivy Couneil?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-No, that ia as regards
the judgments of the province; but the hon.
gentleman wiil understand, when ha cornes
ta refiect on it, there can be no appeal froin
a judgment of the Court cf Appeal whan the
juriadiction is givan by the faderai govarfiment. It la a special jurisdiction; It la the
sarne jurisdiction as in the case of cantroverted elactions. In controvartad eleetion
cases the Act declares that there will ha an
appeal in certain cases from the daclalon
of the judge; but there can be ne appeal excapt it la se stated by the law. I draw the
hon. gentleman's attention ta this: the
Court cf Appeal will not ait in appeal on
judgments cf the Exchequer Court in vintua
cf the jurisdiction which is givan by the
provincial legialatura.
Hon. Mr. BELOOUT-But tha hon, gentleman wiil ses that every judgmant cf tha
Court cf Appealisl made appealable ta tha
Privy Coundil, *herever it cornes frein,
whether cniginally it was in the Exchequer
Court or in the Higli Court.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE. What the hon. gentlernan la referring te la a provincial statute,
la it not?
Hon. Mr. BELCOUET - The *provincial
atatute creating the Court of Appeal. and
rneking the judgments cf the Court cf Appeal
appealable ta the Privy Council. It does
net matter where the cases corne froin,
whethar they corne froin a district court, a
higli court or the Exehequer Court, if this
Bill passes.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-But as a provincial
court.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-As the Court of
Appeal.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-But as a provincial court. Surely the provincial court
will be sitting, net in virtue cf the Act
te which the hon. gentleman is referHon. Mr. BELCOURT-Would there net ring, but will be exercising its jurisdicbe an appeal under the Provincial Statutes tion in virtue cf a federal Act, and nu
REVISED

EDITION

642

SENATE

right of appeal can be had unless it is
given by the federal atatute. To my mind
it is quite plain, though I may be mistalfen. The position will be that a auppliant in the Court of Exchequer will obtain judgment. This judgment -will be appealed te the Court of Appeal of the province. The judgment may be reveraed,
and, if it is reversed, the suppliant will nlot
have any right of a.ppeal either to the SuItV
preme Court or ta the Privy Couneil.
seeme to me that the right of appeal should
be given himi in a case of that kind. There
is the other question, as to whether the
right of appeal should net be given to bothi
parties.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-But as ta that, just
before recesa I read the discussion in the
House of Comynons, and the Minister of
Justice has there given reasons which have
somne weight againat that. The suppliant
cannot exercise any action without the fiat
of the Attorney General, aud on that fiat he
cau enter suit in the Exchequer Court; if he
loses bis case before that court, he may
be contented with bis right of appeal to
the Supreme court as it exista under the
Act and net be given the ultimate right
cf going ta the Privy Council.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Why ahould the other
party not have the right ta go?
- Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-As f ar as the right
of appeal froni a court of judgment of ^the
province, if it reverses the judgment, it
seema ta me it would be but fair that the
subject should have that right of appeal,
therefore I would suggest that the attention
of the Attorney General be called ta that
point. It was not called te his attention in
the discussion in the House cf Commons.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I have another objection to this Bill. Take the province cf Ontario for instance; the court cf
Appeal ia usuaily loaded with work as it
now is, and a good deal cf labour and
thought have been expended te lighten the
labour cf the court. Supposing it is congested with work, and judgments are sometimes delayed because cf that congestion.
if you are going te stili further load the
courts cf appeal cf the varlous provinces,
HIon. Mr. BEIQUE.

with appeals from the Court cf Exchequer,
you are thereby înterfering with the faciliies for and progress cf provincial litigation. The tendency of the laws recently
has been to reduce the nuinher cf appeals.
Hon.' Mr. CkMPBELL--Hear,

hear.

Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middlesex)-The aid procedure in the Court of Chancery, whereby a
case would take a quarter cf a century ta
pass through the courts, has been cut short
by the Judicature Act of Ontario, and the
Judicature Act of England, passed sorne
years ago. Here you have an Exchequer
court fromn which it la proposed ta appeal
te a Court of Appeal whlch may be loaded
with provincial work. I do not think the
duty ehould be superimposed, for the reasons
given, and I do net think the appeal ehould
be allowed, because you are prolonging litigation. If the Exchequer Court is a federal
court, why net continue your appeal within
federal limes? Why cross the orbit cf a federal court by a provincial court? You are
descending.
You. are appealing fromn a
higher court ta a lower. It may be possible
that the judges of an appeal court, usually
from three ta five, make a stronger court
than the Exchequer Court; but that dees
net seem te be the naturaI order cf an
appeal. An -appeal should lie within lederal limes, and we have an Appellate Court
within federal lines. This Bill seems ta be
intended te lighten the labour cf the Supreme Court, and ta transfer froin them what
seeme ta be the maturai and logical jurisprudence cf the Supreme Court te the provincial courts, certain appeals which might
naturally and logically belong ta the Supreme Ccurt. We have a strong Supreme
Court cf -six judges, representing practically ail the provinces. Supposing. as the
hon, gentleman from Montreal said a moment ago, it is desirabie te have a Court cf
Aippeal that la acquainted with the genius
reason
cf local legialation, for that
there xnight be sanie justification for an
appeai te local court. That contention la
fairly met by an appeal te the Supremne
Court. The province cf Quebec is represented, and always will be, on that court
and se will Ontario, and it is ffom these
tvwo provinces the greater number cf appeais would lie ; but the maritime prov'inces are also generally represented on

MAY; 17, 1909
that court, and the genius of one or more
of the western provinces. Se if you go
directly from -the Exchequer Court to the
Supreme Court, you are in the atmosphere
of local legisiation I think, very much
more-than if you go te the Privy Council.
The constitution cf the Supreane Court is
*intended to limit appeals, and it is only
in certain cases you can go te the Privy
OGuncil at ail, and in the. constitution of
the 'Commonwealth of Australia it is provided there can be ne appeal without the
consent of the Crewn. That was designed
to reduce appeal. Here we are geing bsck
on the record, practice and policy cf the
province, and I think it is going back on
the policy cf this House, in limiting these
appeals te the Supreme Court from the
Crurts of Appeal cf the varions Provinces.
I think these conditions should have seme
weight. *Tbey have, te my own mi, and
I think the Bill might very well stand over
fer further consideration.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I should like te cail
attention to thie fact in support cf the suggestion which, I made. Suppose, for instance, the plaintiff recovers judgment fer
an arnount of $500,000, the Crown, in virtue
cf thua Bill, carnies the judgment cf the Exchequer Court te the Court o! Appeal cf
the province, and the judgment ia reversed;
would il be fair if the plaintif! would have
no other appeal at all either te the Supreme Court or te the Privy Council, any
way te the Supreme Court?
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middlesex)-I do not
think the prerogative of the Crown shonld
be limited te that extent.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I amn oppoaed te
enlarging the facilities o! the Crown te
contest the dlaims which nnay be made by
the snbject against il from time te time.
There has been a system of aggreasion, I
might say, en behaîf o! the Crown lu resisting dlaims of the subject. Te-day the
subject is handicapped in recevering from
the Crown te an infinitely greater extent
than he is from a private individuel. It
is a weil known fact that if a dlaim exista
agasinst the Crown, ne matter how just it
may be, the Crown is surrounded by traditienal barriers of ail kinds, the prerogative of the Crown is asserted te such an extent that znany a man whe bas a just
411

'

cdaim would prefer losing it ratier than
proceed against the Crown. In the firat
place the suibject bas te obtain- a fiat fro'
the Governor in Ceuncil. That is solemnly
deliberated. upon before he cau- proceeÉd.upon hie .claim. He thèn enters. bis case, ln
the Excilequer .Court, and proceeds in that
court for the recovery cf uis daim. If he
lives in Vancouver or Cape Breton, at either
extremity of the Dominion, he may possibly have te wait a year before he can
have his case tried. Truc, the court moves
.from place te place occasionally, but it is
one cf the greatest difficulties that the subject
s te confront, namcly the rccovery
cf his daim from the Crown. The Supreme Court has been calied practicai'ly inte existence for this and other purposes.
Il is very desirable there sheuld be a unýiformi carrent of authority upon ail Crewn
litigatien. That this should be distributed
amongst the different Appellate Courts cf
the Dominion, is, te my mind, bad policy.
It destroya the carrent of uniformity which
has been eetablishcd f rom. confederation
down te the present time. It refera Crown
cases te courts tihat may net know anything
about this cisass cf litigation.
In my
judgment, tie question arises from the
phraseology used in tie latter part cf tic
section, a&te whether an appeal will net lic
from an Appeilate Court ut a province te
tie Supreme Court, by the Crown, because
although in the alternative the Crown proposes a right ci appeal te a previncial court
cf appeal, yet there ia attached te that appeal, as hon. gentlemen will observe lu the
laat twe hunes of the clause, ail the incidents nights, powers and privileges incident
or belonging therete. So that if the Crown
would appeal te a provincial court it might
then avail itself cf ail these powersand
privileges incident therete and go back te
thc Supremne Court. That is eue of the
possibilities in the Bill.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-And paralyze the poor
litiga.nt.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Instead cf cur
erccting further barriers te prevent the.
subject from recoering a lawful claim
against lie Crown, we should take thoe
barricrs dowu and place the subject as
against the Crown in as good a position as
we would against private individuals.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I arn strongly So you see the injustice in.that direction,
opposed to increasing the number of and I see a remedy in this Bill. I hope
appeals, and I ar n Df avour of this Bill the Crown will always, in Quebec, choose
because I do flot see in it the increasing the Court cf Appeal in any case where the
of appeais. The Bill eays that thel <rown Crown thinks an a'ppeal should be made,
will have. the alternative right te appeal and especially if the other party to the
either to the Suprerne Court or te the Ap> case bas the sarne right of appeai.
In
pellate Court of the province. Se that, on that event,' I doubt if there wou]d be a
thia point, there is no increasing of ap- single case that would net be decided by
peal, and I arn in favour of the principle the Court of Appeal of the province. The
of the Bil; but I oould net accept it as sarne thing would occur in Ontario. When
it is now, because, as rny hion. friend has an appeal is made frorn a decision of the
just pointed out, it givea only te the Crown Exchequer Court in a case corning
under
the right of appeal. I do not see why the the English law, the
subject would prefer
suppliant or the defendant in the case
te go to the Court cf A'ppeai in hie own
ahould noît have the saine right, and if
province rather than go te the Suprerne
the government is willing te aodd alter the
Court, where he would only have three
words the Crown ' and the other parties te
judges out cf five who would have a
the suit,' I arn quite willing te support the
thorough understanding of the language and
Bil, not only for that reason but because
laws of his own province. Though the
I amn strongly in favour, especially iD Our
j udges frorn the province cf Quebec are
province, of the provision that the appeai
in a better position in that respect, they
should be te the Court of Appeal in each
are not as well educated as te the iaws of
province rather than te the Suprerne Court,
the other provinces as the other judges of
and the reasons are many. We have bethe Supreme Court. So, if the right cf
fore this House an arnendrnent to the Exap'peal were given, I arn sure a litigant in
chequer Court Act, to provide that we rnay
Ontario or British Columbia would piebe able te argue our suits in our own lanfer te appeal frorn a decision of the Exguage, and that the witnesses mav givchequer Court te the Court cf Appeal in
evidenoe in their own tongue. If the case
his own province; the cost would be
is one for damnages under civil law, or
rnuch less.
A litigant in British Cosornething of that kind, naturally the
lumbia, for instance, would advise his
judge of the Exchequer Court is not iD as
lawyers not te appeal te Ottawa, where the
good a position te understand the genius
expense would be heavy, especial]y when
cf the civil law of Quebec, as rny .hon.
friend frorn Montreal has said, as the Court cases are adjourned frorn one terni te auother, but to take the case before the Court
of Appeal of oui province, and if the appeal
is taken frorn that court either by the of Appeal in British Columbia. I think thisj
is a good law and in the right direction. I
Crown or the eubject te the Suprerne Court,
intend next session te bring in a Bill rewhat ia the position? You corne here frorn
quiîing that every judge of the federal
the court in the province of Quebec and
you place that case before five judges, and courts ahall understand both languages, and
a sirnilar provision with respect te the
you have only . two and, unfortunately,
Civil Service in Ottawa, se that nooften only one, judge frorn our province
body can be ernpleyed in the Civil Serwho knews the law and civil procedure.
vice here unless he undeistands
the
Then you have te argue bel ore three or four
j udges at least frorn the other provinces, twe officiai languages. I give notice cf that
who know nothing about the French ian- now, -and I should be glais if such a provisien ceuild be incorporated in this Bill. I
guage, who cannet read the evidence at it is ~hall
gladly vote fer this Bill, especially if
-written, who cannot follow the case, and
it is amended se as te permit flot only the
you compel the lawyers frorn the prov- Crown
but the individual te appeal te the
ince of Quebec to go
before
that provincial courts of appeal. I do net agcee
court and speak Engiish when they
with the leader cf the opposition when he
,speak it perhaps just as badly as I d-_. savs that the Crown will have
a right to apBon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MAY 17, 1909
peal from the provincial court of appeal te go before the Court of Appeai in the prothe Supreme Court.
vince in which. the case has been tried
l'y the Exchequer Court.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-The appea-1 te
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middiesex).-Does the
the Supreme Court is made final; but there
Bill say that that appeal is final?
is ne final.ity in this case.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-There is the
riglit to go te the Supreme Court or to
the Provincial Court of Appeal. It is
within the beunda cf the statute, which
says the Supreme Court shail be final, and
if lie chooses the alternative, it will be
final aise; but if he goes te the Court ef
Appeal cf the province, lie shall have the
right,- net as a matter cf grace merely if
the amount is sufficient, to go te the Privy
Coundil. The Bill is a geod eue, and if it
is pressed I shall move net enly that the
Crewn, but that ail parties shail have
the right te appeal. My hion. friend suggests that the jurisprudence eught te be
general and that the Supreme Court must
be thie only court of appeal froin the Exchequer Court. Iu the province et Quebec there is a court cf appeal and, if
appeals could be taken frem the judgmeuts cf the Exchequer Court, the jurisprudence would be established and appeals
weuld always be te the provincial courts,
and I like the jurisprudence of the provinces as weil, if net better than the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court. If the
government add te the Bill that the parties te a suit shail have the saine right as
the Crown te exercise the alternative te appeal te the Supreme Court or te the provincial Court of Appeal, I arn willing te
support the Bill.
Hon. Mr. CLORAK-This is an imnportant Bill, more important than appears on
its face. I have listened te the discusaien
between the different legal aights cf the
Heuse in regard te this matter. The House
should bear in mind that this Bill is simply a restriction cf the riglits of the Crown,
and in ne way a restriction of the rights
of the subject. The Bill deals simply and
iolely with the riglits cf the Crown, and the
Crown limits itself te one simple appeal,
whether as petitioner or respondent, from
the judgments of the Exchequer Court,
with the option-that is ail it reserves-to

Hon. Mr. CLORAN.-The iaw is to be:
taken as it reads, and it provides for only
one appeal, and that appeai is final. If it
was intended there should be another appeai, the iaw would say so. You cannot
put more into the law than words will
express, and the governrnent has restricted
its rights to an option of an appeal fromn
a judgrnent cf the Exchequer Court whether
it be the petitioner or respondent. The
Goverument can take an action against the
subjeet just as weil as the subject can take
ail action against the Crown. They are
on equal ternis, so far as civil rights are
concerned. Often, the gevernment has to
take action against contractors for the recovery cf rnoney over-paid. In that case,
the Crown is the plaintiff, but in the vast
majority of cases it is the subject who has
a grievance against the Crown. The Crown
restricts .itself to a simple appeal fromn the
Exchequer Court te the provincial Court of
Appeal. The Minister of Justice will have
te advise the cabinet that justice would
be better obtained by going before an appellate court; if hie thought net, hie would
advise his cabinet te go te the Suprerne
Court. This Bill dees net in any sense
take away the riqhts of the subject.
This leaves the subject with ail his rights
under the common, law aud under the provincial law of each province. Be that the
subject to-day remains in the eArne position as lie was before this Bill was introduced. He will have a right te appeal from
the Exchequer Court to the Court cf Appeal; hie can go from the Court of Appeal
te the Supreme Court; hie can go frem the
Supreme Court te the Privy Council. This
Bill takes none of bis rights away; it simplv
deals with the right cf the Crown, and the
Crown in this case restricts its riglit; se
that I arn obliged te disagree with the very
[earued leader of the opposition, that the
rights of the subject are net very well protected iu this Bill. On the contrary, they
are left open; they are left under the protection ef the commen law, they are left

616.,SENATE.
Wider the protection of the province in
wýhich the case is tried, and in the province
of Quebec the procedure says that a man
can appeal from one court to the other, go
to the Court of Review, the Court of Ap1eal. Queen's Bench, Supreme Court and
the Privy Council. The subject will have
all these rights under judicial protection.
This Bull does flot take one iota of bis righta
away. The subject bas stili ail bis rights
of appeal from one court to another, and
1 cannot see how our learned authorities
heïe, well up In the law, can read the Bill
otherwise. 1 fail to, see that it inflicts
any hardship on the subject. On the contr.ary, it gives bim an open field, wbile tbe
government closes the gates against itseif
in 'aU appeals except one, and that with
an option.
Hlon. Mr. POWER-The hon. member
from Victoria Division reminds me s, littie
of the juror who differed from bis eleven
brethren and said tbey were the eleven
most obstinate men be had ever met in his

one wouid propose such a .thing. This is
just tbe same. only in a somewbat mûrc
ag-gravated foîm.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-The Superior
Court i& presided over only by one judge.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Is flot there in tbe
province of Quebec a court called the Court
of ]Review, made up judges of the Superior
Court?
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETT-That
Court of Review, another branch
Superior Court.

is the
of tbe

Hon. Mr. POWER-Is there an appeal
from the judge of tbe King's Bencb ta the
Court of Review?
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-No.

Hon. Mr. POWER-No. The bon. gentleman would ecout a proposai to give an
appeal from. the Court of King'e Bencb ta'
the Superior Court. The appeal provided
for in this Bill is more out of the way. This
is an appeal from a federai court to a provHon. Mr. CLORAN-And brougbt them incial1 court; and in the other case both are
provincial courts.
aîound and got a verdict of acquittal.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-The election iaw
ýHon. Mr. POWER-I took two objections
to this measure at tbe beginning of 'this is a federai law, and it gives the right to
littie debate, and I have not heard any. go before the Superior Court in Quebec.
thing yet caiculated to change tbe viewn
Hlon. Mr. -POWER-That is a different
'which I tben expressed. In tbe first place, thing; but in the case of an election trial
1 think it is a departure -whicb mars very there is no appeal from a federal court ta
much the symmetry of the iaw, to give an a provincial court. The process begins in
appeai from a federal court to a iower court. the provincial court.
even though that iower court is a court
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-An ciection court
sitting en banc.
in tbe provinces is a federai court.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Would the hon, genHon. Mr.;POWER-Yes, I know' it is.
tleman allow me one question. Ia the Exchequer Court reaily a federal court in the Tbere bas been eometbing said about tbe
true sense of the word 'the same as the ground taken by the bon, leader of the
Supreme Court? la it flot a travelling opposition. I quite agree with the hon.
gentleman, that there is a great deal te be
caurt?
said in f avour of putting private individuals
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe statute says 8o; on the same footing as the crown as ta the
but the gentlemen wbo drafted tbe statut,, right of appeal.
were not as welI up in the law as my hon.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-He is on a better
friend. I just put this case ta the Hlouse,
and to hon, gentlemen from Quebec: foolting in this Bill.
Wyould it *be iooked upon as the proper
Hon. Mr. POWER-I shahl discuss this
thing to give an appeal from a decision of for a moment. In the first place, before the
the Court of King's l3ench in Quebec ta rivate citizen can sue
the Crown, he has
the Superior Court? I do not think any ta go ta the Crown and ask tor permission.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

MAY 17, 1909
He -bas to apply for a petition of right; and 1 think that it would exist undeï*section
although 1 notice it has been stated li an- (37) of the Supreme Court Act. That secother place that this petition of right is rare- tion says:
ly refused, it is very often long deferred.
Except as hereinafter otherwise provided,
Bometimes more than a year will elapse an appeal shail lie to the Supromo Court
from any final judgment of the highest court
before the right of the Crown is granted. of final. resort now or hereafter established
see the Crown has that advantage. in any province cf Canada, whether such
You
cf original
of
The private citizen cannot bring a suit court ia a court the appeal or suit, cause, jnrisaction,
matdiction, where
without the permission of the Crown. Surely ter or other judicial prooeeding ha. neot ouiafter the two parties have got into court. ginated in a Superior Court, in the following
cases:the Crown should not insist on having priyIn the province of Quebec. if the matter
ileges superior to those granted to the
in controveusy amounts to or exceeds the
private suitor.
1 notice that in the disvalue of $2,000, there might be a
cussion in another place one of the grounds &umi or
right of appeal in virtue cf that section cf
given was that it was cheaper to appeal to
is, of course,
the Provincial Court of Appeal than to the Supreme Court Act, which
a federal Act; but 1 think the attention of
the Supreme Court .at Ottawa. Surely
if that is one of the grounds for" the Department of Justice should be drawn
allowing this appeal to the Crown, it te the matter, and that it ehould be made
is a stronger ground for aflwing the clear as te whether it ia iutended to give
appeal to private individuals. The citizen's a xight cf appeal, and to what court.
puise is flot generally as long as that of the
Hon. Mu. DANDURAND-I .may be alCrown, and, 1 quite agree with the hion. gen- lewed te say a few words in reply te some
tlemsn from Grandville,ý in thinking if the statements which have been made.
The
BUIf is to pass, the appeal should be granted first one I would like te answeu is the one
The made by the hon, gentleman from Halifax,
to both parties li the sanie way.
private individuel should be put on the who thinka it is soxnewhat derogatoxy te alsame footing as the Crown in that respect. lew an appeal, from a federal court te a proHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I uise to unake a cor- vincial . court. I do net look upon the Exrection in a statement that I made. 1 said chequer Court as being a higher court than.
of any province, and
that 1 did not agree with the hon. member the Superier Court
much less when compared with the Court
from Ottawa when he said that hie thought
any province. The Erchequer
there would be an appeal either to the Su- of Appeal in
Court is inetituted to deal with cases which
preme Court or to the Privy Council.
are dealt with. by the Superior Courts
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I said to the throughout the land in cases affecting the
Privy Council.
Cuown, and its judgment is a judgment of
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes, because of the first instance, and the jucige cf the Exprovincial Act, which says that there is an chequer Court, te me, stands in the saine
appeal from. ail final judgxnents. Well, I light and on the smie plane as a Judge cf
maintain the opinion I expressed, and I de- thc Superior Court of any province in the
sireto caîl the hon. member's attention te Dominion. As te the purpeut cf this enactthis, that it would be open to the provincial ment, in order to understand the reason for
legislature to remove the right of appeal. its being framed one weuld need te see what
An appeal in virtue of this etatute would actuated the Minister cf Justice in draftdepend upon whether the legislature main- ing it. He 'bas -been confrented with judgtained a right te appeal. I do not think ments of the Exchequer Court against the
there can 'be any appeal in vi-rtue of this Cuown fou amaîl amounts, wheue an importfederal Act unless it is so expressed by the ant puinciple cf civil law was lnvolved and
Act, in -virtue of a provincial statute; but settled definitely ainong the parties.
Hie
where -I may have made the mistake is, bas thought that in certain of these inwhen I added that there would be neo appeal stances it was important that the Crown
either to the Privy Council or te the Su- ehould not rest with this judgment, and
preme Court. The appeal might exist, and this enunciation cf principle-

SENATE
Hon. Mr. BELCOU1IT-Does My hion.
friend net consider that under section
84 that remedy is open to the Attorney
General, where it is provided that if hie
gives his opinion in writing, and the prin.
ciple affirmed by the decision is of general
public ~Importance, hie bas an appeal to the
Supreme Court, se that there is no necessity of giving him an appeal to the Court
of Appeal.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is just for
that reafon that bis appeal up te this moment bas been altogether to tbe Court of
Appesl, and that he lias feit the cruelty
of the proceeding on the part of the Crown
ot bringing litigants fromn a far away province for a relatively small sum, and involving the itigant in the heavy expense
of tbe Supreme Court, and as bie felt that
it was a question of principle that was
involved, and wbicb was of more importance to the Crown than to the litigant, tbat
tbe litigant should not be mulcted
in a
heavy bill of costs by bringing bixn te the
Supreme Court. Under these circumstances,
he bas felt that lie sbould be entitled to
go te tlie Court cf Appeal in the province
ini wbicb the case bas arisen.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I say that the
Crown, acting under the provisions cf this
BillHon.. Mr. BELCOURT-Wbat is there in
the Bill whieh providei that the judgment
cf the Court of Appeal sball be final?
Hon. Mr. DANDUBAND-I find it in the
spirit cf this very piece cf legislatien; I
am net affirming tbat tliere is ne appeal.
1 consider .tbere is an appeal. If the auni
in dispute is above two, tliousand dollars,
there will be an appeal from the Court cf
Appeal to tbe Supreme Court, of riglit an
appeal by tlie suppliant, but wbicb could
not be exercised by the Crown under the
terms cf tbis legislation.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Or ko the Privy
Council.
Hon. Mr. DANDUERAND-I consider that
the crown bas closed tbe door ko an ap.
peal, wben it says tbat it may take an ai.ternative appeal ko tbe Court cf Appeal.
In mnY Opinion tbe Crown wl bave ke b.
satis9fied under this legialation witli the
judgment cf the Court cf Appeal, if that
judgment goes against it.

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Does my lion.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Why bas the friend think, and does the Minister cf JusCrown made it optional, if tbat is the tice tbink tbat there is or is net an appeal
case P
from the Court of Appeal te the Privy
Hon. Mr. DKNDURAND-I am just pro- Council in a case of tbis kind?
oeeding ke explain the trend of mind of the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I *would net
minister, and the genesis of this piece of like ko give my opinion on this peint, allegisiation. Of course, the attention of the thougli I arn fairly clear as te the other
Minister of Justice bas been drawn in an- peint, tbat the supplicant can go from
other place te tlie opportunity cf giving tbe the Court of Appeal te the Supreme Court.
suppliant the saine rigbt cf appeal te one
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I would like my
of tlie courts of appeal. I consider there is
considerable force in asking that bie sbould hion. friend te say if one cf the objects, if
be put on the saine plane as the Crown; net the sole object cf this legislation, is
but just now 1 amn simply explaining wby te grant an appeal from a decision in aptbe Minister of Justice bas thouglit proper peal given on the judgment of the Extk ask parliament to vest bim witli the chequer Court judge? Is it net fer the
right of instituting for himself an appe-al, purpose of getting tk the Privy Ceuncil
and baving the alternative to going te the from the Exchequer Court, outside of the
Court cf Appeal and accepting tbereby, as Supreme Court?
final against him, the judgment cf that
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND: I say ne; beCourt.
cause I bave the autbority cf the Minis-~
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Where is the ter of Justice wbo bas expressed himseîf
autbority cf my lion. friend to say that in another House and whe has stated that
that judginent is geing te be finalP
he had twe ends only in view: First ta
Hlon. Mr. DANDURÂND.

MAY 17, 190964
bring the litigant to a tribunal where the
cona would be legs heavy; and second to
get, on the principle of civil law, what he
considered as good a judgment as he could
get anywhere else, and perhaps a better
judgment in the Court of Appeal of the
province where the case has arisen?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Did he say there
would be no appeal from the Court of Appeal to the Privy CouncilP
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-He has not
given an expression on that point; but he
lias cxpressed his mind in the framing of
this legisiation, and he has given the two
reasons, which I now repeat.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The Crown cajinot
take any more right than the law gives it.
The law gives only one right of appeal.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I do not believe
that the suggestion of the hon. member
from De Salabcrry, that the law should be
made clear as to the riglit of parties to
corne from, the Court of Appeal to the Bupreme Court, will be cntcrtained by the
Miniater o! Justice, for thia simple reason,
that the Crown will neyer, o! 110 own, accord, risk inscribing a case in the Court
of Appeal when the amount is at ail large.
The Crown will do ini amali cases, but
in large cases, it will take very good care
to keep its way clear to retain the appeal
to the Privy Council, if it deema proper.
As .10 the matter of putting private parties
on an even plane *ith the (Jrown, there ia
considerable to be said in favour of allowing the suppliant 10 go to the Court of Appeal, and if the Minister of Justice sees
has way clear to adopt that view, I shaîl be
only too glad. With these few words, I
would ask that the second reading be allowed this Bill, and if anybody thinks proper to move an amendment, it niay be done
at the next stage.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not sec here
to-night the miniater of the Crown who introduced this legislation. He shouùld b.
here to give ail necessary explanation.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The riglit hon.
gentleman cxpresscd his regret at flot being
able 10 be here. He thought the weather
conditions 'would justify his absence.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We regret it stil
more. Under the circumatances, I ask that
the discussion of this Bill be postponed
until to-miorrow, in order that we may have
his opinion. upon it. The hon, gentleman
says that the Miniater of Justice had i
view two objecta when he brouglit in this
Bill. What are the two objecta? First
10 diminish the cost of appeal, and second
to have the best possible judgment. If the
second reason ia a good one, why should
it not apply when the costs are heavy? la
he afraid to have the best judgment when
the cosa are heavy? If the best judgment
goes 'where the costs are amali, why does
he not take the judgment of the Appeilate
Court when the amount ia large? I do not
sec that that la a very good reason. If the
Crown givea itself the riglit to appeal for
these reasona, the same reasons ehould apWhy
ply cqually 10 the other party.
should the other party be deprived of having a judgment which would be ibetter, and
leas costly? la it fair that the Crown alune
should have the good judgments -and deny
them 10 the other party? The hon. gentle-.
man wil see that the two reasonz he gave
have no foundation. The two parties should
be on the one footing. If thc Crown thinks
the best judgment could be had in the provincial Court o! Appeal, the other party
should have the same right. For four or
five yeara, the government have promised
us that the French clement would be represanted in the goverument in thia Houge,
The Prime Minister being himnself -a French
Canadian should gratify the French population throughout the country by giving us
in the Senate a Frenchi minister. If we had
such representation, we would be able to
proceed with the legialation to-day. I would
ask the hon. member what is the meaning
o! the last phrase in this paragrapli? It
saya: AUl the incidents, rights, powers and
What are
privileges belonging thereto.'
those incidenta, rights. privileges and
powers? I should like to know. We are
kept ln the dark. For aIl those reasona, before committing ourselves to the principle
cf this Bill, we should have furthcr explanation from the Minister of Justice of
the meaning and purport of thia legisiation. Wc know that the Bill is not likely
to be amended; but if it were amended, the
paternal government would loch aftcr one

650

SENATE

of its children when it came back from the
Senate, and find a way of keeping it adive.
I do flnot think an amendment will.endanger
t4.eBiHi, and I hope the minister *Hl1 consent. to let this measure stand until to-morro.w. Perhaps it will flot need amendment;
bat if the Minister of Justice should decide
thÉat'the Crown and the other party should
have the samne chance to have a better
judgment with the least possible cost, it
could easily be settled by adding a few
words to this clause.
Ho.Mr. DANDURAND-DO
I understand the hon, gentleman to say that if
both parties were put on the samne footing
he would accept the principle of this Bill?
*Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Certainly.
'Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Then hie cannot
object to having the -principle adopted by
the second reading of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-No, the principle is
given fo one aide only here.
Hon. Mr.
taken away.

CLOBAIN-There

is nothing

Hon. Mr. DANDUBAND-The hon, gentleman admits the Bill is a move in the
right direction, but he thinks it should go
further. We can diseuse that in the coinxnîttee to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. LANDBY-If the hon, gentleman promises to make the arnendment in
committee, 1 shail be wihling to Let the second reading go.

This is a matter which wil give satisfactiin to the public. Large discoveries cof
minerai oil and shale have been made, and
1 spoke te the Minister thie evening and he
seemed anxious to give h*issupport to such.
matters as these. There is nothlng ini the
report te hurt anybody.
Hon. Mr. DANDUBAND.-I would like
to know what the conclusions cf the cernmittee are?
Hon. Mr. DOMVILE.-Simply te have the
repcrt printed.
Hon. Mr. BOSS (Middlesex.-It centaine
the evidence cf three or four witnesses who
apeared before the committee, first Mr. Bila
who examined the shale deposita in New
Brunswick, and his evidence-showed that
the shale rock cf that province was equal
te the best shale rock cf Scotland, out cf
which large fortunes have been made.
Then Dàr. Brock, .head cf the Geologicai
Survey, who explored the Cobalt and Gowganda districts, as well as the iron districts
of Ontario and cf the other provinces, gave
evidence as te the economic value, first cf
the shale cf the Maritime Provinces, and
the mineraI wealth cf the Cobalt district cf
Ontario, indicating the extent cf their explorations, and the lie that prospecters
might moat successfully take in order te
di.scover fresh minerai. I think it is worth
publication.
The motion was agreed to.
SECOND AND THIRDJ BEADINGS.

Hon. Mr. DANDUBAND-I cannot makeBill (103) «respecting the National Accihny promise of the kind, but if the hon. dent and Guarantee Co. cf Canada '.-(Hon.
gentleman will let the second reading go, Mr. Battez.)
hie can hsve full opportunity to move his
A CORRECTION.
amendment.
Hon. Mr. POWE.-Before the House
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It is understood that
we do flot accept the principle of the Bill adjoumns, I wish to make a slight correcbecause we consent to the second reading? tion, and 1 do it at the earliest possible
moment, cf some observations 1 made with
The motion was agreed to on a division, regard to the classification
cf the Senate.
and the Bill was read the second time.
In.speaking of the Usher of the Black Rod,
I arn reported to have said:
MINERAL RESOURCES 0F CANADA.
Up te the. present incumbent, the officere
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE ADOPTED.
did not receive more than $1,800. The present
incumbent is now receiving $2,200.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE moved the adopThen again I said:
tion of the report of the Committee on MinThe Black Bcd had only $1,050 6alary after
erai Resources, hie said:
having been here twenty years.
Hon. M.Nr.
LANDRY.

MAY 18, 1909

651

I:_wîsh te say that is net a correct report., I said $1,3W0. I neyer said $1,050.
And I thjnk that I rcferred te the fact
that hie predecessor had had a salary ef
$1,350 and rooms and dwelling in the
House here, which wes supposed te 'be
woxth the difference between $1,350 and
$1.800, axid when Mr. St. John wae a-ppcinted Usher cf the Black Rod hie ealary
vas increased froen $1,350 which bis predecessor had, te $1,800, because Mr. St.
Jcbn did not have the quarters in the
building which hie predecessor hed.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
was the sum at which Mr. Kiinber was
superannuated P Was h. net ahlowed, in
addition te hie ealary a certain ameunt
which was suppose-d to b. an increase
oft salary, but was reahly for house lent,
fuel and se on?
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do net know what
h ie superannuation w-as based on. I amn
informed that bis superannuation wae $1,000 ; the senior Kimber had disappeared
from thie âcene before I came here.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
recollection is that the accommodation he
had in the house and the other perquisites were computed at a certain sum and
added te the ealary which he received,
and he was superannuated for a larger
amount.
Mr. SPEAKER-If I may be permittcd
te irnake a remark on that eubject, it wil]
b. noted that in the classification cf the
House cf Gommions, the sme accommodation ie valued there for the Sergeant-atArme at, I think; $800 a year.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-There ie notice of motion, for an amendment to that Bill, and,'
if the Houseconsents, I shall -make the
motion, .that -the Bill be net now read the
third time, but that it be anxended by adding the following:
1. Subsection 1 of section 298 cf the Railway Act ie amended by adding thereto the following words;
Provided further that the. ccmpany 'shall,
to thé extent of the compensation recoverable,
be. sntitled to the benefit cf Bfly insurance
eflected upon the propery by the. owner ther.cf. Such insurano. shah,. if paid before thi,
amount cf compensation has been d.termined,
b. d.duct.d therefrcm; if not sc pRaid, the.
polioy cr pcliciee sall b. assign.d te the.
company. and thie company may maintain an
action thereon.

The Senatc adjourned until Il a.m temorrow.

Hon.. Mr. YOUNG-No. I am merehy proposmng the motion cf which he gave notice
yesterday.

THE SENATIE.
OTTAWA, Tuesday, May 18, 1909.
The SPEAKER teck the Chair at eleven
o'cleck.
Prayers and routine proceedinge.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I understand that; but why has he net taken
the responeibility cf deing it himef, istead of asking the hon. member te de it?

RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
THIRD READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved the third reading of Bihl (No. 106)
An Act to amend the Raihway Act.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Might
I ask how it je that this notice ie given by
the right hon. leader cf the House, and
inoved by an hon. gentleman who je anpposcd to be an independent member?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It was for the convenience cf procédure, inasmuch as the
hon. leader cf the Honse had moved the
third reading cf the Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
net knew that it maltes any difference.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It wouhd appear irreguhar for the hon. minister te move te
ainend hie own motion. This course ha%
frequently been adopted in the past.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is the
hon. gentleman propoeing an amendment
te the notice of amendment given by the
hon. leader cf the Heuse.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-HEe did net aek me
te de it.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-1 had moved the third reading of the Bull.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It je a practice that
bas been followed frequcntly.

652

SENATE

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
hon. member is absent, but flot when he i
present. I recognize the fact thal it is
quite in order. What I mean ta eay je that
it ie an irregular practice for an hon. member to give notice of motion and then aek
somebody else to move it.

On thie queetion being rai*sed, he asked.
leave to 'withdraw the motion for third
reading and to move the aznendment ot
which he gave notice yeeterday.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That cannot ibe done.
The right hon. gentleman moved the third
reading and then withdreiw that motion.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I aeked the consent He je now
moving bis amendment of yeeof the House, and there eeemed ta be no terday;
but whet je. hie amendment to it;
objection. However, the right hon, leader
there je no motion before us?
can make the motion.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-The
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
withdraw the motion for the third reading hon, gentleman from Haetings objected ta
the manner of doing it.
and move the ainendment.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Which is the proper
Hon. Mr. LAKDRY-I nie to a point of
order. This is an amendment. The main mode?
motion ie that the Bill be read the third
Hon. Mr. LANDBY-The two modee are
lime.
bad. The only thing for the hon. member
The SPEAKER-That ie withdrawn by to do is to move the third reading. and. if
leave of the House until the hon. member he wants to amend, to get eomebody to
niove the amendment.
cen make hie motion to axnend.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What je that moHon. Sir RICHARD
tion?
That je 'what he did.

CARTWRIGHT-

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What the hon. mcmThe one o! which I gave notice yeaterday. ber from Hastinge objected to was not that.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-The motion ibefore
the Chair je one for the third reading of
the Bill, and in amcndment ta that motion
it was propoed to move that the Bill be
flot now read the third time, but that it
be amended as etated in the notice.
So
that before the thir-d reading is taken, the
Bill must be amendcd. I do not contend
that it muet go back to committee, but we
find that the hon, gentleman who made thc
motion for the third reading now makes a
motion in amendment. He has no rlght to
make that motion.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I understood. he withdrew his motion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-He had no right ta
make the motion.
Hon. Mr . YOUNG-The hon. gentleman
from Hastings objecte ta the other course,
sa what are we going ta do? Between the
three leaders in the House we ought ta be
able ta adopt some course.
The SPEAKER-The order of the day for
the third reading o! the Bill was called,
and the hon. minister made the motion.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I eubmit that ail the
rules are euspended in eo f ar as giving
notice are concerned.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-My motion wvas not
carrîed yesterday, by which I wanted ta
suspend aIl the miles.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Rule 129 je euspended.
It does nat eeem ta me there le any scmians difficulty inx this matter. I think the
view af the bon. gentleman from Stadacana, that the right hon. leader of the
House cannot very well move an amendment ta his own motion, je well taken.
But we are dealing with a public Bill;
there je no necessity for giving notice of
an amendment ta a public Bill, and iA is
quite in order for the hon. member from
Killarney, or any other hon, gentleman, ta
mave an amendment without notice ta thc
motion for the third reading.
The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman who
gave the notice for the third reading of the
Bill when abjection was taken ta 'what followed, asked leave ta withdraw his motion
and ta move an amendment of which he

MAY 18.'1909
gave
leave
ment
him.

notice yesterday. If the -Roues gives
to withdraw the motion, the amendi5 perfectly in order when moved by
That is my rtiling.

move an amcndrnent. It is a govcrnment
Bill, and the government will se that the
Bill shall pues. I ask the hon, gentleman.
as a question of -right and justice, not to
put those companies in a vrong position,
Hon. Mr." LANDBY-I appeal to the but
te. come out with his amcndment and
House on -the decision of the Speaker.
we wiii vote for IL.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-We shail simplify Ihis
littie trouble and clear the atmosphere at
once. Six ]Richard Cartwright will move
his third reading and sme one will attend
te the moving of the amendinent.

Hon. -Mr. BEIQUE-I amn following the
couxrse of tic hon. gentlcman'a leader, who
drew the attention of thc Houes ycatexday te tbis very point vithout moving an

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
move the third rcading of the Bill.

vas read a third lime and passed.

amendment. As fex as I arn at present
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There informed, thc objection laken te thc eubhas evidently heen sme misapprehension section is vdil foundcd. However, I amn
as to the remarks I made. I did not lake not sure enough on thal point to take issue
objection; I merely asked for su explana- with thc Minister of Justice on thc ques
lion of why it vas dons, and after the ex- lion te the citent of moving an amen -1
planation vas made by the hon. gentleman ment.
from Killarney, I said no more.
The motion vas agrecd te. and Uic Bi11
EXOHEQUER COURT ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.
The amcndment vas agreed to on a diviThe Houae rcsolved itself into Committee
sion.
cf the Whole on Bil1 (No. 151) An Act te
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-I have no desixe to aznend the Erchequer Court Act.
move sny amendment, but I wish to aay
(In Uic Committee).
that, as prcscntly informcd, I amrn der the
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I did not take any
impression that the point raised by the
leader of the opposition yesterday is cor- part in the discussion on Ibis fill last
rect, that this paxagraph of subeection 5 of night. because I wanted ho look inte the
clause il, goes beyond the power cf this matter a litIle and become posted in regard
parliament, as il provides that any rolling te the question; but. having given il some
stock belonging te railway companies or- consideration, I think great difficulty vill
The
ganized in foreign countries and brought in arise if this Bill becomes law.
on provincial railways, could hardly be position, as I understand il, is Ibis : hat
deait with as ie nentioned in tbis clause. under this 'fill Uic Crown is te have Uic
Hlowever, as these railway companies are right te appeal te the Supreme Court cf
able te protect themselves, and there may the province. The resuit vill be Uiat there
b. ground for two opinions on the point, I will be a further appeai from the court cf
do not propose te do more than express the province to the Supreme Court of tb.
Dominion.
my own feelings on the subject.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. LANDRY-I think the hon.
gentleman should go a littie further and No, they muet take the alternative, apmove an amendment. There is no danger parently. My hon. friend vill note, the
of killing the Bill, because it has already Crovn vould have an alternative right.
been amended, and that amendment muet
Hon. Mx. CLORAN-If the Crown takes
b. concurred in by the House of Commons.
one court, it cannot go te th. other.
The hon. gentleman says there ie a part of
this Bill which, in his judgment, is unconHon. Mr. BOSTOCK-At ail events, il
stitutional. If it is, ve s3hould net pass it goes from the Supreme Court of the provin its present shape, and I trust he will ince te the Privy Couneil. On. v.ry strong

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I move the amend-ment of 'which notice has been given.

654

SENATE

objection I see, to this Bill is, that the decision arrived at by -the Supreme Courts
of the provinces may vary very considerably, and one of the great objects in thia
establishment of a Supreme Court for the
.Dominion -was that continuous decisione
upon the saine uine should be arrived
at with regard to these questions .as
between the people and the Crown. I cannot -see that, it is going to be of any mna'terial- benefit to the litigants who have to
bring actions againAt the Crown that this
appeal should be ailowed to the Supreme
Courts 'of the provinces, and I ,certainly
think that there -will- be a great deal ci
wide open law which vill lead to a lot
of trouble 'as between the decisions*which
may be given by the various Supreme
Courts of the provinces. It would be very
much better that this question ehould be
leit as it ià, and leave the appeal fromn the
Exchequer Court to the Supreme Court of
the Dominion as it now stands.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I suggested yester-1
day that this Bill should stand. over s0 that
we might be informed as te the opinion of
the Department of Justice on the question*
whether, under this Bill, an appeal vIl
lie from the déecision of the Court of Appeal of the provinces, and te what court. If
we can get this opinion, it is the best we
can expeet froin the Departient of Justice.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTVery good. The request la very reasonable.
At present I amn not in a position te, accept any amendment te the Bül; but I
have no objection at ail te obtaining the
information which my hion. friend requires.
I move that the committee rise, report progress and ask leave te sit again.
Hon. Mr. CROQUETTE-At the samne
tiine I think we should have the opinion
of the Minister of Justice se te the question of the parties having the saine right
of appeal as the Crown. I think that
should be added to the Bill.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-And 'the hion.
gentleman will obtain his opinion on the
two points?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTWill the hion member>send me his amendment, if he desires te suggest one?
Hon. Mr4.CHOQUETTE-Just te give the
parties the saine right of appeal. as thie
Crown.
Hon. Mr. «BELCOURT-I 'would ask the
right hon. gentleman, 'aince hé intends -to
have a consultation with the Minister of
Justice un~ that point, to inquire of hum
also what his opinion is with reference to
this: If, as the hion. gentleman is of opinion, the judgment of- the Court of Appeal
is teo be final,' and there shall be no appeal
froin that te the Privy Couneil or te the
Supreme Court, I should like te know, as
one having. a good deal of business to do
with those, courts, which jurisdiction is te
be conclusive, the jurisprudence esta;blished
by th e Court of Appeal or the jurisprudence
of the Supreme Court in like cases? There
is sure to be a conflict. If my right hon.
friend is correct in his opinion, that the
judgment of the Court of Appeal is te be
final, you have jurisprudence established
by that court in Ontario, another by thé
Court of Appeal in the province o! Quebec
and another by the Supreme Court, ail on
similar cases. I should hike te know which
jurisprudence is te be deemed conclusive?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThere may possibly tbe a confiet. The
object of -the Bil, as I understood froin the
Minister of Justice, vas te avoid the heavy
costs that are infiicted on litigants vhen
fhey have te go -before the Supreme Court.
That vas the object, as stated by hum in
the House of Cominons. As far as the
Crown is concerned, the Supreme Court
would be the most convenient for thein.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL, from the commit.
tee, reported that they had made some
prog-ress with the Bill and asked leave te
sit again.

DEPARTMENT 0F LABOUR BILL.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTSECOND READING.
It will be almost unnecessary to discus
that at present, as I amn going to consuit
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARITWRIGHT
the Minister of Justice before the next moved the second reading of Bill (No. 165)
sitting of the House.
An Act respecting the Departmnent of La.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK.

MAY 18, 1909

655

bour. Rie said: I may offer a few reasons arises; I mean the very marked division
why the government propose to create which now existe between labour and capithis particular department. In a general tal. It is hsrdly toc much to say that
way, I concur with the remarks made by these two forces, both of which are eminentmy hion. friends on both aides, as to the iy ncessary to the proeperity cf a counundesirability of increasing the nuniber cf try, and which ought te work together in
ministers,' and 1 have aiso my own par- harmeny, are, one might say, almost aiticular vicws as to 'what might -be donce rayed i hostile camps againet each othe.
and which 1 cxplained on a former occa- We have sean i ther countries, 'and to
sion. But with respect to this paiticular sonie citent in our own, what tremendous
measure, I would call the attention of the mischiefs arise from a colision betwecn
Hlouse to the fact. that within the lest very organlzed labour and Res employers. The
moderate number of ycars the wholc in- coat of a great strike, such, for. example,
dustrial situation, and more especially on as that which occurred a fcw years ago in
this continent, has undergone many and connection with the cool fields in Uic
very important changes. Within a compara- United States, almost equals the cost of a
tively short nunkcr of ycara, three things great war. For the purpose mainiy cf doing
have occurred in the neighbouring repub- what coni be donc by the goverument te reclic, and te a lesser extent in Canada, none oncile what I may eay are these hostile
of which, 1 may eay, I regard rwith great factions, at any rate te .provide means
favour. There has been too great a con- whereby a better understanding may be orgestion, I think, in the various towns and rived at between these parties, thc governcities in the United States and in certain ment have thought it expedient te create a
parts of Canada. Agriculture has been department which should be very specially
rather at a discount, and a great nuxnber charged with the duty cf looking alter Uic
of our people have betaken themseives intereses cf labour, and incidentally of
rather to the taïk of distribution than to cverything connected with labour, and in
the task of production. Now, I believe that, particular would be charged with the
particularly in a country like Canada, the duty for which an Act bas been specially
agriculturai element je the backbonc of ita previded, cf esablishing and maintaining
prosperity, and that anything which tends courts cf arbitration, voluntary or otherin any way te divert men from the soi and wise, whereby and through which these disbring them into the cities, particularly putes may be averted. I need net eay that
where they are flot going to engage in pro- the ceet cf a Department cf Labour, organiductive occupations, but rather oct as mid- zed as it is proposed te be, is a most insignidiemen, is net best. for Canada. That is ficant thing compared with the coet. cf .any
one thing; another ie the f oct that there considerable strike.
The smallest etrike
bas
been a terrible
accumulation cf oueost would involve a greater loss te the
huge fortunes in individual bands.
That community that probably the Department
r hold te be a threat of the very worst cf Labeur would in several years.
I may
kind te civilization, and I have regarded sîso observe that in other ceuntries simiwith increasing apprehension the tremend- bar departments and 'Ministers cf Labour
oes accumulations that have tsken place, have 'been created, and I Uiink that on the
notahly in the United States, in a much whole the result bas been very eatisfactery.
smaller degree with ourselves, and which I and that the experience cf what is known
think are more likeiy to endanger the pros- as the Lemieux: Act has, on Uic 'whole, been
perity of both the United States and of very satisfactery in Canada. For ail these
other countries wherc the saine atate cf reasons, the goverument bas deemed it
things prevail, thon aimost any other cause wise te ask parliament to permit Uiem te
1 know. Frem that has arisen the state create a new dcpartment which shahl be
cf things which, I think every hon. gentle- specially charged with Uic adjustment cf
man here who bas studied the motter will the differences that I have alluded te, that
agree with me in saying, requires the have arisen and are arising ail over this
earnest and serious consideration cf the continent, though more especially in the
legisiatures cf every country where it republie te the south cf us, between ergan-

656

SENATE

ized labour and the capitalisis and other incurred in the Bureau cf Labour that now
employers of labour. Those are the rea- exists.
sons which move the goverument to advise
the creation of this department. I move
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That weuid be
the second reading of the Bill.
the minimum. This'is simply presented
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This is another te us -so as te prepare us for what may
possibly arise in the future. Those deillustration, and my right hon. friend lias
anticipated the observation 1 was about to partments have contracted a habit during
make, of the government practicing econ- the st ten or twelve years cf growing
omy under a f alling revenue, by adding to very rapidly; cf flourishing like green bay
trees; cf increasing their expenditure anythe expenditure of civil government. What
I object to ini cennection with this Bill is where from 100 te 500 per cent. The serwhat I might terni the patoh-work policy vice in some of the departments cf the
of the goverument in increasing the port- government has increased te ne les
folios of civil governmnent. This increase than 5N0 or 600 per cent during the last
We de net seem
does not seemn te Ïbe based upon any well- 12 or fifteen years.
defined policy. It seems to be the outeome te be making any headway in being able
cf whatever clamour or demand may be te control the expenditure cf civil geverilmade at the moment concerning conditions ment. I do net entertain any spirit cf
which arise from time te tume, and twhidi hostile criticism te the governiment in eaymay net be looked for. This is the second ing that large financial corporations, large
Bill whlch we have had te consider dur- transportation companies and the otheing the present session increasing the port- great commercial companies of Canada or
folios of civil government.
There is ne cf the continent, wou]d net dreani cf transdoubt whatever that the Bill concerning a acting their business in the samne way as
Department for External Affairs will, with we do in the Civil Service cf the governpropitious political weather, blossom inti ment of Canada. Abuses have always exa full-blown cabinet portfolio at a very isted there, and they continue with aboundearly date, and, even though the revenue ing rapidity and multiplication. It would
decreases, as surely as the sun shines at net seem unreaaonable te suppose that this
noon to-day, next session, or at a very gevernment made up at one time, as we
early session, we shall have to censider understood it te be, cf ail the business
the propriety of appointing another -cabinet talents, ehould have been equal te grapminister te provide for the portfolio of Ex- pling with this very important question.
kernal Affairs. We -have now a Bill before I do net know how many royal commiaus -Involving an expenditure cf no lees than sions have been appointed from tixne te
thirty-four or thirty-five thousand dollars time te inquire into this inatter, and sO
for the maintenance cf the Depsxtment cf numerous have ail the recommendations
Labeur. I find in the estimates which were been that I scarcely recali them, as te how
introduced te the ether House in cennec- the Civil Service might be recenstructed,
tien with this Bill, we are te have a deputy and how the expenditure might be reduced.
head at $5,000, one secretary in the fixst Still we go on session after session piling up
division, subdivision A cf $2,800; two increased expenditure until it seema te
second division subdivision A clerks, me that at a cemparatively early period,
$3,800, eight second subdvision clerks at the uncontrellable expenditure cf the gev$1,100 one-third subdivision B clerk, and ernment will practically absorb ail the
four third division subdivision B clerks at revenue. Another question arises: are we
$2,200, one messenger at $650, one packer going te receive value for this? I very
and sorter at $500, and -an allowance for much regret that my right hon. frienid lias
private secretary of $300, together with a net been able te indicate te this Chamber
fulI-blo.wn cabinet minister at $7,000; mak. seme well defined scheme whereby the Department cf Labeur will be able te grapple
ing in aIl $34.000.
with the varieus questions te which hie bas
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- alluded. I quite appreciate the responsi.
The larger part of that, I think, is alreadY bility cf the government in dealing with
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MAY 18, 1909
a Minister of Labour with ail the retinue
that I have pointed out, and involving a
yearly expenditure of $35,000, as a minimum, 'wilhout knowing what Ihat Department of Labour is going 10 do. I regret
very much Ihat the governinent has not
seen fit to permit the Labour Bureau, as
il now existe, to exert ils influence in the
direction already poinled out. The Minister of Labour to-day is the Posîmaster
General. My right hon. friend has not
poinled out to this Chamber, nor has il
been pointed out in the other House, that
the questions which have arisen frôm
lime 10 lime and which would neceasarily
appeal te the deputy minister, have been s0
extraordinary in character as 10 render that
department unable 10 grapple with lhem.
The staff Ihere bas certainly not been inadequate bo deai with the various queslions which have arisen froni lime 10 lime.
The policy of the department bas been,
s0 far as I have observed, to al.w strikes
to practically exhaut3t themselves, and
when bolh parties were absolutely exhausted from. the antagonism 'which had existed
for a considerable lime, the department
Ihen intervened. The Deputy Miniater of
Labour appeared on the scene, and he
then had no difficulty, in many cases, in
settling the strikes. But il is in the inception of those difficulties that the government should act, and I must confes
Ihat in no case has my attention been direcled to any important strike where the
Hfon. Mr. CLORAN-No.
governmenl has inlervened before the difHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They have passeà ficulties had reached an acule stage.
Under the circuinstances, while Ibis Bfi
resolution aiter resolution in their Labour
their entire disappro- is bound to go through, the government has
Congress expressing
val of the Act. 1 speak with knowledge on shown no good reason for the estaiblisbment
Il o! another department involving a very
Il is flot compuisory.
the subject.
simply touches the fringe, and dosa not large expenditure of money. I regret also
reach the centre of the difficulty wbich that the government has nol considered the
'bas been pointed out. I quite appreciate propriety, now that there is to be an inthat the question of labour is of eufficient crease under new conditions arising from.
importance to command the attention of limne to lime of government portfolios, o!
the goverument in endeavouring in every considering the poIicy which obtaina in
intelligent way to deal with it and the di!- England, of appointing under secrets.ries.
ficulties arising under it from lime to lime, I recali the speech that the hon. member
and from which labour is undoubtedly su!- from Middlesex made upon Ibis subject
fering. But tbere must be a weil deflned some months ago. Il was full oi interest,
policy. If this Department of Labour is and cerlainly should commend ilsel! to
10 be established, il should be accompanied the attention of the government. I regret
with a provisioiý for the settlement of o say that under the present system our
slrikes, and not simply make provision for civil government la unsatisfactory; our de-

large industrial questions that arise from
lime to fime, and in quieting the publie
mind as to agitations which seems to be
perennial belween capital -and labour; but
the establishment of a Department of Labour, with ail the paraphernalia which has
been indicated, and wilh ail the expenses
that it will entail, iâ not going to result in
settling those difficullies which confront
us from lime to lime, and which as between capital and labour have existed from,
lime immemorial. Until the governmenl of
the day is sufficiently strong, and is prepared to hold the scales of justice between
capital and labour entirely irrespective of
the labour vote, or enlirely irrespective of
what pressure capital may bring to bear
in the way of political influence, s0 long
viii these difficulties exist. Until the
governient of the day is sufficiently strong
bo bring down legialion making it part
and parcel of our criminal law to enforce
a penalty, as they do when other laws are
disregarded, so long wiii Ihose difficulties
continue. Take for instance the Act which
we know as the Lemieux Act. My righl
hon. friend can scarcely congratulate the
eountry on Ihat Act being a success at the
pre4ent lime in adjusling difficulties which
*
arise belween labour and capital. Shortly
after its introduction, il did receive a f air
trial at the hande of bolh parties, but the
l abour party* to-day absolulely disregard
the Lemieux Act.

mLEVI5ED EDITION

SENATE
paxtments are largely political, the transaction of business in our departments is
of such a political character that the party
in opposition hesitates to go into a departnient to transact business as members
of parliament on account of the polîtical
sympathies pervading the whole branch,
from the head down to the lowest messenThis is a 'regrettable condition of
ger.
affairs. -It is something which demandi
the attention of the government, and the
sooner we can end this condition of having a political party trs.nsact the business
of the country and doing business for one
side of politics only, and the institution ei
a system of under secretaries, entirely free
from the political affinities which characterize the service to-day, the better it will
be for individuals and the better for the
country.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. leader
of the opposition is generally fairer in his
remarks*than hie bas been in dealing with
the Lemieux Act. He bas failed te notice,
in bis expehience during the last three
years, that any good bas corne ef that measure. We ail agree with 'him that it is a
measure to prevent strikes and not settle
thein, and although the Lemieux Act is
directed towards that end, my hon. friend
does not know that in the first twentyfour months of its existence, out ef 52
threatened strikes no less than 48 were setIt bas been so
tled under its provisions.
successful that attention bas *been drawn
to it in some of the old coantries of Europe,
and, personally, I bave been in contact
with ministers ef the Crown in Austria ,
Italy. France and Belgium. who have asked
me to send tbem copies of that law as being
an improvexuent on their own legisiation.
This is to the credit of the government.
My hon. friend wonders 'wby the gevernment asks for the creation of a DepartThe whole press rings
ment of Labour.
with applause at the creation of this new
poirtiolio. I have heard hardly any criticism. 0f course 1 bave heard from some
quarters t.hat it was perhaps time to rearrangae the divers departments and perhaps amalgamate one or two of them tbat
could well be brought tegether; but as to
the important question now betere the Senate, ail will admit that we have reached a
point -where a Minister of Labour should
LOUGIIEED.
Ilon. M.%r.

be in the cabinet. The work of that department bas gone on increasing every
year. Strikes are threatened trom the Atlantic to the Pacific. Demands are made
upon the department every week, and every
day. to try and prevent strikes which loom
up in many parts ef tbe country. 4We
sboulid ail be agreed, therefore, upon the
importance o! thirs department and of the
work that bas been done by this government since 1896 towards bettering labour
conditions and the relations between capitai and labour.
My hon. friend thinks this government
bas done n'otbing in the matter o! Civil
Service reform. Did he not admit Iaat
year that the Civil Service Commission was
a commendable step? We have brought the
insîde service under an influence other
than political, and hencetorth the nominations will be made accerding to menit. I
for one, will be disposed te vote in favour
of bringing the wbole of the outside service
under the Civil Service Ciommission. We
have quite a number of cabinet ministers
but we bave no under secretaries, as my
hon. friend remarked. He thinks that this
country is overgoverned, and that we have
toe heavy a ministerlal staff. It may be
that our cabinet could be well reduced by
one or two units; yet within the next few
years, in a rearrangement, it will perhapa
be found that aome departments may be
united, but that tbe present number of ministers will have to be retained. My hon.
triend spoke of large corporation.s administering their affaira in other ways than the
federal affairs are administered. If my hon.
friend would go te large corporations like the
Canadian Pacific Railway and the Grand
Trunk Railway, snd add up the salaries
paid to the directors, managers, superintendents. and vice-presidents, hie would
see that the salaries that we are paying te our cabinet ministers were very
i3mall

indeed. I de net deny that in many

departmnents, perbaps in ail, a certain number of employees should be dispensed with.
It may be that the staff la tee large, and
that a private individual, paying eut et
his ewn pocket, would app]y the pruningknife, and dispense with a certain number;
but we aIl kuew the difflculty et ceplng
with this matter, and bringing down the
staff et the varlous departinents te a just

MAY 18, 1909
basis. Ail governments have endeavoured
to reduce the number of their employees. 1
doubt if we shall ever reach an ideal basis,
but I hope, under the operation of the
Civil Service Commission, that better daya
are in store for us.

6m9

cannot take the population and propose it
as a proper basis for the cost cf admninistration, or for the difficulties cf administration comparing one country with another. But there is the fact: The British
empire is administered by a cabinet o!
twelve, but when I say that, let flot the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mjddlesex)-I do not House be misled. Although the cabinet is
quite approve of the observation made by ncw fifteen or twenty, the administration
the hon. leader of the opposition 'with re- consista cf sixty persons, and there is an
gard to the Lemieux Act. I live in a large under secretary for almost every public
centre qf industry. Although Toronto has department. This is not the time to dwell
been. fortunately, free from strikes sud upon thie advantage cf the appointment cf
labour disturbances, still, so far as I know. under secretaries.
There are in the
the publie feeling of western Ontario is House cf Lords representatives cf aldecidedly in favour of this court cf con- most every department cf the publie
ciliation. It has worked admirably in coal service in the government.
Where a
mine strikes in the west, and has worked cabinet minister sits in the Commons,
adniirably in Montreal on various occa- his under secretary sits in the Lords and
sions, and I think the Act, as a court o! vice versa. I do not want to refleet in thic
conciliation, practically intercepting the slightest degree upon thec administration
movements o! those inside who are disposed of the public service in Canada to-day, but
to make a strike, or an employer of labour 1 am quite sure that, apart from the adwho is disposed to be over-exacting with vantage there would be in educating voung
bis employees, bas worked, a partial revo- men for thec public service, there would be
lution in the relations between capital a decided advantage in both houses if there
and labour, and the Act has met with was a sort of subdivision of Uic responsithe approval. of many countries who have bility cf the administration cf the vsrious
heen more perplexed with labour prob- depsrtments, and that the officer or tlic
lems than we, and who have suif ered head of thec departîment who is in one House
more than Canada from irregularities of might be represented by the under secrethat kind. Therefore, 1 must express my tary in the other. 1 am convinced, after
cordial approval o! the Lemieux Act andi watching thec public service of Canada for
its successful operation. I cannot express many years. in thc House cf Commons for
my approval so cordially o! the appoint- a time and for a short period here, that
ment of a Minister of Labour.
would be a remcdy for many of the difI think the hon. leader of the opposition ficulties, and that it would facilitate the
hbas pointed out the true remedy for the passing of Bis, so that probably at the
better administration of the public service. end cf the session business would not be
I had the honour and pleasure of 'discuss- congested as it is now, and it would proing this matter last session in the Senate. mote a better discussion cf public aifairs.
and cited the British system, a systemn 1 do net think thec multiplication o! minwhich in many respects we have copied, isters is the best remedy for the matter
and which, so far as the appointment cf at aIl, and althougli if may be considered
under secretaries is concerned, is, te my necessary to appoint a Ministe-r of Labour,
mind, a solution for the difficulties existing I think the system of under secretaries
in the present administration of the public would contribute far more to the efficiency
aifairs of Canada. The British cabinet is -i o! the public service and would expedite
small cabinet. Aithough it governs an em- the administration cf public business. The
pire cf three or four hundred million, it cabinet is now large and efficient. If is
rarely exceeds twenty. It is usually under impossible, almost, to make reduction once
twenty-down as low as nineteen, and in yen increase the number. But that is net
the early days it was contended that a a matter under consideration. I merely
British cabinet should net exceed twelve. risc to reiterate my opinion, that the,
We remedy for cur difficulties is net the iniWe cannot inake exact comparisons.
4%1

6w0

SENATE

crease of the cabinet, but some other sub- which te create an equilibriurn of power
division of labour between the ministers.
and of authority between these two elements, will accomplish a very great t.hing.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE~ BOWELL- The remarks made
by the leader of the
These of us who listened to the in- geverriment
upon that point are of a chartroductory, rernarks in regard to this acter that meet of
us will endorse, Whemeasure by the right hion, leader of ther the creation
cf a new departmnent will
the House, must have been convinced,
effect the retorm, suggested is a question
by his staternent of the fact, that the
upen which, we are asked te deliberate. I
difficulties existing between capital and
arn ini accord with the sentiments expressed
labour are of such a character as to justify by
the hion, gentleman fromn Middlesex. I
any gevernrnent in taking action by which
do net think that the creation of a nurnsuch difficulties rnay be controlled as far
ber of heads wWI accompliah the ebject
as possible. 1 rnust confess that 1 have,
the governrnent have in view. Many of us
personally, no sympathy with the statements that are being continually made, of rernember that, when the late Preniier of
the great danger which exista in this, or this country, Sir John A. Macdonald, introany other country, by the acquisition of duced into the House oi Commons a systern
wealth by those who enter into, the dif- by which controllers, who were te Occupy
ferent industries of the Dominion. Ail pub- positions similar te those of an Under Secretary cf State in England, were appointed,
lic men, te some extent, have
given atten- it was very strengly oppesed by the then
tion to the problem of what would be the
best means of conciliating the interests of opposition, as adding unnecessary trouble,
capital and labour; -but the tendency of unnecesary expense and unnecessary ofthe age, is unfortunately, in faveur of grant- ficiala in the administration cf the departing to the latter concessions, and subrnit- ment. Now, the statement made that many
ting te dernands and excesses which the of the ministers are overworked, I know
laws of the country should govern and te be quite correct. Just so long as the
control to a greater extent than they do minister is obliged to deal with ail the
to-day; and that tendency is due mainly to details of his departmnent, so long will
the fact that men who are "engaged in that condition cf overwork: centinue te expublic life, and who have te depend upon ist. The deputy head cf each departrnent
the electorate for the positions they hold, in Canada occupies, except in naine, the
are swayed te a very great extent by clam- position that is occupied by the under seccur which may exist out of doors, without retaries cf state, se far as the administrahaving the courgge te meet it. tI England tion cf affaira in England is concerned,
to-day, where the labour element bas gained with this difference, that the under secrese imuch control as to have been able te -taries cf state have seats in the Gommons,
elect many of their representatives, which or in the House cf Lords, and they are
is quite correct, and has succeeded in there te take the place cf the minister in
placing one representative in the cabinet, the explanation cf Buis which are intros0 far has that influence been carried, that duced affecting that particular departrnent
those who have been placed in responsible which. the under secretary represents. The
positions as representing labour, have corne head of the departrnent is net expected te
te the conclusion that it is necessary to be familiar with details, but with the
check the spread of socialistic tendencies policy, and te defend that policy when it
te a great extent. The leaders of the is attacked in the Commons, or in the
labour party have been obliged te oppose Lords. The under secretaries cf state are
in many cases the advances and the de- expected te, and ini fact do, perforrn the
mands that have been made upon the gev- duties that are now performed by the minerriment and upon the people, more par- ister, in explaining any question that rnay
ticularly on those who have acquired soine corne up in the administration cf the aflittle wealth through their industry. Their fairs cf his departmnent. If there is any
deniands are so serious that the govern- matter affecting a colony, the representa
men weho shall devise some schemne by. tive cf that colony is referred at once, if he
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELT.

MAY 18, 1909
lias an interview with the Colonial, Secretary, te the under secretary, or the permanent head of the departmnent, who is
flot subject te appeal te the people, and
there is where he wil get information, and,
I was going te add, incitruction upon the
question at issue.
Now every man who lias been in the gevernment is awsre that ne matter how trivial
the question rnay be affecting the importation of, say, a horse, if there is a difeérence
arising between the importer and the gevernment, the man who complains wll neyer
be satisfied until he lias an interview and
takes up the time of the minister te settie
it. If the principle prevailed that under
secretaries or dcputy heads could give their
decision, then there would be an end te
it, and the labour that devolves upon
a minister o! the Crown would be reieveil
te a very great extent, and the minister
would be able to give more attention te the
publie policy of the country. I remember
distinctly in my own case, 8ir John Macdonald making this remark te me wlien
sme great question was under consideratien:
Bowell, the details of the Customs
Department are of 8ucli a character that
they prevent the head of it from devoting
time te the conaideration of greater questions which affect the whole Dominion
that lie should give te it.' My hon. friends
opposite will admit that that sentence
alone explains the reason why ministers
are overworked. As lias been mndicated
by the gentleman who lias just iddressed
the House, if you can remove from the
departments that perpetual pestering of
ministers by political opponents and political friends in the ordinaxy administration o! the affairs of tee country, you will
have the difficulty of over-work removed te
a very great extent. I know it lias been
said that the appointment of controllers
-%as a failure. Why was it a f ailure? The
appointment o! controllers was for tee purpose of relieving the heads o! departments
from dealing with office details o! whicli
the ministers complained; but the controllers were tee ambitions to submit te
the positions in which they 'were placed,
and instead o! reporting upon great questions to tee minister under *whose charge
they were, that is the Minister of Trade
and Commerce, they were perpetuslly com-

ing in conflict with tee minister by assuming powerti and authority wite which they
liad noteing whatever te do; the resuit
was that when the present gevernment came
in power they changed tlie law and raised
tlie twîo controllers in that department to
the position of cabinet ministers. I admit
that tlie ambition of. tlie controllers, and
tee fact that they considered tliemselves
il. an inferior position, led te that change.
The question now arises as to the creation
o! a new department.
la it neoessary?
Why could not the duties whicli the Minister of Trade and Commerce has given as
flie reason for appointing a new minister,
be performed just as well by tlic gentleman
whohaslield flie position o! Deputy Minister
of Labour under the Postmaster General?
It would not give the minister mucli addifional labour. The deputy minister could
perform ail the duties which lie will have
to discliarge if lie iâi made liead of the department, witliout this additional expenditure. Thirty years ago, the opposition
complained of the number of heads of departmenfa, claiming that a smaller number could transacf tee business of the
country. Truc, there was not as mnucli
work te lie done then as there is new; but
flic adoption of tlic English system cf appointing under secrefaries, would have met
tliat confingency. Another question whicli
waa raiscd by Mr. Blake at teat fime, was
the question of remunerafion to beads of
deparfmcnta. He cJaimed 'that tlic lead
cf ecdidepartment slioild be paid in proportion to the labour and responsibility involved in adminisfering that departmenf.
Like most of thec reforms advocated- by the
Liberal party in opposition, thaf principle
waa net adopted by the Liberal government
wlicn it came inte poer. On flic contrary,
Mr. Blakre accepted thie position o! President
of tlie Privy Council, which entailed tlie
lcast labour and responsibility in tlie cabinet, but ne attempt was made by fhe Liberal govcrnment te reduce the salary attachcd te the office. Will fthe riglif hon.
gentleman tell us wliat is flic intention ef
fie governmenf in appointing a dcputy
head of the Dcpartmenf of Labeur? Is lie
te lic a university man, as flic head of flie
department is, and are all the officiaIs e!
tee department te be e! the same clasa, or
are we te have a practical labour man, ag

6&2

SENATE

SENATE
662
it is termed, appointed? When I1say la- similar te our own in area. and population.
bour man, 1 mean a man engaged in somne There is ne more difficulty in administerindustrial pursuit. To my mind, the use ing a departmcnt ini a ceiintry with
cf the term ' labour,' as understood and seven millions than there is in a country
generaliy uaed is incorrect.
I doubt if with five millions cf population. There
there are many of those employed as may be.more clerical work, but there is ne
artisans or at other similar occupations. increased work for the hcad cf the depart.who work as hard as my hon. friends who
ment. It is ne more difficult, for instance,
sit opposite me. Their occupation is just for the Minister cf Customs te administer
as laboriaus mentally as the physical the affaira cf a department with a collecwork of those engaged in occupations ini tion cf one hundred million dollars than if
the field or in the workshop. It bas been the collection amounted te flfty million.
intimated by the hon. member £rom Cal- The details are worked out by those who
gary, that before many years we shail1 have are irnder hlm, and his duty le confincd
a department of External Affairs. We had te dcaling with questions which arise from
the sanie pledge and declaration made by interpretation
cf the tariff or oome violathose who created the Labour Bureau that
tien cf the law. hi is ail nonsense te say
ne new head cf a department was te be that
the collecter cf customs is harder
created, as we have to-day in the appointworkcd when he collects cight or nine mil.
ment of an under secretary of state for exliens than when he collects four milternal affaira. I amn much mistaken if we
lion o! dollars, for this reason, that
do not find in the course cf a very few
large importations invelve no more work,
years that a new department will be created te desi wlth external affairs juat as the except in the work of vaiuating, in makLabour Bureau is being converted into a ing the entry than small importations.
Department of Labour with a departmental In New Zealand, there are eight cabihead. It has been stated that it is neces- net ministers, and in the United States
sary te have a head cf a department in nine cabinet ministers te govern a nation
order te transact the public business. That cf ninety millions cf people. I am well
ià net the case in other countries. In Eng- aware of the fact that their systema of gevernment is different from. ours. The head
land, the number of ministers is
restricted.*
Each premier selects just as many cabinet cf a department here propounda a policy
ministers as he thinks necessary or desir- and crystallizes it ini a measure which he
introduces te parliament.
In the United
able te administer the affaira cf
the country. Semetimes we flhnd the Postmaster States, measures are prepared and sent te
General a member o! the cabinet, and the Senate, -and. intrustcd to the ieadsometimes he is not. And se it is with ail ing men in the Senate or House o! RepreIf the measure shouid be
the deparimenta. Then with reference te sentatives.
the payment cf heads of departments, some rejected by Congress, it has ne effect
receive larger salaries -than others. In on the status or stability or permanence
this country we have new fourteen heada cf the ministers themselves. They -have a
of departments, ail receîving the same sal- large number of officials who transact the
ary. We are about creating another da- public business, ivhich the heads cf department, and that wiil make a flfteenth partments here have te perform, and which
rninister, and in a short time I doubt not inight be performed by under secretaries
there will be a sixteenth head cf a depart- or deputy heads. The creatien cf a numment. Each minister has a deputy head, ber cf departments is net necessary. The
a secretary, and ail the ether officiais cm- work could be better accomplished by havpioyed in carrying on the aif airs cf the ing deputy heads 'who are net subject to
country, when the work mîght be just as political influence or the centrol cf poliweli donc by a emailer number cf minis- ticians. Se long as the ministers thernselves
ters with under secretaries as called for hiave sufficient strength cf character te be
by the needa cf the administration. In firm in the administration of public affairs,
Australia, there are only seven ministers, and refuse te be made the creatures cf
though they govern a country somewhat political influence, the af!airs cf the counlIen. Sir MiACKENZIE BOWELL.

MAY 18;* 1909
try wiii be weli adrninistered. I have no
expectation that any expression of opinion
frern - me will have effect upon the pol.
icy of the government, with the immense
majority that they have at their back. I
arn not prepared to accept the statements
of those who speak of the great good that
han resuilted from the creation of the Departrnent of Labour. The -labour organizations are setting the Lemieux Act at defiance, and even when they suggest arbitration If the decision is not satisfactory they
disregard it. There is a danger arising frorn
Their tyzanny is
labour organizations.
greater to-day th-an that cf any monarch
in Europe. Any one who han paid attention te the position taken by t.he la'bour
organizations in deaiing with questions ariaing between capital and labeur must corne
te the conclusion that it is becorning dangerous for any one to possess more than is
necessary te sustain his lufe. The socialistic tendencies cf rnany people are becoming so serious that unless some government
sufficiently strong te grappie with the question and settie it shall arise, there will be
great danger te the safety cf the cernrnunity In the future. I knew that this expression of opinion will not be popular.
but I.have always held it. I expresse-d it
when representing a constituency, and I
hesitate mot te express it to-day, and I
-weuld suggest te any gevernrnent dealing
with questions cf this kind that they
should handie them with a firrn hand if
thiey wish te -prevent revolutien and difficulties and strikes which will endanger the
peace cf the cornmunity. We a-re ail, as
peliticians, tee apt te pander te the clameur
that is popular fer the time being, but
the comxnon sense cf the people will prevail, and they wiii find in the end that in
order te live in peace and harmony in the
country there must be a change in the manner in which the public affairs are administered.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-At
this hour, I do net vant te enter inte a
disquisïtien -on the numerous questions
which have been brought up, which might
take up our time f1cm early morn. till devy
eve and leave us stili very much cf the sarne
opinion. These measures are necessarily
cf a tentative character, and while the gov_

663

ernment hope for very considerable resuits
frem them, vith ail deference te my hion.
friend the leader of the opposition, the
resuits of the Lernieux .Act lias been se far
very satisfactory and it has sucoeeded in
preventing a great imany disputes. At this
present moment I arn inforrned that there
are ne les. than nine or ten arbitrations
going on under the Lernieux Act, which,
withont the Act, would probably have resulted in etrikes more or less disastrous.
My experience, end I think -the experience
of rnost men who have been rnueh in contact with the iabouring public or the public in general, is this: As a rule, it is a
great advantage in thc case cf disputes that
men should have an opportunity of presenting their views and cf having 'both
sides heard. This department, if it de
nothing else, vill afford an excellent opportunity for both the employers cf labour
and for the labourers, in the case of disputes, cf rnaking their views heard, and cf
Iaying them befere the public. One thing
that 1 think wiii resuit from the creation
cf a speciai Minister of Labour is this:
that the labeur erganizatiens wili at any
rate feel that the governent of the country recognizes their status and importance.
There is no use shutting our eyes te the
fact that labour organizations are going te be
and are, a trernendous force in this country
I need
and in ail civilized countries.
rnerely point to the example cf the United
States and of France and cf England te
convince hon. gentlemenï that, for geod or*
evil, labour organizations are there te stay;
they are here te be reckoned with, snd
it may be of importance, and I think is cf
importance, that the party who is specially
charged with cerning in contact with these
men, should be an officer cf very considerable ranir in our officiaI hierarchy. That is
ene reasen which would go f ar, I think,
te justify the creatien cf a special officer
charged with this service. I have net at
ail receded from the opinion I have expressed here and elsewhere as te the great
desirability cf adopting the Engiish system
cf under secretaries. I see and aiways
have seen many advantages in it, and I
rnay remind my hon. friend frem Hastings
that on the occasion te w'hich he referred
I, as 'Hansard ' will show, teck the opportunity cf commending Sir John Mac-

SENATE
donald's action as f ar as it went. It did
flot go far enaugh, but it was gooti as far
as it went. The other point that I wouhd
cail attention to-it bears more or less, no
doubt, on the questian-is this: Here we
are a great federal -comxnunity, 'having
sway over a tremendous extent of country,
very nearly hall a continent, having ta deul
with a great number of provinces, many of
which are now an the verge ai becoming
great states, particularly in the northwest.
That state ai thinga renders it necessary
ta have more officiais, w'hether they be
called heads cf departments or whether
they be calleti under secretaries, than
would be required under another form of
government. For that reason, there is flot
much comparisan ta be made between tie
number oi officiais we require and the number of officiais required in England. There
is another thing which I think everybody
will recognize, that 'when you have a federal gavernment and where you have a
great many different provinces existing,
same times under very varying conditions,
it is eminently desirable that the ministers
of the day (whether they be ministers or
under secretaries) shoiild devote a very considerable portion cf their time ta visiting
those outlying parts ai the Dominion and
making themselves personally acquainted
as nothing cise wull make them acquainted
with the needs of these widely separated
portions cf our territary. That is one reason*which goes >far ta excuse tie possibly
tao great multiplication af cabinet ministers which we now passess. It is impossible at this stage ai -the session ta go
ut length into many ai these discussions;
therefore I wiIl content myseli with these
iew remarks and mave the second reading
of the Bill.
The motion was agrced ta, and the Bill
was rcsd a second time.
The Bill was then reicrred ta a Committee of the Whole House, was reported without amendment, rcad the third time and
passed on a division; names not recorded.
EXCHEQUER COURT AC~T AMENDMENT
BILL.

to amend the Exciiequer Court Act, axid on
the motion in amendment cf the Honourable
Mr. Belcourt, that the. said Bill b. nlot now
read a third time, but that it be amended
by adding the following clause thereto:
5. The Governor iu Couneil may, with or
without, the recommendation of the judge of
the. Exchequer Court, from time to time, and
eîther permanently or temporarily. or for
speoial cases, appoint as deputy judge auj
persan having the requisite qualifications
mentioned in this Act, and being proficient
in the, two officiai languages, and snob deputy
judge shall have and exorcise all snoh juriadiction, powers and authority, as are poeeess.
ed by the judge of the Exciiequer Court.
<a> The aPpointment of aj deputy judice
shall net b. determined by tei occurrence of
a vacancy in the office of the judge.
(b> The judge of the Exchequer Court may,
with the. approval of the Governor in Council.
at any time revoke the appointment of a
deputy judge.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-In
coniormity with the statement I made at
the last sittinz cf the Hause, 1 conferred
with the Minister oi Justice on tuis point.
and the Minieter of Justice authorizes me
ta say that an amendment at this stage
wîil nat give him, the tinie that he requires
ta study the ecanamy of the matter, 4and
that hie intends to deal with the question
next session in order ta meet the need mentioned by the han. senator from Ottawa.
I would, therefore, ask my hon. friend from
Ottawa ta withdraw his amentiment anti
allow the Bill, which merely affects Mr.
Audette, ailter that ta pass the third reading.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETT-In the absence
af the hion. meniber from Ottawa, I .may

say that 'I conferred with him about the
nmendment, because I had same intimation that a statement af this kind wouhd
be made by the lion, leader of the House;but I do not think his statement goes quite
far enough. It is a littie hate in the session, but that is not aur fault. We were
just confranted with the third reading of
the Bill and we could flot do otherwise
than present this motion in amendment
on the third reading ai the Bill.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-if
the hion. gentleman wants ta let it -stand,
we will Jet it stand.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-No; I just wish
to make these few remarks. We have given
Resuming the adjonrned debate on the mo- the reason why this amendment ought to
tion for the. third reading (Bill 98) An Act be inserted in the Bill, and even ougýht to
AMENDMENT

WITHDRAW-N.

Thc order of the day being called:

Hlon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MAY 1l,; 1909
go further; but if I understand what I have
been told, and the remarks that have fallen
from the lips of the right bon. leader, in
view of the increasing nuxnber of cases in
the Exehequer Court the government will
consider il it is not absolutely necessary
in order to do justice to the people from
the Atlailtic to the Pacifie, to appoint a
second judge. This question lias been before the public for some time, and I arn
inclined to think, from the remarks that
have been made, that between now and
next session, not only will this amendment be taken into consideration, but that
the government will find its way clear to
declare it necessary to have a second judge
appeinted; and if that is done, I have net
the least doubt the governinent will see
that the judge will be able to speak both
official. languages of this country and that
hie will be appointed from the province of
Quebec to hear cases from Quebec and other
provinces 'where the French language is
used. In this view, as far as the hion.
member for Ottawa and myseif are concerned, we are willing to let the matter
stand till next session.

665

The SPEAKER-Has the hion. gentleman
authority from the 'member from Ottawa
to withdraw it?
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I may say I
discussed the matter with the hion. member
from Ottawa as seconder of the motion,
and I have authority to withdraw this
amendment undér the declazation made,
and I sam satisfied that next session we
will have an additional judge.
The SPEAKER-Then with the leave of
cf the House the amendment is withdrawn.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
move the third reading.
The Bull was then read the third tume
and passed.
The House adjourned at one p.mn. until
three p.m. to-day.

SECOND SITING.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.

Frayera and routine proceedings.
Hon. Sir RICHARD <JARTWRIGHT-I
GEORGIAN BAY CANAL.
can just repeat, that the minister advised
me that he intends to deal wlth the quesHon. Mr. DEBOUCHERVILLE-May I
tion next session so as to -meet the needs ask the right hion. leader cf the Senate if
which have been mentioned by the hon. the report on tihe Georgian bay canal, which
gentleman.
was promised at the commencement cf the
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Taking it s session, is.complete? I previously asked
granted that" this declaration means .as I the right lion. leader if we would have it
soon, and hie answered that we ahould.
put itCan the hon. gentleman tell me if we are
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I to receive it before prorogation?
can add neither yea nor nay to what I have
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTstated.
I have applied for the report, but have not
Hlon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-According to yet received it. I will send a note te the
what I have been told this will be done.
Department cf Railwaya and Canals at
once to know if it can be brought down.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
have no doubt the Minister cof Justice, and,
MONTREAL BRIDGE AND TERMINAL
I may add, the Prime Minister, will see
COMPANY BILL.
that no reasonable complaint or no reasenable grievance will be leit unredressed. I COMMONS AMENDMENTS AGREED TO.
move the third reading of the Bill.
A message ws received from. the House
Hon. Mr.
CHOQUETTE-With
this cf Cominons returning Bill (TT) An Act
official declaration, and as seconder of the respecting the Montreal Bridge and Termmotion, in the absence of the hon. meniber inal Company, asking that the Senate give
frorn Ottawa, I ask leave te withdraw the leave te the clerk cf the Heuse cf Cernamendment.
mens te insert certain amendments te the

666

SENATE

Bill which were passed by the Gommons, curred in one- amendment, and we have no
and which by mistake were omitted when more to do with the Bill, nor has the
the Bill was returned to the Senate.
House of Gommons. The oniy thing now
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-How can they make to be done is for the Gommons to pass a
an amendment without having the Bill be- Bill amending the former Bill.
f ore them? I1 understand the Bill is here,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-A similar inciand the Taessage asks us to return the dent occurred Iast session or the session
Bill s0 as to permit them to add the previous to that, in regard to a government
amendments which they omitted to insert. Bill which. received concurrence in thia
They are asking us now to allow their House. The government found it necessary
cierk to corne here and mske amendments to introduce a new Bill to amend that Bill.
to this Bil.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It was ini relation
The SPEAKER-The message is asking to the bounties.
us to give leave to their clerk to add the
lion. Mr. GAMPBELL-I move, seconded
amendments to make it accord with the
-by the hion. Mr. Béique:
amendments made by the Commons.
That the requeet of
of Gommons,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I underatandihat as oontained in their the House of thie mevenmessage
the Bill as it lefi this Chamber and went teenth inetant, to aiiow one of their çlerks
down to the Gommons, has been returned to correct errors made in the. engrossing ci
their amendments made to Bill (TT) en the
here by mistake, and not the Senate Bill 14th inst., eiititled 'An Act reepecting the
Montreai Bridge and Terminal Company.'
which was amended by the Gommons.
be granted.
The SPEAKER-Oh, no.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I was inforrned
cf that faet by the promoter, that by some
error, the Senate Bill as sent to the Gommons was returned with an amendinent.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I do flot take
the samne view as the hon. gentleman from
Halifax as to the rights of the two branches
of parliament in dealing with this Bull at
tuis stage. The Bi 'was sent here with an
amendment to which the concurrence of the
Senate was asked. The concurrence was
given, and an order was made that a message be sent to the House of Gommons to
acquaint the House that the Senate have
concurred in their amendrnent without any
amendment; but the message was not sent.
The Bill was and is stilli here.

The SPEAKER-Amendments were made
to the Bill which we isent to the Commons,
but in the copy returned to us only one of
the amendments was shown, to which we
agreed. They then discovered that they
had not 5cent ail the anmendxnents which.
they made, and they passed this order,
that a message be sent to the Senate reHon. Mr. LANDRY-WhyP questing that their honours give leave to
the cierk of the House of Commons to add
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I arn stating
certain amendxnenta which were passed by facts. The House of Gommons, noticing
the Gommnons-but were omitted through that they had sent but one arnendment out
a cierical error.
of two or three, sent a further message and
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not see how that asked that their clerk have leave to add the
can be done. We passed the Bill. The further amendments which were passed by
Gommons passed the Bill with an amend- the Commons to this Bill. The Bill being
ment which came up to us and we con- stili in our hands, His Honour the Speaker
rnay then, if this message is concurred in,
mnmnsfrcn
ute
hs
is that no one has anything to do with "bi
that Bill except His Exceilency the Gover- currence by the Senate, and then the whoie
nor, who assents to it. Ib is a novel idea Biii wiil be returned wîth a message to
to ask that an officer may corne up from the House of Gommons.
the other House to insert amendments
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hion, gentleman
in the Bili. We do not know what the frorn De Lorirnier leaves out of sight the fact
amendrnents are. The two Houses have con-- that the Bill is here because it was a Bull
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MAY 18. 1909
originating in our House and having been and we sent our clerk down ta the Comnamended in the Commans, and we having mons ta correct the error which we had
accepted the arnendrnent it remains here, made.
and no one can do anything to it except
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They allowed our
the Governor General.
clerk to make the cbango.
The SPEAKER-Let me read from BouriHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It was the case
in which my hon. friend fromn Prince Alnot, page 685-:
bert was interested. He moved an .LmendSometimes mistakes are discovered in Bille
after they have been eent up to the other ment in this House, and an error arome in
eent, wjthinstance, Billa
Houa.; ifor pasaed all-Meir ray b. or without some way and we discovered it.
stages.
ut haýving
certain amendmnents that have been made
Hon. Mr. DAIiDURAND-It was the
therein. When a Bill has been sent up by senator himmeif who, in drafting it, had
mistake to the Lords without certain amendmonts, a me sge has been transmitted to made an error as ta figures.
that Houa. asking them to make the nocesHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We afterwards
mary amendinents, either by adding the
requisite provisions, or by exchanging cer- discovered it, and sent a message down and
tain clauses or parts of clauses.
had it rectified.
This message asks the doing of that very
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-There i. this difference:
sort of thing.
that Bill was in the hands of the other
House and had flot passed through its
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The House of Coinstages; this Bill has passed ahl its stages
mons adopted three amendments.
They se far as the parhiament of Canada can
put in one, and by accident they did not
touch it.
enter two others. The Bill cornes up withThe SPEAKER-Ail we have donc is ta
out the other two by reason of a clericai
error, and now they ask us ta allow their consent to the amendmnent without any
officer ta add the other two. I think it is amendinent.
very simple and ini accordance with coinHon. Mr. CAMPBELL-The amendrnents
mon sense.
made by the House of Commons were ail
in the -direction of protecting the îights of
their the municipalities.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-And
officer is the proper person to state 'what
Hon. Mr. POWER-It ha. been said that
He generafly
were those amendments.
if we did not agree te this message the
certifies on the Bill what the amendments
are, and he will be the saine party who Bill i. lost; it i. quite the contrary. The
shail further certify as to the other amend- Bill will pass à. we passed it. with one
amendaient.
ment.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I do not feel convincedl
by the logic of my hion. friend, and I do
flot think that the quotation fruin Bourinot
actually covers the case. Could you, Mr.
Speaker, entertain a motion for this House
ta take Up that Bill ag-ain? I think it
would be unheard of. The Bill ha. passed
ail its stages, and it has gone beyond the
control of Qths House and is now on its
way ta the Governor General. It ià ended
as far as we are concerned.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We did the samne
thing this session already in the case of
the Manitoba and Northwestern Railway
Bill. There we made an arnendment which
we afterwards discovered to he in error.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-May says:
Whon a Bill ha. been sent by mistake to the
Lords without sme amendments, a message
hua been transmitted to thât Hloua. asking
them to make the necessary amendments,
either by having the requisite provision inserted or by expunging certain clauses.
The message we have îeceived i. to the
effect tha't we ailow the clerk of the House
to corne and make the proper corrections.
If we are to follow this practice laid down
in May, 'we should receive a message fîomn
the House of Cornrons asking us to put
in the Bull the proper arnendments they
passed themselves.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Does it not
arnount to the saine thing to alhow the clerk
who generally certifies to amendments t,)

SENÂTE
upon to consider these arnendments? There
will be no message. The message is merely
to insert these amendments that have been
written, but there is no message asking us
to concur in these .two
amend.ments;
therefore they will not corne regularly be
fore this flouse. The other course which
I suggest is, I arn satisfied, the only proHon. Mr. BEIQUE-We should fadiitate per course.
the desire of the Hous to have their mesHon. Mr. SCOTT-It ia a regular message complied with as f ar as possible; on
the other hand this is a precedent of some sage. On the 17th May, 1909. a resolution
importance. To my mind, the course is waa passed by the flouse of Gommons that
irregular. The Bull was returned to us a message be sent to the Senate requesting
with a message advising us that one amend- thiat their honours give leave to the
ment had been made. We have considered clerk of this flouse to add certain amendthat message and complied with it, and ments which were passed by the flouse of
the procedure has been entirely exhausted.* Gommons to Bull (No. 180), describing the
The proper course now is for the House of Bill. As I understand the situation here,
Gommons to ask us to retuin the Bil for the Bill came back with only one arneudthe purpose, and let them send it to us ment, and there were others. We conwith another message containing the two curred iu that amendment; we did not
amendments which they had omitted to announce to the House that we had adsend in the firat place. Then, on receiv- opted that amendment; it is stiil bef oie
ing the message, we wWl deal wfth it, and the flouse. It is not passed. No message.
agree to or rejeci the two amendinents as I amn advised, haa gone to the flouse of
which had been omitted. If you follow the Gommons acknowledging it. It still stands
oourser which has been suggested, it is open before this Senate, and the Gommons can
to two very serious objections. In t.he firat *do no more than have their officiai corne
place, the Bill in its present condition is up snd state that they, by an overslght in
what may be considered an authen'tic docu- the oopy, omitted the amendmnent.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I desire to menment, which no officer of either flouse has
tion a case reported ini Bourinot, which, I
a right to tamper with.
think, bears on this particular matter. In
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Except with the session of 1875, a Bill to incorporate
our authorizatioiï.
the HRoytl Mutual Lif e Insuranýce Company of Canada, was amended in the SenHon. Mr. BEIQUE-No.
ate and sent back to the Gommons where
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-We had a sirnilar the axnendrnents were concurred in. Subcase here the other day.
sequently, the flouse of Gommons informed
the Senate by message, that an arnendment
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The two cases are
to the titie had been inadvertently left out
flot parallel. That was done by virtue of
in the copy of the Bill sent back to the
a message.
Gommons, and requesting that leave be
Hon. Mr. DANDURAIND-We have one in given to the proper officer of the Senate to
supply the omission. It was accordingly
this instance.
resolved by the flouse to give the necesHon. Mr. EEIQUE-I arn speaking of one sary leave, and a message was returned to
objection; that is, interfering in an irregu- that effect. Then the omitted amendment
lar way with what I consider to be an was considered and agreed to. This is the
authentic document. The second objection ordinary practice now, in the case of a
is this : Supposing we comply with this Bill being amended.
The
request, what -will be the position?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It was merely changclerk of the flouse of Gommons will corne
to this Ohamber and wifl make the arnend- ing the titie, but here it is two amendments. How will this flouse then be calied ments with which we have te deal.
corne heïre and certify to their amendments,
in the message we would receive. Either
the message would contain the further
amendments not made ini the Bill itself, or
the clerk of the other House wül corne and
certify the *Bill. I do not see that it makes
any difference.

Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND.

669

MAY 18, 1909

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-When
the amended Bill came back ta us, the covered.
amendment made by the House of ComHon. Mr. SGOTT-It is still before us.
mons to the Bill was concurred in by this
House, and the Speaker then in reading
Hon. Mr. POWER-Excuse me. The hon.
the motion read the usual notice that a gentleman says it is before us; ini order ta
message be sentget it before us we have ta rescind that
order.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was not sent.
Hon. zir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why
was it not sent? That is the point I am
coming at. The usual notice by the Speaker was, that a message be sent to the House
of Gommons stating that thiii House concurred in the amendmente made ta the
Bill. If the message was nlot sent, why
was it not sent, and whose duty was it to
send it?
Hon. Mr. GAMPRELI--The
discovered before it was sent.

error

was

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
clerk of the House informed us that the
order given by the Speaker ta return the
Bill with the intimation that we had concurred in the amendment bas nlot been
sent, let the Senate be informed of it in
that way.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I refer to our 'Minutes,' page 706, where I find. the following:
A message was brought fromn the Honse of
Gommons by thoir clerk, to return the Bill
(TT) intituled: 'An Act respecting the Montreal Bridge and Terminal Company,' and to
acquaint this Hanse that they have passed the
said Bill with an amondment, te which they
desiro the concurrence of the Sonate.
The said amendinent was thon read by the
clerk as followsIn the Titie.
Af ter 'company' add 'and te change its
name ta the Montreal Central Terminal GomOn motion of the honourablo Mfr. Campbell,
econded by the honourable Mfr. Jaffray, it was
Ordered, That the said amendment be agreod
Ordered, That the clerk do go down te the
House of Gommons and acquaint that Hlonse
that the Sonate doth agree to their amendment
ta the said Bill, without any aznendment.

Hon. Mfr. WATSON-The hion. gentleman
from Hastings has asked the clerk ta make
a stateanent. 0f course the clerk cannot
make any statement in this House, but he
can give information ta the Speaker.
I
should like his honouz the Speaker ta informi the House whether hie was notified
before hie sent that message to the clerk
that a mistake had been made and to hold
the Bill here to make a correction?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
is what I suggested.
Hon. Mfr. DANDURAND-That
effect upon the point af order.

bas

no

The SPEAKER-I may say that the clerk
of the House informed me shortly after he
had acted upon the motion, that the Gomnmons had discovered the omnission of certain other amendments, and that they
wanted to have those amendments inI told the clerk,
scribed on this Bill.
of course, that it should not be done
in that way, and that under the circumstances the message had better be
sent from this House advising them of it
at ail.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-So the order of this
House was set aside.

Hon. Mfr. CHOQUETTE-It *is really a
very nice point of procedure, and it is very
important as ta how we are going to settie
it. If I understand aright, by this message
which is sent to us we are asked ta amend
a Bill which bas passed the third reading
in this House. If we are going ta introduce something further into the Bill, it
means practically that the Bill is open for
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-These facta discussion and placed back on the order
were admitted at the outset.
If that te so, what prevents the
paper.
leader of the government or any member
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Was that done?
of this House moving that the Bill be
Hon. Mfr. DANDURAND-It was not phaced on the order paper and "reoonsidered. We may have ta suspend the rule.
<done.

SENATE
In that way the amendment could be
The SPEAKER-I arn of the opinion that
moved, but if we are going to touch the the motion is in order. It seems to me it is
Bill at ail it will be open for discussion. exacthy the parallel of the case where va
aur clerk
Hon. Mr. DANDUBAND-No. We would made a mistake in a Bihl and sent
down to the House of Commons ta correct
simply discuss the amendments.
it.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-The amendments if you like; but it will bring the Bill
before us again. What is the objection to
the hon. leader of the House moving that
such a Bill be xeconsidered? The question
I
wil be open and wa will consider it.
think that is the proper course to pursue.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-There is a motion for concurrence in the message, and
I think there is a point of order raised by
the senator from Halifax that this motion
is irregular, and that the message should
not be received. Does the hon, gentleman
raise ihe question on a point of order or
by an amendmentP

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Will the Speaker
be good enough to cite the rule of the
House, because we have a rule which aays
that the Speaker, in giving a decision,
shall cite the authority.
The SPEAKER-I cited Bourinot, and a
precedent, and have given a decision vhich
is my own.
The motion vas agreed to on a division.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved that the
proceedings of the Senate, had on the
amendments to the aaid Bull on the 14th
instant, be now read.

The motion vas agreed ta on a division,
Hon. Mr. POWER-I rise to a question of
order. I hold that it is irregular and un- and the ' Minutes' were read at the table.
parliamentary, alter the Bill has paased
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved that the
through ahi its stages in both Houses, for
saîd proceedings just read at the table be
either House to undertake to amend it.
rescinded.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The question
The motion was agreed to.
is on the point of order.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL movcd that the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Might
amendments as corrected, made ta the said
I ask: Supposing the House grants the
Bill, be agreed to. He said: The amendconsent askedl for in the message, wihi the
ments are for the purpose of protecting the
Bill have to be sent back to the Gommons
ri2hbts of the municipalities as wehl as the
with the additional amendmentsrights of the city of Montreal. One of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We would have to con- amendments omitted is in the 5th clause,
and is as foliowve
sider the amendments ourselves.
shahl be deBut
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I have some mandedno such rate or itchargebeen approyed
has
or taken until
point.
further motions on that
o! by the Board of Railway Commissioners for
Canada, who may also revise such rates and
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What charges from time to time.
position would it he in if we give the conThis vas omitted in the tran6mission of
sent asked for? The Bill will have to be
Tfhen again, in
the Bill ta this House.
returned to us irom the Commons to ask
clause 8, the Senate ahhowed them to conour concurrence in the additional amendnect with any raîhways coming to the city
ments which have been added to the Bill.
of Montreal, or which might hereafter enThen the Bill, not having been sent to the
ter the city of Montreai. The House o!
Commons, stihi being here, the order of
require
the Senate not having been carried out, Crnimmons, according to their ruies,
that these raîhwaya should be named, and
wvhat would be the procedureP
so they have given them power to connect
The SPEAKER-I vas about to put the with the Canadian Pacifie Railway, the
motion. If no question of order is raised- Grand Trunk Raihway and others menHon. Mr. POWER-I thought I had tioned. Those amendments are ail to restrict the powers of the company, and proraised the question of order.
Hon. M-Nr.
CIIOQUETTE.

MAY 18, 1909
Hon. Mr. GHOQUETTE-Why?
tect the rights of chties a<nd municipalities
in which this road is proposed to be conHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTstructed. There ia no possible objection
te any one cf them on the part cf the pub- His objeci is te reduce the expenýses, and
lic, and the company have agreed te he thinks it would be availed cf se often
as te .practically nulify the entire object
them.
of this Bull.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I should like to
know how it cornes before the Houe nowP
Hou. Mr. CHOQUETTE-By the law, he
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The Bill was reprint- will have a right te appeal te the Supreme
ed in the House cf Gommons with an Court.
amendment.
The SPEAKER-I have the Bill befere
me with the one amendmnent which wais
sent up by the Houe cf Gemmons before.
I have aise the other amendmenta sent by
the clerk cf the Honse cf Gommons and
certified te, sud they are simply te be attached te the Bfi.
The'motion was agreed te.
BILLS INTIRODUCED.

~Bill

<No. 148) Au Act te arnend the
Criminal Gode-(Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright).
Bill <No. 187> An Act to authorize certain increasea of salary te mnembers of the
Givil Service, inside service--(Hon. Sir
Richard Cartwright).
*Bill (Ne. 191) An Act te authorize the
raising by way cf boan cf certain sums of
meney for the public service-<Hon. Sir
Richard Cartwright).
Bull <Ne. 193) An Act te amend the
Judges Act-(Hon. Sir Richard Gartwright).

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThat I presume he would nat take away.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Then I would
like te move my amendment.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If
the hon. gentleman insista at this stage cf
the session, the minister says that if there
is objection taken and delay likely te be
caused, he 'would prefer te let the Bill
stand.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I suppose the
amendment will be lest; but it will appear
in the «Minutes cf Proceedinga.'
Hon. Sir RICHARD
Move it then.

CARTWRIGHT-

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Then I move
that section 84 (a) be amended by adding
after the word Growu in the firat line
thereof the werds 'or any party te any
.suit, cause, action or matter.'
The amendmeut was declared lest on diviEXCHEQUER GOURT ACT AMENDMENT sion, the names net being recorded.
BILL.
Hou. Mr. POWER-I do net think w4
LOST IN COMMITTEE.
have disposed ef this clause yet. We have
The House again resolved itself iute a dispesed of the amendment. I think the
Committec cf the Whole on Bill (Ne. 151) objection that the hon. member from GrandAn Act te amend the Exchequer Court Act. ville dealt with is net the only objection
te this measure. The hon. gentleman from
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My Britiah Columbia poiuted out another.
hon. friend asked a question when this He emphasized an objection which. had
Bill was before us at the last sitting. I find been made before a te the impropriety
that I was in errer, that the appeal te the cf giving an appeal from the ExchePrivy Council stiil remains.
quer Court te provincial courts. Hon.
Hon. Mr. GHOQUETTE-What about my gentlemen who corne from the provinces
amendment?
cf Ontario and Quebec when they talk about
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I provincial courts have in their minds the
speke te the Minister of Justice, as I ha-d Court et Appeals in Ontario and the Court
premised the hon. gentleman, but he ob- of King's Bench in the province ef Quebec; but n-heu you go te other provinces,
jects te the ameudmeut.

SENATL
for instance the province of British Columnbia or Saskatchewan, you would hardly
fhink it was the correct thing that there
should be an appeal from the decision
of the Exchequer Court to the Supreme
Court of British Columbia or to the Supreme Court of Saskatchewan. I do flot
think any hon, gentleman can quote a precedent for an appeal from a higher court
to a lower court, even though it is an appeal from a single judge of a higher court
to a lower court sitting in banc. I have
the honour 'to, move that the committee
rise. We shall get alonz very well without
this Bill for another year.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I must second
the motion. I think this is a very extraordinary Bill for some of the reasons which
I pointed out the other day, and becausa
some of the explanations which we have
asked for have not been given to us.
1
asked this morning whether the resuit
would be that two or three different jurisprudences might not arise under the operation of this 'ill. We will have separate
jurisprudence established by the provincial
courts of nine different provinces. Before
1 give my sanction to a Bill
of this kind,'
I want to know which of these jurisdictions
is going to establish -the jurisprudence for
the Exchequer Court, a federal court.
1
have pleasure in seconding the motion that
the committee rise.

It also recommends that notice be served on
Messrs. Holland of cancellation of the contract as arranged yesterday.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-When was that report presented to this House?
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-At the last sitting.
And a motion was made to aihdow it to
corne up at this sitting.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose there is
no objection te it.
The motion was agreed to.
RAILWAY SUBSIDIES ACT AMENDMENT BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved the second reading of Bill (No. 174)
An Act te correct a clerical error in Chapter 63 of the Statutes of 1908, respecting
railway subsidies. *He said :-I may explain in one word what has occurred. If
my hon. friende opposite will look at the
Statutes for 1908 they will find at the bottom of item 2 that a grant ie made te the
Vancouver, Westminster and Yukon Railway Company towards the construction
and completion of a railway across Burrard Inlet. By accident, the essential part
of it $200,000 was lef t out in the printing
of the Statutes, but it is found in the sumnThe motion that the committee rise was
mary of the House of Commona and thie
carried on a division; yeas, 12; nays, 9;
merely corrects the omission that has been
names not, reeorded.
accidently made in the Statute.
DEBATES AND IREPORTING 0F SENATE.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can my right
hon. friend say whether this amendment
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE ADOPTED.
appears in the Subsidy Bill as brought
On the order of the day being called:
down to the House of Commons, or dîd
Consideration of the third report of the
Committee on Debates and reporting of the the error occur there also P
Sonate.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. ELLIS-I beg leave to move No, it was corrected in the House of Gomconcurrence in this report. I might say mons, I arn informed, but was accidently
that we grant an extra allowance to omitted in the Statute which I presume
Messrs. *Holland Bros., making $6,500, governed. The hon, gentleman wihl see,
which is about $200 over the contract price. if he glances at thisThe contract is a very old one and thinge
have grown expensîve since then. There
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, I have
is a provision -for a pay'ment of Mr. Cinq- looked at it, but the only quer3tion in my
Mars for his services as translator. This mind is as to the original authority for
is practicallv the sarne as hast year.
the $200,OuO.
Hon. Mr. POWER.

MAY 18, 1909

67

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
Han. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThat I arn advised was given, but it is can only say in a general way. I think the
amount is in the neighbourhood, of $150,000.
omitted in the Statute.
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-How long have
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
they been canstructing- those terminal faciiiwas rend the second time.
ties?
The Bill was then rend the third time
and passed.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThey have been constructing them during
CANADIAN NORTHERN RAILWAY EX- the last three or four years.
TENSION BILL.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Has the entire
SECOND AND THIRD REÂDINGS.
advance ai $3,000,000 heen made?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
Hon. 8ir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTmoved the second reading of Bill (No. 186) Not yet. The provision is one which is
An Act respecting certain aid for the ex- reasonably usual ini the case ai works whicb
tension ai the Oanadian Northern Railway. are eonstructed from tiine to time under
He said: The abject of the Bill is sîmply government guarantee, or by advances from
to settie a question which has arisen, by the government. We generally ailow inmaking clearer the understanding at the terest as part ai the advance ta be charged
time of the Dominion government's legisia- on the work in process ai construction.
tion hast year, and allow the Manitoba
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I am a hittie at
government mortgage to rank ahead of the
Dominion gavernment i respect to that ses ta understand the last three lines o!
portion of the mileage nat completed at the subsectian 2, providing that the said intime of the passing of the Dominion Act terest may be paid out ai the sum of S3,and taking ai the Dominion mortgage. The 000,000 which the government is authorlegisiation is simplified by reason af the ized ta advance.
fact that the debenture stock -under the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTDominion martgage bas not been scattere'i
The Governor in Concil advanced them an
about among third parties, but is in the
hands of the bank, and the bank bas given amount for certain works-not ta exceed
its consent to this change. The Bill wil $3,000,000. Those worke may ha contracted
simply give effect ta the intention af the for at the rate ai nominally two or two and
They extend over
Dominion parliament at the time the leg- hall-million dollars.
several years, and, in.estimating the total
isiation was pâssed.
ccst, the commission asked ta be allowed ta
The motion was agreed to.
be charged as part ai this capital advanced,
The Bil was rend the second and third not merely the sume paid out, but interest
times and passed.
on them, until the time ai completion.
ÂDVANCES TO MONTREAL HARBOUR
COMMISSIONERS' BILL.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But it pravides
that interest may be paid out ai the $3,000,000. If so, the government before advancing
$3,000,000, holda out ai it the interest or imrnediately receives it back irom the Harbour Commissioners.

SECOND AND TIRD REÂDINGS.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
nioved the second reading ai Bill (No. 192)
An Act ta provide for further advances
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
ta the Harbour Commissioners af Mantreal.
simply amounts ta this: suppasing they
He said: This Bill permits interest an adhave a contract for eay two and n-hall milvances during the construction ai works ta
lion dollars 'with certain contractors. They
be charged ta the capital accaunt.
pay at the rate ai five or six hundred thonsHon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Can rny right and dollars a year. The interest on this
hon. friend say how much this accurnulated amount, 'which, ordinarily speaking, they
interest represents now?
would have ta pay ta the government as
REVISED EDITION

SENATE
fast as At is advanced, is not computed until
The motion was agreed to, and the Bll
the whole work is completed, and then the was read a second and third time and
sum and interest are put together as capi- passed.
tal.
INSURANÇE BILL.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me if
the object be as stated by my right hon.
SECOND READING.
friend, that object is nlot effected by the Bill
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
before us.
moved the second reading of Bill (No. 197)
He said t
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- An Act respecting Insurance.
Every penny that is advanced by the govern- With respect to this Bill, while I think we
ment ie debited to their account, and they may very wel] give it a second reading in
are charged with interest in our books. Sup- view of the complexity, and in view also
posing they were to expend a smaller sum of the fact that a great riumber of parties
than $3,000,000, if they were only allowed have requested to be heard before our
whbat they could actually show had been ex- committee if it; goes on, I do not expect
pended, they would be short to that amount, that the Bill will snake any further proand would have to borrow more money from gress during this session. If hon. gentlethe government. It is as broad as At is long men do not object, a more formai way to
when you come to work it out, because, deal with it would be to pass the second
reading, and then refer it to the Commitpractically, we are obliged to see them
tee on Banking and Commerce at such time
through. with these works that we authoras you may deemn expedient, possibly toized.
morrow or whenever the committee may
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The loan is sur- choose to sumfmon itself. charged with that amount.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is
not my purpose to discuss the Bill, but
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- merely to
express regret that we have not
Yes.
had it before us at an earlier period sa
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If we charge them the that we would have deait with it this sesinterest before the tolls are available, be- sion. I want to throw out a suggestion to
fore they have accomplished the work which the hon. gentleman, that when this B3ill
is going to ens.ble them to recoup the gov- comes up at the next session of parliament
ernment, it seems only fair that until the -because the intention is not to proceed
works are -finished the interest should be 'with it this year-.-that it should be introduced into this House after having being
charged up to capital account.
sO fully considered as it has been in thE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The only point lower House, early aiter the opening of the
is this: That if their expenditure minus session. During the first two or thxee weeks
the interest should reach $3,000,000, then the Senate has very littie to do, as- my hon.
there is no fund out- of which intèrest is friend knows, and if it is introduced by
himself we will then have ample time to
to be paid.
give it the fullest possible consideration
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- without interfering with any other legislaThey would have to pay it.
tion that may be brought forward.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
think I can venture to say that the govHon. Mr. SCOTT-We are periodicaliy ernment will accept
that suggestion. It is
lending them money.
quite true, as mvy hon. friend has stated,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- that it has been considered very fully
They are always borrowers, I regret to say. and at great length in the Commons.
Under these circumstances, it wi]l be deHon. Mr. SCOTT-They are enlarging the cidedly convenient to introduce it in the
works ail the timne.
Upper Chamnber. As I have nlot consulted
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRtIGHT
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.

MAY 18, 1909
the Finance Minister formally on the point,
1 would flot care to be understood aij
making a formai pledge; but I think that
such a request he will at once accede ta.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the motion
is carried, may I be permitted to raise an
objection.
The Bill is not printed in
French.

675

contains amendments to varions provisions
oi the Criniinal Code.
I need not go
through themn now nor dilate upon them.
We may do so, 1 suppose, more intelligently ini cammittee,-when the clauses are
under -examination.
The -motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read a second time.

Hon. Sir RICHaRD CARTWRIGHTThat would, I have no doubt, interfere
with its consideration by the Committee
an Banking and Commerce.
I arn not
sure, however, whether it is or is flot
printed in French.

The House resolved itself in a Committee
of the Whoie on the Bill.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would suggest
to my hon. friend, if the objection of my
hon. friend irom Stadacona is good, and it
apparently has not been printid in French,
that the order of the day be discharged and
it 'be placed on the order paper for to-morrow, it wilI then necessarily flu by the
wayside, like other Bis.

2. The Criminal Code, chapter 146 ;of the
Revised Statutes, 1906, is hereby amended in
the manner set forth in the following
achedule:
Section 2.-By repealing par.agraph 31 thereof and substituting the following parag(aR1)'prize iigit' means an encounter or'
fight, with fiste or hands, etther with or without «loves, between two peirsons who have met
for the puirpose by previious arrangement
mnade by or for them or fer dsuch encounter
or 'fght."
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wiil my hon.
friend tell me what way we are to arrive'at
a distinction between, say a veritabie prize
fight, and an exhibition with gloves?PTo
whom amn I- ta appeai on the part of the
Hous ta know what a prize fight is?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-To the hon. gentleman from Portage La Prairie.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The amendment here
is to insert 'With or without gioves 'Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is a matter
much discussed in the courts, and I should
have thought the Department of Justice
would have armed my hon. friend with authority ta make explanations upon the subject. Few subjects have been more prolific
of proaecutians or of litigation in the courts,
particularly prosecutions under the Crimmnal Code, than what is known as a prize
fight. There is na declaration i this Bill
ta show what the distinction between a
prize fight and a sparring exhibition with
gloves may be.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-Oh, yes.

(In the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I ask my
hon. friend if he has a brief of explanatians as to the amendments which are
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think flot.
proposedP
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No, nothing
Hon. Sir RICHARD CAIRTWRIGHTThen it will stand until such time as it is but the Bill before me.
printed in French.
On clause 2,

Hon. Mr. POWER-Better say Friday.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-No
we wvi11 give it its fair chance.
The order was discharged and directed
to bc placed on the order paper for tomorrow.
The Senate adjourned until eight p.m.
THIRD SITTING.
THE SENATE.
The SPEAKER took the Chair
o' dock p.m.

at 8

Routine proceedings.
CRIMINAL CODE AMENDMENT BILL
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND moved the second reading of Bill (148) An Act ta amend
the Criminal Code. He said: I suppose
I may be allowed, in the teinporary absence of the right hon. minister, to move
the second reading of this Bill, which is
somewhat of an omnibus character and
43à

SENATE
Hon. Mr. POWER-I ar n ot ini sympathy matches are encounters between two par
with the clause.
ties with gloves by previous arrangement,
Surely we
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Thjs is a mean- and would be a prize fight.
ingless clause, in my judgment. It means have not arrived at that very sanctimonothing, and will only lead to any amount nious state of life when if two men, by
previous arrangement; put on gloves to
of trouble.
have an encounter, it must (be termed a
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do flot think the prize fight and corne within the criminal
clause is open to that objection. I do flot law.
see why a prize fight might flot be sometimes a very proper sort of entertainment;
Ron. Mr. ROSS (<Middlesex)-foes it
but the point is simply this, that this amn- not mean a fight for gain or for some conendment extends the definition to, a case sideration? I do not understand the garn"
where the boxers wear -gloves, and if they at aIl. I neyer had the gloves on but
are fighting for money 1 do not suppose the once, when 1 was a lad; but would not it
fact that they wear gloves of a certain niean a contest or an encounter wherý
weight really makes very much difference there was some gain?
in the objectionable nature of the encounHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It does flot say
ter-that is to those who think that such
Sa.
encounterti are objectionable.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It certainly would
abolish the manly art of self defense with
most justices who would seek to put an
interpretation upon that clause. There is
no good reason why what is ordinarily
termed an exhibition fight with gloves
should not take place. Bo far as the practics is concerned, I understand they determine it very largely by the weight of
the gloves; but there should be something
to indicate that it is not intended to cover
an ordinary exhibition between two boxers
with gloves. I should like some explanation.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I confess that
1 thought I would have here some explanatory notes ta each clause of this Bill.
Perhaps we had better let it stand for the
present. I see the right hon, gentleman
is here now.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I think the words
*prize filt'
would probably determine
what the meaning is, whether that fight
takes place with or without gloves.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No,
describes what is a prize fight.

because it

Hon. 31r. ROSS <Middlesex)-I
know anything about it.

do flot

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If my hon. friend
wifl look at clause 31, any encounter between two men, by previous arrangement,
with gloves, is a prize fight. An ordinary
'boxing match under the terrns cf this
clause would be a prize fight.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-It is felt
that these exhibitions of boxing to which
the public are adnaitted are demoraliziDg1 amn only surmising from sorne correspon.
dence I had with the Hurnane Societyand that it is desiraýble to abolish ail exhibitions of boxing, with or without gloves.
The presumption le that if boxing is
'with gloves, it is harrnless, and nobody
gets hurt, and if it is without gloves it
is more serious ; but that it is bad and
demoralizing in any case, and I apprehend
the intent of this clause is to prohibit al]
exhibitions of anything like a prize fight
between two persans, either with or wîthout gloves. That is ail I can say about it.
It does not help anybody, 1 admit.
The clause was allowed to stand.

On clause 123.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-A prize fight is
ad- son 123. Every one who csrries about his perany bowie-knife, dagger, dirk, metal
vertised as a prize fight, not an exhibition
knuckles, skull craok-ers, slung shot, or other
of the science of boxing at ail.
offensive weapon of a like characta-r. or

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It says: any encounter between two men, by previous arrangement, with gloves, and ail boxing
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

secretl.v carnies about his person any inçtrument loaded at the end, or sells or exposes
for sale, ublicl1 or privately, any sucb weanon; or, teinge ase or di-guised, earrnes or
baq ini bis possession any firearmi or air guin, ig

MAY 18.- 1909
guilty of an olience and liable, on aummary
conviction before two justices, tea penalty nlot
exoe.ding fifty dollars and not lois than ton
dollars, or to imprisonment for any term not
excooding threo menthe, with or without bard
labour, or te both, and in default of payment
of sucb penalty, ta a term or a further terra
of imprisonmont nlot exceeding three menthe
with or withont bard labour.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-This increases
the termi of mprisonment.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It aeems t-) me
that tilree months is a very smail maximum
imprisonment for the committal of a crime
'whici lias become prevalent of late in Canada, namely the use of the knife.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-There is a possibility of the offender getting another three
inonths. The clause for which. this is aubstituted, provides a penalty not exceeding
$50 and, in default, ixnprisonment for 30
days.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-A man who uses
a knife slaould be sent down for three yes.rs
at least.
Hon. Mr. POWER-While I have the
greateat sympathy with the leader of the
opposition with respect to prize fighting, I
cannot say that 1 agree with him -as ta tisi
particular enaetment. A man iniglit have
about his persan a bawie-kn'fe or elungabat, or instrument load2d at.1he end; it is
a very objectionable thing, and hie renders
himself liable ta a fine of $50 end ta b.
împrisoned for three montlis.
Th? clause was a.dopted.
On clause 228a.
By inserting immediately after section 228
the iollowing section:"228A. Every one ie guilty of an indictable
offence and hiable to six monthe' imprieonment who is an inmate or habitual frequenter
of a cominon bawdy hous."
Hon. Mr. POWER.-There is a goad deal
of doubt as ta the policy of such an enactment as this. As the law stands naw, the
keeper af a hause is guilty ai an indictable
offence, but the woman who is an inmate
ai the House is nlot liable ta any severe
penalty. The effect of passing this enactment, if it is enforced, will be that the
inmates af those places, inatead of being
gatliered iu bouses af that character, will
be spread through the cammunity, and I
think that is a bighly abjectionable thing.
Further, if one who gaes ta a place of that

kind is made liable ta thia penalty, the
probabilities are that lie wauld indulge bis
inclinations in some place wbere lie would
do much mare mischief. I tbink we shauld
eliminate this clause.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.-I do nlot agree witb
my lion. friend. We cannat be too severe
in punialiing sucb offences. Take the city
ai Montreal for instance. Tbere tlie bishops
and priesta have recently issued manifestoes
endeavouring ta suppress tliose bouses; but
the number ai sucli places is increasing
day by day. It is a terrible scandaI in
Montres].
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We are indulging
in a lot ai maudlin sentiment, in reference ta offences wbicli certainly cannat be
suppressed. In my judgment, the only way
ta do is ta bave proper police regulations
to cantrol. bouses ai tbis kind. It ia an
easy matter ta estabhiali that a man is a
able
habituai irequenter, to render hli
to six months' impri-soument il we impose
the excessive penalty for the offence provided for in this section. The law. goes
sufficiently f ar as we find it, if it were only
eniarced. The difflculty is that it la not
enforced, and wben there la nan-eniorcement of a law, Parlisment la deluged witb
petitions fram ail kids ai organizations,
calling for tbe suppression ai vice. The
idea seems ta be that by legislating we can
put an end ta these evils, and we are cultivating in tbe public mind the idea that by
placing lieavy penalties upon the 'statute
book we can usher in tlie millenium. Tbat
la entirely wrang. I move ta strike that
out.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It 'will be a aliack ta
the community that the Senate sliould oppose any legisiation of this kind, wlien
they know that diareputable hanses are
%growings0 bold that tbey bribe the police
and are allawed ta continue. In the last
ten years. they increased very largely in
aîl parts ai Canada, simply becanse they
are nat pnnished.
Hon. Mr. McMýILLAN-Instead of saying
liable ta six months,' ehould we not amnend it and say, 'Not ta exceed six menthe'
imprisotnmeut.'
Han. Mr. POWER-That is what it
means. That daes flot change the meaning
at aIl.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do nlot know
whether any communication bas been
made to the department as to the law
being insufficient as it is. Has my hon.
fxiend any communication on that ipoint
te show that the law is defective P
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
arn not aware that 'there have been any
communications of that kind made. There
have been no doubt representations made
by'certain organizations or societies calling for the suppression cf theee evils, but
whether this penalty can be enforced or
not, I should say would be a matter of
grave doubt, and one tbing I arn perfectly
certain of, is, that it may have the result
of very considerable blackmail.
Hon. Mr'. POWER-If 1 may be allowed
te repeat myself, the difficulty is this; in
a large city like Montreal, a seaport town,
or in a place like Quebec, also a seaport
town, and garrison towns like Halifax and
Quebec, where you have a large number of
single men gathered together. there wilI
necessarily be, until the mnillenium cornes,
a considerable amount of this conduct. The
question is whether 'that shaîl take place in
bousee of il-fame and bouses that are
known to be of that character, or whether it
shall take' place in other places where it
does much more mischief. I think it better
not t0 undertake te legi>late in a way that
would 8irnply spread the evil broadcast
amongst many who are now respectable
Section 3 goes far
menrbers of society.
enougb. The clause in the Bill reada:
By netn immediately alter section 228
seton
th flwin
guily of an indictable
oni
"228.. Ever~
offence and a.ble te si. ronths, imprisonment who is an inmate or habituel frequenter
of a common bawdy house."
This is sentimental. We are undertaking
t0 legislate at the dictation of associations
made up of unpractical and sentimental
people. I do not tbink it is the right tbing
for the bon. gentleman te hold up the
bishops and priests of my church in terrorem over me. They are very well in
their own way, but they are net the most
practical business men.

What is t0 be gained by laxity of enforcernent of law and laxity of standard of
morals? Everybody admits the evil, whicb
is a terrible one. The greater the city the
greater tbe veil. If we draw the line more
tightly, there is no doubt we shall restrain
people from going to these places. and if
we punish the inmates you will restrain
them from inviting and soliciting people
to improper conduct. I think the Senate
would not do it.self any credit by relexing
the lines by which morality is enforced,
and tbis is one of the greatest evils that
bas to be contended witb. This Bill passed
the House cf Commons, and it will be a
reflection on us that we have less exalted
ideas of the enforcement cf law and of the
punisbment of criminals, for this is a criminai offence and an indictable offence,
and of the maintenance of a higb stanI
dard cf morals than the Commons.
tbink the Senate should not repeal this
clause.
The amendment was carried on a standing
vote.
Yeas, 17. Nay, 13.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.-We shall have the
names on record on the third reading.
Hon. Mr'. POWER.-Tbe hon. gentleman
should net make that statement.
The clause was struck. out.

On section 292.
Section 292.-By adding thereto the following paragreph:(c) aosauîts and beets his wife or eny
other femele and thereby occasions ber actual
bodily harm:Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.-This clause
provides that a party who beats his wife,
under section 292, is beld t0 be gullty cf an
indictable offence and two years' imprisonment, or te be fined.
Hon. Mr'. DAVIS.-Anytbing about the
woman who beats her husband?
Hon. Mr. POWER-Section 292 cf the
Criminel Code provides the penalties for
certain very gross offences, «Any one who
indecently assaults any female' and se on.
An indecent esseult is a very serieus offence;
Hon. Mr. WATSON-They have nlot been but this legislation, which I look upon as
around witb the boys.
something ef the same character as the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).-I think hast, provides that if e man assaults bis
this clause sbould stand.
wife and thereby occasions her actuel boHTon. Mr. POWER.

~MAY

18,' 1909

dily harm, hie is guilty of an indictable 1in some way lias offended him, yet they
offence and is liable to two years' imprison- must live together, and for a woman to have
nient and to be whipped. I think that to live with a man who has been whipped,
is going too, far. You can readily un- seems to me would justify an increase in
derstand that sometîmes liusband and the divorce courts. I think the Senate
wife will quarrel ; it just means, that ouglit to pause and consider the effect of a
a provision of that kind.
lis wife
gave
lihusband
if the
slight blow on the dlieek lie is liaHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I arn not aware that
ble ta two years' imprisonient and ta
be whipped. I believe men sliould treat public opinion lias asked for anything of
their wives properly, and tliere are varions this kind. It is quite true that a man who
enactments against a man maltreating lis assaults lis wife deliberately may deserve
wife, but this is carrying things too far to be whipped; on the other liand if you
altogether, that for a mere trifiing assault enact a provision of this kind, it may
a man shall be made hiable to sucli a be a temptation for some woman to provoke lier husband to such an extent that
penalty as is imposed here.
the husband may whip lier.
Tlie amendment was lost.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-I think the imprisonment is a little toa long; but as for the
The clause was adopted.
whipping I would give it ta him certainly.
On clause 424a,
Whipping is a more effectual punishment
than imprisonment in such a case.
"424A. Every one is guilty of an indictable
offence and liable to two, yeare' imprisonment
having in his possession or on his proHon. Mr. DANDURAND-I think the wha,
mises with hie knowledge any rock, ore,
clause sliould remain as it is. It will be a minerai, stone, quartz or #ther substance
deterrent ta wife-beaters wlia allow their containing gold or silver, or any unsmelted,
or untreated, dr unmanufactured. or partly
passions ta have full play and assault tlieir smelted, partly treated or Ipartly manufacwives viciously and beat tliem. It is pro- tured gold or silver, is unable to prove that
per ta leave the discretion witli the magis- he came lawfully by the same.trate ta apply the whip if the cifrcumstances
Han. Mr. 'POWER-Why is the usual
warrant it.
principle departed from in this caseP Here
is a man presumably lawfuhly. in possesHon. Mr. POWER-I would suggest that sian of quartz. He may be a miner himin order ta establish some sort of equili- self, and you subject him ta a serious
biuin between the offence and the punish- penalty unless lie can prove that lie came
ment, we should substitute the word 'griev- lawfully by the sai -ne. He may have, no
ous ' for ' actual ' bodily lim. The "pen- evidence ta offer but his awn.
alty is a most serious one, and it should be
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Experience lias shown
inflicted only for very seriaus crimes. If
you insert ' Thercby occasions grievous that saine such legislation is absolutely
bodily liarm ' I sliould flot abject, but as the necessary.
clause stands now, I think it is very
Hon. Mr. POWER-Because in a certain
objectionable. I move that it be amend' grievous ' for ' actual.' locality sudh legisiation is required, it is
ed by substituting
proposed to enact it for the wliole country
ELLIS-I do not think this where it is not needed. If you limait this
Hon. Mr.
Senate should encourage the disposition ta Cobalt, I liave no objection ta the
which is sliown by some ratlier blood-thirsty clause; but I object ta its being extended
individuals in the community for whipping. ta the province from whidli I came.
I think it is one of tlie very worst sorts
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It does violence
of punishinents you can inflict, and tliere
is always behind it the question wliethcr ta the well-established principle that a
the man hirnself, hiaving fallen through man is presumed ta be innocent until lie is
we make such a
some temptation, is not ruined for ever by proved guilty. Why do
serious departure from the well-established
the whipping. It is a disgrace that follows
him always. He may have a wife who principles of evidence? I notice that soma

680

SENATE

difficulties apparently have occurred of
this nature in the Cobalt district. I quite
agree with the hion. member froin Halifax,
that we should- not extend a principle of
this kind to the whole Dominion, because
of some *isolated instances having arisen
in the Cobalt region. Because two or three
crimes occurred, by coincidence in one part
of Canada, does any one think we shouid
change the whole criminal law and act as
though that.class of crime had become
general P
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.-Surely the
government will take into, consideration
the remarks of the hion. members froni
Halifax and Calgary. I cannot support the
clause at it stands. You put the onus probandi on the man in whose possession the
minerai hias been found. He is guilty by
having it in bis possession. 1 have at home
some minerai samples that I got 12 yeaxs
ago, some of it at Sudbury and some in British Columbia. It was given to me, and I
cannot tel from which place I got it. If that
law is placed on the statute book, the
government could send a man to my place
and ask where I got this ore, and I could
not prove where il came from. I could
only say that I got it from fniends either
in Sudbury or British Columbia.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-I
have samples at home in the same way.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-The onus prohandi should not be on the man who
happens to have the minerai in his possession. I arn supposed to have the complete
titie of movable property in my possession.
It is for the party who thinks I ar n ot
legally and honestiy in possession of it, to
prove that I am not. As the clause stands,
every one of us who happens to have some
minerai, not rnanufactured, in his possession, is supposed to, have obtained it in a
dishonest way. I object niost strenuously to
this clause, uniess we limit it to Cobalt.

mens o! mineraiized rock, and it would be

utteriy impossible for those in whose possession it is to explain where it came frein.
Prima facie, ail these people are guilty of
theft sud liable for two years' impTisonment.
Hon. Mr. POWER.-I
clause be struck out.

move

that

the

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.-The provision might
he limited to mining camps and vicinity.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-If it is needed anywliere it is ini the mining camp. I do not
bclieve there is a member of this House
wrho hias not been presented with samples
o! minerais, and who could tell where hie
got. the whole of tbem. I have in My
mind's eye, ma.nufacturers of jewellery,
who have quartz under glass, exhibiting
different samples of ores found in the Dominion. Take the case of the government
of Ontario. They have a bureau of Mines,
where ail kinde o! minerals are exhjbited.
Would you indict the government for having them in their possession? I think
it is a most objectionable clause.
The motion was agreed Vo and the clause
was struck out.
On clause 508-A, imposing a penalty for
unlawful printing, seiling or possession of
pistes for printing pirated copies of musi,cal compositions.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What bas led Vo
this leg-isiatioli P
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Musical compositions are constantiy being imported through the post office.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-This hias corne
Vo, be embodied in the Bill because some nepresentation bias been made that such a
thing is constantly occurring, and authors
being entitled Vo the protection of their
rights needed this legisiation.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-If the
wiil suspend this clause until some explanahion. gentleman would make inquiry at the
tion is offered. I have not received a pro. Ctistorns Department, hie would find that
per brie! about this.
there are constant complaints made to that
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED.-I venture to say department of the smuggiing o! copyrighted
there are over one liundred offices in Ot- music, and you cannot reacli the offenders.
tawa in which you wiil find rnany speci- AIl vou can do is seize and confiscate the
Bon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MAY 18,.1909

681

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This is an age
imnported article. How this provision is
to be carried into effect, I arn at a loss to when printing processes are everywhere,
and when agents are everywhere selling
know.
ail kinds of musical literature as weli as
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend other literature, and it seems to me that
surely cannot be serions in giving to the it would be utterly impossible for the publie
Chamber such an extraordinary reason for
tprotect themselves in cases of this kind.
this legislation, that becanse representations I move that we strike out the whole section,
have been made to the Department of Jus- and it will be for the government to point
tice, we must criminalize every act. Take out to us next session wherein we should
subsection 3, which provides for the arrest embody it in our Crixuinal Code.
of an offender against the written authority
of the copyright owner, for having music in
Hon. Mr. DkNDURAND-This offence is
his possession.
supposed to be a theft-a party stealing a
If our copyright legisiation is flot suffi- composition of another person and aurrepjcient to protect anthors or those who pn-b- titiously turning it to his own advantage.
lish musical productions of this kind, then It is for the Chamber to say that this is
w~e had better let them seek means other a sufficiently grave offence to be embodied
than invoking the criminal law for the in our Criminal Code.
It
purpose of prosecuting the public.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The section goes to
seems to me this is indefensible. No reason
bas been alleged for it in the world.
this extent: not merely if he is guilty of
pirating it himself, 'but if it is found in
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The crime is going on his possession, the onus of proving that
constantly.
he did not pirate it, is on him.
The motion was agreed to and the clause
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I protest agalnst
making criminal law where some good was struck ont.
reason is not shown for so doing. It is
On clause (508b).
not only penalizing the snbject, but it is
crixninalizing.
" 5089. Every person who, after the. registration of amy draînatia work, publicly perHon. Mr. BEIQUE-For my part, I feel forme exhibits or represents. or who in any
or aids or abets
like dealîng pretty f reely with a law of manner cause representation inthe -public per-.
formance or
whole or in
this kind, which is brought up to this part of such dramnatic work without the coi'sent of the proprietor <unless he proves that
House at sncb s late stage of the session.
he acted innocently), is guilty of an offence
and liable on -sumamary conviction to a fine
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is for hon of not leue than one hundred dollars and not
members to decide for themselves. If they exoeeding five hundred dollars, or thirty
daRys' «In n'somment, or both, in the discretbink this is an action that should fal tion. of t e court, and on the. second or subunder the penal law, if they tbink that it sequent conviction imprieonnient with or
is of sncb a class of offence against moral without bard labour for six monthe
law that it should be embodied' in our
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This is
Criminal Code, it is for the Senate to say much of the eame character as 5O8a.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-Let the
hon. minister read section 508 as it stands.
It seems far fetched to apply At to musical
prints witbout applying it to other prints,
for they are often pirated.
The off ence
may be more serions in regard to musical
compositions.,

very

Hon. Mr. POWER-This is a totally different thing. This is the case of a person who
himself does the mischief, and I think thiat
is not very ahjectionable.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Act respecting copyright makes provision for this kin-d
of thing. It mufie a -penalty, without Gur
Hon. M-Nr.
DANDURAND-It was placed makîng it a criminal offence.
arbitrarilv after 508. That is a clause well
Hon. Mr. SPEAKER-And an injunction
known to this Chamber. It affects trading
van be ob'tained.
stamps.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--A group of young
people may get hold of some drarnatic work,'
and be entirely ignorant of it being registered, and use it for some church festival 1
they will then corne within the pale of the
criminal. law.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They are not likely te
be proceeded against.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
opposite wou]d make every act in life a criminai act. We would return te the days of
the Mayflower.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Crime is increasing iu
Canada, owing te the laxity of our crirninal
code. Let me give you some statistics. In
the Iast ten years, the ratio of crime per
thousand of population has risen: In Manitoba, frorn 5:15 per cent up te 22 per cent;
in British Columubia, frorn 12 to 18 per cent.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-You are trying to make
this a crime.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-This will increase
the proportion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Taking ail the pro.
vinces, the proportion has arisen from 6.23
to 11.3 per thousand.
Hon. Sir 14ACKENZIE BOWELL-If an
amateur corps should reproduce a dramatic
work in a private house, or in any place
where they charge admission fees for charitabie purposes, it is made a crime by
this clause.

of lading of other railroad or shipping form,
the tine of confinement of such oattie may be
extended to thîrty-six hours where such oattie
are carried on cars fitted with the necessary
applianceg and are, during such time. fed
and watered without being unloaded."
Hon. -Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe present period is eight and twenty
hours on our side of the line, but thirtysix on the American aide of the line.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I do not propose to
have this struck out, but humane societies
do not like it. Cattle carried on trains a
long time without water deteriorate very
much. I have seen a great many corne
to St. John in the winter time, and where
they have been a long time on the route,
through any accident, confined in the car
and unable to get water, or whether they
are unable to get water or not, they are in
a very bad condition. This amendment to
the Act, I underatand, is asked for by the
people who are shipping the cattie, and
by the railroads. 0f course it is a very
awkward thing to detrain the cattie and
give them a rest, and there is a dislike to
it. I do not, however, ask to have the
clause stricken out. One very great difficulty la in carrying out» the provisions of
the law. It is provided that these cattie
should be carried in a particular way, in
cars fitted with certain conveniences; but
the cars are rarely fitted up with those
conveniences, and there is no ,way to enforce it. However, let it. go.

Hlon. Mr. POWER-I notice this extension to thirty-six hours is upon the consideration that the cattie are carried on
Hon. Mr. De BOUCHERVILLE-The cars fitted with necessary appliances, and
clause says unless hie acted innocently. are, during such time, fed and watered.
People might tahe up a dramatic composiThe clause was adopted.
tion, not kuowing it was registered, arnd
On section 53S3.
play it, and it would be for theru to show
that they were perfectly innocent.
Section 583.-By repealing paragraph <e)
thereof and s.ubtitnting the following paraHon. Mr. DAVIS-I move that the clause gr ph:(e) two hundred nnd sixty-three, murder;
be struck out.
two hundred and sixty-five, threat to murder;
The motion to strike out the clause was two hundred and sixty-six, conspiracy to
murder; two hundred and-sixty-seven, accesadopted.
sory after the fact to murder; two hundred
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Innocent
neyer prosecuted.

On clause (544a),

people are

anid sixty-eight, man.slaughter.

or,"

Hon. Mr. POWER-It means this. SecBy iun'erting immediately after section 544
the following section:tion (582) of the code says:
544k. Upon the written request of the
"That every court of general or quarter
owner or pereon in charge of any cattie so
carried. which written request shall be separ- sessions of the peace when presided over biY
ate nnd apart fromn any printed or other biHI a stuperior court judge or a county or district
The SPEAKER.

MAY 18, -1909
court judge, or ia the cities of Montreal and
uebec by a recorder or judge of the sessions
cfthe. peaoe, and in the province of New
Brunswiok, every oounty court judge ha, the
any indictable olience except as
rower te tryprovided."
eri neafter
Section (583) says that ne court mentioned in the last preceding section bas
power te try any offences under section
(74) ; se that this is te add another offence:
"1(e) two hundred and sixty-three, murder;
twc

hundred

and

uixty-four,

attempt

to

murder; two hundred and sixty-five, threat
te murder; two hundred and sixty-eix, couspiracy to murder, two hundred and sixtyseven, acessory after the fact to murder;
two hundred and sixty-eight, msnslaughter:'
These are added te the off ences which
the inferior court is net allewed te try.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-There is but
the word 'manslaughter' added te this
clause.
Hon. Mr. POWER-There is more than
that. I should like te bring before the
committee the st part cf this proposed
amendment:
"two hundred and sixty-eight, manelaughter."
It 'will be noticed that the other offenoes
are ali of a very serious chara.ter. Manslaughter is cf a somewhat serious character
tee, but net always. My impression is that,
on the whole, it is rather better that the
county court judge ehould be allowed to
try cases cf manslaughter. I can give some
reasons for that.
The county court has
jurladiction in the other cases wheie the
term cf sentence, and the gravity cf the
offence is as great as manslaughter and it is
often much more in the interest cf justice
that the effender should be tried by a judge
alone than befere a jury. The chances cf a
guilty nian escaping where lie is tried by a
jury, are much greater than mhere he ils
tried before a judge, and,of course, if a
man is innocent and he elects te be tried
before the ceunty judge, he is freed almost
In the other ca-sc, lie may
imm -d'ately.
have te spend six months in ja1; I wuu.,.
meve te strike eut the last paragraph; two
hundred and eixty eight, manslaughter.

8

judge, or a county or district court judge.
or ini the cities of Montreal and Quebec, by
a recorder or judge of the sessions of the
peace, and in the province of New Brunswick every county court judge, bas the
power to try such oitences. - So that ne
quarter sessions will be able henceforth te
hear cases of murder, accessory murder,
conspiracy te murder, accessory after the
fact to murder-that is in the old law--or
manslaughter.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I observe this
statement has been made; in connection
with this clause:
«Correspondence bas been had with the
attorney generals of the. seven provinces, and
ail of them, except the Attorney General of
Quebec, agree that it is desirable te take away
the, jurisdiction of these inferier ourts in
cases cf mansla.ughter. There doe net seem
to b. eny special reason for excepting the
province of Quebec from this provision, if it
is enacted."

If ail the provinces have asked for it,
there is no reason why it should flot be
enacted.
The clause was adopted.

On clause 2,
Section 2.-By repeahing paragraph 31 thereof and substituting the following paragraph :-" (31) 'priz. flght' means an encounter or
fight, with lista or hands, either with cr without gloves, between two persons who have met
for the purpose by previeus arrangement
made by or for thera or for such encounter
or ftght."
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I hope my hion.
*friend will consent te have tils clause
strieken out. I rememboer that in the City
of Toronto, a couple cf years ago, a young
man went over te England and I think
brought back the light weight championship cf England, and the great moral and
religious city cf Toronto gave hlm an ovation cf which the whole cf Canada was
proud. To say that that young man would
commit a criminal offence if lie gave an
exhibition in the city cf Toronto cf the
prowess which won him the championship
of England, would be a monstrueus thing.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-The hon. gentleman is quite right.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I find that it Ù3 Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If there is anyonly the word ' mansl«ughter' which is thing in the way cf athletica which. is cultiAny court vated ln England it is the science cf
added te the list cf off ences.
of general or quarter Bessions of the pence self -defence, particularly by the use of
scarcely
is
and there
gloves,
when presided over by a saperior court the

SENATE
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not sec that there
an athletic institution in Canada that lias
flot those exhibitions from time to time, is anything more objectionable in a boxing
encounters made by previous arrangement, match than there is in a Rugby football
precisely within the language of the sec- game. It is not nearly as dangerous.
tion.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex>-It is not
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-This clause is uncommon for rouglis to cross at Fort Erie
and hold fights right there, when they could
not a new one.
not hold them in the State of New York,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They have added I know that is a fact.
'with gloves '.
Hon. -Mr. LOUGHEED-Can my hon.
Hon. Mr. flANDURAND-The only words
friend point to. any prosecution of that
added are 'either with, or without gloves '.
The Interpretation Act gave the definition nature that has taken place in Ontario?
My attention has niot been directed te it..
of a prize fight; it was:
« Prize fight meanal an encounter or a fight
with fists or hands."
Now it rends:
-With fists or hands, either with or without
gves, between two persons who have met
ouch Purpose by previcus arrangement
1f
and 80 on."
If there be any principle in the change
it is that a prize fight is now, instead of
being simply an encoanter or fight with
fista or hands, an encounter or fight either
with or without gloves.

Hon. Mr. BOSS <Middlesex)-I know we
had some difficulty in trying to break up
these exhibitions.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is a
fact there have been arrangements made in
Buffalo for prize figlits to take place in
Fort Erie; but in every instance the authorities have put a stop te it under the
law as it stands.
Hon. Mr. BOSS (Middlesex)-I suppose
what is wanted is to prevent these ;boxing
Hon. Mr. BEIQtJE-By reason of the ad- exhibitions with or without gloves, which
dition of these words 'With or without encourage prize fighting.
gloves.' I think it will be necessary to add
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved to strike
after the word 'gloves,' the following :
out the clause.
"Other than ordînary boxing matches.'
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Clause 2 is but
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Has there been
an enlargement of the interpretation clause.
any abuse of the law as it exists P There
has not been a prize figlit in Canada for
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then it will
years and years .
leave the law as it stands.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. genThe .motion was agreed to and the
tleman is in error. There have beeen a clause was struck out.
good many pri ze fights, some clandestinely
Hon. Mr. POWER-I move the followI will admit, and s&me openly, in and
ing be inserted as clause 728 A:around Montreal.
" It shall not hereefter be necýessar.X that
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I entirely agree a jury shali be unanimous in a criminal case,
with the hon. leader of the opposition; and a verdict of guilty may be rendered notit is a manly thing to figlit, thoroughly Eng- withstanding the dissent of one juror."
I may say that a good inany years ago I
lish, and I was brought up to it myseîf.
I cannot sec why they should stop people introduced a Bill to this effect, which
secured the support of the Senate at that
from fighting %vith gloves.
time.
WThen the Criminal Code of 1892
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-A figlit may be
was being considered by a joint committee
a manly thing, but a prize fight is a disof the two Houses, of which the hon. memgusting exhibition.
ber from Richmond vias chairman, the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can the hon. gZen- committee unanimously recommended a
tleman mention any case which has been larger change in the law than my amendbrought before the court of a prosecution ment involves. They recommended that
for a prize fight in Canada?
the dissent of twvo jurors in the case of a
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED.*

MAY 18, 1909

jury of 12, or of one in the ease of a jury
of six, should flot prevent a verdict. I
shall just read the argument I addreseed
at that time to the House in 1893:
«IMy proposition is that it simply shall
not b. nec.ssary that the jury shahob. unanimous but the verdict of guilty may b. returned even though one member of the jury
dissent%. Hion, gentlemen are ail perfectly
sware that the ends of justice are continually defeated by some one jurer who is either
obstinate or a crank, or perhaps in sympathy
with the. eriminal. A crime le committed,
reasonabi, evidence is produced of the gilt
of smre particular person. and that person
is brought before the magistrat.; the magietrate -finds there is sufficieut; prima facie
evidence to commit hum; ho is oommitted and
afterwards hoiel brought before the grand
jury. The grand jury as a rule eeem to
think it their duty to find that the circumstances are very strongly in favour of the
innocence cf the. accused. In fact. in a great
Inany cases thie grand jury refuse to find
bille against a maxn of whose guiît there is
very little doulit. So, justice as you cee
There ie first
has to run this gauntlet.
the committal by the magistrate, then
the case comes before the grand jury
and then trial before the petit jury.
Tiie evidence may b. 6e clear that the. judge
and every one in the court
:nd eleyen jurorsthe prisoner's guilt. but if
are satisfied cf
there happen to b. on that jury a man who
ma .a connection or a friend of the accueacrank of 6ome éort, or a man withi
peuirviewc as to the. capital punishment,
or an anarchist, or an .nemy of society, that
on. men can render ail the expense and
trouble that have been taken utterly ueelees,
and defeat the. ends cf justice and turn the.
miscreant out to prey upon society."l
I do not think that state of things should
be allowed to continue. Those were my
sentiments in 1893 and they are my sentiments still. At that time the hon. gcntleman f rom Calgary agreed with me.

t

have been here prepnred te consider tuis
measure at any fime during the session.
It je flot as though it were an entirely new
measure. It was approved by a joint committee cf the Houses in 1892, and I think
paseed the Senate three times. If is a very
simple thing; if if dccc net meet with the
approval cf the Minister of Justice in the
other House, it will net be accepted. If je
an amendment whicii muet appeal to the
common sense of every hon. gentleman
preeent.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Does flot the
hon, gentleman realize that tues is an
amendment which opens up a' very wide
horizon on our present institution, because
fie question may be taken as to obtaining
a verdict by a simple majority, as in Scotland. Instead of reproaching the government for bringing down the measure somewhat lafe in the session, the hon, gentleman should himself have moved at the
beginning ef the session by a separate Bull.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I was waifing for the
government to act.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. gentleman could well afford te wait unfil nexf
aufumn f0 make the change.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It ie a change of such
a radical nature, that the opinion of the
attorneys general of the provinces should
he had before it je made.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As I appear te
have agreed with the hon. member from
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- Halifax in 1893, I cannof very well go back
Whule I arn not prepared either to accent on him even at this late stage of the sesas
or dissent, it is a very important change sion; but I would suggeet that inasmuch
in the Criminal Law which the hon, gen- the measure muet necessarily be a very conHe offers it near mid- troversial one, and would raise such a distleman proposes.
I cussion in the House of Commons as to
the hast day of this session.
night, on
do not thînk fiat fhe Senafe should acf in preclude our agreeing upon it.
a matter of that kind, except on a special
Hon. Mr. POWER-It wouhd raise the
Bill broughf in and adopfed deliberafely in Senate in public estimation.
due course and form. I must, therefore, on
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would suggest
principle, oppose fie motion on the ground
to in- the propriety of dropping if this session,
fiat tus je not the fime nor the way
troduce an important change in the whole and fie hon. gentleman can bring in a Bull
early next session.
Criminal Law.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I accept the suggesHon. Mr. POWVER-If we are ln fie dying
hours of the session considering this Bill, tion made by the righf hon. leader of the
who is responsible for tint? The Senate House and concurred in by the leader of

SENATE

6s6

686

SENATE
At ail events, if the right lion. gentleman
the opposition, and ask leave under the
states that ha understands il. is to comcircumstances to withdraw the amendment.
mence on the firet of September, that will
The amandment was 'withdrawn.
settie the question.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL, from the commitSir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If we
tee, reported the Bill with amendments go into'committee, he will see that proviwhich ware concurred in.
sion is made that certain increases shall
The Bill was then read the 3rd time and be an offset against this grant of $150,
otherwise annual increases will not be interpassed.
fered with.
CIVIL SERVICE INCREASE 0F SALARY
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
BILL.
was read a second time.
The House resolved itself into a CommitSECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
tee of the Whole on the Bill.
Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT moved the
(In the Conîmittee.)
second reading of Bill (187), An Act to aucertain increases of salary to memthorize
On clause (4),
bers of the Civil Service (inside service).
4. AUl increases granted hereunder shahl
Ra said: This Bh'l is for the purpose of giv- take effect f rom the first day of September,
eiglit.
ing a certain increas3 to the cfficers in the one thon-and nine hundred and
departments.
various
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That is just the
exact date the Act came into force. I
Hon .Mr. LANDRY-Is this simply tu understand the annual increase will date
provide for the payment of ail increase to from September to September.
those officers who do not benefit by the law
Hon. Mr. POWER-Take our own case,
of 1908?
in the third last column of the schedule
Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-Undcr you get the increase from September first,
1908, to March 3lst, 1909, and then in the
the conditions therain specified.
last column you get the increase from April
Hon. Mr. LANDRY: If I understand &e,ý first, 1909, to March 3lst, 1910.
tion 37 of the Act of 1908, it means th.at a..
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That is for the purthe ' fficers that have been classifhed iby our
of the appropriation to be voted.
action have a right to their $50 increase. pose
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My
NVhen does that annual increase commence?
On ilhe lst of September, or with the finan- hion. friand will note that the classification
had to ha made on the salary which was
cial year?
payable to any individual clerk on the first
Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I under- of September last.
stand it commences on the first o! SeptemHon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not concede
ber.
that.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Froui the ist of SepHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTtember tj this dete, there would be a part That was the law on whielh the classificaof the year that wou-A be covered 1y this tion was made.
law, but before the law came into force we
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That wvas the law
had a resohu.ion passa by thîs House applied to the Departmnents, not to the
granting some increase providing the clark House of Commons nor to tha Senate.
should make a report to the Senate that thq
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
officer was deserving. If the increase commences from th2 lst o! Septemb.r, t-e ne- had to be applied to every one.
ch-ssary amount from the lst ui July to the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Clause (5) reads:
lst o! Septembr must be tek nl in ; cord5. Ail sume of money voted by parliament
ance with the old r-solution pa sed -by titis for the financial year ending on the thirtyfir,,t day -of March, one thou5zand nine hunHouse.
Hon. Mr. POWER.

MAY 18, 1909
dred and iiine, and applicable ta the payment of salaries or increase of salaries cf
persans in the inside service, shall b. applicable ta the. payment of increases of Galary
granted under this Act sa far as such sumes
are flot required for the. specifio purpases for
whicb they were granted; and during the
financial years ending on the thirty-first day
of March, one thousand nine hundred ana
nia., and one thousand nine hundred and ten.
reepectively, there may bie paid out of the
Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada such
further moueys as may b.e requîred for the
salaries hereunder
payment not increases af by parliament, not
as have cf been voted
to exeeed the. detailed amounts in each case
as set forth in the schedule ta tus Act.
1 understand by clauses four and five
that althaugh the increase commences from
the first af September ta the thirty-first af
March that increase would be paid 'pro
rata ' for aeven months, and thien, alterwards, they ivili have the right to the twelve
months, as the achedule indicates.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis $150 is simply for the. presenit year.

"In this Act the. deputy head includes the.
clerks of both Houbes and the. librarians of
parliamient.
(b> The. head of a department includes the.
Speaker of bath Hanses.
<c> Officer, clerk or employee includes ver-

manant officers * clerks or employeee of either
Hanse and of the Library of Parliament.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I caîl attention ta
the Civil Service law as it is now. Clause
2 of the Act reads:
(b) "Deputy head in addition to the, officers
mentioned n paragraph <b) of section 2 of
the. Civil Service Âct includes the, clerks cf
bath House and the. librarians of Parliament;
(c) "head cf a department," in addition
te the, mînisters mentioned in paragrapii (a)

of section 2 of the. Civil Service Act, includes
the. Speakers of bath Houses;
Sa that the law as it now stands includes
those officers.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-A douxbt bas
arisen by the fact tint this is a separate
Bill.

Han. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
can do na harm.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-From the firat of
Han. Mr. DANDURAND-This is a sepaSeptember ta the. 31st of March, because
rate Act. The Civil Service Act says
the. financial year commences on the 3lst
"In this Act, unless the. context otherwise
of 'March.
r-equires--(b) deputy head in addition to
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If the. officers mentioned in paragraph <b) af
section 2 cf the. Civil Service Act.".
my hion. friend will turn ta the achedule,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Clause 1 reads:
is due from first Septemhe will sec what
1. The. Governor in Cauncil, upan tii. reber ta 3lst of March, and in another column
cf a .department,
of the.
what is due from the first of April of the commendation report ofhead depuity head, may
the.
based upon a
present year ta the firat of April, 1910.
grant te any cifâcer, clerk or emnlaye. under
the deputy heads in the inside service. as
The clause was adopted.
defined by Tii. Civil Service Amendaient
Act, l90.
On clause 1,
Han. Mn. CHOQUETTE-I think the
1. The. Governor in Ceuncil. upon the. recommendation of the, head af a department, amendment is useleas.
based upon a report af the deputy head, may
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-How is At defined
grant to anv afficer, clerk or employee under
the. deputy heads in the inside service, as in the Act of 1908?
defined by The Civil Service Amendment Act,
19W8, who was ini the publia service at the
Hon. Sir 'RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It
time af the. coming inta force of that Act, can do fia harm, even if my lian frîend is
an increase of salary of one huxidred and
fifty dollars a year, subject ta the provisions corrcct in bis view.
hereinafter cantained..
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It daca fia harm;
Han. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-In
but the doctrine is, '«e cannat amend a
althaugh aur
regard ta this firat clause,
money Bill.
Senate employees. and the. Hanse of CoinHon. Mr. SCOTT-In looking over the
maens emplayees are specified in these
achedules, -strictly speaking we have no schedules, I find a very regrettable thing as
headof a department, and no deputy head far as the. Senate is concerned. I think
either. The Minister of Justice has been it is extremely unfain and nat in any way
consulted an the matter, and it is prapased defensible. In every part of the gaverfi.
ta am2nd that clause by adding the fallaw- ment service thc messengers and packcrs
,-et an increase. This increase '«as given
ingc wards:-

SENATE

by parliament because the cost of living
had considerably increased in the past
five or six years, and there is no justifica.
tion for the Senate messengers and packers
being shut out. In the House of Gommons. they are ail mentioned. Our messengers are worthy men and good men and
some of them have been here for twentyfive years, and they have reached the linit
and cannot go any higher, and with the
increased cost of living they should have
shared in the advantage given by this Act.
It was intended to be shared in by ail.
The CHAIRMAN-The clerk informa me
that the reason why the packers in the
House of Commons got an increase, was
because they were below the maximum, and
ail our packers and messengers are up to
the maximum.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
eall attention te the fact that no portion
of this applies te the -parties who have
Here is
reached the maximum salary.
the clause:
3. No increase under this Act to any efficer,
clerk or employee ehali exceed the différenceý
between Iris present aalary and the maximum
saayof the subdivision in whieh he ha.
been yplaced upon organization and ciassificatie>n under the said Act.

on the lst September, let him show me
the clause that makes that provision. He
cannot find any clause in the Act. On the
contrary, the law provîdes that as soon
as practicable after the coming into force
of the Act, the head -of each departmnent
shall cause the organization of each department te be determined and defined by
order in council. That is, on a resolution of
the Senate, and how is that te be done?
It has te be donc according te clause 5 and
clause 5 says
-"The first division shall be divided into:
subdivision A, consisting of officers havîng the
rank of deputy heads, not being deputy
heads, administering departmnent, assistant
deputy ministers, and the principal techxiical
and administrative and executive officers."
And so in subdivision B. We are aiways bound by the law to make the classification as the law provides; but if we
fail te do so, then the House of Gommons
fails te vote the money for that clase, and
the in'crease given will be based on the
salary fixed on the Tht of September last;
but it is only in case we do not act, because
we are empowered te act, and I think it is
an obligation on our part, in justice te our
employees, to make the subdivision as the
iaw indicates. We did not do that. That
clause, which does not apply here, enacts
that our employees should have the salaries
they received on the lst September last,
and this is not fair to them.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
being the law, could we, in our classification, grant an additional sumn to those who
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The Internai Ecohave attained the maximum? It seems te
nie we cannot. Have the messengers who nomy Committee, when they fixed the salasre serving- in the Senate arrived at the ries of oui employees for the present session, properly anticipated the provisions of
maximum according to law P
section 2-at least I did-what might be
Hon. Mr. POWER-By the next session
contained in this Act, section 2, that in the
I thin< there will be a means found to
case of a messenger who 'was at the maxiprovide for the cases of these messengers,
mum, we could not exceed it. We have said
but we had to base oui classification on the
that the maximum salary to be paid to a
condition of things on September Ist, and Senate messenger is $800. We anticipated
we did so, in f act, the committeé recomwhat has taken place and fixed the salamended increases for two or three messenries we thought ought to be fair, and we
gers, and they could not get it because the
moved ail our officials who were only reIaw did not aliow them; but we hcope to
ceiving $700 Uip to $800 and ahl the mesbe able te make some arrangement next
sengers of the Senate staff to-day have
session. In the report which is now on
reached the maximum, with the exception
the table, we did provide for the case of
of one who was only appointed as a permaone disappointed individual.
nent messenger this year with a salary of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not agree with $700. It would not be right to anticipate
the hion. gentleman when hie says we were that because somebody else wvas receiving
class a
increase in some other
bound to take the salaries of the Ist Sep- an
tember. If we are bound to take them messenger who was placed in that partiHon. Mr. SCOTT.

MAY 18, :1909l
cular class. the maximum being $800,
shouhd have any additional increase. I do
not think it is right to say they are unfairly treated, because messengers in other
places, mentioned here, who weîe nat
receîving the maximum, get it under this
Bill. They*get the $150 as the case might
be, up ta the maximum of that class: I
cannot see the unfairness. We have one
rather peculiar case on oui staff, where one
o! the permanent messengers was onhy in
the Senate for about 2 years and he is in
the $900 chass; but I suppose that messenger will get the benefit of the increase, because he has not reached the maximum of
the class he is in. That is McLeod Wood.
He is in the Speaker's department, and was
takenon two years ago at $75 a month. He
was in charge of the restaurant last year,
and was appointed as a messenger at $900
a year.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The messengers
are nat classified.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-We have classified
them by the report adopted here a !ew
days ago. We were asked, under the Act,
ta classify them and we did so, and that
particular messenger, ahthough only a messenger in the House, is in a chass that
runs from $900 to $1,200, and the others
are at the maximum of $800, with the exception of one appointed this year.
DR-ehvpuonatWe
r.L
$900.money
Hon. Mr. WATSON We did it last year.

Hon).

680

Hon. Mr. WATSON-Or his pay.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And if hie salary is
less than the minimum salary of his subdivision in this class, his salary may be inThe section
creased te the maximum.
reads:
',Âny person whether permanent or temporary who is in receipt of a salary et or
above the. maximum as horetofore established
of the class, permanent or temporary, in
which ho is thon serving shall on the ,xpiry
of one year after his having been in receipt
of sucli salary be eligible for the increase of
salary provided by this Act.'
I suppose it will be understood that the
gentleman who is the deputy head shail
make a report to the head, so that the $150,
which is provided by this law, shall be paid
this year. If the Senate does not adopt the
report, nothing could be done.
Hon. Mr. POWER-As I understand, this
recammendatian has already been drawn
Up.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON, from the committee.
reported the Bill with amendments.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved that the amendments be concurred
in.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is not
this a money Bill? If it is, what right
have we ta amend it?
certainly have not a right ta amend a
Bill.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We cauld find same
precedents for amending a money Bihl in
this Hanse. I remember ane occasion when
the han. member fram De Larimier (Hon.
Mr. Dandurand) moved ta strike ont a
clause in a maney Bilh, and although the
Speaker decided that it was not in aider,
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The Act says that in his decision was reversed by the House.
no case shal] yau reduce the persan's salary
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-In that case,
by placing hum in a different css, and we
f elt that as that gentleman was receiving there was no increase of charges on the
$900, we had ta place hum in that particu- treasury. This is a similar case. We were
in oTder then and we are in order now.
lar class.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Take it at $900;
that does not give hum a right ta be chassified in the subdivision of $900. If he is
nothing else but a messenger, he remains
with the messengers.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That we had no
right ta do. The law says nathing in tuis
Act shahl reduce the status of a clerk or
emphoyee in the service. It does not spe'ak
of a messenger at ail.
44
REVISEO

Hon. Sur MACKENZIE *BOWELL-The
Bill provided for an increase, and the
clause whieh pravided for that increase was
struck out. Thnt was chearhy amending a
money Bill.
EDITION

690

SENATE

SENATE
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-But it was not allowance in hand in view of large eximpoeing an încreased burden on the peo- penditures we are going on with, and the
great sumn of money that is to be revoted.
ple.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What je the
The motion was agareed to.
amount of that loan?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTmoved the Third Reading of the Bill.
There je twenty million dollars falling due
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-There on the let of January, which je optional
is one advantage in having the action of with us to pay.
the Senate confirmed by the Gommons.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-At what per
It concedes to the Senate powers that we
cent?
have neyer exercieed before.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe motion was agreed to and the Bill
Four per cent. The option is froni the lèt
was read the third time and paseed.
of January, 1910, up to 193M. We can pay at
any time, on giving a certain nurLiber of
LOAN BILL.
months' notice.
SECOND kM)D THIRD RLADINGS.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is there any sin'kCARTWRIGHT ing fund for that?
Hon. Sir RICHARD
moved the second reading of Bill <191) An
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
Act to authorize the raising by loan of think not for that particular one.
certain sums of money for the public serHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-How je it provice.
posed to apply thie fitty million dollars, if
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can my right this authority be exercised?
hon. friend say to what extent the sume
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTauthorized to be borrowed and referred to
which
in the firdit two line-s of clause 1, have not There is another euma besides that
f alls due and muet be paid, lees what ie
been borrowed? It would imply that the
authority given to the governmeat hae not available from the einking fund pertaining
to it. That loan is for thirty million dolyet been exhausted.
lars. A portion of it is provided for by the
Hon. Sir RICHARL) CARTWRIGHT-It einking fund. Then there is a large sum
has not been entirely exhausted. The $50, for the Grand Trunk Pacific Raiiway, and
000, 000, of course. will be chiefly required another large sum for the National Transfor the purposes of the National Trans- continental Railway, and there are 1i-isý
cellaneous auums to a considerable extent for
continental railway.
bounties, for inilitia expenditure, for capiHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I am not refer- tal, eurveys' account, and for minor public
My right hon. works.
ring to the $50,000,000.
friend will observe that the power to borHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We have an unrow $50,000,000 is in addition to the unex- exhausted power, so to speak, under the old
hausted power, so to speak, yet enjoyed Act, of ten million dollars, and we have
by the govýernment. Wvhat margin would here fifty million dollars. That would make
that borrowing pcwer represent?
sixty million dollars altogether. *Then Nwe
have a sinking fund to meet certain maHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-To
What would that amount
there is about turing boans.
the beet of my recollection,
ten or twelve millions unexhausted. We
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTmay or may not require to use a part of
thie in paying off a certain boan which je Available for the particular boan which maoptional with us on the let of January tures on the lst of January, we have, I
next, but it is advisable to have a liberal think, about six or seven million dollars.
Hon. Sir MACKEN',ZIL EMVEÛWLL.
690

MAY 18, 1909

691

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That would be
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In the
PracticallY sixty-six or sixty-seven million pust, it strikes me that bounties were paid
dollars?
out of current account.
Hon.
Yes.

Sir RICHARD

CARTWRIGHT-

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTMy hou. friend is qu ite right. That was
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What would be done up ta 1896. After 1896. the -practice
was altered.
the application of that?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then,
in fact, every statement we get of the annual expenditure cannot be used for comparison witli the carrent expenditure now
and the expenditure previous ta 1896. In
other words, if hait a million was paid in
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will that be re- bounties, that would be added ta current actired tram this moneyP
count formerly. Now it is added to capital.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI have endeavoured te give that. There are
twenty million dollars for the National
Transcontinental Railway and twenty million dollars ta meet the aptional boan.

Hoin. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt might or it might nat. There will be
twenty million dollars for the National
Transcontinental Railway, and there would
be a matter ai about ten million dollars for
the variaus minor charges I have spoken
of-bounties, militia, capital account for the
Intercolonial Railway, &c., quite ten millions.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTMy hon. friend is quite right. That is what
is being dane.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why
not add ta capital account other expenditures that might be considered of a similar
ciaracter. It seems to me that the building of a post office, for instance, costing
seventy-five thousand dollars, would be
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And ten millions ai more properly carried to capital accounit
a loan ta the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway. than ta current account, and yet it is paid
Honi. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-- aut of current revenue.
Yes, and a sum which must be paid pesi.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTtively for the debt which. matures, inde- To state the candid truth, we have too
pendently of the other. There is anc which many capital accounts, and, as a matter af
has* absolutely ta be paid, and there is ane book-keeping, I think we ought ta bave but
optional.
one. It would be better for us ta revise our
Hon. Sur MACKENZIE BOWELL-Did I faim of book-keeping.
understand the hon, gentleman ta say that
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-So far
part ai the money which it is praposed ta
as book-keeping is concerned, my impresborrow is ta pay the bounties which we
sion is there should be but one capital achave voted?
count; but whether current expenditures
Han. Sir RICHARD CA1HTWRIGHT- should be charged ta capital account in
if we have nat surplus enaugh in other aider ta keep dawn the apparent expendi
quarters, it must be paid out of moncys bor- turc of the year us another thing.
rowed, clearl.y.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHan. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But Quite Sa.
the baunties are ta be charged ta capital
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-You
account-that is the effect ai it, is it not?
mii.ght prosont an account at the end of
Honi. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- every financial year shawing that the rnnThat has been done. The bounties have ning expenses af the gavernment were not
within 50 per cent of what they actually
been added ta capital accauint.j
44ý

SENATE
leen judges of the Superior Court who receive $5,999, and there are two puisne
In
judges each of whom. receives $4,500.
A
190, those salaries were readjusted.
resolution was passed -by the House of Comruons putting those two judges on the same
footing as the others. The BUI based on that
resolution was passed, but a mistake was
Han. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- made and ths old figures were retained,
There is a very great deal of force in what The mistake was admitted by the Acting
my hon. friend says, and I thiuk that the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, who
-accounts should be revised.
was then Minister of Justice, and iii a letter dated 27th February, 1908, addressed to
Hion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is one of those judiges, hie says:
-altogether an incorrect and improper mode
My Dear Judge,-In answer to your letter
of presenting the actual cost cf running the
of the Z6th oft February last, 1 have no hesitagavernment of the cauntry.
Deintention of the the
I had
u sing that the
tiou i nt"f Justice (and 1 believe that time)
parte
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is there anything approbation of the government at
was t put aIl the judges in the -rural districts
ini this last loan to meet the expensesl cf on the same footing iu se far as theit salaries
the Quebec bridge?
ave concerned and wheu the resolutious were
settled that the salaries of the judges of
be $5,000, like
aud
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- Gaspéathers. Chicoutimi shoulda change took
Subsequently
the
The Quebec bridge at present is nat casting place for which I cannot account. I was
us much, whatever it may cost in the decidedly under the impression that I had
givon effect tao my intention until my attenfuture. If we are gaing on with the con- tion was directed te the legislation as sancstruction, no doubt it would be a charge tinned by the Goveruar in Council.
te see the
I have not had
against this amount, that is for the current Minister of Justice, an opportunity
but you are authorized to
year, whatever we may expend.
tell him that I nover deliberately made any
change in the item in question, and that my
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bull intention has always been to keep the promise that I made te Justice Carroll, when
passed th.rough its final stages.
hie accepted the position of judge ait Gaspé,
that is te say to raise the salary of the judge,
of thiat district te the same figure as that
ACT AMENIJmENT BILL.
JUDGES'
given te other judges in rural districts.
So far as your. district is concerzued. the
SECOND ÂND THIIRD REÂDINGS.:- difference which exists in the salaries certainly should not exist. I know of few judges
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT ,4ho have, in their districts, as inany impormaved the second reading of Bil11 (193), An ta.nt cases as you have in yours.
Yours very truly,
Act te amend the Judges' Act.
C. FITZPATRICK.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What are those
This errer that took place between the
judges in Ontario receiving now?
adoption of the resolutions by the House of
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- Commons and the passing of the Bill, was
They were receiving $2,400 and then they brought to the notice of the government in
were iucreased te $2,800 You will see they this House by myseif last year. Later we
are fixed here at a certain sum beginning at repeated our observations to the govera$2,500 and going up ta $3,000, with the ex- ment, and when my hon. friend fromn
ception cf the judge of the county cf York. Grandeville (Mr. Choquette) was a niember
of the House of Comnions he also called,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-In the counties of attention ta the matter, and 1 do flot undexGaspé and Chicoutimi, we have two judges stand why occasion was not taken, when
who are receiviug less than the other judges this Bill was prepared, to correct the error
in the province cf Quebec. By section 8 cf of 1905. 1 know we hiave no right to ame-nd
chapter 138, Revised Statutes, there are six thîs Bill, because it is a money Bill, but 1
are, for the reason that amounts are charged
to capital acounnt which should be charged
to current accounit, s0 that the public, in
reading the statemeut of the Finance Minister, under those circumstances, would be
misled as ta what it really caste te run the
country.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MAY 18. 1909
bçpe the right hon. member 'wi] take note
of *the observations we are making in this
House, and that next year the error will be
corrected by the proper authority, by passing a resolution in the House of Gommons
to give effect to the Teaolution sdopted in
1905.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This Bill li not
to increasp. salaries, but to increase th#
number of judges.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTMy hon. friend is quite correct.. The salaries had been increased, and I see this is
merely to increase the number of judges.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I quite agree
with the remarks of the hon. member from.
I remember myseif that Sir
Stadacona.
Charles Fiizpatrick when he was Minister
of Justice, told the judges interested that
it was a mistake that their salaries were
mrot on thie same basis as the salaries of
the other rural judges, that the mistake
was not his f suit and that he.wonld sec
that it was corrected. Really those judges
axe most reliable men, and there is no
reason why their salaries should be $600
less than the salaries of the other judges.
Here ie an opportunity to remedy that injustice. I hope that next session no time
will be lost in doing justice to these judges.
This Bill ie for the purpose of increasing
the number of judges in Ontario. I suppose the 'demand has been «msde by the
local legisiature. Why lias not the demand
of the Quebec legisiature, made two or three
years ago, to add two judges i Montreal
'çnd one in Quebec, not been. acceded to
before this? Some time ago there was a delegation from the Montreal bar, and a representation from the Attorney General for
Quebec, asking in the interests of the
better administration of justice, that three
more judages should be appointed. I think
a promise was made at the time that they
should be appointed, but so far we have
heard nothing more about it, and there axe
many complainte. It would give satisfaction to the people of Quebec if the goverfiment would yield to the demande of the
Quebec legislature. 1 do flot sc why, when
the government bave deemed it proper to

693

grant. the requet of the Ontario legisiature, they have not donc the sami thing for
tho Quebec legisîsture.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
arn not aware what. the reasons may b,There -has been, as perhaps the hon. gentleman knows, owing Wo the minerai discoveries made in Ontario, a great rush of
people Wo some districts in the northern
part of the province within the st couple
of yeare, a.nd I understând. it has been
foumd neceaary ti eonsequence Woappoint
additional judges. In the older portions
of the province there has been no increase
~in the number of judges, but I shail cal
the attention of the Minister of Justice to,
the remarks mnade by the hon. members
from Stadacona and Grandville.
The motion was agreed Wo.
RENOVATION 0F THE WALLS 0F THF
SENATE CHAMBER.
Ho.r. Mr. DANDTJBAND-Before we adjourn it has been suggestcd that soine irepresentation should be made by the Senate
Wo
the Departmcnt of Public Works for the
renovation of the walls of this Chaniber.
I do not know if there is any neoessity for
a resolution. If there b. a necessity, I will
draft a resoask the Clerk of the. Senate Wo
lution Woread something like this:
Thet in the opinion of the. Senate the lower
wais of the Senate Chamber should b. rnovated, and, wîth that end in view, that hie
honour the Speakèr and thie chairman of
committees b. appointed a committee of two
to eaul upon thie government in connection
therewith.

The motion was agreed W.
WATER-OARRIÂGE 0F GOODS BILL.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I hope that amongst
the. Bille the. Coinmons are sending up to
us Wo-morrow will be the measure respecting the water-carriage of goods.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My
hon. friend knows more about that than I
do, probably.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-It was removed f.rom
the. Private Bille, and ie now a public Bil]
bef ore thé Houe.
The Senate adjourned until il o'clock tomorroW.

694

SENATE

Honi. Mr. McMULLEN-A Bill passed this
THE SENATE.
House on two separate occasions, the
OTTAWA, Wednesday, May 19, 1909.
Water-carriage of Goods Bill, a very imThe SPEAKER took the Chair at Eleven portant measure. There is flot a ehipping
a'clock.
community which has flot auffered for
Prayers and routine proceedings.
years under the shipping regulations that
exist in"this country. Shippere are handiHUDSON BAY RAILWAY.
capped, owing to the fact that the regulatione do not afford them that protection
INQUIRY.
and relief which. they afford te shippers
Hon. Mr. PERLEY inquired:
on the other side. That Bill passed this
Rave the government reoeived any returns House twice and was sent to the Commons,
f rom the Hudson's bay eurvey staff, as to the
route that the goverument is Iikelv te build and I understand it has been allowed to
the. wailway to Hudson'a bay, suid will any die, as it were, a natural death there.
I
work on construction be started thie summer F
cannot understand what influence has been
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- brought to bear upon the governiment te perThe government have nlot received fulil re- mit that Bill to drop. I have had an inturne yet.
timation that there are a few ehippers in
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-And there will likely the province of Nova Scotia who are deeply
interested in the matter, and that they
be no work done this summer?
have exercised their influence to prevent
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTthe Bill from going through. It would
As te the remaining part of the question rather indicate that one man in Nova
they cannot say.
Scotia i8 worth ten in any other province.
If we are going to have cross-firing of this
GRAND TRUNK PACIFIC BRIDGE AT kind between this Chamber and the House
QUEREC.
of Commons, and a Bill that received such
extended consideration at the hands of our
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY inquired of the gov- commîttee, and adopted as unanimnously as
the Water-carriage Bill was adopted in this
ernment:
When do tlîey intend to start building the House, la to bu ignored in the other, in
Grand Trunk Pacific Railway Bridge at Que- my humble opinion the Senate will at least
beo, and when do they propose te have said be justified in adopting a very independent
bridge open for traffic?
attitude in dealing with Bills coming from
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- the Commons. I regret exceedingly, in
I arn advised by the department, that they *the intereet of shippers of goods in this
have nlot yet received the report, of the country, that that Bill should have been
commission of engineers who are preparing rejected. There was no more important
plans for the bridge. They have not yet Bill before parliament for years.
Relief
completed their wor<, and, consequently, was asked for by our shippers. They exthere is no poseibility of saying when they pressed a strong desire that that Bill
are likely te have the bridge opened for should become law. They were onhy asktraffic.
ing what is accorded United States shippers. Why should not Canadian shippers
WATER-CARRIAGE GOODS BILL.
be placed on as good a basis as foreign
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Before proceed- shippers? Why should United States shiping with the orders' of to-day, I wiah to pers be allo'wed to ship from Portland or
refer to a matter that has transpired ini Boston on better terme than are granted
the House of Commons in connection witb Canadian ahippers from the same port?
an important measure sent down te them Simply because our shipping regulations
are in an unsatisfactory condition. I very
by this House.
rnuch regret that that Bill bas for the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do nlot think that second time been rejected by the House of
is in order here.
Commons.
Honj Mr. GIBSON.

MAY 19, 1909

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The Hanse af Commons je responsible ta the people of this
country, and not ta the Senate, for the
action they may choose ta take on any Bill.
We freely. exercise aur judgment on any
measuies that came ta us from the House
of Commons, and I do nat think it partains ta us ta criticise the action cf the
Haine af Gommons an any Bille sàbmitte'l
bv this Hause ta them for their consideration.
CONTINGENT AOCOUNTS OF THE
SENATE.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ÂDOPTED.
Hon. '-%r. WATSON moved that the
House cancur in the sixth report of the
Standing Committea an Internal Ecanamy
and Contingent Accounts ai the Senate.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-What je the meaning ai the first paragraph of this report:
1. Your committee recominend that ail incrases reported ta the Senate. anid the classification of the staffs, b. regarded as increases
under the Civil Service Act, and ta date from
aud siter September let, 1908.
I do not sec the necessity for such a recommendation. The Bill that we passed
ycstcrday setties the whole question.
POWER-It dae
Han. M-%T.
harm.

not do any

Han. Mr. LANDRY-Yes, it des harm.

695

There was a doubt as ta ivhether they were
flot placed in a worse position by oui increasing their pay, because automatically
they had an increase irom &eptemher last,
and by. increasing the pay to $800 of course
it only dates irom the time of the passing
of that report. So the reason the committee put that in was that these two gentlemen should flot be prejudiced on account
of the apparent good-will of the committee in recommending an increase, because
they would lace $70 or $80.
flan. Mr. LANDRY-I amn not against
the increase, but it might work the other
way, that persans entitled ta increases
under the law may be dcprived of their
rights. We passed a Bill yesterday giving ta any persan who has obiained an
increase by the classification a right ta the
bonus aof $150. That is an increase enacted by the iaw, with or without recommendation; but we give aur recommendation to that law by the report that was presented yesterday. That is good for those
persans mentianed; but outside that there
ie an increase under the law of $50 for
those who have performed their duties subject ta the approval. af the clerk and of the
Speaker. Do you think those will not be
deprived if you caunt such increase as an
increase under the classification? It will
be an offset against the 4150.

Hon: Mr. YOUNG-Does my hion. friènd
Hoil. Mr. POWER-I think the abject of
it was ta provide that the right ai the argue that the repart afithîs cammittee
officers ai this House ta a further increase will supersede a aolemn Act af parliament?
of $150 should not be prejudiced 'by the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, I do nat regard
fact that they have nat been given an inAt as that, but if the wording ai it ia flot
crease under aur classification.
inteuded ta do that, as a matter af fact
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think it means it does.
quite the- cantrary, that we are acting
againet aur employece in this way. It reHon. Mr. YOÙNG-It cannot; the Act is
commende that ' Al increases reparted ta supreme.
the Senate and the classification of the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Ii it dae not huit
staffe be regarded as increases.'
anybady, I amn willing ta accept it.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Is it nat sa regarded
by the Act?
The SPEAKER-The understanding is
inHon. Mi. LANDRY-Then -why make that. these increases have reference ta
creases reported by the cammittee itself.
that recoxnmendationP
Hon. Mr. WATSON-As the hion. gentleHon. Mr. YOUNG-Ye-s.
man is aware, we increased the salaries
The motion wss agreed to.
of two ai aur meqiengerR iram $700 ta $800.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before that is
adopted, there is some information I should
like to obtain. It seems to me this schedule
does flot correspond with the c1lq"'fication
which vie adopted a few days ago. I find
under the Civil Service Bill, vihicli wie
conaidered yesterday, it is provided that:
In the case el any officer, clerk or employee
who hias received an increase of salary upon
organization and classification under the said
eot, auoh mcrase shall be offset against the
increase which such person might otherwise
reeeive under this Act.
Ail others are entitled to the increase.
In the scliedule novi under consideration,
under second division subdivision B, there
are only five oi the employees of the Senate recommended for this increase. Now,
upon reference to the classification which
this Chamber adopted a few days ago. we
find there are six employees of the Senate
in that particular subdivision of division
A; that is six employees in subdivision
B of the second division. 1 understand
that the housekeeper and superintendent
o! mnessengers has been omnitted from this
class, aithougli he has been classified ini
the Senate classification and that he is not
entitled to the increase. I would point
ont tliat that officer hias not received an
increase in salary, because on reference to
the classification it wili be found that he
is in a class running froxn $800 to $1,600.
His salary is stated in the classification of
$1,300 which lie lias been receiving for
some time, and there bas been no increase
of that salary. He, therefore, has been eut
out of that particular class, and the other
flve have been recommended for the increase.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-I think there is na
doubt about it.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-There sliould be in
tlie report the names of- those who are included in«the various classifications.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think the hion. gen-.
tleman is'losing sight of the fact tliat thehousekeeper, in addition to his salary of
$1,300, occupies rooms which are worth
somiething additional.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Not in the classi
fication.
Hon. Mr. POWET-In the other House
that is'tlie case, and that is the case vith
Carleton. Hîs roins are worth $600, 1
should say.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is flot the
point. H1e has alvisys had $1,300 and those
rooms; consequently, under the classification, lie stands to.-day whlere lie stood previous to the classification, and he has not
received an increase; therefore, he would
be entitled to that increase. 1 vil aocept
the suggestion made by the hion, gentleman from Portage la Prairie, that the
names be added, and that it appears in
the minutes that Hinds is flot one of the
five mentioned. 1 arn to]d it vas intended
to place 'him there.

Hon. Mr. -WATSON--He is engaged this
session as a stenographer at $1,000 a year.
H1e vas flot employed on the Ist o! September, and I do flot suppose for a moment
that lie wouid be considered entitled to the
Hon. Mr. WATSON-If tlie bon. gentle- increase.
man will look at the list hie vul -find that
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If he, vas net there
a stenographer was recently appointed at on the
lst September, Mr. Nichl~son vas
$1.000 a year, Mr. Hinds, and hie wvill flot
flot there either.
cc-me under the increase.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-\-Nichiolson does not
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He bas been put
get an increase.
in it.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The hon. member is
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-To shorten it up.
speaking of oniy five and there are six in Is it to appear in the minutes that Hinds
that class, so that Mr. Hinds will not be is net one of the live mentioned in this
counted. There are five without him.
class?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If it appears in
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I think vie sliould
the minutes that the five excludes Mr. have the names rnentioned. I ask that bis,
Hinds. and includes Mr. Carleton. I bave herqour the Speaker be pleased to give us
ne more to say.
the narnes.
Hon. Mr. YO0UNe,

MAY 19, 1909l
The SPEAKER-The report of the Internai Economy Committee will be found
at page 655 of the minutes and the acheduke
attached to it. In the second division a!
subdivision A we have the law grIerk. Then
there are «five names in the aeçond subCaron,
Choquette.
Garneau,
division,
O'Neil, Hinds-his narne is here, but I
understood it was to be Mr. Carleton. In
the first division of subdivision B there
are four, Messrs. Chambers, Young, Gibbs
and Lelievre. In the second division, subdivision A, Mr. Lemoine. Mr. Soutter goes
by the resolution of the Senate into a class
which gives him an increase, up to $2,400,
at the rate of $50 a year.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is he include-i
in the three?

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If the report of the
clerk were put in writing, it would be
more convenient to consider it now anddeal with it.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn quite satisfied .if the clerk has taken down the
names mentioned by his honour the Speaker, and if those names are attached as a
achedule to the report, it would be quite
satisfactory.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Third division subdivision (a). There is one inerease to a
messenger.
The SPEAKER-Dallaire was appointed
at $700.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-He is not in that
clas at ail. He cornes in the next class.
Hon. Mr. POWER-No.
The names in that class are Ralph. La.Rose, Ashe and Wood.
The SPEAKER-The three names are,
SubLemoine, Bouchard and Chaprnan.
INSURANCE BILL.
division B, Garneau, Choquette, Caron.
ORDER POSTPONED.
O'Neil and Carleton. Hinds does not corne
within the subdivision.
The order of the day being calIed:
May 16-second reading (Bill
inove that the respee'ting Insurance-Et. Hon. 27) Au Act
Hon<. Mr. LOUGHEED-I
Sir Richard
report be amended by attaching the nanies Cartwright.
as read by his honour the Speaker. Then
Hon. Mr. LAINDRY-I would ask the
no misunderatanding can arise.
leader of the House if this Bill ia printed
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think the Speaker in French? I have looked for it sand canmight read the third division, subdivision flot find a French copy.
(a). There are other officers to be conHon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-It is not printed
sidered besides the housekeeper. We want in French.
to see how the employees in that subdiHon. Mr. LANDRY-Then I object tg
vision fane.
proceeding with the Bill.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will his honour
The order was postponed.
be good enough to mention the names
messenger--oily one
under the division of
INCORPORATION 0F RAILWAY OOMname?
PANIES BILL.
POWER-That is Dallaire.
Hon. M-Nr.
ORDER I'OSTPONED.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I suggest that we
The order of the day being cailed:
suspend this order until the report of the
Resuming, the adjourned debate on the
motion for the second reading (Bill QQ) An
Clerk of the House is made.
Act to provide for the incorporation of RailHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Do I understand way Companies.-Hon. Mr. Davia.
the motion haa been carried, that the names
Hon. Mr. LANDRYý (in the absence of
mentioned by his honour the Speaker be Hon. Mr. Davis) moved that the order be
appended to the report?
discharged and placed o'n the orders of the
the motion day for Saturday next.
The SPEAKER-I undenstood
to be carried.

The motion was a.creed to.

SENATE

The House was adjourned during pleasure
After some tirne the Ha-use resumèd.
THE SUPPLY BILL.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
A message was received frorn the House
of Commons with Bill (No. 195) An Act for
granting ta Hie Majesty certain sums of
money for the public service for the financial years ending respectively the 31st of
March, 1909, and 3Ist of March, 1910.

uttended by a doctor in Montreal; confined
to my bed, ordered not to corne up here,
and I memorialized the governrnent, but
they turned me down. Now they are paying others. I amn no better paid than other
lion. gentlemàn, and if they can pay. othera
they can Ifay me.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The hon. gentleman
is quite right, and if he has suffered a compound fracture of the leg and was thereby
unable to attend parliament he should be
paid his indemnity with compound interest.

Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I assure hon.
gentlemen I arn not joking, and I cali the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT attention of the leader of the House to it.
moved the second reading of the Bill.
1 do not mean to say that the matter has
1been overloaked purposely, but it might be
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I hope the hon. genconsidered. Nothing can be done this sestleman will give a littie explanation. We
sion, but it-could be arranged next session.
want ta, know how many millions we are
I wish ta place the fact on record.
going ta swallow before lunch.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTfact that my hon.
$38,853,555.72 for the purposes herein re- Bearing in mind the
friend met with this accident, as I underferred ta.
stand, whi'e he was actually on hie way
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Will frorn hie own residence ta Ottawa, I arn
the hon. gentleman explain what the 72 bound ta say the case is one calling for
cansideratian. I cannot do anything with
cents is for?
it this session, but I shall cali the attenHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I tion of the minister te the fact, and what
sho.uhd be inchined ta, think it was for the he has done this year certainly appears to
purpose o! supplernenting the senatorial caver rny hon. friend's case. I do not think
indemnity; but I will look further.
there is any member of this House in the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I hope same, position. Certainly noa other member
that I have -heard of has broken a lez.
it will be equally divýided.
The Bill was read a first time.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThere are certain provisions for indemnity
ta senatars who, througah absence caused
by illness or public business, have been
unable ta attend, ta make good the full
sessional indemnity. I mention the case
of aur esteemed and han. friend Dr. Sullivan.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Has the goverfiment given consideration ta the dlaimn of
my hon. friend?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis item refers ta cases during the present
session, and is confined strictly ta this year.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Or has any reason been stated why rny hon. friend's dlaim
Hou. Mr. DOMVILLE-I did hope ny- should not be considered?
hon. friend was going ta caîl attention ta
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
the fact that the Bihl is not printed in
French in order that I might have an op- do flot think so.
portunity ta, have -it amended. I see they
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It was called attenare paying senators who have been absent tion ta last year.
this session through ilîness or whatever
it may be. I came ail the way from En.-- Han. Mr. DOMVILLE-Yes, and I rnemland ta attend parliarnent hast session, and oriahized Couneil, and they would not pay
broke my leg, a comnpound fracture; I was me.
Hmn. Mr. LANDRY.

MAY 19, 1909

699

the following Bis were assented to, in His
Majesty's naine, by His Excel]ency the
Governor General, viz.An Act te incorporate the Canadian. Liver-.
pool and Western Railway Company.
An Ae~t respecting'the Niagara-Welland
Power Company.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-An Act respecting the Tilsonburg, Lake
Erie and Pacifio Railway Company.
Yes.
An Act to incorporate the British Colonial
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill Pire Insurance Company. of Victor
An Act fer the relief
Eccles
was read the second and third time and Blaokhall.
An Act for the relief of Annie Loulea Coltpassed.
man.
An Act respecting the, Ottawa Pire Insuranc. Company, and to change its name to
CIVIL SERVICE CLASSIFICATION.
Ottawa Assurance Company.
An
The SPEAKER-I beg to lay on the table Bank. Adt respecting the Anglo-Canadian
a list of the names asked for of those who
An .Act to incorporate the London and
are receîving the increase pursuant to the Lancashire Plate Glass and Indemnity Comnpany of Canada.
report which. was presented.
An Act respecting the. Subsidy fromn the
Ontario Government to the Lake Supenior
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I move that this Branch of the. Grand Trunk Pacifio Railway.
An Act to prevent the. payaient or acceptîist be attached to the schedule.
anc. of illicit or secret commissions, and
Hon. Mr. POWER-I was going to ask other like practices.porate the Victoria and
An Act to incor
how it is that the increase given to the Barkley Sound Railway Comnpany.
An Act
incerporate the. Prince Albert
sergeant-at-arms is only $58.38, while ail and Hudsont0 Bay Railway Companv.
the other officers receive $87.50?
An Act to incorporate the. Fort Erie anîd
Buffalo Bridge Company.
The CLERK 0F THE HOUSE-He has
An Act respecting a patent of Thomas L.
Smith.
$2,000 now, and his maximum is $2,100.
An Act reepecting the Cedar Rapids Mn.nufacturing and Power Company.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I understand from
An Act fer the relief of Isaso Moore.
An Act for the. relief of Charles Bowerbank
the clerk that the sergeant-at-arms can
only receive $100 increase for the whole Lowndes. for the, relief of Mildred Gwendolyn
An Act
year. That would bring hlm up to the Platt Patterson.
An Act for the. relief of Frank Parsons.
maximum of the class.
An Act foi the. relief of Evelyn Martha
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I hope so, because Keller.Act to incorporate the Canadi6n MediAil
we have a right to amend it next year and cal Association.
An Act reepecting tiie Joliette and Lake
give the proper classification.
Manuan Colonlization Railway Company.
An Act for the. relief of John Grant Ridout.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-This $87.50 is only
An Act te incorporat, the. Kootenay anid
from the lst September to the 3ist March, Alberta Railway Company.
An Adt respecting certain letters patent of
a portion of the year.
Franklin Montgomery Gray.
A&n Act respecting the. Quinze and Blanchie
The report with the schedule was adopted.
River Railway Company.
An
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock. Lake Act respecting the. Windsor, Essex and
Shore Rapid Railway Company.
An Act respecting the. Cobalt Range Railway Comnpany.
THE PROROGATION.
An Act resp.cting the. Canadian Nortiierri
Ontario Railway Company.
OTTAWA, Wednesday, May 19, 1909.
An Act respecting thi, Kettie River Valley
This day at 3.30 o'clock P.M., His Excel- Railway Company.
lency the Governor General proceeded inx An Act respecting the. British Columbia
Southern Railway Company.
state to the Senate Chamber, in the ParliaAn Act te create a D.partment cf Externat
ment Buildings,-and took his seat upon the Af airs.
An Act r.specting
Throne. The Members of the Senate beig Railway Company. the, Athabska Nortiieru
assembled, His Excellency was pleased to
An Act respecting tii. Canadian Nortliern
command the attendance of the House of Quebec Railway Company.
An Act respecting
Commons, and that House being present, anmd Western Bailway the. Ottawa, Northern
Company.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL- Did I
understand the hon. minister to say that
there was an item in the supplementary
estimates for the senators who have not
l
attended this session?

700

-An

SENATE

An Act te incorporate 'La Compagnie du
Chemin de fer International de Rimouski.'
An Act to incorporate the Great West Permanent Loan Company.
An Act respecting the Ontario, Hudson
Bay and Western Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Algoma Central and
Hudson Bay Railway Company.
An At -respecting certain Letters Patent of
the American Bar Loek Company.
An Act respecting the Manitoba Radial
Railwey Company.
An Ac.t respecting the Quebec Oriental
Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Grand Trunk Pacifie
Branch Lines Company.
An Act te incorporate the Commercial
C&6ualty and Surety Company cf Canada.
An Act te incorporate the London and North
Western Railway Company.
An Act te incorporate the Arnprior and
Pontiao Railway Comnpany.
An Act te incorporate, the Cabanc, Railway
Company.
Am Act te amend the Canada Shipping Act.
An Act te amend the Act relating to Ocean
Steamship Subsidres.
An Act respecting the National Transcontinental Railway.
An Act to amend the Yukon Act.
Act te incorporate The Governing Council of the Salvation Army in Canada.
An Act fer the relief of Hannah Ella Tomkins.
An Act for the relief of John Denison
Smith.
An Act te incorporate the Superior and
Western Ontario Railway Coinpany.
An Act respecting the Kootenay and Arrowhead Railway Company.
An Act te amend the Extradition Act.
An Act te ainend the Customns Tariff, 1907.
An Act te incorperate the Canadian Red
Cross Society.
An Act respecting the Manitoba and Northwestern Railway Company of Canada.
An Act respecting a patent -of the Subin arlue Company.
An Act te authorize a bean te the Grand
Trunk Pacifie Railway Company.
An Act te incorporate the Prudential Trust
Comipany, Limited.
An Act respecting the Canada Life Assurance Company.
An Act reepecting the Thessalon and Northern Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Bank cf Winnipeg.
An Act respecting the Royal Victoria Life
Insurance Comnpany, and to change its naine
te the Royal Victoria Life Insurance Cenmpany of Canada.
An Act respecting the Patents of Washingten Mo-Cloy.
An Act for the relief of Fleetwood Howard
Ward.
An Act for the relief of Aarc-h William
Morley Campbell.
Anl Act for the relief of John C. Cowan.
An Adt for the relief of Lanra McQueid.
An Act respecting Mexican Transportation
Company, Limited, and te change its naine te
Mexico Northwostern Rai]way Company.

An Act respecting the Quebec and New
Brunswick Railway Company.
An Act reepecting the Brockville, Westport
and Northwestern Railway Company.
j&n Act for the relief of John Wake.
An Act respecting the Monarch Fire Insurance Company.
An Act te inoorporate the Ontario nnd
Michigan Power Company.
An Act te amend the Post Office Act.
An Act to amend the Civil Service Act.
An Act te establish a Commission for the
Conservation of Natural Resources.
An Act te ineprte
The Prairie Provinces Trust Comn.ry.
An Act te incorporate the Equity Fire lusuranee Company of Canada.
An Act respecting the Central Railway
Comnpany of Canada.
An Act te incorporate The Board of Eider a
of the Canadian District of the Moravian
Church of America.
An Act te inoorporate the Catholic Church
Extension Society cf Canada.
An Act respecting Agricultural Fertilitera.
An Act respecting Commercial Feeing
Stuffs.
An Act te incorporate the British Canadian Accident Insurance Company.
An Act respecting the Prudential Lue, lnsurance Company of Canada, and te change
its naine te The Security Life Insurance Coinpany -of Canada.
An Act further te amend chapter 92 of the
Statutes of 1901, respecting the Canadian
Patriotie Fund Association.
An Act te amend the Govemnwnt Annuities Act, 1906.
An Act te incorporate the St. Maurice and
Eastern Railway Company.
An Act te amend the Governinent Ilarbours and Piers Act.
An Act respecting the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal.
An Act te amiend the Cold Sterage Act.
An Act respecting-, the Fidelity Lif e Insurance Coinpany of Canada.
An Act te incorporate Commerce Insurance Company.
An Act respecting the National Accident
and Guarantee Company of Canada.
An Act te arnend the Intercebonial and
Prince Edward Island Railways Employee-s'
Provident Fund Act.
An Act te amend the Navigable Waters
Protection Act.
An Act respecting the Montreal Bridge and
Terminal Company, and te change its naine
te 'The Montreal Central Terminal Coinpany.'
An Act respecting the Departinent cf Labeur.
An Act te amend the Exche<quer Court Act.
An Act te correct a clerical errer in chapter
63 of thse Statutes of i908, respeoting railway
subsidies.
An Act respecting certain aid for the extension cf the Canadian Northern Railway.
An Act te provide, for further advances to
the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal.
An Act te authorize the raising, by way of
boan, of certain qums cf meney for the publie
service.

MAY 19, 1909

An Act to amend the Judges' Act.
An Act for the relief cf Annie Bowden.
An Act to amend the Railway Act.
An Act te authorize certain increaees of
aalary te membors of the Civil Service. Inside Service.
An Act ta amend the Criminal Code.
To these Bills the Royal Assent vas pronounced by the Clerk cf the Senate in the
following wordsIn RIs Majesty's namne, His Excellency the
Governor General doth assent ta these Bills.
Then the Honourable the Speaker of the
House 61 Commons addressed Ris Excellency the Governor General, as follows:
May it please Your Excellency:
The Commens of Canada have voted the
Supplies required to enable the gvernment
to defray the expenses cf the public service.
In the naine cf the Commons, I present to
Your Excellency the following Bill:
An Act for granting ta Ris Majesty certain
sums of money fer the pub lic service of the
financial years ending respectively the Slst
March, 1909, and the 3lst March, 1910.
te which Bill I humbly request Your Excellency's assent.
To this Bill the Clerk cf the Senate, by
Ris Excellency's command, did thereupon
gay
In Ris Majesty's naine, His Excellency the
Governor General thanks Ris Loyal Subjects,
accepts their benevoience, and assents ta this
Bill.
Atter 'which Ris Excellency the Governor
General was pleased to close the First Session cf the Eleventh Parliament of the Do-.
minion with the following
-

SPEECH:

Honourohie Gentlemen of the Senate:
Gentlemen of the House of Commons:
In relieving you from further attendance
on this session, 1 thank you for the assiduity and diligence which you have given to
the discharge of the duties exitrusted ta yeur
cars, and it must be a source cf satisfaction
to yourselves that you have been able to perform your labours in a comparatively brief
space of time.
I amn pleased to notice that your attention has been engaged in some measures cf
great importance.
In the first rank of such measures je ta be
noted the amendmeut of the Railway Act,
under which by the joint action cf the national government, provincial and municipal
authorities, tegether with the railway coinpallies, level railway crossiugs are te be graduahly removed, and a constant menace te
life and property thereby effectually done
awav with.

701

The lean of ten million dollars to the Grand
Trunk Paciflo Railway Company, will no doubt
ensure the completion, during the coming meason, of the prairie section of the National
Transcontinental Railway, and will secure to
the fast developing western provinces for this
year's crop, a new and competitive outiet towards the sea.
The Act bo place the Department cf Labour,
which. has been in existence fer eme yeare.
under the direct responsibility of a minister
of the Crown,. exclusively entrustedl with its
management, is in accordance with the oftexpressed wishes of labour organizations, and
is a further atep in a field of legisiation
wherein Canada has already taken a not unimportant place.
The Act charging the Seoretary of State
with special reeponsibility in regard ta the
-External Affaire of Canada wili facilitate the
transaction of business in connection witli
that m'ost important branch of the public service.
The resolution adopted by the Hlouse of
Commons for the organization cf a Canadian
naval service, in co-operation with and in
close relation ta the imperial navy, is a proper acknowledgment cf the duties now appertaining ta Canada s a nation, and as a
member of the British empire.
The financial conditions throughoiit the
world aeem ta bo more hopeful than they
were four months agio when I opened this
session, and whîlst in Canada vo have undoubtedly suffered le"s than other countries
during this period of universal depression,
it yull euhil be the part of prudence ta exeraise care and eoonomy in aIl branches of the
service.
Gentlemen of the Ho use of Gommons:
I thank you for the provisions which you
have made for the public service.
lHonourable Gentlemen of the Senate:
Gentlemen of the Hozue of Gommons:
1 sincerely hope and pray that Almighty
God will continue ta pour His blessings upon
our country and let us now offer HM the
fervent expression of our gratitude for the
signal favcurs which wo have received from
Him.
The Speaker cf the Senate then said
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate:
Gentlemen of the House cf Commons:
It je His Excellency the Governor General's
will and pleasure, that this parliament be
prorogued until Monday, the 28th day of June
next, to be here holden. and this parliament
ig accordingly prorogued until the 2Sth day
cf June next.

INDEX
PART 1

-

SENATOlIS

The follawing ab)breviations are used: lit R., 2nd R., 3rd R., lst, 2nd and 3rd Readings; *, without
remark or debate; Aes., Accaunts; Adjn., Âdjourned ; Âmt., Amendment; Amts., Amendmenta; B.,
Bml; B.C., British Calumbia; Can., Canada or Canadian; Coin., Com2ittee; Ca., Company ; Consdn.,
Cansideration; Cor,, Correspondence; Dept., Departmnent ; Govt., Governinent; His Ex., His Exoellency
the Governar General ; H. af C., Hause af Gommons; Incarp., Incorpora1.ion; Inq., Inquiry: Man.,
Manitoba; Me-s. Message; M., Motion; ma.,
moved; N.B., Newv Brunswick; N.W.T., North West Territories; NX.z., 1ýova Scatia; Ont., Ontario; Parlt., Parliament; P.E.I., Prince Edward Island; P. O.,
Post Office; Ques., Question:- R.A., Royal Assent; Remn., Remarks ; REp., Reported; Ret., Retwined;
Ry., Railway ; Sel., Select; Gm hn.,6 menthe hoist; Witbdn., Witbdrawn.

BEIQUE, Hon. F. L.-Con.
B3AIRD, Hon. G. T.
Nicholson, Âppointment af Mr. Byron; rein.,
Ocean Stenmship Subsidies Act Aint. B.
245.
(146): B. rep. iroin Coin., 462.
Railway Act Aint. B. (106>: in Coin., on cl.
Ontaria Michigan Power Go. B. (34). on aint.
13, rein., 621; on 3rd R., rein., 653.
(Sir M. Bawell) ta Srd R., remn., M05.
Railway Act Aint. B. (C): on 2nd R., rein.,
BAKER, Han. G. B.
139.
Agricultural Fertilizers B. (110): B. rep.
Railway Act Ait. B. (6): an 2nd R., rein.,
froin Coin., 513.
75; M. ta cancur, 289; rein., 295; M. agreed
ta, 826; M. Srd R., 327.
J3EIQUE, Hon. F_ L.
Reforin ai the Senate: an M. (Mr. Scott),
Bills ai Exchange Cheques and Promissory
rein., 638.
Notes Act Aint. B. (G): a.n 2nd R., remn.,
Rules ai the Senate, Suspension ai: M., 337.
237.
Secret Commissions B. (31): in Coin., aint.,
Canada Life Insurance Co. B. (56):- on Srd
231.
R., on pt. af order (Mr. Landry), remn.,
Senate Ernpioyees, -Classification ai: an re560.
port, ait.
ta aint., 540.
Central Ry. of Canada B. <Y): M. ta concur
Subinarine Ca. Patent B. (77): an 3rd R.,
in nits., 346.
rein., 569.
Cammittee of Selection: on M. (Mr. ChoTilsonburg, Lake Eris and Pacific Ry. Go.
quette), rein., 5.
B. (41):-on 3rd R., M. ta refer back, 191.
Debates and Reporting Committee: an reToronto-Niagara and Western Ry. Go. B.
port, rein., 630.
(42>: Int., 109; 2nd R.0, 151; 3rd R.0, 198.
Divorce Courts for Canada: on M. (Mr.
BELCOURT, Hon. N. A.
Ross, Halifax), rein., 485.
Exclhequer Court Act Aint. B. (98):- on aint.
Cedar Rapids Manufactu ring and Power Co.
('%r. Chaquette) ta Srd R., rem., 497.
B. (94). Int., 287; 2nd R.*, 331; 3rd R.*,
Exciiequer Court Act Aint. B. (151>: on 2nd
352.
R.. rein., 641.
Cobalt Range Ry. Ca. B. (86): Int., 3SU; 2nd
Fundy Power Ca. B. (XX): on M. 2nd R.,
R.', 344; 3rd R.', 386.
rein., 424.
Commerce Insurance Ca. B. (ZZ) - Int., 386;
Great West Permanent Loan Ca. B. (40):
2nd R.', 405; 3rd R.', 502.
Exchequer Court Act Aint. B. (98): on 2nd
Aint. ta 3rd R., 277.
Library Employees, Classification ai: on M.
R., rein., 440; on 3rd R., M. in aint., 498;
ta concur in 'Mess. from Cammons, rein.,
on pt. ai or(ler, rein., 614; aint. withdn.,
504.
665.

INDEX
BELCOURT, Hon. N. A.-Con.
Exohequer Court Act Amt. B. (151): on 2nd
R., rem., 639; in Com., rem., 654.
Ottawa Pire Insurance Co. B. <R>: Tnt., 146;
2nd R.0, 167; Srd R.', 334.
Quinze and Blanche River Ry. Co. B. (Q):
Int., 146; Znd R.0, 167; Srd R.0, 275; Commons amts. concurred ini, 382.
Railway Act Amt. B. (C): on 2nd R., rem.,
138.
Senate Employees. Appointment of: rem.,
40; on M. to adopt memo., rem., 48.
Stato Owned Cables: M., 202.

BOWELL, Sir M., K.C.M.G.
Âddroes3, The: on M. ta adopt (Mvr. David),
rem., 18, 30.
Amenican Bar Lock Ca. B. (K): on 2nd R.,
rem., 173; 208.
Canadian Western Ry. Co. B. (11): on 2nd
R., -rom., 61.
Collingwood Southern Ry. Ce. B. (.12): on
2nd R.. rem., 64.
Committee of Solection: on M. (M'r. Choquotte), rem., 5.
Consèrvation of Natural Resources B. (159):
on 2nd R., rem., 608.
Customs Tariff, 1907, Amt. B. (162): on 2nd
R1., rem., 448.
BOLDUC, Hlon. 1.
Department of External Afiairs B. (90): in
Bis of Exchange, Choques and Promissory
Com., rem., 894.
iJebates and R1eporting Committee: on Amt.
Notes Act Amt. B. (G): on 2nd R., rem.,
ta repart, rem., 313.
235.
Exchequer Court Act Amt. B. (98): on 3rd
Canada Life Insurance Co. B. (56): Amt. ta
R., on pt. of order, rem., 615.
2nd R., 551; Aint. lost, 558.
Intercolonial Ry.: M., 183; rom., 186.
Deceased Senators: rem., 42.
Labour Departuient B. (165): on 2nd R..
BOUCHERVILLE, Hon, C. E. de, C.M.G.
remu., 660.
Loan B. (191): on 2nd R., remu., 691.
Blackhall Divorce B. (U): on 3rd R., rem.,
London sud Northwostern Ry. Ca. B. <102):
266.
en 2nd R., rem., 34, 377.
Navigable Waters Protection Act Asut. B.
BOSTOCK, Hlon. HI.
1(152): in Com., rem., 609.
Bank of Vancouver B. (52): Int., 150; 2nd
Newfoundland, Negotiations with: M., 383;
R.0, 167; Srd R.0, 213.
remu., 510.
British Columbia Southern Ry. Co. B. (85):
Nicholsin, Appointment of Mr. Byron,
lnt., SM3; 2nd R.*, 344; 3rd R.6, 402.
rem., 241, 245, 272.
Burrard Westminster Boundary Ry. and
Nova Sootis., Vacancies in representation
Navigation Co. B. (61). Tnt., 176; 2nd R'
of: inq., 610.
Ontario Michigan Power Ca. B. (34): on M.
213; 3rd R.6, 255.
ta suspend mIles, rem., 508; on 2nd R..
Canadian Patriotic Fund Association B.
rom., 546, 548; on -amt. to M. Srd -R., rem..
"(VV): B. rep. from Com., 406.
584; M. in amt., 594; remu., 601.
Catholic Church Extension Society B. (YY):
ýPost Office Act Asut. B. (19). on 2nd R..
Tnt.. 386; 2nd R.', 411; Srd R.', 458.
rem., 68.
Chief Justice of Supreme Court of British
Privilege, Questions of:- resu., 103, 191.
Columbia. M., 147.
Public Health and Inspection of Fooda
Commercial Feoding Stufi s B. (127): B. rep.
Cosu.: on report. remu., 282.
from Com., 513.
Royal Guardians B. (95): on MI. ta concur,
Exchequer Court Act Amt. B. (151>: in Com.,
rem., 579.
rem., 653.
Railwav Act Amt. B. (106): in 0Cm., on el.
Kootenay. and Arrowhead Ry. Co. B. (80):
13. rem., 620.
Tnt., 305; 2nd R.', 332; 3rd R.'. 894.
Railway Act Asut. B. (6): in Cosu., rem.,
Submarino Co. Patent B. (77) - on 3rd R.,
294.
rem., 569.
Ridant Divorce LB. (W): on 2nd R., remu.,
Vancouver, Westminster and Yukon Ry. Ca.
970.
B. (58): Tnt., 146; 2nd R.', 159; 3rd R.*,
Secret Commissions B. (31): in Com., rem..
198.
156, 230.
Water Carniage of Goods B. (A): B. rep.
ýSonate Employees, Classi:fication of: rem.,
from Com., 83.
285, 527.
Western Canadian Lif e Assurance Ca. B.
T. L. Smith Patent B. <71): on 2nd R..
(37): Int., 175; 2nd R.', 212; 3rd R.', 275.
rem., 256.

INDEX

CARTWRIGHT, Rt. Hon. Sir Richard-Con.
Civil Service, Increase of Salary B. <187):
Int., 671; 2nd R., 686; 3rd R., 690.
Civil Servants, Classification of: M. to con.
CAMPBELL, Hon. A.
cur in mess. of Commons, 512.
Civil Service Act Aint. B. (137): Int., 511;
Ainerican Bar Loch Co. B. (K): lut., 146; M.
2nd R., 3rd R.', 607.
211d ýR.; 173, 208; aints. of Coin. concurred
Cold Storage Act Aint. B. (147): lut., 626;
in, 271: 3rd -R.0, 288.
2nd R.*, 3rd R.', 639.
Blackhall Divorce B. 4U). Mf. Srd R., 261.
Commercial Feeding Stuifs B. (127): luIt.,
Powden Dlivorce B. (GGG): lut., 2nd R.',
418; 2nd R., 442; 3rd R.', 513.
3rd R.', 609.
Conservation of Natural Resources B. (159):Coltman Divorce B. (V): lnt., 200; 9,nd R.0,
Int., 511; M. 2nd R., 607; 3rd R.', 609.
239: M. 3rd. R., 266.
Criminel Code Act Aint. B. (148): Iut., 671;
Conservation of Natural liesources B3. (.159):
2nd-R., 675; 3rd 1.', 686.
B. iep. from Coin., 609.
Criminel Ccde Act Aint. B. ý(148): B. rep.
Customs Tariff, 1907 Aint. B. (162): Tnt., 418;
from Coin., 686.
M. 2nd R., 448; 3rd R.', 502.
London and Northwestern Ry. Co. B. (102):
Dacaased Senators: rein., 41.
on 2nd R., rem., 378.
Delayed Reports: reply to inq., 102.
Montreal Br'dge and Terminal Coi B. (TT):
Departmant of External Affairs B..(9)
on Mess. fîorn H. of CJ., M., 666, 670.
lut., 337; M. 2nd R., 356; in Coin., rem.,
Moore DivorceL B. <M:Int., 352; 2nd R.'.
396; M. 3rd R., 403.
3rd R.', 335.
Dominion Lands Act Aint. B. (8): Int., 49;
T. L. Sm.tli Patent B. (71): on 2nd R.,
2nd R., 82; in Coin., rein., 142; 03rd R.', 173.
rem., 256.
Exohequer Court Act Aint. B. (98). lut.,
Submarine Co. Patent -B. (77)- on 2nd R.,
418; M. 2nd R., 439; M. 3rd R., 494; en
rem., 414; on 3rd R., rem., 570.
amt. (Mr. Belcourt), rein., 664.
Water Carrnage of Gocds B. <A>,: lut., 33;
Exchequer Court Act Aint. B. (151) : Int.,
on M. 2nd R., remn., 46; 2nd R.0, 51; 3râ
626; M. 2nd R., 639; in Coin., rem., 654.
R.', 106.
Extradition Act Aint. B. (149): lut., 418; M.
2nd R., 445; 3rd R.', 502.
CARTWRIGHT, lEt. Hlon. Sir R., G.C.M.G.
Fundy Powar Co. B. (XX). on M. 2nd R.,
Accidents'at Railway Crossings. reply ta,
rein., 407; 4-94.
inq,. 45.
Governinent Annuities .Act, 1908 Amt. B.
Address, The: on M. (Mn. David) to adopt,
(B): Int., 33; M. 2nd R., 51; rem., 54; in
rem., 18, 19.
Comn., remn., 111; 114; 3rd R.', 114.
Agricultural Fertilizers B. (110): lnt., 418;
Goverumant Harbours and Piars Let Aint.
2nd R., 441; 3rd R.', 513.
B. (89): luIt., 493; M. 2nd R., 574; in Coin.,
Animal Contagions~ Diseases Act AMut. B.
3rd R.*, 628.
(18): lut., 49; M. 2nd R., 66; 3rd R.', 132.
Govarumeut Railways Act Aint. B. (20):
Brazilian. Electro Co. B. (10): an 2nd R.,
Iut., 49; 2nd R., 106; in Coin., rem., 144;
rein., 152.
3rd R.w, 151.
Canada Shipping Act Ait. B. (131): lut.,
Grand Trunk Pacifie, A loan to: reply to
418; 2nd R., 443; B. rap. froin Coin., 462;
inq., 109.
Srd R.', 467.
Grand Truuk Ry. Ca., Loans to:- raply ta
Canadian Western JRy. Co. B. (l1): on 2nd
ina., 201.
ri., remn., 62.
Grand Trunk Pacifie Ry. Co. Loan B. (128):
Canadian Nonthann Py. Aid B. (186): lnt.,
lut., 438; '-N. 2nd R., 468; 3nd R.', 573.
626; 2nd R., 3rd R.', 673.
Hudson Bay Ry., Construction of: raply to
iuq., 202; 694.
Canadian Patriotic Fund Association B.
Hudson Bay Expedition: raply to ina., 434.
(VV): lut.. 356; 2nd R.', 401; in Coin.,
Ice Breaking at Cap Rouge: reply to, înq.,
405; 3rd R.L¶ 406.
4.
Canadian Seamanship and Navigation: on
Inipanial Conferanca: reply ta ina., 466.
M. (Mn. Rass. Middlesex), rein., 373.
Insuranca Bill: reply ta iuq., 466.
Candiac Post Office: reply to inq., 383.
Insurance B. (97):- Tnt., 639; 'N. 2nd R., 674;
Carrier, Lainé and Co.'s Foundry: reply to
B. dropped. 697.
iq., 383.
45
BOWELL, Hon. Sir Mackenzie.-Con.
Submarine Co. Patent B. (77): on 2nd R.,
rem., 411; o:i 3rd R., rem., 569.

INDEX
CARTWRIGHT, Rt. Hou. Sir Richard-Con.
CARTWRIGHT, Rt. Han. Sir Richard-Con.
Riiwry Adt Aii t. B. (C): ru 211(l R., rein.,
Intercalanial and Prince Edward Island Ry.
138.
Enîployees Pravideut Fund Act Amt. E.
R-.ilw,'y Act Arnt. B. (21): Int., 19; 2tid 't.,
(164): lut., 2ud R.', 3rd R.', 626.
68; iu Coin., iemn., 132, 136; 3rd R.*, 208.
Iutercaloujal Ry.: an M. <Sir M. Bawell),
RiiÀlw-y Act Aint. B. (6): cri 2nd R., rein.,
rem., 184.
78; .&iut. to M. to refera 81.
Intercolonial Ry. Employees in Montreal : reRlviIway Act Ait. B. (106): 2jid R?., 618-. M.
ply ta inq., 57.
;erd R.. C61, M. npr02d taO, 35-3.
Intercolanial Ry. Commîssioners, AppointFailway Bonds lu Alberta, Guaîante of:
ment of: reply to inq., 623.
reply ta inq., 148.
Judges Act Amt. E. (193):. lut., 671; M. 2nd
Rýilway C îtnu)is-icn, liepot of the: reply
R., 692; 3rd R.*, 693.
to inq., 43.
ILailway StatIstics: on M. (Mr. Fergusoan),
Judges, The Status of: reply ta inq., 100.
rem., 50, 56.
Judges af the Supreme Caurt, Precedience of:
R.9ilway -Subsidie'c Statutorv Clerical Error
reply ta inq., 107.
2iid R., 672; 3rd
B. (174): lit., 626; M.%.
Jndges and Civil Servants, Retîrement of:
R.', 6743.
reply ta inq., 253.
Rules of the Senate, Frenich Edition of: reJudicial Appaintments at Quebee: reply ta
ply to inq., 84.
iuq., 4912.
Sauvé, Mir. L. A., Charges against: reply ttu
Labour Depurtient B. (165): Tnt., 626; MN
inq., 490.
2ud P., 655: celn., 663; 3rd R.', 664.
St. .1 eai des ('hajllais. Whiarf at : refflv to
Lake St. Jaliî Calcuizatian Society: reply tan
i.,419, 562.
inq., 149.
St. leawrenle, Rates of Inqur. :nce on the;
Tal.e St. Jolin, Public warlr att reply ta
rein.,. 43.
inq., 149.
ýSecret Comiuiissi'-ns B. (31>: lut., 69; 2:rd
L.ibrary Emplayees, Classificatian of: Il. ta
R., 102; ln Coin., îenu., 156, 230: Scd R.',
caucur iu umess. from Commans, 502.
2-88.
Scugog. Cnt., Construction of dami at: reply
Loaiu E. (191): lut., 671; M. 2nd R., 690;,Brd
ta inq., 287, 337.
R.', 692.
Senate Emplarees, Classification of : on
Mlinerai Righits in the Territaries: an M
Aint. (Mr. Lougheed), rem., 543.
('.%r. ('ameau), rem., 1l&3.
Sonate Mfanual. French Translation af: reThe Steainer: reply ta inq., 43.
' Moutcalm,.'
ply to inq., 338.
Maîitreal Harbour Cc.mmissiouers B. (154):
T. L. Sumith Patent B. (71): ou 2nd R., reiu.,
lut.. 610; 2nd R.', 633; 3rd 1., 633.
259.
"Mantreal Harbour ('ar inissioners further
Standin- .C,,)nii-ittees: M., 1
Ml. 2nd R.,
advances E. (1e-): lut., 626;
Strathoeua Giant: ieply ta inq.. 260, 32%.
673; 3rd R.', 674.
Supply Fill No. 1 <1.17): ist -R.*, Mf. ta susMaoruiuc Sittiugs: If.. b62.
rend ruleq, 2ud R.', 3cd R., 333.
National Tr.ansc ntiuenti1 Ry. B. (5)
Supply -Bll] No. 2 (195): lst R.*, 2nd< R., 698;
lut.. 418; end P., 447; 3rd R.'. 4637.
3rd R.*', 699.
Nvi1 Wat-is Pro4ect'on Art Auît. E.
Transportation Commuission: reply ta inq.,
(152D: lut., 4q3; 2nd R.', 576: 3rd R.'. 610.
492.
N-wfru' dlnd, N1\eotiations with: re!.1I ta
Witerways Ti eity: replu- ta inq., 108.
inq.. 376.
YicLou Act A~nt. B. (1.56): lut., 418; 2ud R.,
Nkva S'otii, Variunes inc rý,p:-esentitiaci
447; Srd R.*. 467.
oe: re-In ta inq., 421. 610.
Yiuk-n O:diina-nce: -M., 457.
Ocen SýtcimFh;p 1Suhsdies Art AMut. B.
(146) : Lnt., 418: M. 2ud F., 443; 3rd R.', (CAiSGRAIN. lion. J. P. B.
Addi-ees, The: on M1. ici adopt (Mr. David'i.
467.
rem., 33.
llo-t Ofn-ce Art Ait. B. (19>): lut., 49: I.
BIk of Exchauge Clieques and Promissnry
12 d R.. 67: e.,101; lu -Cain.. rem., 110;
31rd R.. 150.
Nrtes Art Amt. B. <G): ou 2nd R., cern.,
Pest Office Art Aint. B3. (f136):t lt., 511 ; 2uid
23S.
British Cauadjian Accidenut Insurance Ca.
Public Health and Inspection of Faods
B. (63): Int., 208; 21nd 'P.. '271 ; 3rd R.*,
Co-n.: au repart, rem., 278.
558.

INDEX
CHOQUETTE, Hon. P. A.-Conm.
CASGRAIN\, Hou. J. P. B.-Coir.
Senate Employees, Classification of: on suit.
Excleq.eî Court Act Aint. B. (98): on 2nd
<MNr. Landry>, rein., 531; arat., 544.
R., remn., 440.
M-entreal Terrai:ai Ry. Co. B. (48): Int.,
Strathcona Grant: inq., 260; 326.
2-08; 2nd R., 269; S3rd H.', SM6..
Subsidy for Ry. froni Joncjuière to St. Ai(;.neO; it-Atal Ry. Co. B. (I): 0o1 2nd R.,
phonse. M., 483.
rein., 175.
Ra*lwiiy Adt Aint. B. (6): in Coin., rein., CLORAN, Hon. H. J.
293.
Anglo-Canadian and Continental Bank B.
Fc-ýaI Guardians B. (95): Int., 352; 2nd R.*,
(H). Int., 132; 2nd R.', 159; 3rd R.', 275.
382; on M. to collcur, romn., 576; 3rd R.*,
Blackliall Divorce B. (fl): on 3rd R., remn.,
627.
261.
CHEVRIER, Hon. N.
Coltinan Divorce B. (V): on 3rd IL, rm.,
Bank of Winnipeg B. (Z): Int., 248; 2nd
267.
B?.', 277; 3rd R.*, 352.
Committee of Selection: on M1. to adopt reCanada N\ati;nIi lire Iu,>ur.iî:ce Co,. B.
port, rein., 44.
-(76) : lnt.. 176; 2aîd il', 213; Ird R?.', 275.
Conciliation Act Muit. B. (01): ou 2nd R.,
Gieat W(s!' Pernmanent Lo.li Co L3. (10):
rein ., 1&2.
Int., 175; 2nd R.*, 213; M. Ird R., MI.
Debates and Reporting Coin mittee: on aint.
withdn., B. referred back to Coin., 277;
to report, rem., 312.
Srd R.*, 353.
Divorce Restrictioni B. (T): lut., 158; 2nd
CIIOQUETTE. Hou. P. A.
R. postponed, 22)9; MIN. 2nd E1., 340; B.
Bis of E-xeliange, Cheques and Proinissory
withdni., 343.
Notes Act Ait. B. (G): lut., 108; M. 2nd
Exchequer Court Act .Amt. B. (98): in Coin.,
R., 233.
rem., 460; on 3rd R., reim., 615.
British Colonial Fire Insurance Co. B. (D) ;
Exebequer Court Act Anit. B. (151): on 2nd
lut., 57; '2nd R.0, 102; in Coin., aints. conR., ram., 640, 645.
curred ini, 239; 3rd R.', 255.
Irish Affairs: M., 70; 203.
5.
''omrnittee of Selection: M.,
Railway Act Amt. B. (C) - on 2nd R., rem.,
Criinai Code Act Arat. B. (148>: ini Coin.,
137.
rein., 680.
Railway Act Aint. B. (6): in Coin., rem.,
Excliîequer Court Act Arat. B. (98): in Coin.,
320.
rin., 460; on 3rd R., M. in arat., 495; aint.
Ridout Divorce Case: on report, rein., 131.
withdn., 498; remn., 664.
Senate Employees, Classification of: rein.,
Eischecjuer Court Act Anit. B. (151): on 2nd
538.
Pl., rein., 644; in Coin., auit., 671.
Ice Breaking lit Cal) Rouge: inq., 4.
T. L. Sînith Patent B. (71): on 2nd R., remn.,
958.
Intercolonial Ry.: on M. (Sir M. Boweli),
rein., 188.
Windsor, Essex and Lake. Shore Rapid Ry.
lntercolonial Ry. Emiplo>'ees lit Montreal:
Co. B. (J): on 2nd R., remn., 161.
inq., 57.
Judges Act Ait. B. (193): on 2nd R., rem., COSTIGAN, Hon. J.
ffl3.
Quebec and New Brunswick liv. Co. B. (SS):
Judges anîd Civil Servants, Fetirement of:
Int., 35U; 2nd R.4, 382; Srd R.', 402.
on iîîj.M. Power), rein., 253.
Rules, Penalties for infraction of: rein., 435.
L.ouise Bacin. Quebec, Cost of Construction
nit: M., 611.
COFFEY, Hon. T.
Montcalin,' Tihe Steainer: inq., 43.
Monarch Fire Insurance Co. B. (82): Iut.,
Mont real Bridge and Terminal Co. B. (TT).
352; 2nd R., S82; 3rd R.', 502lut., 3.94; 2îîd B.*, 382.
Prairie Provinces Trust Co. B. (ÂÂ): Int.,
Nicholson, Appointinent of Mr. Byron: rem.,
248; 2nd R.', 277; M1. to collcur in aints.,
353; 3rd R.', 356.
P>ublie %%orks iii Chicoutimi aimd Saguenay:
.N., 190.
leformm of tle Semate: on M. (Mr. Scott) COM.EAU, Hon. A. H.
remn., 638.
Minerai Rights in the Territories: M., 183.

INDEX

DANDURÂND,

Hon. R.

DAVIS, Hon. T. 0.-Con.
Manitoba and Narthwestern Ry. Co. B.
(81): mt. on 3rd R., 386; rem., 393; Aint.
carried, 394, correction ini Aint. agreed ta,
450; on M. nlot to insist on Aints., rein.,
514.
Ry. Cos. Incorporation B. (QQ):. Iut., 337;
M. 2nd R., 450, 516; Debate adjn., 519.
Tilsonburg, Lake Erie and Pacifie Ry. Co.
B. (41): ou Aint. to 3rd R., rein., 192.

Âddress, The: on M. (Mr~. David), rein., 32.
Bis of Exchange, Cheques and Promissory
Notes Akct Aint. B. <G): on 2nd R., rem.,
238.
Collingwood Southern Ry Co. B. <12): on
2nd R., rem., 63.
Departinent of External Affairs B. (1)0): iii
Coin., rem., 399.
Dominion Lands Act Aint. B. (8): in Coin.,
DERBYSHIRE, Hlon. D.
rein., 142.
Address, The: secanded, S.
Court Act Anit. B. (151): on
Exchequer
Brockville, WVestport and Northwesteru Ry.
2nd R., rein., 647.
Co. B. (RRt): Int., 352; gnd R.*, 382; Ilr
Goveriument Railways Act Amnt. B. <20): ini
R.*, 40-2.
Coin., rein., 145.
Ottawa Northern and Western Ry. Co. B.
Labour Department B. (165): on 2nd R.,
(49): lut., 175; 2nd R.', 213; 3rd R.*, 327.
remn., 65U.
Parsons Divorce B. (FF). Init., 274; 2ud R.',
Lancester Bill: rein., 157.
316; 3rd R.*, 327.
Ministerial repre;sentation iii the Senate:
rein., 168.
Prudential Life Insurauce Co. B. (UU):
N.ieholson., Appointient of Mr. Byron:
lut., 354; 2nd R.4, 38'2; 3rd R.', 502.
rei., 243.
DE VEBER, Hon. L. G.
Ontario Michigan Power Co. B3. (.31): en 211d
Alsek and Yukon Iiy. Co. B. (67): lut., 228;
R3., rein., 54G.
2nd R.'. 259; Srd R.*, 306.
Post Office Act Ait. B. (19): in Coni., remn.,
Athabaska Northern Ry. Co. B. (84): Iut.,
333; 2nd B.*. 382; 3rd .*, 407.
Railway Act Amt. B. (6): on 2r.d R. rein.,
Crawford Bay and St. Mary's Ry. Co. B.
80; in Coin., rein., 323.
(46): Int., 84; 2nd R.*, 141; 3rd R.', 160.
1<ailwa7 Act AMut. B. (106): lut., 55S.
Rules, Penaltips for infraction of. rein., 4.36.
Kootenay and Alberta Ry. Co. B. (P): Int.,
Rules of the Senate, Suspension of: M., 623.
146;- 2nd R.', 167; anats. of Coin. concurred
SEnate Employees, Appointinent of: on MIN.
in, 316; 3rd H.', 327.
to adopt meino., rem., 47.
Moravian Church in Ainerica B. (BB): lut.,
Senate Emplovees, Classification of: remn.,
248; 2nd R.*, 316; 3rd R.', 402.
285, 531.
Public Health and Inspection of Foods Coin.:
Tilsonburg, Lake Erie and Pacific lly. Co.
M. to adopt report, 277; 634.
B. (41): on Aint. to 3rd U., rein., 192.
DOMVIILLE, Hon. J.
Aluminuin, Imports and Exports of: M., 69.
DAVID, Hau. L. 0.
Canadian Seamanship and Navigation: on
Address, The: M. to adopt, 5.
M. (Mr. Ross, Middlesex), rein., 372.
Conciliation Act Aint. B. (M): on 2nd R.,
Fort Erie and Buffalo Bridge Co. B. (69):
rein., 162.
lut., 284; 2nd R.4, 316; Srd R.', 334.
Fundy Power Co. B. (XX) i on M. Znd R.,
Minerai Resources of Canada: M., 149, 354,
rein., 427.
Railway Act Aint. B. '(6): in Coin., rein.,
Salisbury and Albert Ry. Co. B. (35): lut.,
32-5.
69; 2nd R., 136; 3rd R.', 160.
Reforîn ef the Senate: on M. (Mr. Scott),
DOUGLAS, Hou. J. M.
M. in Aint., 348.
Manitoba and Northwestern 11v. Co. B. (81.):
Rloyal Victoria Life Insurance Co. B. (PP):
on amt. ta 3rd R., remn., 390.
lut., 337; 2nd R., 361; Aints. concurred in,
415; 3rd R.0, 422.
EDWARDS, Hon. W. C.
Senate Einplo.vees, Classification of: rein.,
Central Ry. of Canada B. (Y>: Aint. to refer
538.
B. back to Coin., 346; nnt. adopted, 347.
DAVIS, Hon. T. 0.
Committee of Setection: on M. ta adopt report, rein., 44,

Fundy
rein.,
Reform
rein.,

Power Co. B. (XX): on M. 2nd R.,
426.
of the Senate: on M. (Mr. Scott),
430.

INDEX
ELLIS, Hon. J. V.
Atcidents at i1ailway Crossings: inq., 4,5.
Animal Contagious Diseases Act Aint. B.
(18): B. rep. froin Coin., 109.
Canadian Seainanship and Navigat;on:
M
M. (Mr. Ross, Middlesex), rein., 373.
Commercial Casualty and Surety Co. B.
(51): Int., 175; 2nd R.', 268; 3rd 1B.*. 402.
Conciliation -4et Am.!. e'.. (M): on 2ud IL,
rein., 164.
Debates and Reporting Comrnitte3: M. t0
adopt report, 306, 629, 672.
Divorce Courts for Canada; on NI. (Mr.
Ross, Halifax), rein., 484.
Governinent ltailways Act Aint. B. (20): in
Coin., rein., 146.
Post Office Act Aint. B. (19): B. rep. f roui
Coin., 111.
Railway Act Aint. B. (6): Int., 49; M. 2nd
R., 70; rein., 80; M. to refer, 81; M. in
tint., 317.

Railway Act Aint. B. (21): B. rep. froin
Coin., 200.
Railway Act Aint. B. (106):- in Coin., on cl.
13, rein., 621.
Reforin oi the Senate: on M, (Mr. Scott),
tint. t0 tint., 635.

JFERGUSON,

Hon. D.-Co,î.

ILibrary

of Parliament: on report, rein., 331.
and Northwestern Ry. Co. B. (10P2>:
on 2nd IR., rein., 379..
Ministerial Representation in the Senate:
rein., 168.
Minerai Rights in the Territories: on M.
(Mr. Comeau>, rein., 183.
Printing of Parliament, Com. on the: un report rem., 334.
Public Hlealth and Inspection of Foods Coin.:
on report, rein., 279.
Railway Act Aint. B. (6): on 2nd R., remn.,
73; ini Com., 81, 290, 3W0.
Railway Act Aint. B. (21>:- in Coin., rein.,
134, 199.
Railway Commiission, Report of the. inq.,
43.
Railway Statistics: M., 50; rem., 51, 56.
Ridout Divorce B. (W): on 2nd R., remn.,
270.
St. Lawrence, Rates of Insurance on the:
remn., 43.
Secret Commissions B. (31): in Coin., on
tint. (Mr. Béique), rein., 233.

fLondon

FISET, Hon. J. B. R.
Rimouski International Ry. Co. B. (50):
Int., 175; 2nd R.', 239; 3rd R.0, 327.

FERGUSON, Hon. D.
Address, The: on M. ta adopt (Mr. David),
GIEBSON, Hon, W.
rein., 33.
Blackhall Divorce B. (U): on 3rd R., rein.,
Blackhail Divorce B. (U): Lnt., 200; 2nd R.',
265.
239; M. 3rd R., 261.
Canadian Western Ry. Ca. B. (11): on 2nd
Central Ry. of Canada B. (Y): Int., 247; 2nd
R., rein., 629.
R., 315; 3rd R.', 402.
Committee of Selection: an M. (Mr. ChoCivil Servants Increases of salary B. (187):
quette), rein., 5.
B3. rep. froin Coin., 689.
Animnal Contagiaus Diseases Act Aint. B.
Collingwood Sauthern Ry. Co. B. (12): ou
(18): on 2nd R., rein., 67.
2nd R., rein., 63.
Canadian Seainanship and Navigation: on
Committee of Selection: M. to adopt ist reM. (Mr. Ross, Midd1epex), rein., 372.
port, 43.
Debates and Reporting Cominittee: on tint.
Conciliation Act Aint. B. (M): on 2nd R.,
to report, rein., 310.
rein., 164.
Departinent of External Aflairs B. (90): on
Criminal Code Act Aint. B. (148). in Coin.,
2nd R., rein., 35S; in Coin., rein., 398; on
rein., 680.
3rd R., remn., 404.
Extradition Act Aint. B. (149):- B. rep. froin
Delayed Reports: inq., 102.
Coin., 468.
Extradition Act Aint. B. (149): on 2nd R.,
Grand Trunk Ry. Co. of Canada B. (13):
rein., 446.
Int., 49; M. 2nd R., 65; 3rd R.', 109.
Fundy Power Co. B. (XX): on M. 2nd R.,
Railway Act Arnt. B. (C): on 2ud R., rein.,
rein., 409; 424.
139.
Grand Trunk Pacific, A loan to: inq., 109.
Railway Act Aint. B. (6): on 211d R., rein.,
Gaverninent Annuities Act Aint. B. (B):- on
75.
2nd R.. rein., 53; in Coin., rein., 112.
Ridant Divorce B. (W): Int., 200; M. 2nd
Intercolonial Ry.: on M. (Sir 1%[.Bowell),
R., 270; 3rd R., 289.
rein.. 187.
Royal Guardians B. (95): M. to concur in
Lancaster Bill1: rein., 157.
arnts., 576; rein., 578.

INDEX
GIBSON, Hou. W.-Con.
Water Carniage of Goods B. (A>: in Coin.,
rem., 83.
JAFFRAY, Hon. R.
Fideiity Life Insurance Co. B. (AAA): -nlt.,
407; 2nd R., 438; 3rd R.4, 502.
JONES, Hon. L. Melvin.
American Bar Lock Co. B. (K>: on 2nd R.,
remi., 208.
Canadian Northern Ontario Ry. Co. B. (75).
lut., 332; 2nd R., 344; 3rd R., 394.
Patterson Divorce B3. (KK): Tnt., 332; 2iid
R.*, 335; 3rd R.0, 335.
T. L,. Smithi Patent B. (71>): ou 2nd R.,
rem., '257.

KIRCHIIOFFER, Hon. J. W.-Con.
Lonidon aîîd Lancaster Plate Glass and lndemnity Co. B. (27). lut., 146; 2nd R.*,
159; 3rd R.*. 3.32.
Mexican Land aiîd Irrigation Co. B. (15>:
Int., 49; 2nd R., 155; 3rd R.*, 306.
Ridout Divorce Case: on report, rem., 131.

LANDRY, Hon. P.
Bis of Exchange, Chieques aiid Promissory
Notes Act Amt. B. (G): M. for 6 m. hi.,
239.
Canada Life Insurauce Co. B. (56>): on 3rd
R., l)t. of order, 559; aint. for 6 m hi., 563).
Canadian Liverpool and WVestern L<y Co. B.
(44) : ait. to " rd R., 2175.
.
383.
Candiac Post Cilice:;
Carrier, Lainé and Co.'s Fouîîdry: lniq.. 3-3.
KERR, Hon. J. K. (Speaker>.
Civil Servants. lucreases of Salary B. (187.)
Cannda Lîfe nsnrnnce Co. B. (56): on 3rd
ini Coin., rein., 687. 688.,
R.., ruling on pt. of order (.\r. 1,andry>,
Debates and Eeporting Coitittee: on 'M. to
560.
adopt report, rem., 631.
Committee of Selection: on 'M. (Mr. ChtoDivorce Courts for Canada: on M1. (Mr.
quette), rem., 5.
Ross, Halifax), renm., 485.
Divorce Courts for Canada: on M. (Mr.
Dominion Lands Act Amt. B. (8): B. rep.
Ross, Halifax), rem., 487.
fromn Coin., 142.
Exchequer Court Act Anit. B. (98): on 3rd
Exclhequer Court Act Anit. B. <98>: on anat.
R., ruling ou ît. of order, 616.
<Mr. Citoquette> to 3rd R., renm., 497, 615.
Exî,lanations: remi., 4.
Elxchieqiier Court Act Amt. B. (151) : on 92nd
Irish Affairs: on 'M. (Mr. Cloran>, remi.,
U., rein., 649.
171, 173, 206.
Government liailways Act Mint. B. (20) : B.
Library Enîployees, Classification of: on M.
rep. froin Coin., 146.
to concur in mess. froin Commous, remi.,
Hludson Bay Expedition: inq., 434.
506.
J u(ges Act Anit. B. (193>): ou 2nd R.. remn.,
Minutes of the Senate: repiy to inq., 611.
692.
M-%inutps of the Senate, Correction of: on M.
Jiidges, The Status of: mgq., 100.
('-%r. Lnndry), rem., 107.
.1udges of the Supreine Court, Preceàenice
Montreal Bridge and Terminal C~o. B. (TT):
of : mg., 107.
oit mess. froni H. of C., remi., 666.
J udges aud Civil Servants, Retirement of:
Nicholson, Appointement of Mr. Byron: 244,
on inq., ('Mr. Power), remi., 254.
273.
Judicial Appointme nts at Quehec: inq., 4912.
Ilaiiway Act Anit B. (6>: in Comn., remi., 292.
Library Eiuployees, Classification of: on M.
Raiiway Statistics: on M. (Mr. Ferguson>,
to concur la mess. troin Commons, remi.,
remi., 50.
504.
of -the Senate, Suspension of: oi 'M.
Rules
Minerai Resources of Canada: on 'M. (2N'r.
(Mr. Béique>, rei., 337.
Domville), rein., 150.
Senate Einployees, Classification of: reply to
Ministeriai representation in the Senafe:
imq., 57, 229.
rem., 168.
Senate Eniployees: Appointment of: memo.
Minutes of thie Senate: mgq., 611.
read, remi., 39; on M. to adopt memo.,
Minutes of the Senate, Correction of: Mi\.,
remn., 47, 48.
108.
KIRCHIIOFFER, lion. J. W.
MNontreal Bridge and Terminal Co. B. (TT)
on mess. froni H. of C., remi., 666.
Biackliali Divorce B. (U> : on 3rd R1., remi.,
Nicholson, Appointment of 'Mr. Byron: ri.
263.
242, 246.
Brazilian Electro Steel aîtd Smeiting Co.,
Ontario Michligan Power (Co. B. (34) : vii M.
Limited, B. (10) : lut., 49; M. 2nd R., 57,
to suspen~d ruies, rein., 507.
151; referred to Ry. Coin., 155; 3rd R.*, 306..

INDEX
LANDRY, Hon. P.-Con.
LOUGHEED, Hon. J. A.-Con.
Public Health andi Inspectioni of Foods
Governinent Railwiays A4ct Aint. B. (20): in
Coin., rein., 144.
Coin.; on report, remn., 281.
Railway Act Aint. B. (C>: on 2nd R., remn.,
Gyovt. Harbours and Piers Act Agit. B. (89):
137.
on 2nd R., rein., 575.
Railway Act Aint. B. .(6): in Coin., remn.,
lîttercéloniai Ry.: on _M. (Sir M. Boweil>,
289.
rein., 186.
Rules of the Senate, French Edition of: inq.,
Imperial Conference: inq., 466.
84: 'M., 403.
Insurance Bill: inq., 466.
Labour Departinent B. (165) : on 2ad R.,
Rules of the Senate, Suspension of:- on M.
re.
656.
(Mr. Béique>, remn., 337.
Loan B. (191): on 2nd R., remn., 691.
Sauvé, Mr. L. A., Charges against: incj., 490.
Minerai Riglits in the Teriitories: on M.
St. Jean Des Chaullons, WVharf at: Inq., 419,
0Mr. Conîeau), rein., 183.
562.
.\liîistcrial representation ini the Senate:
Senate Eniployees, Appointient of: rem.,
rein., 168.
39; on M. to adopt mieino., rein., 47.
.%Iiatreai Bridge andi Terminal (Co. B. (TT):
Sýýnate Eniployees, Classification of: inq., 57,
on miess. f rom IL. of C., rein., 666.
229; on M. to adolît report, rein., 520; M.
in aint., 527.
Montreal Harbour Conmnissiotiers Advaenues
Sellats M'\aiual, French T1ranslation of: inq..
B. (192): on 2nid R., remn., 673.
338.
);ewfoiît(ia1îd, N,ýegotiations witiî: inq., 376.
Standing Coin, on Initernai Economy: on reN;ova Scotia, Vaeancies in represeiltation of;
port. rein., 695.
inq., 421.
Transportation Commission: inq., 492.
Ocean Steainships Subsidies Act Agit. B.
(146): on 2nd R., rein., 443.
LEGRIS, Hon. J. n.
Ontario Michigan Power Co. B. (34): on M.
ileforin of the Sente: 0o1 M%.
(MIr. Scott),
tu suspend ruies, rein., 509; ou M. 2ad R.,
remn., 222.
rein., 545, 546; on M. 3rd hZ., aint., 580;
on agit. (Sir -M. Boweil), rein., 594.
LOUGHEED, Hon. J. A.
Post Office Âct Amnt. B. (19>: o11 2nd R.,
Amnericail Bar Lock CJo. B. (K): on 2nd R.,
rein., 68, 101; in Coin., rein., 110.
rein., 174.
Quebec Oriental 1Ey. Co. B. (1): on 2nd 1I.,
Address, The: on M. tu adopt (Mr. David),
rein., 175.*
rein., 10.
Railway Act Agit. B. <106): iii Coin., remn.,
Brazilian Electro (Jo. B. (10): on 2nd R.,
619.
remn., 58, 152.
Raiiway Act Anît. .B. (21): iii Coin., rei.,
(Janadian Seamnsiip andi Navigation: on
132.
M. (-Mr. Ross, Mitdlesex), remn., 375.
Raiinny Subsidies Statutory Clericai error
Crinminal Code Aet Aint. B. (148): in Coin.,
B. (174): on 2nd E.., rein., 672.
rein., 6-d6; ailît., 677; rein., 680; anit., 681.
Royal Guardians B. (95): on M. to coacur,
Deceased .Senators: rein., 41.
rein., 578.
Departuient of Exterîtal Atiairs B. (90): o11 Secret Commiissions B. (31): iii Coi., rein.,
2ad IL, rein., 357; iii Coin., rein., 400.
156.
Divorce Courts for Canada: on NI. (<Mn.
Senate Einp1oyees, .Appointment of: rein., 39.
Ross, Halifax), rein., 489.
Senate Eaiployees, Classification of: on reDominîion Landis Act Agit. B. (8): in Coni.,
port, aint., 542: rei., 696.
rein., 112.
Subinarine (Jo. Patent B. (77): on 2nd R.,
Exehequen Court Act Aint. B. (151): on 2nd
rein., 413; on 3rd R., remn., 56S.
IR., rein., 643.
Water Carniage of Goods B. (A): in Coin.,
Exchequer Court Act Aint. B. (98): on ant.
rein., 83.
to 3rd R., on pt. of order, 613.
Waterways Treaty: iiîq., 108.
Extraditionî Act Amt. B. (149)>: on 2nd R.,
(Sir R. CartYukon Ordinance: on M'%.
rei., 445.
wright), rein., 457.
Fundy Power CJo. B. (XX): on M. 2nd R.,
.NlcHUGH, Hon. G.
rein.. 407.
Governinent Annuities Act Agit. B. (B):- on
.Xmerican Bar Lock Co. B. <K): M. 2nd R.,
2nd R., rein., 54; in Coin., renm., 114.
173; 208; on M. (Mr. Mculnrein.. 212.

INDEX
PERLEY, Hon. W. D.
McHUGH, Hon. G.-Hon.
Explanations: rem., 625.
Canadian R-ed Cross Society B. <HH): B.
rep. from Coin., 3M4.
Grand Trunk Ry. Co., Loans to: inq., 201.
W. R. McCloy Patent B. (NN): Int., 332;
Hudson Bay Ry., Construction of. inq., 202,
694.
2nd R., 335; 3rd R.0, 402.
Railway Âct Amt. B. (C>: on 2nd R., rem.,
Keller Divorce B. <EE): Tnt., 274; 2nd R.',
316; 3rd R.', 327.
140.
Kootenay Central Ry. Co. B. (26): Int., 50;
Scugog, Ont., Construction of dam at: inq.,
2nd R.0, 69; 3rd R.6, 109.
200.
Railway Bonds in Alberta, Quarantee of:
McMULLEN, Hon. J.
148.
American Bar Lock Co. B. (K): on Énd R.,
Railway .Act Arnt. B. (106): B. rep. from
M. to adjourn, 211; M. lost, 212.
Com., 623.
Canadian Medical Association B. (CC). Int.,
Reform of the Senate: on M. (Mr. Scott),
260; 2nd R.0, 305; 3rd R., 332.
reml., 100, 224.
Collingwood Southern Ry. Co. B. (12): Int.,
49; M. 2nd R., 62; 3rd R.', 109.
POIRIER, Hon. P.
Conciliation Act Amt. B. (Ml). lut., 146; M.
Crnmittee of Selection: on M. (Mr. Cho2nd R., 161; M. lost, 167.
quette), rem., 5.
Guelph and Goderichl Ry. Co. B. (47):-. t.,
Exclhequer Court Act Arnt. B. (98):- in Coin.,
109; 2nd R.*, 151; 3rd R., 199.
rem., 461.
London and Northwestern Ry. Co. B. (102).
Reforrn of the Senate: on M. (Mr. Scott),
lut., 333; M. 2nd R., 377; 3rd R.*, 402.
remn., 214.
Niagara-Welland Power Co. B. (33). Int.,
Senate Employpes, Appoîntment of: remu., 40.
173, 175; 2nd R.0, 247; 3rd R.0, 334.
Senate Empicyees, Classification of: rem.,
RLailway Act Âmt. B. (C): Int., 51; M. 2nd
5w3.
R., 13Ç; rem., 141.
R,ai1way Act Amt. B. (6): on 2nd R., rem., P~OWER, Hon. L. G.
71.
Arnerican Bar Loch Co. B. (K>: on 2nd R.,
Reform of the Senate: on M. (Mr., Scott),
on M. (Mr. McMuIlen), rem., 211.
rem., 176.
Animal Contagions Diseases Act Amt. B.
Thessalon and Nortiieru Ry. Co. B. (104):
(18): on 2nd R., rem., 67.
lut., 483; 2nd Il.', 558; 3rd R.', 568.
Canadian Seamanship snd Navigation: on
Walkerton and Lucknow Ry. Co. B. (5,3):
M. (Mn. Ross, Middlesex), rem., 370.
Int., 109; 2nd R.', 151; 3rd R.*, 198.
Canadian Western lly. Co. B. (11): on 2nd
Water Carniage of Goods Bill: rem., 694.
R., rem-., 60.
Windsor; Essex and Lake Shore Rapid Ry.
Civil Servants, Classification of: on M. (Sir
M. 2nd R., 161; 3rd
Co. B. <J): Int., 146;
R. Cartwright), rem., 512.
R., 288.
Collingwood Southen Ry. Co. B. (12): on
McSWEENEY, Hon. P.
Cabane Ry. Co. B. (122): Int., 361; 2nd R.',
401; 3rd R., 438.
Fundy Power Co. B. (XX): Int., 376; M. 2nd
R., 407, 424; B. rejected, 429.
MITCHELL, Hon, W.
Canadian Liverpool and Western Ry. Ce. B.
(44): Tnt., 150; 2nd R., 199; M. 3rd R., 275.
Smith Divorce B. (00): Int., 335; 2nd R.*,
M4; 3rd R.6, 344.
Tompkins Divorce B. (GG): Tnt., 287; 2nd
R.0, 331; 3rd R.', 332.
OWENS, Hon. W.
Tilsonburg, Lake Erie and Pacifie Ev. Co.
B. (41): on amt. te 3rd R., rem., 197.
Ward Divorce B. (DDD): Tnt., 2nd R.*, 3rd
R.0, 438.

2nd R., rem., 65.
Cemiumttee of Selection: on M. to adopt report, rem., 4.5.
Criminal Code Act Amt. B. (148): in Coin.,
rem., 676, 678; amt., 679, 680.
Debates and Reporting Committee: on amt.
te repent, rem., 309; amt. te report, 632.
Divorce Courts for Canada: on M. (Mr.
Ross, Halifax), rem., 487.
Exehequer Court Act Ana. B. (151): on 2nd
R.. rem., 639, 646; in Cern., M., 672.
Explanatiens: rem., 650.
Gevernment Annuities Act Amt. B. (B): on
2nd R., rem., 55; in Coin., rem., 116.
Gevernment Railways Act Amt. B. (20): in
Cern., remn., 145.
I[inds, Appointrnent of Mr. Arthur: on report of Corn., remn., 274.

INDEX
RILEY, Hon. O.-Con.
POWER, Hon. L. G.-Con.
Vancouver, Fraser Valley and Southern Ry.
Intercolonial Ry.: on M. (Sir M. Bowell>,
Co. B. (57): Int., 176; 2nd R.*, 239; 3rd
rein., 189.
R.0, 306.
M. (Mr. Cioran), remn., 205.
Irish Affairs: on
Victoria and Barkley Sound Ry. Co. B. (39).
Judges and Civil Servants, Retirement of:
Int., -176; 2nd R.*, 255; 3rd B.*, 327.
inq., 248.
Library of Parliament: M. to adopt report, ROSS5, Hon. W. (Hialifax).
330.
Canadian Seamanship and Navigation: on
Library Emnployees, Classification of. on M.
M. (Mr. Ross, Middlesex), rein., 374.
to concur in mess. froin Commons, remn.,
Coinmittee of Selection: on M. to adopt re503; aint., 505.
port, rein., 45.
London and -Northwestern fi3 . Co. B. (102).
Divorce Courts for Canada: M., 419, 483; M.
on 2nd R., rein., 345.
withdn., 490.
Minerai Resources of Canada. on M. (Mr.
Divorce Restriction B. (T): on M. 2nd R.,
Doinville>, rein., 150, 159.
rein., 343.
-Nicholson, Appointinent of Mr. B3yron- M.
ROSS5, Hion. G. W. (.iliddlesc.
to refer menlo., rein., 240, 273.
Algonia and Central Hudson Bay lty. Co. B.
Ontario-Michigan Power Co. B. (34): on
(O):- Int., 146; 2nd li.*, 167; 3rd R.', 306.
aint. to 3rd R., pt. of order, 5W3.
Canadian Red Crosis Society B. (11H>: Int.,
Post Office Act Anit. B. (19): in Coin., remn.,
326; 2nd R.*, 335; Srd 1., M54.
M1.
Canadian Seanianship and Navigationx: M.,
Printing of Parliainent, Coin, ou the. M. to
361; rein., M. withdn., 376.
adopt report, 334.
Collingwood Southern Ry. Co. B. (12): on
Public Health and Inspection of 1oods Coin.:
2nd R., rein., 65.
on report, rein., 280.
Debates and Reporting Commiittee: Aint. to
Railway Act Aint. B. (6): in Coin., rein., 291.
report, 307.
Railway Statistics: on '.N. (Mr. Ferguson),
Doinion Burglary and Plate Glass Insurrein., 51.
ance Co. B. (E): lut., 57; 2nd R.-, 83; B.
Restaurant Committee: on M1. to adopt rewithdn., US8.
port, remn., 49.
Equîty Fire lassurance Co. B. (II). Int., 327;
Ridout Divorce B. (W): on 2nd R., rein.,
2nd R.*, 335; 3rd R.*, 354.
270.
Exohequer Court Act Aint. B. (151): on 2nd
Senate Employees, Appointinent of. rein.,
R., rein., 642.
40; M. to adopt inemo., rein., 47.
Kettle River Valley Ry. Co. B. (96): lut.,
Senate Employees, Classification of, remn.,
333; 2nd R.', 344; Srd R.', 394.
534.
Labour Departinent B. (165) on 2nd R., remn.,
Tilsonburg, Lake Erie and Pacific Ry. Co. B.
659.
(41): on aint. to 3rd R., rein., 196.
McQuoid Divorce B. (CCC): lnt., 2nd R.',
Winnipeg and Northwestern Ry. Co. B. (29):
3rd R.0, 438.
Int., 175; 2nd R.', 212; 3rd R.', 255.
Nicholson, Appointaient of Mr. Byron; rein.,
RATZ, Hon. V.
240, 246.
Hluron and Ontario Ry. Co. B. (14): Int., 49;
Ontario, Hudson Bay and Western Ry. Co.
2nd R., 66; B. referred to Ry. Coin., 131;
B. (N): Int., 146; 2nd R.', 167; 3rd R.',
3rd R.*, 160.
30G.
London and Northwestern Ry. Co. B. (102):
Ontario-Michigan Power Co. B. (34):- on anit.
(Mr. Lougheed) to 3rd R., rein., 589; on
on 2nd R., remn., 381.
National Accident -and Guaraîîtee Co. B.
anit. (Sir M. Bowell), rein., 597.
(103): Int., 610; 2nd R.0, 3rd R.*, 650.
Public Health aud Inspection of Fooda
St. Mary's and Western Ontario Ry. Co. B.
Coin.: on report, rein., 278.
(70). Int., 228; 2nd R.*, 259; Srd R.*, 300.
Reforai of Senate: on M. (Mr. Scott), rein.,
118.
RILEY, Hon. G.
Rules, Penalties for infraction of: rein., 435.
Salvation Army Governing Council B. (F):
British Columibia Life Assurance Co. B.
(55): Int., 175; 2nd R.*, 213; 3rd i'R., 275.
Int., 69; 2nd R.', 106; 3rd B.', 332.
Senate Employees, Classification of. rein.,
Mexican Transportation Co. B. (JJ): Int.,
327; 2ud B.*, 335; 3rd R.', 42.
285.

INDEX

SCOTT, Hon. R. W.

Braziluia Electro Co. B. (10) : on 2nd R.,
rein., 58.
Civil Serv ats, Increases of salary B. (187):
in (01. ren. 687.
Criitîiial <ode Act Anit. B. (148): iii Coin.,
rein., 678.
Goveraient Annuities Act Aunt. B. (B):. on
2nd R1., rein., 55.
Library Ernployees, Classification of: on M.
to concur in mess. fron Coiniuons, remn.,
504.
Privilege, Questions of: relu.-, 105.
m.3; M.,
ilefortili of tile Seîîate: notice of
85.
Eoyal Gutardiatîs B. (95) : on 'M. to colleur,
rein., 577.
TALBOT, Hon. P.
Alberta Central 113. Co. B. (23): lut., 107;
2nd l., 111; 3rd 1., 160.
Athîabaska Ry. Co. B. (68>i lut.. 228; 2nd
R.*, 259; 3rd R.#, 306.
F. M. Gray Patent B. (L) : lut., 146; 2nd
R.', 213; 3rd R.*, 3U2.
Prince Albert and Hudson Bay Ry. Co. B.
(62): lot., 176; 2nid R.. 213; 3rd IR., 327.
TESSIER, Hon. Jules.
Canadian 'Nortlierx èQutebec Ey. Co. B. (38):
lnt., 69; 2-nd R.', 268; 3rd Rý.*, 327.
Initercolonial ly. Coi iisioîîers, Appointtuent of: iîîq., 6-23.
Joliette and L.ake Maîîuîaî Coloîîization Co.
B. (X) : liit., 247; 211d 1-', 268; 3rd R.',
306.
Lake St. Johin Calonization Society: in.
149; M.. 190.
Lake St. Joliii. Public Woîrks at: inq., 149.
Qîiebec Orietntal Ey. Co. B. (1):zInt., 146; M.
2nd R., 175; 3rd R.,334; 'oinnîs nits.
concurred iii, 422.
St. Maurice arîd Eastern Piy. Co. B. W )
lut., 356; 21ffl R.', 401 ; 3rd R1., 407.

TIIOMIPSON. Hon. F. P.
Ec1 nit ' l'ire Iîîstroiîce C'o. B3. (11):z B. rep.
froîîî Cotn., 353.
Great \Vest Permnîent
oan Co. B. (-40) : B.
rep. fr-onui Cotit., 353.
Hincls, Appeiîîtuent of Mr. Artliur: M. te
concur in report, 274.
Montreal Harbour <'ommnissioners B. (154):

B. rep. froun Coixi., 633.
Nicholson, Apointmeiit of Nfr. Byron: M. to
condor in report. 272,
Prairie Provinîces Trtist Co. B. (AA) : 'LN.
to concur in ants., 353.

TIIOMI>SON, Hon. F. P.-Colt.
Senate Employees, Classification of: M. to
adopt report, 519.
%VATSON, Hon. R.
Abitibi and Hudson Bay Ry. Co. B. (66):
Int., 228; 2nd R.', 259; 3rd R.*, 306.
Arnîîrior and Pontiac Ry. Co. B. (87) : lut.,
361; 2nd R.*, 401; 3rd R,438.
Campbell Divorce B. (EEE>: lnt., 2nd R.*,
3rd R.', 43S.
Caundian Western Ey. Co. B. (11) : bIt . 49;
M. Lad R., 60; rei., 62; 3rd R.', 132.
Canauditti Pacifie Ev. Cou. nnd Grand iruuk
P'acifie Ry. Co. joint section at Fort Wilhiani B. <25): lut., 107; 2nd R.', 159; 3rd
R.-, 198.
Civil Servants, Ijicucases of salary B. (187):
in CSoi., rein., 688.
Cowau D)ivorce B. (FI-i) ; lnt., 2nd 11.*, 3rd
R.', 438.
Debatt.s and lheparting Comniittee: on amt.
to report, remn., 312.
Grand 'lrun], Pacifie Brancli Lines Co. B.
(S) : lut., 157; 2ud R.*, 316; Rules suspended, 317; Srd 1R., 3U4; Comnuons aints. coucurred. in, 422.
Ilinds, Appointoient of Mr. Arthur: meuno.
froni Speaker referred to Coi., 247.
H[udsonu Bay and Pacifie Ry. Co. B. (43):
lut., 109; 2nd R.', 151; 3rd R., 198.
London aîîd Nortliwestern lhy. Co. B. (102):
on1 2nd lx., rei.
380.
Manitoba aiîd NortliNvestern Ry. Co. B., (81):
Int., =3; 2ul R.*, 344; M. 3rd R., 386; on
liait. (-\r. Davis), rein., 391; MN. 3rd R.
carried, 394; M.% îlot to insist on aints.,
513.
Maînitoba 11adial Ry. Co. B. (DD) : lut., 274;
2tud R.', 305; 3rd 1., 334.
Nichîolsonî, Aîipointnîeî,c of Sir. Byxronl: M.
ta collcur iii Speaker's minîo., 240; remn.,
2 42.
Ontario

Goveriitneiît
subsidv
ta G randî
Trnink Paciie Ry. Co. B. <30): lit., 284;
211d Bl.', 316; 3rd Px.*, 3334.
Oiîtario-Mýiclîigan Power Co. B. (34) : Int.,
461; M. ta suspîend rides, 507; M. 2nd R.,
545; M. 3rd R.
5iO; on ant. (S4ir M.
Bowell>, rei.. 60-2; M. 3rd P. carried, 606.
liestaurant (0111 înittee : on M. to adolit report, relit., 49.
Seniate Enîployees, Appointinent of: rein., 41;

M. to adopt niemio., 47.
Senate I:inployees, Classification
port, ant., 54t.

of. on re-

INDEX

WATSON, liou. R.-Con.
WVOOD, Hon. J.
T. L. Srniitl Patent B. (71): Int., 176; lst
Exciiequer Court Act A nt. B. (98):- B. rep.
R., 228; 2xîtl R., 255; Srd R.*, 332.
froin Coni., 461.
Standing- Coin. oit Initernai Econouîuy: M. to
Fundy Power C'o. B. -(XX):- on 'M. 2nd R.,
adopt report, 695.
rein., 408, 426.
Subinarine C'o. Patent B. (77): «M. 2nd R.,
Intercolonial Ry.: on -M. (Sir M. Bowell),
411; 3M. 3rd R., 568.
rein., 185.
Union Station and joint facilities of Grand
Secret Commissions B. (31): B. rep. froîn
Trunk Pacifie and Midland Ry. Co. B.
Coi., 233.
(28): Int., 83; 2nd R.*, 106; Srd R.*, 160.
Wake Divorce B. (BBB>: Int., 2nd lU*, 3rd YOUNG, Hon. F'. M.
R.-, 418.
Brandon Transfer ]ly. ('o. B. (9): lut., 49;
2nd B.*, 57; 3rd lU., 109.
WILSON, Ilon. J. H.
Canada Life Insurance C'o. B. (56): Int., 464;
Caxiadian WVestern 1Ry. Cto. B. (11): on 2îîd
Rules suspeiided, 507; M-. 2iid E., 551; M.
R., rein., 60, 62.
3rd R1., 559; M1.agreed to, 5632.
CoIIingw~ood Soutiiern Ily. (o. B. (12) : ou
2nd R., rein., 63, 65.
Canadiauî 1acific Ry. Co>. B. (79):- Int., 247;
Conciliation Aet Amt. B. (M1): ou 2nd Pb.,
2nd LU*, 268; 3rd R.*, 333.
rein., 165.
Conèiliati>u Act Munt. B. (M1): on 2nd R.,
London andt Nortlitsterii Ry. Co. B3. (102):
remn., 165.
on 2nd R1., rein., 344, 378.
Edmnonton anti Slave Lakç- Éy. Cot. B. (24):
Public llealili nnd'inspection of 1'oods Coin.:
Int., 50; 2nd lU*, 83; 3rd LU*, 132.
on report, rein., 282.
Lowndes Divorce B. (LL): lut., 332; 2îîd
.,
Rai1say Act mt. B. (6): on 2ud R., rein.,
335; 3rd R.*, 335.
ý3; iu Coin., rem., 294; on 3rd R., rein.,
.Prudential Trust C'o., Lirnited, 1B. (91): Int.,
327.
2ad t.*, 464; 3rd 1., 55.
T. L. Smith Pateat B. (71): on 2uid R., rein.,
Railway Act Aunt. B. (106): on Srd R., M. in
255.
aint., 651.
Subînarine C'o. Patent B. (77): lnt., 361; M.
Restaurant Comimittee. -M. to adopt report,
2ad R., 411; rein., 414; M. 3rd R., 568.
49.
Tilsouburg, Lake Erie and Pacific lly. Co. B.
Senate Einployees, Classification of: M1. to
(41): lut., 83; 21ld R.., 106; '31. 3rd R., 191;
refer report, 284.
on anit. (Mr. B1ique), rein., 193; 3rd t.0,
Southerui Central Pacific R.y. Co. B. (36):
334.
Int., 109; 2ud Rt.', 151; 3rd PZ.', 191.
Winadsor, Essex and Lake Shore Rapid Ry.
Superior and Western Ontario Ry. ('o. B.
C'o. B. (J) * on 2nd R1., rein., 161.
(78): lat., 332; 211d LU*, 344; 3rd Il* 394.

PART II.-SIIBJECTS

ACCIDENTS AT RAILWAY CILOSSINGS.
inq. (Mr. Ellis), reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 45.
ADDRESS, THE- M. to adopt (Mr. David),
5; seconded (Mr. Derbyshire), 8; deb&ted,
Mr. Lougheed, 10; Sir R. Cartwright, Sir
M. Bowell, 18; Sir R. Cartwrighit, 19; Sir
M. Bowell, 30; Mr. Dandurand, 3-2; Mr.
Casgrain, 33; Mr. Ferguson, M. agreed to,
33.
ALUMINJM,, INIPORTS AND EXPORTS 0F:
M. (Mr. Doinville), 69.
BILLS-SERIATIM :
(A) An Act relatiug to the Water Carrnage
of Goods (Mr. Campbell). Int., 33; on M.
2nd R., rein., Mr. Campbell 46; 2nd R.0,
51; ini Coin., rein., Mr. Gibson, Mr. Loug.
heed, B. rep. froin Coin. (Mr. Bostack),
83; 3rd R.', 106.
(B) An Act ta aniend the Government
Annuities Act, 1908 (Sir R. Cartwright).
lut.*
33; M. 2nd R. (Sir IR. Cartwright), 51;
rem., Mr. Ferguson, 53; Sir R. Cartwright,
Mr. Lougheed, 54; Mr. Power, Mr. Scott,
55; M. agreed to, 56; iii Coin., rein., Sir
R. Cartwrighit, on cl. 3, rein., Sir R. Cantwright, 111;31r. Ferguson, 112; el. adopted,
113; on ci. 5. remn., Sir R. Cartwright, Mn.
Lougheed, 114; M.%I.
Power, 116; el. adopted,
117; 3rd R.0, 151; Cominons aint. concurred
in, 69-7; R.A., 700 (c. 4).
(C) An Act to ainend the Railway Act (Mr.
McMullen). lut., 51; M. 2nd R. (Mr. McMullen), 136; rein., Mr. Landry, Mr.
Cloran, 137: Sir R. Cartwright, Mr. Belcourt, 138; Mr. Béique, Mr. Gibson, 139;
Mr. MNcHugh. 140; Mr. McMuIlen, 141.
(D) An Act ta incorporate the British
Colonial Fire Insurance Coinpany (Mr.
Choquette). lut., 57; 2nd R.', 102; in Coin.,
aints. concurred in, 239; 3rd R.0, 255; .,
099 (c. 52).
(E) An Act te incorporate the Dominion of
Canada Burglary and Plate Glass Insurance Company (Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
Int., 57; 2nd R.', 83; B. withdn., 5.58.

BILLS--SERIATIM-Con.
(P) An Act ta incorporate 'the Governiug
Council of the Saivation Arrny of Canada
(Mr. Ross, Middlesex). lut., 69; 2nd R.*,
106; 3rd R.0, 332; R.A.. 700 <c. 132).
(G) An Act ta ainend the Act relating ta
Bis of Exchange, Chieques and Promissory Notes (Mr. Choquette). Lut., 108; M.
2nd R. (Mr. Choquette), 233; remn., Mr.
Bolduc, 235; Mr. Béique, 237; Mr. Dandurnnd, Mr. Casgrain, 238; M1. for 6 mn.h.
(Mr. Lnndry) carried, 239.
(Hl) An Act respecting the Ang!o-Canadian
Blank (Mr. Cloran). lut., 132; 2nd R.',
159; 3rd 1.*, 275; R.A., 699 (c. 43).
(I) An Act respecting the Quebec Oriental
Ry. Co. (Mr. Tessier). Int., 146; M. 2nd
R. (Mr. Tessier), remn., Mr. Lougheed, Mr.
Casgrain, M. agreed ta, 175; 3nd R.', 334;
Cominons aints. concurred in (Mr. Tessier), 422; R.A., 700 (c. 126).
(J) An Act respecting the Windsor, Essex
and Lake Shore Rapid Ry. Co. (Mr. McMullen). Int., 146; M. 2nd R., (Mr. MeMullen), rein., Mn. Wilson, Mr. Cloran,
M. agreed ta, 161; 3rd R., 288; R.A., 699
(c. 152).
<K; An Act respecting certain letters patent
of the Axuerican Bar Lock Ca. (Mr. Campbell). lut., 146; M. 2nd R. (Mr. MeHugh),
remn., Sir M. Bowell, 173; Mr. MecHugh,
Mr. Lougheed, M. withdn., 174; M. 2nd R.
(Mr. MefHngh), remn., Sir M. Bowell, Mr.
Joues, 208; M. ta adjourn debate (Mr. McMullen), rein., Mr. Power, 211; Mr. McHugh, M. (Mr. 11cMuIlen) last (c. 9; n.c.
10), M. 2nd R. carried, 212; aints. of Coin.
concurred in, 271; 3rd R.', 288; R.A., 700
(c. 42).
(L) Au Act respecting certain letters patent
of Franklin Montgomery Gray (Mr. Talbat). lut., 146; 2nd R.', 213; 3rd R.', 332;
R.A., 699 (c. 88).
(31N)
Au Act ta amend the Conciliation Act,
1900 (Mr. McMuilen).
Int., 146; M. 2nd
R. (Mnf. McMuIIen), 161; remn., Mr. David,

INDEX
]J]LLS-SERIATIM-Con.
Mr loat,12;M.Gibson, Mr. Ellis,
164; Mr. Younîg, Mr. WVilsou, 165; M. lost
on division (c. 13; ii.c. 20), 167.
(N) An Act respecting the Ontario, Hudson
Bai' and Western Ry. Co. (MIr. Ross, Mliddiesex>. Int., 146; 2nd R.', 167; 3rd R.»,
306; R.A., 700 (c. 116).
(0> An Act respecting the Algorna and Central Hudson Bay Ry. Co. (Mir. Ross, Mliddiesex). Int., 146; 2ud li.', 167; 3rd R.',
306; B.A., 700 (c. 40).
(P~) An .Act to incorporate the Kooteitay and
Alberta liy. Co. ('%r. DeVeber). Int., 146;
2nd 11.*,
167; atuts. of Coin. concttrred in,
3166; 3rd R.0, 327; R.A., M2 (c. 96).

(Q) Ait

Act respecting the Quinze and
Blanche River Ry. Co. (Mr'. Belcourt>.
Tnt. 146; 2nd R.', 167; 3rd 1.', 275; Coinmous amts. coîtcurred in, 3S:.; 11.A., 699
(c. 127).

(R) Ait Act respectiîîg the Ottawia Fire Insurance Co. and to change its naine to the
Ottawa Assurance Co. (Mr. Belcourt).
Tnt., 146; 2nd P.*, 167; 3rd R.', 334; B.A.,
699 (c. 117).
(S> An Act respectixg the Grand Trunk Pacifie Branch Lines Co. (Mr. Watson). Int.,
157; 2nd R.', 316: Rules suspended, 317;
3rd P.*, 334; Couinions anits. concurred
in (Mr. Watson), 422; R.A., 700 (c. 86).
(T) An Act to restrîct the evilg of Divorce
(Mr. Cloran>. Int., 1518; 2nd R. postponed,
229; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Cloran>, 340; remn.,'
Mr. Ross (Halifax), B. withdn., 343.
(TT) An Aclt for the relief of Victor Eccles
Int., 200; 2nd
BlackIîall (MNr. Gibson).
R.0, 239; MI. 3rd P. (Mr. Campbell), rein.,
Mr. Cloran, 261; Mr. Kirchhoffer, 263; Mr.
Ferguson, 265; Mr. De Boucîterville, M1.
3rd R. agreed to, 266; R.A., 699 (c. 47).

IIILLS-SEIIIATIM -Coii.
(X) -Ait Act respecting the Joliette antd Lake
Manusui Colonizatioti Co. (Mr. Tessier),
lnt., 247; 2ild R.*, 268; 3rd R.', 306; R.A.,
699 (c. 93).
(Y) An Act respecting the Central Ry. Co.
of Canada (Mr. Gibsoîx).
lnt., 247; 2nd
R., 315; M. to concur iii aints. (Mr.
Béique>, aint. to refer back <MNr. Bdwards), 346; aint. adopted, 347; 3rd R.*,
40'2; R.A., 700 (c. 72).
(Z) An Act respecting the Bank of Winnipeg
(Mr. Chevrier>. Int., 248; 2nd 11.*, 277;
3rd R.*, 352; R.A., 700 (c. 153).
<AA> An Act to incorporate the Prairie
vinces Trust Co. (Mr. Coffey). lut.,
2nd R.', 277; M-%. concur iii aiîtts
to
Thompson), M. agreed to, 353; 3rd
356; R.A., 700 (c. 121).

Pro248;
(Mr.
R.',

(BB) An Act to incorporate the Board of
Elders of the Cauadian District of the
of the
Mloravian
Northern Province
Chiurch in America (Mr. DeVeber). lut.,
248; 2nd R.', 316; 3rd R.0, 40-9; R.A., 700
(c. 112).
(CC> An Act to incoîrporate the Canadian
Medical Association (Mr. MeMiIlan>. Tnt.,
260; 2nd R.', 305; 3rd R., 332; R.A., 699 (c.
62).
(DD) An Act respecting the 'Manitoba Radial Ry. Co. (Mir. Watson). Tnt., 274; 2nd
R.', 305; 3rd R.', 334; R.A., 700 (c. 103).
(EE> An Act for the relief of Eî elyn
Martha Keller (Mr. Perley).
lut., 274;
2nd R.', 316; 3rd R.', 327; R.A., 699 (c. 94).
(FF) Att Act for tîte relief of Frank Parsons (Mr. Derbyshire).
Tnt., 271 ; 2utl
R.', 316; 3rd R.', 327; R.A., 699 (c. 119).
(GG) An Act for the relief of Hannali Ella
Tompkins (Mr. Mitchell). Tnt., 287; 2nd
R.', 331; 3rd B.', 332; R.A., 700 (c. 142>.

(V) Ait Act for the relief of Annie Louisa
Coltinari (Mr. Canmpbell). Tnt., 200; 2nd
R.', 239; M. Srd R. ('Mr. Camnpbell), 266;
rein., MNr.Clorait, 267; MI. agreed to, 268;
R.A.. 699 (c. 75).

(TIT1) An Act to incorporate the Canadian
Red Cross Society ('%r. Ross, Mýiddlese.)
Iut., 326; 2ud R.', 335; B. rep. froîn Coin.
(Mr. McHughi), 3rd R.', 354; R.A., 700 (c.
68).

(W> Ait Act for the relief of John Grant
Ridout (Mir. Gibson>. Tht., 200; M. 2nd B.
(Mr. Gibson>, remn., Mr. Power, Mr. Ferguson. Sir M. Bowell, MI. agreed to, 270;
3rd R., 289; R.A., 699 (c. 128).

(1l) Au Act to incorporate tîte Equity l'ire
Insurance Conmpany (Mr. Boss, Middlegex). Tnt., 327; 2nd R.', 335; B. rep. froin
Coint. (Mr. Tîtotupson>, 353; 3rd R.', 354;
R.A., 700 (c. 81).

INDEX
P11LLS-SEIZIATIM-Cen.
<JJ) .21n Act iespectiiig thp «\Iexicaiî Transp>ortntion Ce., Lirnited. nil to change its
nam0 to the Mexican Nerthwestern Ry.
Co. <(fr. Riley). Int., 327; 2nd R.', 335;
3rd P.', 402; l?.A., 700 (c. 107).
(KK) An .Act for the relief cf Mildred Gwendolyn Platt Pattersen <M.Joues). Int.,
332; 2nd R.', 335; 3rd R.*, 3M5; R.A., 699
(c. 120).
(LL) An Act for the relief cf C'harles
Bewerbaîîk Lewndes (Mfr. Younig). Tht.,
.32; 2if<t R.'. 3.35: 3rd if.'. 3b;5 R.A.. 699
(c. 101).
(3)Ant
Act fer the relief cf Tsnsc Moere
('.%r. Camnpbell). lnt.. .1.32; 211d P.*. .1135:
<N)An Act te coufer on thie Ceînînissiener
of Patents certain pewers fer the relief of
Washiungton Rf. 3.IeClo ' (Mr. 3fclHugh).
lut.. 3312: 2uid R., 3-35: 3,l P%.*. 402;
.,
700 (c. 1111).
<00) An Act for ili relief of .lin Dennison Sinith <(Mr. 'Mitchell). Tnt.. 3.3.5; 2nd
Rl.',
343; Srd R.', 344; R.A., 700 (c. 133).
(PP) Anl Act respectiug the Royal Victeria
Life Insurance Ce., and te change its
naine te Rloyal Victoria Life Insurance Ce.
of Canada (3fr. David). lut., 337; 2nd
R., 361; amts. cencurred iii, 41.5; 3rd R.',
422; lf.A., 700 (c. 130).
(QQ) A!u Act te previde fer the inicorperatien cf Ry. Cos. <3fr. Davis). lut., 337;
Mf. 211d R. <3fr. Davis), 450, 516; Debate
adjeuiried, 519; B. drepped, 697.
<RR) An Act respectiug the Breckville,
WVestpert and Nertliwesteri Ry. Co.
(Mr.*
Derbyshire). Tnt., 352; 2iud R.', 382; 3rd
R.', 402; R.A., 700 (c. 55).
(SS) Ail Act respectiug thue Quebec and New~
Brunswick Ry. Ce. <(Mr. Cestigan). Iut.,
3M4; 211d R.', 382; 3rd R.', 402; R.A., 700
<c. 125).
(TET) An Act respecting the Mfcîtreal Bridge
aîîd Terminal Ce., aud te change its naine
to ' The 3-fenttreah Central Terminal Ce.'
<(Mr. Cluequette). lut., 354; 2nd B.*, 382.;
3rd Pi.', on mess. frein H. of C., rem.,
450;
3!r. Landry, 3Mr. Leugheed, Mfr. Speaker,
666: '.[. (Mfr. Camîpbell) te grant request,
M6; debated, 666 te 670; 13. agreed te, 31.
< Cr.(ampbell) te cencur in Cemmeus
nits.. 6;0; Iî. agreed te, 671; P.A., 700 (c.
109).

I1LLS-SERIATIM.t-Coî.
<UU) Ain Act respecting the Prudential Life
Insurance Co. of Canada, and to change
its naine to «'The Security Life Insurance
Co. of Canada' (Mr. Derbyshire). Int.,
354; 2ud R.', 382; 3rd R.', 50-2; R.A., 700
<c.123).
(VV) Anl Adt to further aniend chap. 92 of
the Statutes of 1901 respecting the Canadian Patriotic Fund Aýso-iatioîi <Sir R.
Cartwright).
Int., 356; 2nd R.', 401; in
Cern., 405; B. rep. fromn Com. <3Mr. Bosteck), 3rd R.*, 406; R.A., 700 <c. 67).
<WW) An Act te incerporate the St.
Mlaurice and Easterti lv. Co. ('%r. Tessier). lut., 356; 2nd IZ.', 401 ; rd R., 407;
R.A., 700 (c. 137).
<XX) Ail Act te incorporate the Fundy
Power Co. (Mr. M.%cSweeney). Lut., 376; 31.
2nd r. <(Mr. Ellis), reni., Sir Px. Cartwright, '.fr. Leuglieed, 407; '\fr. Weed,
408; 3fNr. Fergusoin, 409; M.\. postpened, 411;
M. 2nd P. <3f.
lis), remi., Sir R. Cartivright, M.Ir. Fergusen, Mfr. Béique, 424;
'-%r. Edwards, 3fr. Woed, 426; MNr.David,
427; 31. lest <c.10; n.e. 11), B. rejected,
4299.
<YY) Au Act te incerperate the Cathelic
('ijurcli Extension Seciety cf Canada <(Mr.
Bosteck). lut., 386; 2nd R.', 411; 3rd R.',
458; R.A., 700 (c. 70).
<ZZ) An Act te incerperate the Coummerce
Insurance Ce. (31r. Belceurt). lut., 386;
2nd R.#, 405; 3rd R.', 502; R.A., 700 (c. 76).
(AAA) Anl Act respecting the Fidelity Life
Insurance Ce. cf Canada (Mfr. Jaffray).
lut., 407; 2ud R., 438; 3rd R.*, 502; R.A.,
700 (c. 82).
<I3BB) An Act for the relief cf Jeohn Wake
().fr. Watsonm). lut., 2nd B.*, 3rd R.', 418;
R.A., 700 (c. 148).
(CCC) An Act fer the relief ef Laura McQueoid (Mfr. Ress, 'Middlesex). lut., 2nd
R.', 3rd B.*, 438; R.A., 700 <c. 105).
<DDD) Anl Act fer the relief cf Fleetweod
lut., 2nd
Heward Ward <(Mr. Owens).
lt.', R.', 438;, R.A., 71l0 (c. 150).
3rd
(EEE) An Act for the relief ef Aaren WVil;iam 'Merley Campbell (3fr. Watsen). lut.,
2nd R.', 3rd R.', 438; R.A., 700 <c. 58).
(1?FF) An Act fer the relief cf John Christepher Cewan (Mr. Watson). Int.. 2iid R.',
3rd R.*, 438; R.A., 700 (c. 78).

xviii

viiiINDEX

BI LLS--SERIATIM Con2.
(GGG) An Act for the relief of Annie Bowden (Mr. Campbell). Int.. 2nd R.', 3rd
R. 6 , 609; R.A., 701 (c. 48).
(6) An Act to, amnend the llailway Act (Mfr.
Ellis>. Int., 49; M. 2nd R. (Mfr. Ellis),
70; rem., Mfr. McMullen, 71; 3fr. Wilson,
Mfr. Ferguson, 73; Mr. Béique, Mr. Gibson,
75; Sir R. Cartwright, 78; '-%r. Ellis, Mfr.
Dandurand, 80; M. agreed to, 81; M. to
refer (M4r. Ellis), M. in anmt. (Sir R. Cartwright), rem., Mfr. Ferguson, 81; amt. carried (c. 40; n.c. 15), 82; «M.to concur (Mr.
Béique), rem., 3fr. Landry, 289; 3fr. Fergusan, 290; 'Mr. Power, 291; Mr. Speaker,
292; 3fr. Cnsgrain, 29.3; Mr. Wilson, Sir
M. Bowell, 294; Mfr. Béique, 295; Mr. Ferguson, 300; amnt. (Mr. Ellis), 317; MrCloran, 320; Mr. Dnndurand, 323; Mr.
David, 325; nmt. Iost (c. 16; n.c. 30), M.
(Mr. Béique> agreed to, 326; M. 3rd R.
.
(Mfr. Béique), rem., Mr. Wilson, 327, Mý
ag-reed to, 330.
(8) An Act to amend the Dominion Lands
Act (Sir R. Cartwright). Int., 49; 2nd R.,
82; in Com., rem., Sir Rl. Cartwright, 3fr.
Lougheed, 3fr. Dnndurnnd, 142; B. rep.
from Com. (Mfr. Landry>, 144; 3rd P.*, 173;
R.A., 336 (c. 11).
(9) An Act respecting- the Brandon Transfer
Railway Company (3fr. Young). lnt., 49;2nd R.*, 57; 3rd R.*, 109; R.A., 336 (c. 49).
(10) An Act respecting the Brazilian Electro
Steel and Sn;elting Coinpany, Liznited (Mfr.
Kirclihoffer>. lut., 49; M. 2nd R. (Mfr.
Kirchhoffer), 57; rem., Mr. Lougheed, Mr.
Scott, 58; M. 2nd R. ('%fr. Kirchhoffer),
151; rem., Mr. Lougheed, Sir R. Cartwright, 152; M. agreed to, 153; referred to
Ry. Com., 155; 3rd R.*, 206; R.A., 336 (c.
50).
(11) An Act to incorporate the Canndian
Western Ry. Company (Mfr. Wntson). fat.,
49; M. 2nd R. (Mfr. Watson), rem., Mr.
Wilson, 3-fr. Power, 60; Sir Mf. Bowell, 61;
Sir R. Cartwright, Mfr. Wilson, 3fr. Ferguson, 3fr. Watson, Mf. agreed ta, 62; 3rd
R.*, 132; R.A., 336 (c. 69).
(12) An Act respecting the Collingwood
Southern Ry. Company (3fr. MeMullen).
lut., 49; M. 2nd 'R. (Mfr. ltoss, Middlesex),
62; rem., '-f\r. Wilson, Mfr. Dandurand, Mfr.
Gibson. 63; Sir 'M. Bowell, 64; Mr. Wilson.
Mfr. Power, Mfr. Ross (Middlesex), Mf.

1;JLLS-SERIATIIMf-Con.
agreed to, 65; 3rd R.', 109; R.A., 336 (c.
74).
(13) An Act respecting tHe Grand Trunk Ry.
Company of Canada ('%fr. Gibson). Int.,
49;. M. 2nd R. (1fr. Gibson), 65; Mf. agreed
ta, 66; 3rd R.*, 109; R.A., 336 (c. 87).
(14) An Act respecting the Huron and Ontario Ry. Comnpany ('-Ir. Ratz). Int., 49;
2nd R., 66; B. referred ta Ry. Com., 131;
3rd R.*, 160; 11.A., 336 (c. 92).
(15) An Act respecting the Mexican Land
and Irrigation Company, Limited (Mfr.
lut., 49; 2nd R., 155; 3rd
Kirchhoffer>.
P"*, 306; R.A., 336 (c. 106).
(18) An Act toa nnend die Animal Contagious Disenses Act (Sir R. Cartwright). Int.,
49; M. 2nd R1. (Sir R. Cartwright), 66:
rem., 'Mr. Ferguson, Mfr. Power, M. agreed
ta, 67, 100; in Coni., B. rep. froni Com.
('fr. Ellis), 109; 3rd R.', 132; R.A., 336
(c. 3).
(19) An Act ta amend the Post Office Act
(Sir R. Cartwright). Int., 49; M. 2nd R.
(Sir R. Cartwright), 67 ; rem., Sir M.
Bowell, 3fr. Lougheed, Mf. agreed ta, 68;
rem., Sir R. Cartwright, Mfr. Lougheed,
101; in Com., remi., Sir R. Cartwright, Mr.
Lougheed, 110; 3fr. Power, Mfr. Dandurand, B. rep. from Com. (Mfr. Ellis), 111;
3rd R., 150; I. .A., 336 (c. 29).
(20) An Act to amend the Government Railways Act (Sir R. Cartwright). lnt., 49; 2nd
R., 106; in Coin., rem., Sir R. Cartwright,
Mfr. Lougheed, 144; 3fr. Power, Mr. Danduraud, 145; Mr. Ellis, B. rep. from Con.
(3fr. Laadry), 146; 3rd 11.6, 151; R. A., 336
(c. 18).
(21) An Act ta amend the llailway Act (Sir
R. Cartwright). lut., 49; 2nd R., 68; in
Coin., remi., Sir R. Cartwright, Mfr. Lougheed, 132; 31r. Ferguson, 134; Sir R. Cartwit,136; Mfr. Ferguson, 199; B. rep.
Coni. (f.Ellis), 200; Srd R.*, 20ýý;
fri.
fiA., 336 (c. 31).
(23) An Act respecting the Alberta Central
11v. Ca. ('-Ir. Talbot). Int., 107; 2nd R.',
141;- 3rd P.-, 160; 11.A., 336 (c. 39).
(24) An Act respecting the Edmonton and
Company (3fr. Young).
Slave Lake RIiy.
Lut.. 50: '2nd R.1, 83; 3rd R.*, 132; R.A..
.3.36 (c. 80).

INDEX
BILLS-SEIRIATIM-Con.
BILLS--SERIATIM-Con.
(25) An Act respecting the joint section of
amt. <Sir M., Bcwell), rem., Mr. Lougheed,
the Canadian Pacifie Ry. Co. and the
594; Mr. Roms (Middlesex), 597 ; Sir M.
Grand.Trunk Pacifie Ry. Co. at Fort WilBcwell, 601; Mm. Watson, 602; Mr. Baird,
liam, Ont. (Mr. Watson). Tnt., 107; 2nd
605; amt. loat <c. 8; n.c. 25), M. 3rd R.
R.*, 159; Srd R.', 198; R.A., 336 (c. 66).
camried, 606; B.A., 700 (c. 115).
(26) An 'Act respecting the Koctenay Cen(35) An Act te incorpomate the Salisbury
tral Ry. Company (Mr. Perley). Int., 50;
and Albert Ry. Co. (Mr. Domville). Int.,
2nd R.', 69; Srd R.', 109; B.A., 336 <c. 98).
69; 2nd R., 136; 3rd R.*, 160; R.A., 336 <c.
131).
(27> An Act te incorporate the London and
Lancaster Plate Glass and Indemnity Co.
(36) An Act respecting the Seuthern Central
of Canada (Mr. Kirchhcffer). Int., 146;
Pacifie Ry. Co. <Mr. Young). Tnt.. 109;
2nd B.*, 159; Srd R.', 332; R.A., 699 (c. 99).
2nd R.*, 151; Srd R.', 191; R. A., 336 (c.
135).
(28) An Act repecting the Union Station and
other joint facilities, cf the Grand Trunk
(37) An Act te incorporate the Western CanPacifie Ry. Co. and the Midland Ry. Co.
adian Life Assurance Co. (Mr. Bostock).
of 'Manitoba at Portage la Prairie (Mr.
Int., 175; 2nd R.', 212; 3rd R.', 275; R.A.,
Watson). Tnt., 83; 2nd R.*, 106; 3rd R.*,
336 (c. 151).
160; IR.A., 336 (c. 85).
(38) An Act respecting the Canadian North(29) An Act respecting the Winnipeg and
era Quebec Ry. Co. (Mr. Tessier). Int.,
«\orthwestern ]Ry. Co. (M*r. Power). Tnt.,
69; 2nd R.', 268; Amts. cf Cein. concumred
175; 2nd R.', 212; Srd R.*, 255; R.A., 336
in, 316; Srd R.', 327; R.A., 699 (c. 64).
(c. 154).
<40) An Act te incorpomate the Great West
<30) An Act respecting the subeidy froin the
Permanent Loan Co. (Mr. Chevrier>. Tnt.,
Ontario Gcvernment to the Lake Superior
175; 2nd R.', 213; M. *3rd R. (Mr. Chebranch cf the Grand Trunk Pacific Ry.
vrier), rem., Mr. Béique, M. withdn., B.
(Mr. Watson). Tnt., 284; 2nd R.*, 316; 3rd
referredback to Coin., 277; B. rep. from
R.', 3U4; R.A., 699 (c. 84).
Coin. (Mr. Thompson), Srd R.', 353; B.A.,
700 (o. 89).
<31) An Act tc prevent the payaient or acceptance cf illicit or secret commissions
(41) An Act respecting the Tilscaàbumg, Lake
and other like practices (Sir R. CartErie and Pacifie Ry. Co. (Mr. Wilson).
wright). Int., 69; 2nd R., 102; in Coin.,
Tnt., 83; 2nd R.', 106; M. 3rd R. (Mr. Wilrem., Mr. Lcugheed, Sir M. Bowell, Sir
son), M. te refer back (Mr. Béique),. 191;
R. Cartwright, 156; in Coin., rem., Sir M.
rem., Mm. Davis, Mr. Dandurand, 192; Mr.
Bcwell, Sir R. Cartwright, 230; amt. (Mr.
Wilson, 193; Elàr Power, *196; Mr. Owens,
Béique), 231; rem., Mr. Ferguson, suit.
197; M. (Mr. Béique) agreed te, 198; 3rd
agreed te, B. rep. frcm Coin. (Mr. Wood),
R.', 334; R.A., 699 <c. 141).
233; 3rd R.*, 288; R.A., 699 <c. 33).
(42) An Act respecting the Toronto, Niagara
(33) An Act repecting the Niagara-Welland
and Western Ry. Ce. (Mr. Béique). Tnt.,
Power Cc. (Mr. McMullen). Int., 175; 2nd
109; 2nd R.', 151; 3rd R.*, 198; R.A., 336
R.', 247; 3rd R.*, SU4; R. A., 699 (c. 114).
(c. 143).
(34) An Act tp incorporate the Ontario and
(43) An Act respecting the Hudson Bay and
Michigan Power Cc. (Mr. Watson). Int.,
Pacifie ]Ry. Co. (Mm. Watson). Tnt., 109;
464; M. te suspend miles (Mr. Watson),
2nd R.*, 151; 3rd R., 198; R.A., 336 <c. 91).
rem., Mr. Lsndry, 507; Sir M. Bowell, 508;
(44) An Act te incorperate the Canadian,
Mm. Lcugheed, 509; M. agreed tc, 510; M.
Liverpeol and Western Ry. Ce. (Mr.
2nd R. (MIr. Watson), mem., Mr. Lougheed,
Mitchell). Tnt., 150; 2nd R., 199; M. 3rd
545; Sir M. Bcwell, Mr. Dandurand, Mr.
R. (Mr. Mitchell), amt. (Mr. Landry),
Lcugheed, 546; Sir M. Bcwell, 548; M.
aint. lest, M. agreed te, 275; R.A., 699 <c.
agreed tc, 551; M. 3rd R. (Mr. Watson),
61).
580; aint. (Mr. Lougheed), 5M0; pt. cf order (Mr. Pcwer), 583; pt withdn., 584;
<46) An .Act respecting the Crawford Bay
renm., Sir M. Bcwell, 584; Mr. Rcss( Midand St. Mary's Ry. Co., and te change its
d1eses), 58,9; suit. lest (c. 8; n.c. 25), 593;
naine te the British Columbia and Mani46

INDEX
BILLS-SERIATIM-Con.

BILLS-SERIATIM-Con.
(59) An Act ta incorporate the Victoria and
Barkley Sound Ry. Co. (Mr. Riley). lut.,
176; 2nd R.*, 255; 3rd R.0, 327; R.A., M99
(47) An Act respecting the Guelph and God(c. 147).
erich Ry. Co. (Mr. McMullen). Int., 109;
2nd R.*, .151; 3rd R., 199; R.Â., 336 (c. 90).
(61) An-Act respecting t he Burrard, Westminister Boundary Ry. and Navigation
(48) An Act respecting the Montreal TerCay. (Mr. Bostock). lut., 176; 2nd R.0,
minai Ry. Ca. (Mr. Caagrain). Int., 228;
213; Srd R.*, 255; R.A., 33M (c. 56).
2nd R., 259; 3rd R.*, 306; R.A., 336 (c. 110).
(62) An Act ta incorporate the Prince Ai(49) An Act respecting the Ottawa, Northern
bert and Hudson Bay Ry. Co. (Mr. Taiand Western Ry. Co. (Mr. Derbyshire).
bot), lut., 176; 2nd R., 213; 3rd R.*, 327;
lut., 175; 2nd R.0, 213; Srd R.*, 327; R.A.,
11.A., 699 (c. 122).
699 (c. 118).
(63) An Act ta incorporate the British Can(50) An Act to incorporate La Compagnie
adian Accident Insurance Co. (Mr. Casdu chemin de fer International de Rimougrain), lut., 208; 2nd R., 271; 3rd R.*>
ski (Mr. Fiset). lut., 175; 2nd 11.0, 239;
558; R.A., 700 (c. 51).
3rd R.6, 327; R.A., 700 (c. 129).
toba Ry. Co. (Mr. DeVeber). Int., 84; 2nd
R.*, 141; Srd R.0, 160; R.A., 336 <c. 79).

(51) An Act to incorporate the Commercial
Casuaity and Surety Co. of Canada (Mr.
Ellis). Int., 175; 2nd R.*, 268; Srd R.*, 402;1
R.A., 700 (c. 77).

<66) An Act respecting the Abitibi and*
Hudson Bay Ry. Co. (Mr. Watson). lut.,
228; 2nd R.*, 259; 3rd R.4, 306; R.A., 3361
(c. 38).

(52> An Act respecting the Bank of Vancouver (Mr. Bostock). Int., 150; 2nd R.*,
167; Srd R.*. 213; R.A., 336 <c. 144).

(67) An Act respecting the Aisek and Yukon
lly. Co. (Mr. DeVeber). Int., 228; 2ud R.*,
259; 3rd R.*, 306; R.A., 336 (c. 41).

(53) An Act respecting the Walkerton and
Lucknow Ry. Co. (Mr. McMullen). lut.,
109; 2nd R.0, 151; 3rd R.*, 198; R.A., 336
(c. 149).
(55) An Act ta incarporate the British Coiumbia Life Assurance Co. (Mr. Riley).
Int., 175; 2nd R.*, 213; 3rd R.*, 275. R.A..
336. <c. 58).
(56) An Act respecting the Canada Life lu.
surance Co. (Mr. Young). Int, 464; Ruies
suspended, 507; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Young),
remn., Mr. Bolduc, 551; aint. (Mr. Bolduc),
aint. iost, M. agreed ta, 558; B. rep. froin
Coin.. M. 3rd R. (Mr. Young), on pt. of
order (Mr. Landry), 559; remn., Mr. Béique,
ruling (Mr. Speaker), 65; aint. for 6 m.
h. (Mr. Landry), 560; aint. iost (c. 1; n.c.
34), 561; M. 3rd R. agreed to, 562; R.A.,
700 (c. 59).

<68) An Act respecting the Athabaska Ry.
Co. (Mr. Talbot). lut., 228; 2nd R.*, 259;
3rd R.*, 306; R.A., 336 (c. 45).
(69) An Act ta incorporate the Fort Erie and
Buffalo Bridge Ca. <(Mr. Doinville). lut.,
Co. (Mr. Talbot). lut., 228; 2nd R.*, 259
(c. 83).
(70) An Act respecting the St. Mary's and
Western Ontario Ry. Co. (Mfr. Ratz). lut.,
228; 2nd R.0, 259; 3rd R.*, 306; R.A., 33(1
(c. 136).
(71) An Act respecting a patent of Thomas
L. Smith (Mfr. Watson). lut., 176; lst R.,
228; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Watson), remn., Mr.
Wilson, 255; Sir M. Boweli, 3fr. Campbell,
256; Mr. Joues, 257; Mfr. Cloran, 258; Sir
R. Cartwright, M. agreed to;259; 3rd R.*,
332; R.A., 699 (c. 134).

(57) An Act respecting the Vancouver,
Fraser Valley and Southern Ry. Co. (Mr.
Riley)*. Int., 176; 2nd R.*, 239; 3rd R.*,
306; R.A., 336 (c. 145).

(75) An Act respecting the Canadian Northeru Ontario Ry. Co. (Mfr. Jones). lut.,
332; 2nd R.4, 344; Srd R.0, 394; R.A.. M9
(c. 63).

(58) An Act respecting the Vancouver, Westmiinster and Yukon Ry. Ca. (Mr. Bostock).
lut., 146; 2nd R.*, 159; 3rd R.0, 198; R.A.,
336 (c. 146).

(76) An Act to incorporate the Canada National Fire Insurauce Co. (Mfr. Chevrier),
lut., 176; 2nd R.*, 213; Srd R.*, 275; R.A.,
336 (c. 60).

INDEX
BILLS-SERIATIM-Con.
BILLSr -SERIATIM-Con.
(77) An Act respecting a Patent of the Sub(90> An Act to croate a Department of Ex-.
marine Co. (Mr. Wilson). Int., 361; M.
tomnai -Affairs (Sir R. Cartwright). Tnt.,
2nd R. (Mr. Watson), rem., Sir M. Bowefl
337; M. 2nd R. (Sir B. Cartwright), 356;
411; Mr. Lougheed, 413; Mr. Wilson, Mr.
rom., Mr. Ioughood, 857; Mr. Forguson,
Campbell, 41t; M. agreod to, 415; M. Srd
3S8; ML.agreed to, 30; in Gom., on cl. 1,
R. (Mr. Watson), rom., Mr. Lougheed,
rom., Sir M. BoweIl, Ut4; Sir R. Cart5U8; Mr. Béique, Mr. Bostock, Sir M.
wright, 396; Mr. Ferguson, 38; Mr. DanBowell, 569; Mr. Campbell, 570; M. agreed
durand, 3S9; Mr. Loughoed, 4W0; cl. adoptto, 573; R.A., 700 (c. M88.
od, 401; ci. 4 adopted, 401; M. 3rd R. (Sir
(78) Ân Act to incorporate the Superior and
R. Cartwright), 40; rem., Mr. Fergusan,
404; M. agreed te, 406; R.A., 699 <c. 13).
Western Ontario Ry. Go. (Mr. Young).
ltt, 332; 2nd R.', 844; Srd R.', su4; ..
(91> An Act ta incorporate the Prudential
700 (c. 139).
Trust Go., Limited (Mr. Young). Int., 2nd
<79> An Act respecting the Canadian Pacifie
R.', 464; Srd R. ' 58; R.A., 700 (c. 124>.
Ry. Co. (Mr. Young).
Int., 247; 2nd R.*,
<94) An Act rospecting the Godar Rapide
268; 3rd R.', SU3; R.A., 336 <c. 65).
Manufacturing and Power Go. (Mr. Bel(80) An Act respecting the Kootenay and
court>. lnt., 287; 2nd R.', 331; Srd R.',
Arrowhead Ry. Go. (Mr. Bastack>. Tnt.,
352; R.A., 699 <c. 71).
305; 2nd R.*, 332; Srd R.*, 394; R,.A., 700
(95) An Act to incorpomate the Royal Guar(c. 97).
dians (Mr. Caigrain>.
int., 352; 2nd R.',
(81) An Act respecting the Manitoba and
382; M. ta concur in amts. (Mr.- Gibson>,
Northwestern Ry. Co. (Mr. WVatson). Int.,
rom., Mr. Casgrain, 576; Mr. Scott, 577;
333; 2nd R., 344; M. 3rd R. (Mr. Watson),
Mr. lougheed, Mr. Gibeon, 578; Sir M.
amt. (Mr. Davis), 386; rem., Mr. Douglas,
Bowell, M. agreed ta, 879; Srd R.', 627.
890; Mr. Watson, 391; Mr. Davis, 393; amt.
-(96) An Act reepecting the Kettie River Val(Mr. Davis) carriod (o. 26; n.c. 22>; M.
loy Ry. Go. (Mr. Rois, Middlesex).
Brd R. carried as amended, 394; correction
Int.,
ini amt. agreed to, 4W0; MI~.
333; 2nd R.',344; 3rd R.', 394; R.A., 699
not ta insist on
amts. <Mr. Watson), 513; rem., Mr. Davis,
(c. 95).
514; M. agreed ta, 516; R.A., 700 (c. 102>.
(97) An Act respecting Insurance (Sir R.
<82> An Act respecting the Monarcli Fire
Cartwright). Int., 639; M. 2nd R. (8ir R.
Insurance Co. (Mr. Goffey>. Int., 352; 2nd
Cartwright), rom., Sir M. Bowell, 674; B.
R., 382; 3rd R.', 50W; R.A., 700 (c. 106>.
dropped, 697*.
(84> An Act respeoting the Athabaska Northern Ry. Go. (Mr. DeVeber>. Tnt., 333; 2nd
R.', 3S2; 3rd R.', 407; R.A., 699 (c. 6>.
<85> An Act respocting the British Columbia Southern Ry. Go. (Mr. Bostock>. lut.,
M3; 2nd R.', 344; Srd R.', 402;. R.A.., 69
(c. 54).
<86> An Act respecting the*Gobait Range Ry.
Co. (Mr. Belcourt>. Tnt., 3SU; 2nd R.',
344; 3rd R.', 386; R.A., 699 (c. 73).
(87) An Act to incorporate the Arnprior and
Pontiac Ry. Co. (Mr. Watson). Int., 361;
2nd R.', 401; 3rd R.', 438; R.A., 700 (c. ")>.
<89> An Act ta amend the Govern ment HEarbours and Piers Act (Sir R. Cartwright).
Tnt., 493; M. 2nd R. (Sir R. Cartwright),
574; rom., Mr. Lougheed, 575; M. agreed
ta, 576; in Gom., 628; B. rep. fromt Gom.
(Mr. Thompson>, 3rd R.', 62S; R.A.. 700
(c. 17).

%98> An. Act ta amend .the Erchequor Court
Act (Sir R. Cartwright). Int., 418; M. 2nd
R. (Sir R. Cartwright), 4&9; rom., Mr.
Casgrain, Mm. Belcourt, 440; M. s.greod ta,
441; ini Gom., 4U8; rem., Mm. Choquette,
Mr. Cloman, 460; Mr. Poirier, B. rep. from
Com. (MI-. Wood), 461; M. Srd R. (Sir R.
Cartwright), M. in amt. (Mr. Choquette>,
494, 495; rom., Mr. Landry, Mr. Béique,
497; e.mt. withdn., 498; M. in amt. (Mr.
Belcourt). 498; on pt. of order (Mr. Loughood>, 613; rom., Mr. Belcourt, 614; Mr.
Landry, Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Cloran, 615;
Ruling (Mr. Speaker), 616; Debate adin.,
618; rom., Sir R. Cartwright, Mr. Choquotte, 664; amt. withdn., M. 3Brd R. carried, 665; R.A., 700 (c. 12).
<102) An Act ta incorporate the London and
Northwestern Ry. Co. (Mr. McMulIon).
Tnt., 333; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Rosa, Middlesex),
rem., Mm. Wilson, 344; Mr. Power, Sir M.

INDEX
EILLS-SERIATIM-Con.
Bowell, 345; M. withdn., 346; M. 2nd R.
(Mr. Coffey), remn., Sir M. Boweiî, 377;
Mr. Wilson, Mr. Campbell, 378; Mr. Ferguson, 379; Mr. Watson, 380; Mr. Batz,
381; M. agreed to, 382; Srd R.*, 402; R.A.,
700 (c.'100).
(103> An Act respecting the National Accident and Guarantee Co. of Canada (Mr.
Batz). Int., 610; 2nd R.*, 3rd R.*, 650
B.A., 7W0(o. 113).
<10t> An Act respecting the Theesalon and
Northern Ry. Co. (Mr. MoMuilen>. lut.,
4U3; 2nd R.O. 5m8; 3rd R.-, M6; R.A., 700
(c. 140).
<106> An Act to amend the Railway Act
(Mr. Dandurand>. lut., 558; M. 2nd R.
(Sir R. Cartwright), M. agreed to, 618; in
Coin., remn., Mr. Lougheed, 619; on ci. 13,
rem., Sir M. Bowell, 620; Mr. Bulis, Mr.
Béique, 621; cl. adoptad, 622; B. rep. f roin
Coin. (Mr. Periey), 623; M. 3rd R. (Sir R.
Cartwright), aint. (Mr. Young), 651; sait.
carried, 653; rem., Mr. Béique, M. 3rd
R. agreed to. 653; R.A., 701 (c. 32).
(110> An Act
tilizers (Sir
R., 441; in
Baker), 3rd

respecting Agricultural FerR. Cartwright). lut., 418; 2nd
Coin., 512; B. rep. from Coin.
B.*, 513; R.A., 700 (c. 16>.

(117> An Act for granting ta Ris Majesty
certain suins of money for the publie service of the finanojai years ending respectiveiy the 3lst March, 1909, and the Slst
March, 1910 (Sir R. Cartwright). lst R.,
M. to suspend ruies (Sir R. Cartwright):
M. agreed ta, 2nd R.*, 3rd R., 3M3;
A.
336 (c. 1).
<122) An Act tW incorporate the Cabana Ry.
Co. (Mr. McSweeuey). lut., 361; 2nd B..,
401; 3rd R., 438; R.A., 700 (c. 57).
(17) An Act respecting Commercial Faeding Stuf s (Sir R. Cartwright). lut., 418;
2nd R., 442; B. rep. froin Coin. (Mr. Bostock>, 3rd R.*, 513; R.A., 700 <c. 15).
(128) An Act Wo authorize a loan ta the
Grand Trunk Pacific Ry. Co. (Sir R. Cartwright). lut., 438; M. 2nd R. (Sir R.
Cartwright), 468; rem., Mr. Lougheed, 469;
Mr. Casgrain, 476; M. agreed ta, 573; 3rd
R.*, 573; R.A., 700 (c. 19>.
(131> An Act Woamend the Canada Shippinig
Act (Sir R. Cartwright). Int., 418; 2nd
R.. 443; B. rap. frein Coin., 462; 3rd R.*,
467; R.A., 700 (c 34).

BILLS-SERIATIM-Con.'
(136> An Act to amend the Post Office Act
(Sir R. Cartwright). lut., 511; 2nd R.,
3rd R.*, 607; R.A., 700 <c. 30>.
(137> An Act Woamend the Civil Service Act
(Sir. R. Cartwright). lut., 511; 2nd R.,
3rd R.*. 607; R.A., 700 (c. 6>.
(146> An Act ta amend the Act relating ta
Ocean Steamship Subsidies (Sir R. Cartwright). lut., 418; M. 2nd R. (Sir R.
Cartwright), rem., Mr. Lougheed, 443; M.
agraad ta, 445_; in Coin., B. rep. from Coin.
(Mr. Baird), 462; Srd R.-, 467; R.A., 700
(c. 36>.
(147> An Act Woamand the Goid Storage Act
(Sir R. Cartwright). lut., 626; 2ad R.*,
3rd R.*, 639; R.A., 700 (c. 8>.
(148> An Act ta amand the Crimuinai Code
(Sir R. Cartwright). Int., 671; 2nd R.,
675; in Coin., on cl. 2, remn., Mr. Loughaed,
Mfr. Power, ci. agraed te, 676; on ci. 228a,
ait. (Mr. Lougheed> te strika cl. out,
677; rem., Mr. Power, Mr. Scott, aint. carried (c. 17; n.c. 13), 678; on ci. 292, amut.
(Mr. Power) iost, 67M; on ci. 424a, ram.,
Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Choquette, Mr. Gibson,
amut. (Mr. Power) te strike cl. out, aint.
carried, 680; on ci. 508a, amnt. (Mr. Lougheed> ta strike ci. out carriad, 681; cl. 508b
struck out, 682;' ci. 2 struck out, 684; on
ci. 728a, amut. (Mfr. Power) withdn., B. rap.
from Coin. (Mr. Camnpbell), 3rd R.*, 686;
R.A., 701 (c. 9).
(149) An Act ta amand the Extradition Act
(Sir R. Cartwright). lut., 418; M. 2nd Z.
(Sir R. Cartwright), rem., Mr. Loughaed,
445; Mr. Ferguson, M. agraad ta, 446; in
Coin., 467; B. rap. froin Coin. (Mfr. Gibson), 468; 3rd R.*, 502; R.A., 700 (c. 14).
(151) An Act ta amend tha Exchaquer Court
Act (Sir R. Cartwright). lut., 626; M. 2nd
R. (Mr. Dandurand>, ram., Mfr. Powar,
Mfr. Beicourt, 639; Mfr. Cioran, 640; Mfr.
Béiqua, 641; 5fr. Ross (Middlasex), 642;
Mfr. Loughaad, 643; Mr. Choquatte, 644;
Mfr. Cioran, 645; 5fr. Power, 646; Mfr. Dandurand, 647; Mr. Landry, 649; M. agraad
ta, 650; in Coin., rein., Mr. Bostock. Sir
R. Cartwright, Mfr. Beicourt, Prograss raported, 654; aint. (Mfr. Choquetta), anit.
lost, 671; M. (Mfr. Powar) that Coin. risa,
M. carried, 672.
(152> An
Waters

Act to amend
Protection Act

the
(Sir

Navigable
R. Cart-

INDEX

xxiii

INDEX

xxii'

BILLS-SERIÂTIM-Con.
BILLS--SERIATIM-Con.
(187) An Act ta authorize certain increasea
wright>. lut, 493; 2nd R.*, 576; ini Com.,
of salary ta members cf the Civil Service;
rem., Sir M. Boweil, 609; B. rep. from
Inside Service (Sir R. Cartwright). lut..
Com. (Mr. Bostock), Srd R.*, 610; R.A.,
671; 2nd R., 686; in 0cm., rem., Mr. Lau700 (c. 28).
dry, Mr. Scott, 687; Mr. Landry, Mr. Wat(153) An Act respecting the National Transson, 688'; B. rep. from 0Cm. (Mr. Gibson),
continental Ry. (Sir R. Cartwright). Iut.,
689; 3rd RL.,690; R.A.. 701 (c. 7).
ils; 2nd B., 447; B. rep. from 0Cm., 4M2;
Urd R.*, 467; R.A.. 700 (c. 26).
(191> An Act ta authorise the raising by
way cf boan cf certain suma cf mcney for
(154) An Act reapecting the Harbour Comthe public service (Sir R. Cartwright).
missions cf Montreal (Sir R. Cartwright).
Int., 671; M. 2nd R. (Sir B. Cartwright),
lut., 610; 2nd Re, 033; B. rep. from 0Cm.
690; rem., Mr. Lougheed, Sir M. BowelI,
(Mr. Thompson). 3rd B.*, 33; B.A., 700
691; M. agreed ta, 3rd R.*. 692; B.Â., 700
<c. 24).
(c. 23>.
(156> An Act to amond the Yukon Act (Sir
<192> An Act ta provide for further advances
R. Cartwright). lut., 418; 2nd R.*, 447; B.
ta the Harbour Ccmmissioners cf Monrep. from Cm., 482; 3rd R.*, 467; B.A., 700
treal (Sir R Cartwright). lut., 626; M.
(c. 37).
2nd R. <Sir R. Cartwright), rem., Mr.
(159) An Act ta establiuh a Commission for
Lcugheed, 673; M. agreed ta, 3rd R.*, 674;
the ocnservation cf Natural Reacurcea
R.A., 700 (c. 25>.
(Sir R. Cartwright).
lut., M. 2nd R.
(193) An Act ta amend the Judges Act (Sir
postponed, 511; M. 2nd R. (Sir R. CartR. Cartwright). Int., 671; M. 2nd R. <Sir
wright), 607; -rom., Sir M. Bowell, M.
agreed to, 608; B. rep. from 0cm. (Mr.
R. Cartwright), rem., Mr. Lendry, 692;
Mr. Choquette, 693; M. agreed ta, 3rd B.*,
Campbell), 3rd R.*, 609; B.A., 700 (o. 27).
693; B.A., 701 (c. 21>.
<162) An Act to amend the Custcms Tariff,
1907 (Sir B. Cartwright). Int., 418; M.
(195> An Act for granting ta Ris MajestY
2nd R. (Sir R. Cartwright), rem., Sir M.
certain smo cf mcney for the public service cf the financial, years ending respecBowell, 448; M. agreed ta, 450; Brd R.*,
tively the 1sit March, 1909, and the 31st
502; R.A., 700 (c. 10).
March, 1910 (Sir R. Cartwright). lot R.*,
<164> An Act ta amend the Intercolonial
2nd R., 698; 3rd R.*, 699; R.A., 701 (c. 2).
and Prince Edward Island Ry. Employeee
Provident Fund Act (Sir R. Cartwright), BILLS ASSENTED TO: à36, 699.
lut., 2nd R.*, Brd B.*. 026; R.A., 700 (o. CANADIAN SEAMANSHIP AN]) NAVIGA20).
TION: M. (Mr. Roma, Middlesex), 361; rom.,
Mr. Power, 370; Mr. Domville, Mr. Fergu<165> An Act reapecting thie Department cf
son, 372; Mr. Eibis, Sir R. Cartwright, SM3;
Labour (Sir R. Cartwright>.
lut., 626;
Mfr. Ross (Halifax). 374; Mr. Lougheed, 375;
M. 2nd R. (Sir R. Cartwright), 65M; rom.,
Mfr. Rosa (Middlesex), M. withdn., 376.
Mr. Lcougheed, 656; Mr. Dandurand, 658;
Mr. Rose (Middlesex), 659; Sir M. Bowell,
CANDIAC POST OFFICE: inq. (Mr. Landry>,
660; Sir R. Cartwright, 663; M. agreed ta,
repby (Sir R. Cartwright), 383.
Srd R.*, 664; R.A., 700 (c. 22).
CARRIER LAINE AN]) CO.'S FOUNDRY:
<174> An Act ta correct a clerical errer in
inq. (Mfr. Landry>. repby (Sir R. CartChapter 63 of the Statutea cf 1908 respectwright), 383.
ing Ry. Subsidies (Sir R. Cartwright).
lut., 626; M. 2nd R. (Sir R. Cartwright), CHIEF JUSTICE 0F SUPREME COURT 0F
rem., Mr. Lcugheed, 672; M. agreed ta,
BRITISH COLUMBIA: M. (Mfr. Boatock),
3rd R.*, 673; R.A., 700 (c. 35).
147.
(186) An Act roapecting certain aid for the CIVIL SERVANTS, CLASSIFICATION 0F:
extension of the Canadian Northern Ry.
M. to concur in message from 0Cmmons (Sir
(Sir R. Cartwright).
lut., 686; 2nd R..
R. Cartwright), rem., Mfr. Power, M. agreed
3rd B.*, 673; R.A., 700 (c. 5).
to, 512.

INDEX
C0MMITTEE 0F SELECTION: M. (Mfr. Cho- DIVORCE COURTS FOR CANADA: M. (Mfr.
quotte>, remn., Mr. B4ique, Sir M. BoweIl,
Ross, Halifax), 419; M. ruled ont of order,
Mfr. Ferguson, Mr. Speaker, Mfr. Poirier,
421; M. (1fr. Boua, Halifax>, 483; rom., Mfr.
M. ruled ont of order, 5; M. to adopt lot
Elli, 484; Mr. Landry, Mr. Béique, M8; Mr.
report (Mr. Gibson), 43; remn., Mfr. Davis,
Speaker, Mr. Pawer, 487; Mfr. Lougheed,
Mr. Clorax, 44; Mfr. Power, Mfr. Boas (Hali.
489; M. withdn., 490.
fax), 45.
IEXPLANÂTIONS: Mfr. Speaker, î; Mfr. Perloy, 62; Mfr. Fower, 650.
DEBATES AND BEPORTING C0MMITTEE:
M. to adopt report (Mfr. Ellis), 306; amt. to GEORGIAN BAY CANAL: inq. (Mfr. De Bourefer back (Mr. Boss (Middlesex), 307; rem.,
cherville), reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 665.
Mfr. Power, 309; Mr. Ferguson, 310; Mfr.
GRAND TRtTNK PACIFIC, A LOAN TO:
Watson, Mr. Cloraii, 312; Sir M. Bowell,
inq. (1fr. Forguson), reply (Sir R. Cart313; amt. adopted, 315; M. to adopt report
wright), 109.
(Mfr. Ellis>, M2O; rein., Mfr. B4ique, 630; 1fr.
Landry, 631; aint. (Mfr. Power), 632; aint. GRAND TRUNK RY. CO., LOANS TO . inq.
(Mfr. Perley), reply (Sir R. Cartwright),
carried, 633; M. to adopt report (Mfr. Ellis),
201.
M. agreed to, 6M2.
HINDS, APPOINTMENT 0F 1fR. ARTHUR:
DECEASED SENATORS: rem., Sjr R. CartMemo. froin Mr. Speaker referred ta Coin.
wright, 1fr. Lougheed, 41; Mr. Bolduc, 42.
(Mfr. Watson), 247; M. to concur in report
of Coin. (1fr. Thompson), remn., 1fr. Power,
DELAYED REPORTS: inq. <(Mr. Fergusan),
M. agreed ta, 274.
reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 102.
HTUDSON BAY RY., CONSTRUCTION 0F:
DIVISIONS:
inq. (1fr. Ponley), reply (Sir R. CartOn aint. (Sir B. Cartwright) to refer Ry.
wright), 202, 694.
Act Amt. B. (6) to Coin, on Railways and HUDSON BAY EPEDITION:
inq. (Mr. LanTelegraphs, asot. carried (c. 40; n.c. 15),
dry), noply (Sir R. Cartwright), 434.
82.
10E BREAKING AT CAP ROUGE: inq. (1fr.
On M. (Mfr. McMallen) for 2nd
R. of ConChoquette), neply (Sir R. Cartwright), 4.
ciliation Act Aint. B. (M)>, M. lost (c. 13;
IMPERIAL CONFERENCE: inq. (Mfr. Long.
n.c. 20), 167.
heed), reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 466.
On aint. (Mfr. Elis) to refer Ry. Act Âmt.
B. (6> to Com. of Whole, amt. lost (c. 16; INSURANCE BIL. inq. (Mfr. Lougheed), reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 466.
n.c. 30), 326.
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY: M. (Sir M..
Bowoli>, 183; rem., Sir R. Cartwright, 184;
1fr. Wood, 185;- 1fr. Loughood, Sir M.
Bawell, 186; 1fr. Ferguson, 187; Mfr. ChoOn M. (Mr. Ellis) for 2nd R. of Fundy
quette), 188; Mn. Pawer, 189; M. agneed ta.
Power Co. B. (XX), M. lost (c. 10; n.c.
190.
11), 429.
INTERCOLONIAL RY. EMPLOYEES IN
On amt. to amt. (Mfr. Béique> to report of
MONTREAL: inq. (1fr. Chaquette>, repby
Com. on Sonate Classification, amt. lbat
(Sir R. Cartwright), 57.
(c. 22; n.c. 25), 541.
INTERCOLONIAL RY. COMMISSIONERS,
On amt. (Mfr. Landry) to same report, amt.
APPOINTMENT 0F: inq. (1fr. Tessier), rolost (c. 14; n.c. 22), 541.
pby (Sir R. Cartwright), 623.
On amt. (Mfr. Landry) for 6 mn.h. on M. Srd IRISH AFFAIRS: M. (Mn. Cloran), 170; rein.,
R. Canada Life Insurance Co. B. (56), amt.
Mfr. Speaker, 171, 173; M. (Mr. Cloran), 203;
lost (c. 1; n.c. 34), 561.
rem.. 1fr. Pawer, 205; 1fr. Speaker, 206.
On amt. (Mr. Lougheed) to M. Brd R. of JUDGES, THE STATUS 0F: inq. (Mfr. LanOntario and Michigan Power Co. B. (34>,
dry), reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 100.
amt. lost (c. 8; n.c. 25>, 593,; on similar JUDGES 0F THE SUPREME COURT, PREaint. (Sir M. BoweIl), amt. Iost (c. 8; n.c.
CEDENCE 0F: inq. (Mfr. Landry), reply
25), 606.
(Sir R. Cartwright), 107.

*On amt. (Mfr. Davis) to M. for Srd R. of
Manitoba and Northwestern Ry. Co. B.
(81), amt. carried (c. 26; n.c. 22), 394.

INDEX
JUDGES AND CIVIL SERVANTS, RETIREMENT 0F: inq. (Mr. Power), 248; rem..
Mr. Choquette, Sir R. Cartwright, 253; Mr.
Landry, 254.
JUDICIAL APPOINTMENTS AT QUEBEC.:
inq. (Mr. Landry), reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 4i2.
LAKE ST. JOHIEN COLONIZÂTION SCCIETY.
inq. (Mr. Tessier), reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 149; M. (Mr. Tesuier), 190.

NICHOLSON, APPOINTMENT
0F
MB.
BYRON: M. ta concur in mema. tram Mr.
Speaker (Mr. Watson), M. ta refer mema.
ta Com. (Mfr. Power), rem., Mr. Power, Mr.
Rose (Middlesex), 240; Sir M. Bowell, Mr.
Chaquette, 241; Mr. Landry, Mr. Watson,
242; Mr. Dandurand, 243, Mfr. Speaker, 244;
Mr' Béique, Sir M. Bowell, 245; Mfr. Landry,
Mfr. Ross (Middlesex), 246; M. (Mfr. Power)
agreed ta, 247; M. ta concur in report af
Con. (Mfr. Thompson), rem., Sir M. Bowell,
2742; Mr. Power, Mfr. Speaker, 273; M. agreed
to, 274; certificats of Civil Service Commissionera presented, Referred ta Can., 465.

LAKE ST. JOHN, PUBLIC WORKS AT: inq.
(Mr. Tessier), reply (Sir R. Cartwright),
149.
LANCASTER BILL: rem., Mr. Ferguson, Mr. NOVA SCOTIA, VACANCIES IN REPREDandurand, 157.
SENTATION 0F: inq. (Mfr. I.ougheed), reLIBRARY 0F PARLIAMENT: Report suhply (Sir R. Cartwright), 421; inq. (Sir M.
mitted, 286; M. to adopt report (Mr. Power),
Bowell>, reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 610.
3»0; rem., Mr. Ferguson, M. adopted, 331.
PRINTING 0F PÂRLIAMENT, COMMITLIBRÂRY EMPLOYEES, CLASSIFICATION
TEE ON THE: M. ta adapt report (Mfr.
0F: M. to concur in message fram ComPawer), rem., Mfr. Ferguson, M. agreed to,
mans (Sir R. Cartwright), 502; rem., Mr.
334.
Power, 503; Mr. Landry, Mr. Béique, Mr. PRIVILEGE, QUESTIONS 0F: rem., Sir M.
Scott, 504; amt (Mr. Power), M05; Mr.
Bowell, 103; Mr. Scott, 105; Sir M. Bawell,
Speaker, amt. lost, M. agreed to, 506.
191.
LOUISE BASIN, QUEBEC, COST 0F CON- PUBLIC.HEALTE AND INSPECTION 0F
STRUCTION AT: M. (Mr. Choquette), 611.
FOODS COMMITTEE.- M. ta adopt lat report (Mr. DeVeber), 277; rem., Sir R. CartMINERAL RESOURCES 0F CANADA: M.
wright, Mfr. Rosa (Middlesex), 278; Mfr. Fer(Mr. Domville), 149; rem., Mr. Power, Mr.
guson, 279; Mfr. Power, 280; Mr. Landry,
Landry, 150; Mt. Power, M. agreed to, 159;
281; Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Wilson, 282; report
M. <Mr. Domville), 354; M. to adapt report
referred back, 284; M. ta adopt 2nd repart
(Mr. Domville>, M. agreed to, 650.
(Mfr. DeVeber>, M. agreed ta, 634.
MINERÂL RIGHTS IN THE TERRITORIES:
PUBLIC WORKS IN CHICOUTIMI AND
M. (Mfr. Comeau>, rem., Mr. Lougheed, Sir
SAGUENAY: M. (Mfr. Choquette), 190.
IR. Cartwright, Mfr. Ferguson, 183; M.
dropped, 193.
RAILWÂY
COMMISSION,
REPORT 0F
THE: inq. (Mr. Ferguson), reply (Sir R.
MINISTERIÂL REPRESENTÂTION IN THE
Cartwright), 43.
SENATE: rem., Mfr. Lougheed, Mr. Dandurand, Mr. Landry, Mr. Ferguson, 168.
RAILWAY STATISTICS: M. (Mr. Ferguson>,
rem., Sur R. Cartwright, Mr. Speaker, 50;
MINUTES 0F THE SENATE: inq. (Mr. LanMfr. Power, Mfr. Ferguson, M. agreed ta.
dry), reply (Mfr. Speaker), 611.
51; rem., Sir R. Cýartwright, Mfr. Fergusan,
MINUTES 0F THE SENATE, CORREC56.
TION 0F: M. (Mr. Landry), rem., Mr.
RÂILWÂY BONDS IN ALBERTA, CrUARANSpeaker, 107; M. withdn., 108.
TEE 0F- inq. (Mr. Perney), reply (Sir R.
'MONTCALM,' The STEAMER: inq. (Mr.
Cartwright), 148.
Choquette), reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 43.
REFORM 0F THE SENATE: Notice of M.
MORNING SITTINGS: M. (Sir R. Cart(Mfr. Scott), 33; M. (Mfr. Scott), 85; Tom..
wright), 562; debated, 562 ta 56S; M. agreed
Mfr. Ponley, 100; Mfr. Rosa (Middlesex), 118;
to, 568.
Mfr. MeMullen, 176; Mr. Poirier, 214; Mr.
Legris, 222; Mfr. Ponley, 224; M. ini amt. (Mr.
NEWFOUNDLÂND, NEGOTIATIONS WITH:
inq. (1r. Lougheed>, reply (Sir R. CaxtDavid), 348; rem., 1fr. Edwards. 430; amt.
ta ant. (Mfr. Ellis), 635; rom., Mfr. Béique,'
wright), 376; M. (Sir. M. Bowell), 383; M.
Mfr. Chaquette. Debate adjourned, 638.
agreed ta, 386; rem., 510.

lxvi

INDEX

xxvi

INDEX

RESTAURANT COMMITTEE: M. to adopt
report (Mr. Young), rem.. Mr. Power. Mr.
Watson, M. agreed ta, 49.
RIDOUT DIVORCE CASE: Report presented,
rem., Mr. Cioran, Mr. Kirchhoffer, 131.
RULES 0F TUE SENATE, FRENCH EDITION Of': inq. (Mr. landry), reply (Sir R.
Cartwright), 84; M. (Mr. Landry>, 403.

Mr. Choquette, 531; Mr. Poirier, 5M3; Mr.
Power, Ut4; Mr. David, Mr. Cioran, 53S;
amt. té ait. (Mr. Béique). 540; suât.- ta amt.
lost (c. 22; n.c. 25), suât. (Mr. Landry). lost
<c. 14; n.c. 22), 541; amt. (Mr. Lougheed),
542; rem., Sir R. Cartwright, 5M3; amnt. lost,
544; amt (Mr. Choquette), lost, 544; amt.
(Mr. Watson) agreed ta, 544; report as
amended adopted and sent ta Commons, U45;
report of Mr. Speaker upon Schedule of salaries submitted, rem., Mr. Lougheed, 696;
report adopted, 697.

RULES 0F THE SENATE, SUSPENSION
0F. M. (Mr. Béique), rem., Mr. Landry,
Mr. Speaker, M.' agreed to, 337; M. (Mr.
SENATE MANUAL, FRENCH TRANSLADandurand). 623; M. agreed to, 625.
TION 0F: inq. (Mr. Landry), reply (Sir R.
RULES, PENALTIES FOR INFRACTION
Cartwright), M3.
OF. rem., Mr. Costigan. Mr. Rosa (MiddleSENATE REFORM: See under Reform of the
sex), U35; Mr. Dandurand, 436.
Senate..
SAUVE, Mr. L. A., CHARGES AGAINST.
SENATORS, NEW:
inq. (Mr. Landry). reply (Sir R. CartHon. Noé Chevrier, 1.
wright), 490.
Hon. Valentine Ratz, 4.
ST. LAWRENCE, RATES 0F INSURANCE
ON THE: rem.. Sir R. Cartwright, Mr. Fer- SPEAKER, THE. Appointment of Hon. James
Kirkpatri'ck Kerr, 1.
guson, 43.
ST. JEAN DES CRAILLONS, WHARF AT: SPEECH FROM THE THRONE, 1.
inq. (Mr. Leandrv). reply (Sir R. Cart- STANDING COMMITTEES: M. (Sir R. Cartwright), 419; 562.
wright), 3.
SCITGOG. ONT., CONSTRUCTION 0F DAM STANDING -COMMITTEE ON INTERNAL
AT. inq. (Mr. McHugh>, 200; reply (Sir R.
ECONOMY: M. (Mr. Watson) to adopt reCartwright), 287; 337.
port, rem., Mr. Landry, 695.
SENATORS. DECEASED: See under Deceased STATE OWNED
Senators.
l curt), 202.

CABLES:

M.

(Mr.

Bel-

APPOINTMENT STRATHCONA GRANT, THE: inq. (Mr.
EMPLOYEES,
SENATE
OF: Memo. fromn Speaker rend. rem., Mr.
Choquette), reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 260;
Landrv. Mr. Lougheed, Mv. Speaker. 39;
Mr. Poirier. Mr. Belcourt, Mr. Power, 40;FOR RAILWAY FR051 JONMr. Watson, 41; M. t a dopt memo. (Mr. SUBSIDY
QUIERE TO ST. ALPHONSE: M. (Mr. ChoW'atson). rem.. Mr. Landry, Mr. Danduquette), 483.
rand, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Power, 47; Mr. Belinq.
COMMISSION:
court. Mr. Speaker, 48; M. agreed ta. 49; TRANSPORTATION
memo. from Speaker referred ta Com., 418.
(Mr. Landry), reply (Sir R. Cartwright),
492.
SENATE EMPLOYEES, CLASSIFICATION
WATER CARRIAGE 0F GOODS BILL: rem.,
0F: inq. (Mr. Landvy), reply (Mr. Speaker),
Mv. MeMullen, 694.
57; 229; report of Mr. Speaker submitted,
Il. to refer (Mr. Young), 284; rem., Sir M. WATERWAYS TREATY: inq. (Mr. LonugBowefl. Mr. Dandurand, Mr. Ross (Middleheed), reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 108.
sex). 285; M. agreed ta, 286; M. to adopt reYUKON ORDINANCE: M. (Sir R. Cartport of Com. (Mr. Thompson>, 519; rem.,
wright), vem., Mr. Lougheed, 457; M. agreed
Mr. Landry, 520; amt. (Mr. Landry), 527;
to, 458.
rem.. Sir M. BowelI, 527; Mv. Danduvand,

