DEBATES
0FR

THE SENATE
OF THE

DOMINION 0F CANADA
EXTRA SESSION, 1914

REPORTED AND

HOLLTAND

EDITED BY

ND

B-ENL-GOU)TGH

(Officiai Reporters of the Benate of Canadla)

FOUIRTl SESSION-TWELFTH PARIIAMENT

OTTAWA,
PR.INTED BY J. DEcL. TACHE, PRINTER TO THE KINGIS MOST
EXCELLENT MAJESTY

1914

SENATORS 0-? CANADA
ALPIIABETICAL LIS1T

FOURTII SESSION, TWELFTI PATILIAMENT, 4 GEORGE V.
1914

SENATORS.

IJESIGNATION.

PO.ST OFFICE ADDIRESS.

The Honourable
Perth, N.B.
Montreal, Que.
Bowvianville, Ont.
Ottawa, Ont.
St. Victor de Tring, Que.
Monte Creek, B.C.
Montreal, Que.
Belleville, Ont.
Montrea], Que.
Montreal, Que.
]èuebec, Que.
Mnra.Que.
.... Bellevs iii... .. .... Belleville, Ont.
CORBY, H ..... .. .....................
.Edinuu<bstoiî, N.B.
... Victoîja, N.B.
........
COSTIGAN, J...........
.. ... IAiuherst........... Amherst, N. S.
-m..........
CURRY, N................
Montreal, Que.
De Luriniier...
D)ANDtIRAND, R ...... . ..... .............
St. ,Johnu, N.B.
John......
.
DANIEL, J. W.........................
Montreal, Que.
.... ... .Mille Iles.
DAVID, L. O............ ...........
Prince Albert, Sask.
...... ........ Prince Albert ..
DAVIS, T. O ...............
Halifax, N.S.
Halifax.........
... ..........
DENNIS, W ..................
Brock ville, Ont.
.. ..... Brockville ..
..........
DERBYStiiRe, D ..... ....
St. Hyacinthe, Que.
Rungemon01t ....
DESSAU LLES, G. C ..........................
Lethbridge, Alberta.
. ..... Lethbridge ...
DE VEBER, L. G .....................
Rothesay, N.B.
Rothesay .
..........
....
DomvILLE, J ................
lriice..... .. ..... Piîîkerton, Ont.
DoxNELLY, JAMES J........................
Tantallhm, Saskatchewan.
Tantalln.
..........
DOUGLAS, J. M ..... ... .............
Ottawa, Ont.
Rideau .... ........
EDWARDS, W. C...... ...... ...... .........
Liverpool .... ...... Liverpool, N.S.
.............
..........
FARRELL, E. M ........
Rimiouski, Que.
Gulf ..............
FisEr, J. B. R .............................
Banff, Alberta.
........ Baniff.... ........
FORGET, A. E...... ...... .........
....... ........ Leeds and GrenvillE Smith's Falls, Ont.
........
FROST, F. T .......
St. George, N. B.
St. George......
....................
GILLmoR, D...........
Antigonish, N.S.
Antigonish......
....
GIBROIR, E. L ..........................
Beauceville West, Que.
.. ... La Salle ...........
...............
GoDBouT, J,...... ....
North Bay, Ont.
......... Nipissing ..........
GORTDON, G ......................
Toronto, Ont.
... Toronto ...........
JAFFRLAY, R ............................
Toronto, Ont.
Toronto...........
JONEs, Sir. LYMAN MELVIN ..... ...............
Toronto, Ont.
.. Toronto .........
KERR, J. K., P. C................ ........
Chipman, N.B.
Queen's . ........
KiNO, G. G ................................
Brandon, Man.
Selkirk ..... ......
....................
KiRUHHOFFER, J. N ......
Stadacona......
Candiac, Quebec, P.Q.
................
LANDRT, P. (Speaker) ..........
Provencher ....
St. Boniface, Man.
LA RiviÉRE, A. A. C..........................
Arthabaska, Que.
Kennebec....
LAVERONE, L . .............................
Louiseville, Que.
.... Re pentigny ...
LEGRIS, J. HR... ........ ... ...........
Calgary-...... . Calgary, Alberta.
«...... ................
LOUGIIEEO, J. A .....
Victorv11.......
.... .......
..............
BAIRD, G. T. .....
De Salaberry...
.... .......
.............
BÉiQuE, F. L ........
..
Bowrn-anville.
...........
BEITT, R ...................
-Ottawa ..... ......
...................
BELCOULIT, N. A ...........
... .Lauzon ...........
...........
....
BOLDUC, J.............
.
...... ,Kauiloops .
BoSTOCK, H-T..... .... ...................
ýMontarvi[le...
BOtJCHERVILLE, DE, C.E., C.M.G ...............
BOWELL, (Sir Mackenzie), K.C.M.G-.............Haptings.. .. ý...
Rigaud ............
..... ........ .........
BOYER, A ..........
....... iDe Lanaudiére......
CASGRAIN, J. P. B.
...... Grandv ille-. ..
...........
CHOQUETTE, P. A.... . ....
Victoria ..........
CLORAIN, H. J.. ..........................

SENATORS OF CANADA.

DESIGNATION.

SENATORS.

POST OFFICE ADDRESS.

The Honourable
.. ........
..
...

........
MACDONALD, W. J.... ....
M ACKAY, R.....................
.. .........................
MAcKEEN, D ..
MA\SON, JAMEs....... .........................

.... . .
.

..........

.......

MCCALL, ALEXANDER......

McDONALD, W .. . .........
,
McHucHu (............................
M cK AY, W ......

... ..

MýCSWVEE.NEY,

P .. ........

.....

....

.

.

McLAREN, P......,............
....

..

.......

....
.

..

.

Victoria..........
Ahna.............
Cape Breton.

.....
.

.

.....
......... ....
. ....
M ITc HELL, W ....
MONTPLAISR, H......... ...................
......
.........
M U RP Y, P. C ...........
......
.. ... ...
OWENS, W .. ..........
....
.. ..... ....
POIRIER, P ................
...
.... .. ..........
POPE, R. Hi ............
PowERl, L. G., P.C...........................

Cape Breton .
Victoria, O.
Cape Breton.
Perth.. ...........
Northunberland...
Wellington.

Shawenegan.
Tignish...........
Inkerinan
Acadie..........
Bedford..........
Halifax..........
Saskatchewan.
. .
...
PRINCE, B......
Charlottetown.
PRtoWvsE, R. C .......... ... . ... .... .. ...
............ .... ...... ......... North Middlesex.
R rz, V ....
Victoria, B.C..
....
..........
RILEY, ... .................
................... J'. E. Island .
ROERTSON, J. E .........
Halifax..... ....
....................
W 1... .......
Ro neî s,
Regina...........
.....
......
.........
RoSS, J. H...
Nliddleton.
.....................
R oss, W . Bl.. ............
I aurentides.
. ........................
S sE . J ...........
,YN
....
SIETI, ERNEST DISRAELI..................
... i.. .....
TALBOT,EP ........
..........
...............
.. ......
.. LeedS ........
TA.YLoR, G . ...................
De la Durantaye..
TEssîuR, JULEs.. ....
....
.......
...........
THIIIIAUDEAVU, A. A ........ ....... .. ... .. . De la Vallière
...
......... ... .... Fredericton...
Toi asoN, F . P ........
.
......... St. John..........
.....
..........
TiiOiRNE, W . Il .
Portage la Prairie...
.. .....................
WATSON, R.........
. ..............
............ Sorel .... ........
W ILSON, J. M ....
Y E o, J ..
......... ........ ....... ......... East Prince........
..........
..........
Y ous'o, F. M ............
Killarney..... ....

Victoria, B.C.
Montreal, Que.
Halifax, N.S.
Toronto, Ont.
Simcoe, Ont.
Glace Bay, N.S.
Lindsay, Ont.
Reserve Mines, N.S.
Perth. Ont.
Moncton, N.B.
Drummondville, Que.
Three Rivers, Que.

Tignish, P.E.I.
Montreal, Que.
Shediac, N.B.
Cookshire, Que.
Halifax, N.S.
Battleford, Sask.
Charlottetown, P.E.I.
New Hamburg, Ont.
Victoria, B. C.
Montague, P.E.I.
Halifax, N.S.
Moosejaw, Saskatchewan.
Middleton, N S.
)uebec, Que.
Vinona, Ont.
Lacombe, Alberta.
Gananoque, Ont.
Quebec, Que.
Montreal, Que.
Fredericton, N. B.
St. John, N.B.
Portage la Prairie, Man.
Montreal, Que.
Port Hill, P.E.I.
Killarney, Man.

TEE

SENATE DEBATES
FOURTH SESSION-TWELFTH PARLIAMENT.
THE SENATE.
Tuesday, August 18, 1914.
The SPEAKER took thie Chair at halfpast two o'elock, p.m.
THE 8PEECH FROM THE THRONE.

Canadian people. From every province and indeed from every community the response to the
cali of duty has been ail that could be desired.
The spirit which thus animates Canada Inspires also His Majesty's Dominions throughout
the world; and we may be assured that unIted
action to repel the common danger will not fail
to strengthen the ties that bind together those
vast dominions in the possession and enjoyment
of the blessings of British liberty.
As representative of His Majesty the King, I
must add my expression of thanks and admiration for the splendid spirit of patriotism
and generosity that bas been displayed throulout the length and breadth of the Dominion.

His Royal Highness the Governor General being seated on the Throne.
The Honourable the Speaker cominanded the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod
His Excellency the Governor General was
to proceed to the House of Commons and
pleased to retire, and the House of Comacquaint the House that:
mons withdrew.
' It is His Royal Highness the Governor Generals pleasure that they attend him immediately in the Senate Chamber.'

FIRST READING.
Bill ( ) intituled, An Aet relating to
Who being come with their Speaker,
Railways.---Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
His Royal Highness the Governer GenThe Senate adjourned until to-morrow at
eral was then pleased to open the Session three o'clock.
by a Gracious Speech to both Houses:
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate:
Gentlemen of the House of Commons:
Very grave events~vitally affecting the interests of ail His Majesty's dominions have transpired since prorogation. The unfortunate outbreak of war made it immediately imperative
for my ministers to take extraordinary measures for the defence of Canada and for the
maintenance of the honour and integrity of our
empire.
With respect to such of these measures as
may require the sanction and approvai of Parliament, the necessary legislative proposais
will be submitted for your consideration.
Other Bills authorizing additional measures
which are essential for the public safety wili
also be presented to you without delay.

Gentlemen of the House of Commons:

THE SENATE.
Wednesday, August 19, 1914.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THE ADDRESS.
MOTION.

The Order of the Day being called:
Consideration' of the Speech of His Royal
Highness the Governor General on the opening
of the fourth session of the twelfth Parliament.

Hon. Mr. BOLDUC said :-Hon. gentlemen: I quite appreciated the honour conferred upon mie by the leader of the
Honourable Gentlemen of the Benate:
Governwment in this House, in inviting
Gentlemen of the House of Commons:
me to move the adoption of the address in
The critical period into which we have just answer to the Speech from the Throne.
entered'has aroused to the full the patriotism
than
and loyalty which have always actuated the I regret that a voice more eloquent
1
Estimates wll be laid before you to provide
for expenditure which bas been or may be
caused by the outbreak of hostilities.

REVIs

EDITION

SENATE
mine lias not been selected on this occa- this conflict was not, whatever may be
sion. However, a refusal to accept the said, the outcome of the murder of the
honour thus extended to me might have heir apparent of Austria, by a poor feebleindicated that I was not grasping the full minded Servian.
extent of my duty, when I believe that I
To those who have followed European
an but the echo of the members of this affairs for the last few years, there can be
honourable House, in expressing my appre- no doubt that one man only was looking
ciation of the policy of the Government as forward to this war, and that man was
stated in the Speech now before us.
William II, Emperor of Germany, whose
The sudden summoning of Parliament criminal ambition is to become the
was no surprise to us, for, after the declara- Napoleon of the Twentieth Century.
tions of war by almost every country in
What 'does he care if millions of men
Europe, and especially the active part being be sacrificed to his ambition, and lose their
taken by the motherland,'it was certainly lives in this horrible war, and if millions
the strict duty of the Government to adopt of other men, wonen and children be exall urgent measures for the protection of posed to die of starvation during the war
our country.
or from the effects of it; what cares he if
England being at war, Canada could not lead, steel and fire destroy the greater part
escape its obligations, one of which was the of Europe; if his inordinate pride is satisimmediate summoning of the Houses in field? Nero, in his incendiarism of Rome,
special session, in order to obtain their was less of a criminal.
sanction for measures already adopted, and
The first move of German policy was the
authority for those to be taken in the crushing of Austria.
future.
In 1870, the Prussian eagle, or rather the
I may be permitted to offer my sincere Prussian vulture, lighted on France, and,
congratulations to the Government for its without any justifiable cause, snatched
prompt action. The task was a hard one, froni it, in addition to a heavy indemnity,
but our ministers were equal to it.
two of its most beautiful provinces.
We learn from the Speech from the
Since 1870, we have seen Germany conThrone that the Governnent has already tinually at work increasing its powerful
nobilized a portion of the military forces army, having in view the domination of the
in this country and has begun the recruit- whole of Europe at the first favourable
ing of the volunteers to go and defend the opportunity, and quite decided to bring
motherland, over the seas.
about this opportunity should it fail to arise
We also know that important steps have promptly. England alone seemed to be outbeen taken with a view to the protection side of the scope of Germany's greed, but
of our seaports, as well as for the general the autocrat had his objects, and if he had
safeguarding of the country. These mea- succeeded in gaining possession of every
sures, I feel sure, will meet with the unani- country in Europe, he would not have been
nous approval of the honourable members slow in dictating his ambitious views to
of this House. We are also aware that, England. Fortunately, England had forein order to meet the important obligations sight, and had penetrated the schemes of
which befall us, we shall have to vote the perfidious William.
necessary aniounts to defray the expendiEvery time Germany, by its numerous
ture already incurred and that which will maritime constructions, attempted to secure
necessarily follow. . With that purpose in the supremacy of the seas, England, watchview, I also believe that the vote will be ful of her own defence, defeated the plans of
unanimous and that no dissenting voice her rival by more considerable armaments.
shall be heard.
This is the sole explanation of the friction
The war which bas just broken out cer- between England and Germany for the last
tainly threatens to be the most terrible, few years. The wisdom of the English
murderous and ruinous that has ever taken statesmen set to naught the nefarious
place.
schemes of William; the wrath of the latter
The armies engaged in this struggle will, is thus explained.
before many days, number twenty millions
We are aIl aware of the mellow utterances
of men. One cannot contemplate, without of William to England before the declaraa feeling of horror, the consequences of tion of war, but the awakening of the
this monstrous war, started by a single i mpulsive Emperor must have been bitter,
individual who, we trust, shall dearly pay when England proudly replied that she
for his criminal venture.
would never be a party to the violation of
The spark which seems to have caused Belgian neutrality nor to the molestation
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC.

AUGUST 19,1914

cf her friend, France. What a disappointment for the conceited monarch, on seeing
ail lis sohemes falling through.
*Germany was first aw.akened7 by the attitude cf Belgium. This small nation cf
brave men did not hesitate, for a single
moment, Vo oppose Vhe proud Teuton, in
order to preserve its neutrality and te abide
by its treaty agreements.
Notwithstanding the fallacicus promises
of Germany, Vhis smali nation cf heroes
lias pluckily defended its Verritory in a
manner which calli forth the admiration cf
the whole -wor1d, even of its enemies. A
handful cf valiant Belgians succeeded in
checking the advanc-e of Vhe German giant
and enabling the Triple Entente te make
preparations for repulsinýg the common
enemy. Neyer before, in history, has a
*nation proved itacîf more herolo than these
proud Belgians. To the German general,
demanding the surrender of Liège, the
Belgian commandant proudly rsplied: 'Belgians may die, but will neyer surrender.'
What a beautiful page te add te the history
cf this valiant nation. Before the standard
cf Belgium, ahl true friends cf liberty
should saluts, in recognition cf brave men
resolved Vo maintain the faith of treaties.
Germany's second disappointment was
the refusai cf IValy Vo side with the oppressor. The honesty cf ithe Government, upheld by the unanimity.cf the Italian people,
prompted the answer which is well known
to ail cf us: ' Italy agreed Iby the treaty cf
the Triple Alliance te support Gerinany
in case cf invasion cf her territory, but noV
to asGiist her in the invff[ion of other
countries.' We can easily imagine Vhe rage"
of the haughty potentats ýwhen lie received
this prend answer. William had thouglit
tliat passing thrcugli Belgium te invade
France would be a simple walk over, and
tliat Italy weuld join him in carrying eut
lis scheme te become dictatoir cf tlie whole
of Europe.
WhaV do we ses to-day? IV is Belgium
'which checks the ide cf German invasion,
and which for several days past, lias been
inflicting 'bleody losses on tlie German
hordesl, Vo eueli an extent that Frencli
territory is net yst invaded. Meanwhile,
the Russian colessus is advanoing slewly
but surely on Prussia, and, in a short time,
will have reaclied Vhe gaVes cf Berlin. 1V
will flot then be France struggling under
Vhe Prussian heel, but Germany itself
squirming under ths Muscovite pressure,
and rendered powerless by tlie victoriens
Ooeeaok, that is i. tbhe beet it.tierests of
humanity and civilizatioin.

Germany had also relied on serions divisions in Ireland, but we are pleased to
naticoe t&iat war had hlardly been deolared*
when -ail parties united for the defence of
t.he Empire. Redmond, the great Irishi
patriot, had no hesitation in recently
declaiming in the House of Commons:
'You enay withdraw your býattaflions from
Ireland, and the Protestant Irishmen of the,
North and the Catholie Irislimen of the
South will march, hand la hand, against
the cornmon enemy, in the defence of
Ireland.'Honourable gentlemen, I do flot intend ta
dcaim your attention mucli longer, but I
niay be permitted to say a word of the
finanacial situation of the country in this
almost general critical period. The situation, far from ýbeing desperate, is net even
alarming. The Governmnent has already
adopted wise measures, and appears to be
decided to adopt additional precautions to
prevent a pallie during this war.'
Unfortunately, times like the pressent
give risc to attempts at trusts and speculatien. But cur Government le watohful,
and will, I arn sure, be able to face the
situation and proteet the people from such
extortion, and ensure to our commerce and
our industries the necessary prosperîty, to
enable them to assist the countries devastated by 'wax.
However, 'before concluding, I may ask
what should be the attitude of Canada
under the circumstances, and especially
of its French-Canadian citizens?
Our beautiful country iq EngI*and'a most
important colony, and is treated with the
utmost genercsity.
Under England's protection Canada has
enjoyed free commerce, over ail the seas
of the world, assisted by the most powerful
fleet that has ever existed, and by English
diplomacy, whicli has always endeaveured
to assure the peace of the world, and imite
under the broad folds of the flag of Albion,
those who nihlt assist lier in the heur of
need. Our status of British subjects is a
guarantee that we may go straight aliead,
without fear of foreiga oppression. On the
other hand, we cannot forget that we are
descendants of the Frenchi of Old France,
and w.hen we behold the English standard
flying next to, the Frenchi eolo<urs, there i6
an irresistible feeling which stirs the hearte
of those who are Vhe chidren of France as
well as those of England.
We cannet imagine the defeat of the Triple
Entente -without feeling deeply anxious as
to what would 'be eîw. future should Ger*many be victorions. But I feel sure that

SENATE

Divine Providence will favour our powerfuil protectors, and the lesson taught to our
enemies will deter them from further oppression.
I have no doubt the aries belonging
to the Entente Cordiale will triumph over
German arrogance, and that when peace will
be again established the allies of the Triple
Er tente will take the necessary steps to
insure the world's peace for a century to
comne.

Allowi me to heartily congratulate the
brave Canadians who do not hesitate to
leave their families and their interests and
expose t'hemselves to the dangers of war
for the defence of the inother country. They
furnish England the proof that they have
their hearts in the right place.
If, God forbid, our beautiful Canada
Lould be invaded by foreign hordes, I asm
convinced that all Canadians would rise
and mardch as a unit to repulse the enemy
and prove that Canadians nay die, but
r{all never consent to become slaves.
I move the adoption of the Address.
Hon. Mr. SMITH-I arise to second the
mnotion which the hon. gentleman from
Beauce has made. Before addressing the
House on this question, I wish to thank
the lion. leader of the Government for the
lianour lie lias done me and the district
nom which I come, in asking me to spea:
on what I believe to be a historic oucasion
in the history of Canada. For the first
time since the Confederation of these provinces, Parliament has been called together
to vote large sums of money for war purposes, -and especially for the first time that
it lias ever voted large sums of money for
war purposes in a European conflict of vast
proportions tlhat the people had been anticipating for a considerable time. For many
years it has been proplesied that this conflict would come, and it has come rather
sooner than was expected. What was the
cause of it, and is the United Kingdom
justified in taking part in the war? That
is a question well worthy of discussion. In
my humble judgment, the cause of it is
simply the overweening ambition of the
Emperor of Germany. Many excuses have
been brought forward by the Emperors of
Germany and Austria to justify their aggressive policy, but I think every man in this
Chamber, almost every man in the country,
will agree with me that the real cause is the
ambitious desire of the Emperor of Germany to dominate Europe and the world,
and to inflict upon Europe and the world
Hion.

Mr. BOLDUC.

tho military despotism and the military
svstem which he has been so successful in
establishing in Germany. Having a powerful army organized, he first of all seized a
portion of Denmark and later on used his
arny to crush Austria, and later to crush
France. Having his army established, lie
Iad the power in his hands to continue to
increase it. He has done so, and to such
an extent that it lias become a menace to
the nations. With his views and the views
of those around him, that army is a
menace to the freedom of the world. I
regard this as a contest between the powers
that believe in ruling the world by the
force of arms and by military power, and
those who would be agreeable and delighted
to have the world ruled and disputes settled by arbitration and diplomacy. It is a
war between those who believe that force
and might are right, and those who believe
tiere is a better way to settle disputes.
It is unfortunate and disastrous that those
who love peace have to make war, but the
ine had corne when war was inevitable
with such a man as the Emperor of Germïany at the head of that great nation. He
picked his own time for the conflict. He
looked round the world and thought lie saw
a civil war about to take place in Great
Britain. He looked at France, and read
statements by the Premier of that country
that its defences were not what they should
be. The Balkan States Lad been weakened
by the late war, and lie thought Russia liad
liardly sufficiently recovered from the contest with Japan. He saw that the overseas
possessions of the British empire were
gradually, year by year,,becoming more
inpressed with a sense of thpir dr'ty to

assist the mother country. He foresaw that
the longer lie put the conflict off, the
stronger those dominions would be, and
lie thought the time had corne to strike the
blow. He counted on Italy as his ally, but
that country thought the contest was
brought on unjustly, and so far, apparently,
lias no desire whatever to assist the other
members of the Triple Alliance. When a
German army invaded Belgium, England,
as the guarantor of the liberty and freedom of Belgium, fet it lier duty to carry
out lier promises and go to the assistance
of the Belgian people.
More than that, the people of Great
Britain felt that the freedom of the British
people and of all nations who desire to live
in pouce throughout the world was threatened, that the time had arrived to fight,
and not to wait until France is orushed,

AUGUST 19, 1914

5

to think that
not to wait until Belgium is absorbed into Canadian people are prone going to be
not to wait until Ger- this is a time when we are
the German Empire,
some of our interests
many is still stronger, and more powerful, pinched. Doubtless
but to strike now when the time is ripe and will suffer, such as the agricultural implea large portion of
the cause jist. Great Britain has struck. ment industry, that does and many of our
is justified its business with Russia,
I think the best proof that she
some of their
in doing so can be found, not only in our homes will no doubt lose
but in the tributes that loved ones, and will suffer in that way;
own consciousness
stands to gain
are paid to her by the world. Our neigh- but I think that Canada
way than any
bour, the United States, looks on as a neu- more in this contest in every world. We
tral nation, and although amongst her popu, other nation or people in the
because it will
lation are enormous numbers 'of German stand to gain as a nation,
once for all that
and Austrian origin, any of us reading the be fixed and established
part of the British empire and
great daily papers of the United States Canada is a stand by it through thick and
as British subjeets, that is going to
must feel grateful,
perhaps, sufthe great republie believes our course is thin. That was established,Boer war; bat
absolutely justified and warranted. Around ficiently at the time of the
ground than
the world we find every small nation, the this will establish it on firmer
and the nations in future, when they
independent nations, those who love free- ever,
and Ireland, will
dom, joining in the chorus that England is count Great Britain
the
doing the noble count the British dominions all over
doing the right thing,
done. seas as an integral part of that nation.
thing, doing what she ought to have
We in Canada, as a part of that great That is one thing that will be made clear,
something that will be well
empire, feel that our safety is at stake; we and that is
should be worth while. But looking at it from a
feel that if the power of England
stands to
broken in the near future our independence, financial point of view, Canada
in the
freedom, and our belief in the settle- gain more than any other country
ou-r
our love world, because our chief products are agriment of disputes by arbitration,
any one
stuffs,
of peace, our peaceful homes and rule as cultural and food certain toand in value.
rise
have it in Canada would be threatened knows that these are
we
havand shattered; therefore I feel, as every We are certain to gain in that respect,
products in
Canadian feels, whatever his origin-even ing a surplus of exportable the world to
around
Germans themselves-that we are justified. food stuffs. We look and we will be able
in this country, see what nations export,
I have met some Germans
our position will
and have spoken to others who have met to judge more surely what that our trade
of them who say that they would be. Our position is such
numbers
be protected, being
be only too glad to enlist and take part in routes are bound to any other food produeof
this war. It is not a war against, the Ger- shorter than those
that have large
man people, it is a war against a system ing countries in the world routes are sure
and carried out in surpluses for export. Our
that bas been adopted
insurance,
Germany, a military system, and the Ger. to be amply protected; therefore lower in
will be
inans themselves will reap the most benefit and probably freight rates,
any other
if the power of the Emperor of Germany is proportion than from the countries ountry
which
broken, as I fully believe it will be. From in the world. Some of
large
unanimity of the opinion of this export agricultural products in One of
the
all classes, and the quantities will be handicapped.
country, including
vil1 put
unanimity which I am sure we will meet those countries is Russia. Russia she bas
if
with in this hour. It is clear that Canada an embargo on those products,
a large
is justified in doing everything she can do not done so already. Australia is continue
to assist the mother country and ber allies exporter of food products, and willthe route
but
in this emergency. If the present contin- to export during the war,
we will send another, from that country is more dangerous
gent is not enough,
and if need be another, until the war is con- and the insurance rates will be higher.
large
cluded and settled in a way that is satis- The Argentine republie exports
to
products
food
of
to the British people and to the quantities
factory
world. Many people Great Britain and France, but the routes
free nations of the
proseem to feel that it is a time to lose con- from there are not so well defined andto be
fidence; business is somewhat depressed; tected, and insurance rates are boundin the
we have just passed through a year or more higher. Therefore, of all ountries
of financial stagnation in the world, and world, Canada stands to get the advantage

SENATE
from this war if long continued. Then w feel of the way that
'e
the Belgian
must not forget that there are vast quant i- fighting to-day for the defence people are
of their
ties of raw material besides food stuffs tha rights and of their country. May
st
I also
Great Britain and France require. Her e- congratulate the seconder of the
address on
tofore those raw materials have come fror n the way in which he bas
presented the
various countries in the world, no sma.Il subject to this House, and his
statement
portion of them from Germany, Austria an d that the Canadian people to-day are a unit
Russia. Those sources will be absolutel y in their support of the mother country,
cut off; so that whatever raw material Car L- will stand together shoulder to shoulderand
in
ada bas of any kind for manufacture wil. the struggle now before us.
find a ready market. She will be in th e When we parted two months since
no one
premier position of all the countries in th e anticipated that we should be
called
world to take advantage of ber position
. together again within so short a time, much
Even in nanufactured goods there will be less that the grave condition of affairs
some little advantage-print paper, for in - such as exist in Europe to-day would have
stance. Then looking at it from anothe r arisen. It has been
suddenly and
point of view, Germany and Austria havis strongly brought to the realization of very
the
an enormous export trade with the othe r people of this country that when Great
nations of the world, the total business of Britain is at war Canada is
at war, and
those countries being three billions of dol - that all the interests of the Dominion from
lars a year and upw.ards; but that enormou s one end to the other suffer.
trade will be entirely ruined and destroyed1 The present conditions show that a
if the war is long continued, and Greai struggle of the kind that is
now taking
Britain and the United States, and othei place is not confined to one part of the
countries not engaged immediately in the world, but that on the Pacific ocean as well
conflict will take advantage of it. It is the as the Atlantic ocean it is necessary to be
time of opportunity for Canadian manu- prepared to protect and defend
the country
facturers. If a Canadian manufacturer has from attack. The present is not the time
been engaged in manufacturing anything to enter into any discussion on this matter,
that competes in the trading ground of the but the Government is certainly to be conworld with Germany and Austria be will gratulated on the prompt action they took
seize this opportunity to forge ahead and in purchasing, before the outbreak of war
get a piece of that market. Therefore it is was announced, the submarines that are
a time when Canadians ought to have con- n1ow defending, in conjunction with the
fidence. Confidence begets confidence. If Rainbow, the Shearwater and the Algerine,
people get to feel a lack of confidence it in- the Pacific coast, and that they have also
spires a lack of confidence in others. This pushed on the work of bringing the Niobe
is a time when we should have confidence back into commission. This, together with
in ourselves. I think we are warranted in the measures taken to strengthen the land
having confidence financially as well as defences, lias restored confidence to the
politically and nationally. We have much people who, for a short time, did net know
to gain, although of course we are losing a what they migbt expect.
In considering
great deal at the sane time. I feel that the position in which Canada is placed
there is no necessity to make an appeal for to-day, we know that we are supporting the
unity. Can'adians are a unit if we are to right, that we are Ielping in a fight, not
judge by the press and by the conversations only to inaintain the honour and position
we have with everybody throughout the of the United Kingdom, but to preserve the
country. We are an absolute unit, and we whole basis of civilization for which we, as
have every confidence that this Parliament a part of His Majesty's dominions, stand;
will pass the measures proposed by our and here I would like to refer to the words
Government as the British Parliament did, uîsed by the Prime Minister of the United
quickly, and show the world that we are Kingdom, as quoted in the London Times,
united absolutely to carry on this warfare where he says:
to the end.
I am entitled
of this

to say, and I do say on behalf

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCKI May I be allowed for the country-I speak not for a party but
country as a whole-we made
in the first place to congratulate the nover effort that a government could Possibly every
make
of this address on his able speech, and to for peace. This war has been forced upon us.'
join with bim in the words in whieh he
In supporting Great
expressed the appreciation which we aIl struggle, Canada knows Britain in this
that she bas net
Hon.

ir. SMITH.

AUGUST 19, 19.1

been placed in a position where she
willingly takes up arms to do her part until
every effort that could honourably be made
had been put forth to keep the peace, and
that this war has been forced upon the
whole of His Majesty's dominions because,
although they were under no formal obligations to take part in such a struggle, yet
they have to fight, to quote again the words
of the Prime Minister of the United
Kingdom:

The last paragraph of the address, which
reads:
« As representative of His Majesty the King

I must add my expression of thanks and admiration for the splendid spirit of patriotism
and generosity that bas been displayed throughout the iength and breadth of the Domninion.'

will be appreciated by the people as a recognition by His Majesty the King, expressed by His Royal Highness the Duke
of Connaught, of the response made by the
in this hour of trial.
'In the first place to fulfil a solemn inter- people of Canada
national obligation-an obligation which if it
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Permit me to
had been entered into between private persons
in the ordinary concerns of life, would have congratulate the mover and seconder of the
been regarded as an obligation not only of law, Address in reply to the Speech from the
but of honour, which no self-respecting man Throne upon the calm and judicious spirit
could possibly have repudiated. Secondly we
in dealing with
are fIghting to vindicate the principle-that which they have shown
small nationalities are not to be crushed In this subject.
deflance of international good faith by the
At suoh a time when all the national imarbitrary will of a strong and over-mastering
pulses are stirred it is peculiarly an occapower.'
sion for dispassionate deliberation and for
These words place in a concise form the the exercise of the highest qualities of -the
position in which we are to-day and the mind that we can bring to bear in dealing
reasons why we are engaged in this struggle with those measures of the public business
-a struggle not against the German people -which call us together. It ie peculiarly a
or the German race, but against the form time when the public needs of the country
of imperialism and autocracy that has too require not only a unity of all parties but
long domineered over a pacifie and amiable the exercise of the highest -and best abilipeople, oppressing and keeping them from ties and services of our public men no
We
realizing their natural aspirations.
matter to what party they may belong, in
admire the plucky and determined stand contributing to the advancement of the
that bas been made by the people of Bel- common good.
I believe that this spirit
gium in the defence of their rights and of animates every'member of the Parliament
theiT country, and sympathize with them in
of Canada at this special sitting oalled to
having to bear at the present time the
extraordinary measures which
as at the deal with the before us.
blunt of the cenflict. This time,
will be brought
time of the Crimea, we are the allies of the
In view of the extraordinary events which
French, but now we have the Russians also
the present month,
dealing with the legislation have happened during
In
with us.
involving the Empire hi war with two o
that is mentioned in the address as about
powers of Europe, it is but conto be brought before this Chamber, as in the great
as Canada
we shall remember that the mon place to say that seriously
the House,
for
the present has regarded the European situation
responsibility of dealing with
some four or five years past yet we were
situation rests on the members of the
sense of reality upon facing
Government, that we are here to facilitate startled into a
Engtime as much as an actual declaration of war between
their work at the present
The Government of
land and Germany.
possible, reserving for a future date any
the responsibility
criticism that we may then think should be Canada at once assumed
dact and upon
1, however, be allowed tc of recognizing the important
May
made.
wnch there could be no two opinions, that
express the hope that in every way possible
war, Canada was also
the people may be assured that there is no the Empire being at
necessary for
to fear a scarcity of food in this at war, and that it became
need
be satisfiod the Government to adopt such measures as
country, and that they should
with the critical
that everything is being done and will be would be commensurate
arisen.
done to keep the price of food stuff s dqwr situation that had so suddenly
The public will and utterance were pecuand readjust the trad
to their normal level
should be
of the country to the altered conditionii liarly expressive of that which
Parliament could not have more
under which it may have to be carried on . done.
cast upon
A proper realization of this position wil i clearly defined the duty that was
as was so clearly and emphatioally
help very much in the present difficulties . Canada

SENA TE
done by the voice of the public will through. oif the Gorvernment has been to keep wi-thin
out the whole Dominion. Canada's mani- bounde the wiishes and the demands of tIhe
feet course was te contribute men and armE able-bodied men oif Canada in the tendering
and food supplies. The extent to which of their services te be sent to the seat of
this assistance should be given has been war.
more clearly defined through the cormeOwing to the war being in its initial
spondence which ha.s taken place between stages and the uncertainty of the developthe Imperial Authorities and our own Gov- ments that will ensue, it is, therefore, imerunient. Steps were at once taken for the possible at the moment to say the extent te
organization of a Canadian contingent equi- which Canada may be called upon to render
valent to an Army Division, to rform part further assistance. TTp te tIe present tine
of the Imperial Forces and to be eubject the measure of assistance profferAd to the
to the orders ot the Imperial authorities. empire has met with the most gratifying
Canada has accordingly organized a force reception in Great Pritain. The sentiment
consisting of the following units:-Divi- invoked by Canada and the other overseas
sional headquarters; 3 infantry brigades of dominions has been more valuable to the
12 battalions of infantry;
headquarters Imperial authorities and will give greater
divisional artillery with 3 field artillery prestige te Imperial arms than the material
brigades of 9 batteries, and 1 field artillery value measured by men and treasure. We
howitzer 'brigade of 3 batteries; 1 heavy cannot overestimate the value to Great
battery and amanunition colunm; 1 divi- Britain of the spontaneous answer of loyalty
sional ammunition column; 1 headquarters and devotion given by the overseas domindivisional engineers; 2 field companies of ions at a moment when a common danger
engineers; 1 signalling company; 1 squad- threatens the integrity of the empire.
To meet the extraordinary situation
ron of cavalry; 1 divisional train and 3 field
ambu1 ances, making a total of, roughly, which has arisen it has been necessary for
about 600 officers and 17,500 mon with 72 the Government of Canada te meet the
field guns and howitzers, and about 5,600 exigencies which have presented themselves
horses. In addition te this, about 2,000 men in anticipation of legislation being passed
are left at the base, as what are called giving extraordinary powers to the Govern"first re-en;forcements," making in all, ment. Such a situation net having before
arisen in our history our statute book is
rougthly, about 21,000 men.
This force is now being mobi.lized in camp therefore destitute of what I might term
at Val-Cartier with a view of being eub- war legislation; consequently measures will
jected to a more advanced organization be- be submitted te cover the extraordinary
fore leaving our shores for the seat oif war. powers which the Government has been
In addition thereto, the Government lias called upon and will be called upon to
contributed a million bags of flour.
The exercise at this critical period.
This is the first time in the history of
Governiment has also purchased from the
Canada since it has enjoyed representative
Chilian Government at a cost ot one millier dollars two new sub-marines, the con- institutions that we have been called upon
to adopt special measures in aid of the
struction of which had just been completed
empire by reason of a European war. Tt is
in the shipyards of Seattle. These will be the first time
we have been called upon to
used for purposes of defence on the Pacific
maintain our integrity as an integral part
coast. We have also tendered to the French of
the empire against a European enemy.
Government ifer use of the army of France
There was a time when Canada was the
substantial aid for their hospital work. battlefield
between England and France,
Munificent assistance has also been ten- in which each sought te
wrest from the
dered by Provincial Governments, ýMunici- other the possessions held by both on this
palities and individuals. Mere words can- continent. There was a time wflen the
not express the loyalty, the patriotism, the Crown Colonies in Canada resisted the in,self sacrifice, generoesity and devotion ex- vading army of the American Republic
hibited .by the whole of Canada in respond- when it sought to include our territory
ing to the call of Empire at this time. It within its boundaries. There was a time
was not necessary for the Governmernt of within recent years when Canada responded
Canada to make an appeal to the country to the call of the empire on the battlefields
rfor the assistance which had been proffered. of South Africa, but in none of these
The spontaneous response of the people has events did Canada occupy the unique posibeen overw ielming and the chiet difficulty tion which in the present conflict she cauHon. M, LOUGHEED.

AUGUST 19, 1914

pies to-day. This war will go down in his- sections and parties in the face of a cointory as one in which. the overseas dominions mon danger. Few things have 'been more
recognized without discussion or hesitation gratifying than the common front preby political parties in Great
that when Great Britain was at war those sented
dominions likewise were at war; that Britain, who a few days ago seenied to
Great Britain's obligations were their obli- be on the borders of civil war, but who
gations whether offensive or defensive; and within twenty-four hours forgot ail their
Bhoulder
that the duty was theirs to march in7 step differences and stood shoulder to
with the armies of the empire whithersoever ready both to attack and repel the common
It is likewise gratifying that
enemy.
that march might lead.
own boundaries political
within our
The present situation is unique not onîy
party strife
our actual relations tu the empire but divisions have been forgotten,
in
in thus settling for some has heen silenced and a united people
evenmoreso
f seek to outrival eaoh other in responding
elis
uue
tieven nioeatte
Èfuui soulte ns of to the cails of empire. In view of what
th me.
timed etlas
delaamutiont of the
po the
past the future of Canada proved a pro- Governmen
a
pntedcaaino
and thouglit. Gvrmn
lifte theme for discussion
to the sentiment and will
Conatitutional students have worked out was to respond
expressed
time .and again the national destiny that of the people so irresistibly
for the future throughout the whole of Canada. This we
would .be most advantageous
of Canada. Much has been said and writ- have done.
While the situation whieh faces the
ten pontheinexedincyof Cnad in
without
eny upon te inxpedin ofe Canada*in empire has been brought about
Canada having had a constitutional voice
tian way heig inove iuon he complexias
oniicsofeurpea dhiplombjcas therein, yet we accept the situation
havd
tuies
ase freely and as loyally as if the reaponsidh ssot
havel oinue
iliitsr
reason, ne bility had been entirely our own. We,
pueyoeofld
if wit h Canere
ation
dthi
itsell from the -sentiments and traditions thereGove roen inhmetn
a
hi state of in tnwhih nteoeathe -empire and map out for itself a the
of
porintwhed t not
a
constitution and a national career entirely ciisis plce s sadt dutyf one
o
u
lcd
piei
apart and distinct front the ties that
*avebond t o th by the Governinent itaelf nor by any
to he reenttie
d t ngthen political party, but by the people theinisusa
oempre en t-have
seruseaa, wethean selves. Canada finda itself as a part of
have
n
eryprer
Canad sopeld invlv eritse in he con- the empire in a state of war with Gercontie u - many and Austria-Hungary. sWe, accept
inthe
of noei
Canadasho
situation with equanimity. While we
ntecnietbtthe
fluets and wars o
suddenly as a boît fron the blue Eng- make no comment that we had not a voice
eve
h
bu
e
rnigi
land's declaration of war has aroused the i
whol ofCanaa
t acton nd freditssituation with precisely the same sati-spatriotism as if we were part and parcel faction as do the people of Great Britain.
of 'the United Kingdom. The reaponse This is another manifestation of the same
which has been made front the Atlantic national sentiment that is found in the
to the Pacifie is not the response of the very heart of the empire.
Probably no good purpose is to be served
Government of Canada nor of any political party, but the irresistible sentiment byattempting to discuss the causes which
and will and voice of a united people. It have lead to the present war, owing to
is in an swer to this sentiment that this the complexities of the European situaspecial meeting of Parliament has been tion which for some years past have placed
called; it is in response to, tii spontan- the most extraordinary strain upon the
eous outburst of loyalty and patriotism getpwr
nbidn.u
hs
ai
to the empire that we are about to pro-grapoesibulngpthettnc
which daily threatened to conceed to consider the measures to be sub- armaments
vert Europe into, a shamblea. It has been
mitted to Parliament.
through- apparent for some time that the strain
When war's alarms resound
The absoout the nation it is surprising hoffl had about reached its «lnit.
seemingly petty becomte mani? aubjeots lute refus-al of Germany to caîl a hait in
and concerna of party warfare. It la grati- its armaments, notwithstanding the pacific
fying to note how trivial and auperficial approaches made fromt time to time by the
are the differenees that have divided great other powera to secure its consent te, disparties and how easily united are ail armament, constituted auch a menace as

SENATE
to threaten at any moment the conflagration of war over the whole of Europe.
For some years past it became apparent
that Germany in time would again seek to
crush the Republic of France. In a work
published last year entitled 'Germany and
the Next War,' by General Frederich Von
Bernhardi, one of the Generals of the German army, no concealment is made
therein of the policy of Germany not only
towards France but towards France and her
allies. On page 104 of this work we find
this significant statement:
'In one way or another we must square our
account with France if we wish for a free hand
in our international policy.
This is the first
and foremost condition of a sound German
policy, and since the hostility of France once
and for ail cannot be rernoved by peaceful
overtures the matter must be settled by force
of arms.
France must be so completely
crushed that she can never again corne across
our path.'

This avowal of policy was equivalent to a
Were
Germany able to carry out this policy of

leclaration of war with England.

absolutely crushing France, Germany would
assert itself as the master of Europe. Even
inder those conditions and after Germany's
declaration of war against France had been
issued England withheld its hand until
Germany grossly violated the neutrality of
B3elgium. England thus had no other recourse than to join arms with France in
seeking not su much to break the power of
Germany as to naintain its own Imperial
existence.

In all the historic wars upon which England bas entered, fighting as she has done
for centuries on sea and land not only for
her own existence but for the liberty and
freedom of the subjeet against the tyranny
of the despot, never in all those historie
wars bas she so up-held the traditions of her
honour and her glory as in this war. She
lias cast in ber lot with France to uphold
ber national honour and to observe the
carrying out in its integrity the pact of an
unwritten treaty. Words also cannot express the profound admiration of the world
at the courage and gallantry of Belgium in
thus far resisting the overwhelming army
of Germany in defending not only its own
soil, but at the risk of its national existence
fighting an almost invincible army to maintain its obligations of neutrality to the other
powers of Europe.
Also at this critical time we on this side
of the Atlantic cannot fully express our
admiration for the supremacy of England's
fleet, which in its wonderful organization is
now so protecting the trade routes of the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

ocean, that shipping between our own ports
and those of Great Britain enjoys an immunity almost as secure as if we were at
peace with the world.
Of late years much has been said of universal peace. Its advocates in all sincerity
have made extraordinary efforts to bring
the great powers within the sphere of
settling national controversies by peaceful
methods, but alas for human frailty, universal peace seems to be as distant as it
ever was. Notwithstanding our boasted
civilization and our preachments for universal peace and for the abolition of war we
bave but touched the shadow leaving the
substance in all its activity and hideousness.
So long as human passions throb in the
breasts of nations so long will war be an
actual fact. Probably at no time in the
world's history as within the last few years,
have such widespread efforts been made to
establish the nations on a footing of peace,
but strange to say with each effort bas the
carnage of war made progress in a greater
inverse ratio.
At such a time and under such provocation peace at any price by England would
niot only have been cowardice but it would
have cost the Empire its national existence.
The peace of Europe for the next generation
at this time can only be secured through the
success of British arms in the titanic
struggie upon which England bas entered.
Peace, national peace, can only be purcbased at such a time through the pouring
out of lives and treasure in maintaining
those great principles of liberty and freedon
for which England in the past bas shed its
best blood on the historie battlefields of the
world. Canada at this time recognizes the
struggle upon which Great Britain bas
entered.
The success and glory which
await its arms and the assured security and
destiny of the British Empire are the
greatest guarantee that the world can have
for the future peace and prosperity of the
nations.
May I say in conclusion that we realize
the gravity of our duty at this time. It is
not in the spirit of martial display that
Canada bas answered the call of Empire but
from a deep sense of loyalty and devotion
to those great national institutions that so
long have stood for the highest and best
interests of the human race.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Hon. gentlemen, all the efforts of the men of good will,
throughout the world, in favour of permanent peace have been unavailing. During
the last fifteen years I have been in close

AUGUST 19, lffl

contact with European parliamentarians
who were striving towards a better understanding between nations. Most of them
felt that Berlin was the main obstacle in
the way to the attainment of that goal. It
became quite plain that Germany intended
to resort ta force for the solution of international difficulties rather than to arbitration when it refused obstinately to, consider the British offers of limitation af
armaments. Germnany had decided upon
war when it refused to accept Great Britain's offer of mediation after Austria's ultimatum to Servia, and the natura] sequence
to that refusal was Germany's declaration
of war against Russia. This meant war
,al around and war it must be. My fervent
hope is that this horrible drama will *be
the daw'n of a better era. It is evident that
Germany is paying the penalty for its utter
disregard of the rights of natiairalities.
Other nations have been equal sinners at
ddfferent finies in history. Poland has been
one of the victinis af its plowerful, greedy
neighbours. We ail hope that the d-ay is
near when it will be freed from the heel of
its cruel oppressars.
The well-known Prafessor Bonn, of
Munich University, gave, last week, as the
prime cause for the present war the inivincible determination of the French ta, retake
the two lost provinces of Alsace-Lorraine,
and hie adds the follow.ing commentary:
As far as aur antagonism ta France Is concerned, we have always looked upon it as a
regrettable facto which time, perhaps, might
do away with. We are just enough ta, understand that a country like France, with a glorious past, a gallant spirit and an undaunted
courage, cannot forget the blow we deaIt ber
forty-three years aga.
We think we have been right in retaking
fromn her Alsace-Lorraine, belonging originally
ta the German empire.
But we look with a
kind of eavy upon ber wha succeeded in denationalizing the people af thase provinces ta
such a degree that we have not yet been able
to make them Gernians once more.
We have always regretted that the twa most
civilized nations In continental Europe should
be rent asunder by an unforgatten past.
We hopefi that the creation of a wonderful
African empire might in the long mun soothe
French national feeling. We should have been aiways willing ta, came ta an understanding in the
existing state of affairs, but though there have
been lucky statesmen in France who trled such
a policy, public opinion was too strong for
them. ,French people preferred to sacrifice the
main Ideas on which. their republican. gavernment ls based and made an alliance with
Russia.
We realize that the gallant spirit of the
French people has furnished the mainspring
whichbahis mnade this war possible.
We honour ber for ber courage. For we knoW

AUGUST
19,
1914

IL

well enough that it is she alane amangst the
partners who runs real risks. We know that
she ls nat maved by sordid motives. But as we
know ber unfargivlng attitude, as we know that
she was heiping Russia and egging ber on
against us ; that she was instigating' Britain
and Belgium as well as Serb and Roumanian,
we had ta take ber attitude as what If was; as
the flrm pollcy of a patriotlc and passianate
people, walting for the moment wben they could
wipe out the memory of 1870, putting nationality ta the front, sacrlficlng their own ideals
of humanlty.

-This outrage upon the rights of people
who were snatched away froin the bosom of
their national fa mily was perpetrated in
modern tumes, under aur eyes, in the very
centre of European civilization.
In Canada we will aIl pray for the success
of Great Britain and her allies in the hope
that this great confliet will be settled with
a single eye ta the inalienable rights of
nations and the establishment of permanent peace among them.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I rise simpiy ta SaY
a few words on this historic occasion: I
consider the moment opportune ta re-echo
and eniphasize the ýmost notable declaration
made for centuries on the floor ai the British Parliament by the Irish leader, John
Redmon.d. When the Prime Minister ai
Great Britain rose ini his seat and informedthe Hanse and the people of England that
his Government had declIared war against
Germany, the first ta rise and extend the
hand af aid in the hour of peril and need
was the chosen repîesentative of the Irish
race, John Redmond. Rere in the Senate of
Canada, and in the namne and on behali ai
the Irish Canadian people,- I most heartily
endorse the attitude taken by the Irish
leader on that occasion-a leader who is
ta become, in a short tume, the Prime Minister of Ireiand, a nation able ta take care
af itself and allow England ta take it9
soldiers ta the front-a man who in ahl probability may be a future Prime Minister af
the British Empire. War has its calamities,
but war also has its blessings. This war
alrèady, in its initial stage, has given ta
the human -race mnany blessings. In the
first place it has restored the ancient kingdam of Poland ta its place in the family of
nations. In the second place, it has silenced the enemies of Home Rule for Ireland; thirdly, it gives back ta the Chinese
Empire the territory that was usurped by
Germany. Again, it will return-and we ahl
pray it will return-to dear old France, ber
two bast provinces, Alsace and Lorraine.
Thiq is wbhat the w-ar ie doing and acconi-

SENATE

plishing already. It will take the clutches
of Austria-Hungary off the Balkan people.
It will force Turkey to limit, if not to cease,
its misrule and its atrocities against the
people of Eastern Europe. It will endand we will ýall pray for that-the German
peril of government by autocrats. It will
end that rule which the wielder of it calls
divine. If it is divine, then the rule is carried out by a human monster. This war
will call for a halt in military armaments,
and the sacrifice of human life for the glory
and benefit of all autocrats. This war will
give, it has already given, to the Jewish
race its due measure of liberty and justice.
This war will confirn and extend the reign
and supremacy of democracy. Under these
conditions, Canada's millions will be well
and profitably spent, and Canadian life can
be and will be nobly sacrificed, to bring
about these happy results.
The motion was agreed to.

which he belonged, but by those who differed
from him. His death makes a breach in
those old associations of this Chamber
which will be felt and mourned by those
who for so many years enjoyed his friendship and his confidence.
The Senate will join with his family in
mourning the loss of one whose presence
in this Chamber we very much valued.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I wish to express
the feeling of the hon. members of this side
of the House with regard to the loss of the
late Senator McMillan. We join in the
kind words which have been uttered by the
hon. leader of the Governnent in this
House in reference to him. We recognized
in Senator MeMillan a man of broad views,
who took great interest in the affairs of the
country, and, although lie did not often
join in the debates of late years, since I
have been a member of this body, lie was
prominent on the committees, and made
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock his weight felt on various occasions. As
bas been said by my hon. friend, lie was a
to-morrow.
man of strong views and opinions; at the
sane time lie was so broad-minded that lie
was open to conviction. We regret very
THE SENATE.
much his loss and synipathize with his
Thuisdry, August 20, 1914.
family in the bereavement which they have
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three suffered.
o'clock.
H.R.H. TERM OF OFFICE.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the House
THE LATE SENATOR MeMILLAN.
adjourns, I am requested by the GovernHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the Orders ment to make the following statement:
of the Day are proceeded with, it is my sad
In view of the urgent conditions confrontduty to informi the Senate of the death, since ing Canada in common with the rest of the
we last met, of our late colleague Senator empire by reason of the oufbreak of war
McMillan. He was one of the oldest mem- the Government consider it highly importbers of this Chamber, having occupied a ant that His Royal Highness, Field Marseat herein for thirty years. For some years shal, The Duke of Connaught, should conpast his active participation in flic delibera- tinue to give to Canada the benefit of his sertions of the Senate was seriously interrupt- vices as Governor General. (Hear, hear.)
ed through his condition of health. When His knowledge of conditions in Canada and
I first became a member of this body Sen- his wide experience in public and military
ator McMillan exercised a very strong influ- affairs render his services especially valuence in the business and deliberations of able at this juncture. (Hear, hear.) It
this Chamber. Although never very prom- has accordingly been aranged, at the reinent in debate, yet in the transaction of our quest of the Canadian Government with the
business his influence was always decidedly full approval of His Majesty the King and
f elt.
the Imperial Government, that His Royal
For many years he was a prominent mein- Highness's term of office shall be indefinitely
ber of the medical profession to which he extended during the continuance of the war.
belonged, and identified himself very prom- (Hear, hear.) His Royal Highness had
inently in the legislation and general inter- made all arrangement to leave Canada at
ests of that profession.
the conclusion of his extended term of
Although a man of very strong opinions office on the 22nd 0< ober, but with the
and decided convictions he was held in high high sense of duty wh mhlias always actuesteem not only by the political party to ated him, lie lias plact - himsel-f at the disHon. Mr. CLORAN.

AUGJST 20, 1914

posal of His Majesty for this purpose. (Ap- tice, which is not of a financial nature,
and that Bill has been advanced as far as
plause.)
can possibly be done*up to the present.
THE BUSINESS OF THE SESSION.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-As I understand, the
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Before we ad- Government is about to introduce a meajourn, has the hon. leader of the Govern- sure through the Finance Minister to revise
ment any announcement that he can make the tariff under the Customs Act and the
as to the nature and the state of the busi- Excise Revenue. Will that be a separate
Bill, or will it be included in the Bill givness to ho laid before us?
ing to the Government extraordinary powHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cannot say ers of administration? That will be a very'
when the Commons will give final passage important point. If the two Bills are septo the *legislation now before it, but the arate, of course we can deal separately with
most important Bill that will come before them. I am prepared to give the Governus this session may possibly reach us to- ment every power at once, and every milmorrow. There is every desire on the part lion of dollars that Canada can afford. In
of the Government to expedite the legisla- regard to the revision of the tariff under
tion -in the Commons. I spoke to the the Customs Act and the Excise Act, of
Prime Minister on the subject this morn- course there might be room for difference of
ing, and he assured me of his anxiety to do opinion; not as regards the war at alleverything possible to keep the Senate en- there will be no question about that. As
gaged.
a Canadian I am prepared to vote all the
money that Canada can afford or cannot
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-What is the nature afford, to bring this war to a happy issue.
of that particular Bill?
On behalf of the people I represent, I am
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is a Bill giv- prepared to give ah power, extraordinary
ing to the Government extraordinary powers if you will. When it comes to a revision of
during time of war. The Bill is a fairly the tariff, I hope the measure introduced by
lengthy one, containing many very import- the Government will be in the interests of
anù clauses embbdying powers that are of the people as well as of the funds that are
required for the war. I simply throw out
a special character.
the suggestion that there may be room for
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Is there to be a difference of opinion.
only one Bill?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would say to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEËD-No, there are four my hon. friend that if there should be a
Bills, but the others might be regarded as Bill amending the tariff, it would be a separate Bill.
financial Bills.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is all.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Could not my
hon. friend induce the Government to have
Hon. Mr. POWER-I should like to know
those Bills which are not financial measures if the hon. leader proposes that the House
introduced in this House so that we might shall sit on Saturday.
be doing something?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Prime MinHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Bill to wh'ioh ister informed -me this morning that ho
I allude came up in the Gommons yesterday would ascertain the feelings of the Comand was advanced as far as possible. That mons this afternoon as to their sitting on
is, the Bill giving extraordinary powers to Saturday. I hope to be able to answer the
the Government of Canada during time of hon. gentleman's question to-morrow.
war. The other Bills are, I think I am
Hon. Mr. POWER-If it is proposed to
sale in saying, of a finanoial character.
sit on Saturday the hon. gentleman would
One is dealing .with the war appropriation.
Another proposes amending the Dominion be wise to give notice to-day, so as to preNotes Act, which is one particularly with- vent himself from being headed off to-morin the control of the Minister of Finance; row.
and the other is a Bill entitled The Finance
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I appreciate tue
Act of 1914, whieh is of a financial char- suggestion of my hon. friend, and I shall
acter; so that there is only the one Bill, and give the necessary notice to suspend the
that is in charge of the Minister of Jus- rules so as to permit of our sitting on Bat-

SENATE

urday. I might say that at present the
impression of the Government is that we
may get through the business of the session
by Saturday.
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock
to-morrow.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, the amount
would be confined entirely to the right
which the banks now have in issuing notes.
It would not exceed their right of circulation.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-Have they not

THE SENATE.
Friday, August 21,

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Would the amount
of the notes be limited P

1914.

that power now P

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
Any one
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three tendering a bank note to the issuing bank
o'clock.
is entitled to receive gold for it. A bank
note is not legal tender.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-He is entitled to
THE BUSINESS OF THE SESSION.
gold.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Prime Minister and the leader of the Opposition have
just been in consultation with a view to
deciding whether it is possible to conclude
the business before Parliament by to-morrow
night. There is a disposition on the part of
a great number in the Commons that we
sbould terminate our -business to-morrow.
As the leader of the Opposition is to inform
the Prime Minister at 6 o'clock this evening
whether that can be accomplished, with the
leave of the House, I move that we adjourn
until 8 o'clock this evening.
The motion was agreed to.
The Speaker took the Chair at 8 p.m.
THE FINANCE ACT, 1914, BILL.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes. Paragraph
C deals with excess circulation by banks.
Hon, gentlemen will remember that we
have made provision for an emergency cir-

culation up to fifteen per cent during certain periods of the year,

the movement
clause

of the

c permits

to provide for

crops.

This sub-

of that emergency

cir-

culation during the period of war being
issued throughout the remaining part of the
ye.ar. Su'bclause d makes provision to suspend the redemption in gold of Dominion
notes. That principle is already admitted
in the Bill. Paragraph E gives authority
to the Government to proclaim a moratorium. The other clauses of the Bill
simply work out the principles which have

been embodied in those sections to which
I have referred.

A message was received from the House of
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The hon. gentleman
Commons, with Bill (4), an Act to Conserve did not say whether the Government think
the Commercial and Financial Interests of it will be necessary at the present time to
Canada.
deal with subclause E at all.
The Bill was read the first time.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, it is not the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second present intention of the Government to do
He said: The main so, but it has been thought by the best
reading of the Bill.
object of this Bill is to confirm the Orders financial authorities in the Dominion that
in Council which have already been pàssed the Government should, in the event of
concerning the issue of Dominion notes. contingencies arising necessitating the exerClause 3 deals with this particular question. cise of such power that the Government
Clause 4 of the Bill empowers the Govern- should be able to do so. It has been
ment to issue Dominion notes to the char- adopted already in France, Austria, Russia
tered banks in time of war upon their and Great Britain, and doubtless may be
depositing securities that will be approved

adopted lby the other powers which are at

by the Treasury Board.
Subelause B of the Bill makes provision
that the chartered banks may make payments in their own notes, instead of making payments in specie. This would make
the bank note a legal tender during the
war.

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I notice that the
Bills are as. printed in the House of Commons. I have the French version here.
Are we to understand that Bill 4 as it is
now before us is exactly as it was passed
by the Commons ?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

war.

AUGUST 21, 1914
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is what I
understand.
Hon. 3fr. BELCOURT-It is very important that we should know that.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I know nothing
to the contrary. An amendment has been
made in Bill 2.
Hon. Mr. KERR-By subolause C&and
clause 4, the time for acting under that
authority is limited to a date which is
very near at hand,-the last day of August.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Bank Act
then comes in, and provides for an emergency circulation beginning the first of
September, so that this would practically
complets the year.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Authority would be
given under the clauses of the Bank Act
for the issue to be made after the first of
September.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That would permit banks to exercise that expansion from
first of September up to the first of March.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Is the expansion the
same-fifteen per cent?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I have just received a copy of the Bill from the House
of Commons. I have no opportunity to
compare them, but I presume it is the
same as the Bill before us.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEIi-I have not been
informed of any amendment which has
been made, except in Bill 2, where a clause
has been stricken out, but we can ascertain the facts when we compare it with
the Bill which has been sent from the
House of Commons.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second and third times, and
passed.
THE WAR MEASURES ACT, 1914, BILL.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.

time it has not been neceseary for Canada
to require such legieslation; consequently,
when the declaration of war was made between Great Britain and Germany, it was
found that -we were lacking in legislation
necessary to meet the exfraordinary contingency which had happened. The Government, therefore, in anticipation of a ratification of their acts at this session of Parliament, entered upon the necessary measures
for the defence of the country, dnvolving
expenditure and otherwise, and the object
of this Bill ls not only to ratify that which
has been done, but to vest in the Government of the day au-thority under Order in
Oouncil to adopt suoh measures as may be
found necessary ta meet the conditions
which arise. The second clause of the Bill
is a ratification of the acts already done. The
third clause limits the operation of the
seotions to a perdiod in which the country is
in a state of war.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Would my hon. friend
speak of the acts that are being confirmed,
giving us any idea at all of what is covered
by that? The language is pretty comprehensive as it is, giving it in blank.
Hon. MT. LOUGHEED-It would be difficult ta enumera4e all the acts that have
been done. They are those that would
necessarily arise in the organization of the
contingent which we propose sending ta the
seat of war.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is not
that all explained and declared in 'the
papers laid before the Commons?
Hon. Mir. LOUGHEED-I have not
perused those.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
think it is.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--I am sorry I cannot give my hon. firiend all the detailed information whiah he would desire.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN--Was it given in the
House of Commons?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Oh yes.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It was?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, it was
given as appears in this Bill.
Hon. -Mr. DAVIS-We have not had a
chance to read the debates of the House of
Gommons. Is it necessary to go on with
this nowP

A message was received from the House
of Commons with Bill (2), An Act to confer
certain powers upon the Governor in Council and to amend the Immigration Act.
The Bih was read the firet time.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading of the Bill. He said: The intention of this Bill is to confer what I might
term war-powere upon the Governnent of
Hon. Mr.
the day. Very fortunately. up to fhe present or no debate LOUGHEED-There wae Hittle
upon the Bih. It was referred

SENATE
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think thait inasto a special committee of the House, a very
adopted much as there are a number of amendaments
representative committee, and they
the Bill in its entirety with the exception of to make in several clauses, the House had
botter go into committee on the Bill and go
clause 12, whioh has been stricken out.
through it in the regular way.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Clause 12 of the Bill
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then I move that
we have before us?
the House resolve itiself into a Committee
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, this BiH of the Whole.
No. 2. Other slight amendments have been
The motion was agreed to.
made, but they are simply consequential
6, in
amendments; for instance, in clause
(In the Committee.)
the second Une, after the word ' make' the
On clause 11:
words 'from time to time' have been in11. No person who is held for deportation unthe word
serted; and in paragraph (e), after
or under any regulation made
'importation', the word 'production' has der this Act is under arrest or detention as an
thereunder or
been inserted. In clause 9, the last six alien enemy, or upon suspicion that he is an
words have been stricken out, namely the alien, or to prevent his departure from Canada,
or etherwise
words 'and the proceeding shall be sum- shall be released upon bailthe consent of disthe
tried, without
mary'. The whole of clause 12 has been charged or Justice.
Minister of
stricken out.
Hon. Mr. KERR-This is really a susHon. Mr. CLORAN-What does that say? pension of the habeas corpus, is it not?
It -ays ' or upon suspicion that he is an
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-If it is strieken out we alien enemy,' etc.
to deal with it.
do not have
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He is not under
Hon. Mr. KERR-That is the habeas arrest, he is simply held for deportation.
corpus clause.
I do not think it is in the public interest
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, and in that an alien enemy should be able to avail
clause 13 of the BiH after the word 'open' himself of all the machinery of the courts
in the last line of the Bill, these words have as to deportation.
been inserted, 'him under'; that is to say,
Hon. Mr. KERR-The clause says:
it shall read 'any punishment imposed
such proseoution before No person who is held for deportation under
upon him under
this Act or under any regulation made therehe is depotrted '. and in the fifth line of that under, or is under arrest or detention as an
clause between the words ' shall', and 'un- alien enemy.
dergo', the words, 'be liable to', -are inHow is he under arrest for that purpose?
scrted, so that it reads, 'Shall be Iable Sonebody has lodged an information, a
to undergo'.
warrant has been issued, and he is there.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It gives him a chance Surely the man is entitled to some kind of
trial. It strikes me that this clause is
to get out.
pretty far. In places where feeling
Mr. LOUGHEED-These are the going
Hon.
runs pretty high, where there is any partionly amendments that are made to the Bill. cular religious embitterment arising out of
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-My hon. friend told any act that has been done in the country,
the House that there was a commttee of any constable, no matter how lacking in
the House of Commons that dealt with this intelligence he may be, has power under
Bill. Could he tell us who the members of this clause to lodge an information and
have a man arrested on the charge of being
that committee were?
an alien enemy, and he bas no chance
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Prime Min- whatever of being tried.
of Justice, representister and the Minister
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But his arrest
ing the Government, with two other members whose names I forget, but Sir Wilfrid is simply with a view to deporting him, and,
Laurier, Mr. Pugsley and Mr. A. K. furthermore, no injustice would be done,
Maclean were on the committee.
because an application can be made to the
Minister of Justice. It simply requires the
Hen. Mi. OLORAN-A happy taml'îy.
consent of the Minister of Justice before
The motion waýs agreed te, and the Bl the court intervenes. We know that courts
will intervene in matters of this kind, but
was read a second time.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

AUGUST 21, 1914

surely it is not unrea8onable to say that
the minister charged with the administration of justice in the Dominion. should
first pronounce upon the fact as to whether
there should be an intervention of that
court.
Han. Mr. CLORAN-I do not think there
is any very strong provision against the
liberty of the subi ect in this Bill. The
present iaw is stili stronger. An ordinary
magistrate bas power to deport any
foreigner whatever who comes under the
criminal law if hie bas not been living here
longer than three, four or five years. This
provision is milder than the present law.
The safety of the country requires that
this provision be passed and any maxi
would receive as much justice at the hands
of the Minister of Justice as at the hands
ofan ordinary magistrate.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 12:
12. Section 3 of the Immigration Act, chapter 27 of the statutes of 1910, la amended by
adding thereto the following subsection:

2. No resident of Canada, whether he is a
Canadian citizen or not, and whether he has a
Canadian domicile or flot, who leaves Canada
ta, perform any miitary or other service for any
country then at war with Hie Majesty, or for
the purpose of aiding or abetting In any way
Hia Majesty's enemies, shall be Perxnttted ta
land In Canada, or remain therein. except with
the permission of the minister. If any such person lu aiea prosecuted for any offence of which
he may have been guiity he shall undergo any
punishnxent imposed upon such prosecution before he ls deported.

The CHAIRMAN-There are eome amendmonte made by the Gommons to the printed
In the second last line of the
Bîi.
clause, the words 'he should undergo' have
been changed and the, following aubstituted :-'ý He shall be liable ta undergo any
puniehment impos-ed upon him under such
prosecution before he is deported.'
Hon. Mr. WÀTSON-What about the
holdings of auch a man?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The lion. gentleman means as to his interests in property.
Hon. Mr. WATSON--Suppo&ing he is a
homesteader or owns propertyP
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I ehould judge
that under the Bill the Governuient would
have .author.îty to -make regulations forfeiting his -right ta again enter upon such
hom-estead.
Hon. -M.r. YOUNG-Why should he not
106e his property?
2
uzVIsED

Hon. Mr. WAMSON-I think snybody who
cames to Canada, lives here, -and su-biequently undertakes to go abroad ta *fight
againest Hie ýM«jesty's aubjeets should have
ah bhis property in Canada forfeited.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-1¶hat would not
be unreaisonable.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-That clause is not
drastic enough by any means. Any person
in Canada, Ganadian citizen or otherwise,
who heaves the country ta enlist in the
German army, and help, Germ.any againet
the armies of Britain and ber allies, should
not be aliowed to returu. ta Canada. If he
,should return he should be shot and any
property he mnig.t bave in Canada should
beý conflscated. The Government is too
lenient. I think the country will back me
up in that proposition.
Hon. Mr. MoKAY (Cape, Breton)-T-his
BlIl provides for ail that in the Iset clause<Hon. Mr. DAVI6-That does not say
anything about confiscation of property.
Hon. MT. CLORAiN-Tfhat does not eay
bie should be ehot.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I think tàhe <lovernment sliould go7 farther in thie legislation.
The Government ie now providing that an
alien who leaves thie country ta fight for
Germany should not be aIlowed ta land -in
Canada. I think the Government shouhd
keep a strict eupervision over these people
in Canada, and any mnan who expresees
himself s hostile ta Great Britain in this
war ebould -have his property confiscated.
An bion. GENTLEMAN-Oh, no.
Hon. Sir LYMAN MELVIN JONES-In
case a man left the country and hie wife
and famihy remained here, what. position
wouhd theý occupy? Perhaps they would
be very mucb opposed ta hie leavmng. What
would become of themP
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-We bave not ta look
after the families of people wbo leave the
country ta join the armiee of nations warring with. great Britain. I say their property
sbould ibe confiscated.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Under clause 6,
sufflciently wide powers are given ta the
Governor in Council ta pase regulations
with the force of haw, if it was tbought
desirable.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Where does the hase.
leader find. provision in any clause which
will give the Cinvertiment that power?
EDITIONq

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Clause 6 reads:
6. The Governor in Council shal have power
to do and authorize such acts and things and
to make such orders and regulations as he
may by reason of the existence of real or apprehended war, invasion or insurrection deen
necessary or advisable for the security, defence,
peace, order and welfare of Canada.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That is enough.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It would be just as
well to have the statenient go out to the
people of Canada, that any citizen leaving
this country to participate in the war
against England should not be permitted
to return, under penalty of death, and that
in the meantime his family will be deported, and his property confiscated. We are
in this war to fight, and let us fight it to
a finish, and under no conditions permit
foreigners who leave to 'take up arms
against the British Empire to return to
Canada.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-In reading clause 6,
the hon. leader stopped at the words ' welfare of Canada," and I think the words
that follow rather restrict the interpretation
lie placed upon it.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Provision
is
made in the Act, that the enumeration of
the powers under the subclauses a, b, c,
etc., shall not restrict the general powers
in the earlier portion of the clause. The
clause continues:
And for greater certainty, but not so as to
restrict the generality of the foregoing terns,
it is hereby declared that the powers of the
Governor in Council shall extend to ail matters
coming within the classes of subjects herein-

after enumerated.

Hon. Mr. KERR-Subelause ' f ' makes
provision for forfeiture.

provinces, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, AIberta and British Columbia, there are a
great numiber of foreigners fron those
nations wit.h which we are at war, an<i an
energency condition nmight arise necessitating the Governnment exercising a power of
this kind. It will be exercised very sparingly, and only I would think during a
state of war.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The Government lias
taken the responsibility of the whole proceeding.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. POWER,from the Commnîittee,
reported the Bill without amendment.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the third
reading of the Bill.
Hon.
ask the
'scouts
for Boy

Mr. WATSON-I should like tminister as to the expression
and boys.' Is that not intended
Scouts?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No. bovs I understand are enlisted in the Mlounted Police
as buglers.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was then read the third time and passed.
THE WAR APPROPRIATION ACT, 1914,
BILL.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.

A message was received fron the House
of Coinmons with Bill No. 3, An Act for
granting to His Majesty aid for Military
and Naval Defence.

The Bill was read the first time.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
The clause was adopted.
reading of the Bill. He said: The Government is asking for a vote considerably in
On clause 13:
excess of what present conditions will re13. Notwithstanding the provisions of section quire to be expended.
It is desirable to
8 of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police Act, provide for
contingencies, and it is thought
Revised Statutes 1906, chapter 91, the Governor
in Council nay from tine to tiue authorize desirable that the Governnent shiould have
the appointment of such number of constables, an amount at its command to ieet whatsupernumerary constables, scouts and boys, in ever demands may be made upon it.
addition to the nunbers limited by the said
section, as be thinks necessary.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Would the GovernThe CHAIRMAN-I should like to know nient apply a portion of this fund to assist
what it is proposed to do under this clause. any of our own people at home, should such
It gives unlimited power to the Gov- aid be required?
ernor in Council to increase the number of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is for dethe Northwest Mounted Police.
fence?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It would be an
Hon. Mr. WATSON-There may be stopenergency increase. In the four western page of trade involving suffering by widows
Hon. Mr. YOUNG.

AUGUST 21, 1014

(b) the conduct of naval and milltary oand orphans, and other situations that I
do not wish to discuss at length m.ighi erations ln or beyond Canada;
(c) promoting the continuanée of trade, lnarise. There might <be need for expendi- dustry and business communications whetherby means of Insurance or indemnlty against
ture-s of money in Alberta, for example.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There will be
nothing to prevent the diversion of an
amount of this appropriation for any object such as that.
Hon. Mr. WATSON--At home in Canada?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Sir LYMAN MELVIN JONESThe only objection I have to this
Bill is, I think the amount is to
might easily be that in
It
small.
six or seven months the Governmentrmight
wish te use more money than this Bill gives
them.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-We will be back here
before that.,
Hon. Sir LYMAN MELVIN JONESIf the war does not end before then
the House could net succeed- very
weil in general legisiation, and certainly I feel that the amount is smaller
than it ought to be in the interests of Canada. We do net know what we shaîl need
to do, and we want to do ail we need to
do, therefore I think the amount might
have been one hundred million dollars.
Hon. Mr. POWER-This is one of the
cases where -we may 'be a little cautious *n
committing ourselves te general views.
I should have no objection, as one member of the Senate, to the Government utilizing a portion of thîs money for the purpose of feeding and clothing wives
and children of the men *who have to go
abroad, and who may be siain or wounded,
or who are not in a position to do anything
for their familles; but I thiuk at the present time, that is about as far as I should
care te go. If certain wealthy corporations
in this country have seen fit te get rid of a
number o! their employees-which, has been
the case as to two or three of those large
corporations-I should not just at the present moment be disposed to say that Canada
should undertake to support those 'who have
been thrown out of employment.

war risk or otherwise; and
(d) the carrying out of any measures deemed
necessary or advisable by the Governor in
Council ln consequence of the existence of a
state of war.

The widest possible latitude is given to
the Government for ail the purposes that
have been named. That is why I think the,
sum is within the limits of what it oughti
to be.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Surely the Goveinment is in a better position than my hon..
friend to know what money they .want..
There is no doubt this House will vote whatever the Govexnment asks -for.
Hon. Sir LYMAN MEL VIN JONESIt is a free country and one likes to express.
his opinion; that is ail.
The SPEAKER-Thig is a money Bill, and
the House has no right to ameud it.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-We arr not going to.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the third time and passed.
THE DOMINION NOTES ACT, 1914, BILL.
PIItST,. SEJCOND AND THIRD READINGS.

A message was received from the House
,fCommons with Bill (5), an Act respecting Dominion Notes.
The Bill was read the first time.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Is there any explanation of this?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The object of the
Bill is te increase the power to issue
Dominion notes up te fifty millions însîtead
The limitation now is
of thirty millions.
thirty millions. There must be behind that
It is thought by the
25 per cent in gold.
best financial authorities in the Dominion,
by bankers and others, that the Dominion
would be thoroughly justified, under present conditions, in extending that power to
GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear. fifty millions.
Some hon.
This will give us fifteen
Hon. Sir LYMAN MEL VIN JONES- millions in the event of its bei.ng required.
This Bill makes provision for the doing of
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-That is, putting
ahl things which the hon. gentleman has up five millions additional security in gold?
mentioned. It will be noticed that it proHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
vides that the money may 'be used in-

SENATE
The motion was agreed te, sud the BiH
The motion was agreed to, an-d the Bill tive sessions. That is not debatable or disputable. Now we are in the fourth session
passed through its final stages.
of the 12th Parliament of Canada-unproTHE TARIFF BILL.
vided for, unlooked for, but, I was going to
say, not uncalled for. 'Many of our hon.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Perhaps the hon. colleagues are absent, forcibly absent beleader of the House might tell us when he cause of ill health or absence from the counexpects the other Bill, the Tariff Bill, up? try. Would that absence of a senator durHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Tariff Bill is ing this session count against him in case
being discussed in the House of Commons he was absent last session, or should be
to-night, and there are expectations that it absent next session and cause him to forwill reach its final stage, so that we may feit his 'seat? The point is a nice one, it is
a difficult constitutional one, and I should
be able to prorogue to-morrow.
like to have it settled now rather than leave
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-We will expect a dis- it until later on when, in the course of
party warfare, party strife, proceedings
cussion of the measure in this House.
might be taken on the question which
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Of course, hon. would not be advisable. This is the proper
gtentlemen will be at perfect liberty to time for the Minister of Justice to ascerIt tain what the ýstatus of a Senator wi.ll be
discuss it when it comes before them.
is to be hoped that it will be introduced after this session. It is only fair to our
here to-morrow.
colleagues who are forcibly absent to give
them fair warning of what may happen.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I think there are pro- Some have missed last session, and if this
visions in it that could be fairly discussed, session counts their seats become vacant the
for future purposes.
day we prorogue. I am prepared to give
fair-play to everybody. If this were a reguHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There is nothing
lar session there would be no remedy wh'
to prevent a discussion.
ever; the seat would at once become vacant.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Is that the only All I a.m as'king is that the rights of Senators shall not be impaired by this extra
other legislation?
call of a session.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is the only
other legislation of which I am aware.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-The
Bill?

Patriotic

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There is a Bill to
incorporate the Patriotic Fund Association.
The Senate adjourned
to-morrow.

until

10.30

a.m.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA, Saturday, August 22, 1914.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at 10 a.m.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
VACANOIES IN THE SENATE.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-With the kind permission of the leader of the Government I
would like to direct bis attention to a condition of things affecting the Senate which
lias no precedent in the history of Cana<a.
We al know that under the constitution the
.seat of a senator becomes vacant by the
very fact of bis absence during two consecuHon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-An emergency session.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-An emergency session, but all the same the fourth session of
the twelfth Parliament. I do not expect the
leader of the House to .settle the matter at
once. My opinion is that it will have to go
much farther. My idea of the constitution
from a legal point of view is that this session must count, and I go so far as to say
that, to preserve the seat of Hon. Senator
De Boucherville, the patriarch of the Senate,
we must go to the Imperial Parliament.
Supposing another session is called within
fifty days, and these gentlemen do not attend, they are debarred. I would not like
to have the seats of the Hon. Messrs. De
Boucherville, Shehyn, Thompson and Domville, declared vacant. The hon. gentleman
from Rothesay is a guest of the Emperor
of Germany and cannot get here anyway.
Or perhaps he is held as a hostage. The
seats of five or six senators are in a similar
condition. I simply call the attention of
the leader of the Government to this fact,
so that he may bring the matter before the
Government and have it discussed, and see

AUGUST 22, 1914

what can be done. I raise thié point to
settie it now, wben parties are ail at peace,
duiring- the time of the European war. In
a year or two from the pres-ent time, wben
party strife is resumed again, an important
issue may corne up in this House, the decision of which m.ay depend on one or two
votes. There are a-few senators under thîs
ban of absence for two sessions. Then the
question will be raised whether they should
be alowed to, vote. I want to avoîd that condition of things. The Leader of the Government will join with me, I am sure, in
saying that the matter is one worthy of consideration in view of results that may happen, and in view of the fact that senators
are absent to-day, not of their own accord,
but by r-eason of ill-health.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As the hon, gentleman 'las already intim-ated, the matter
's entirely covered by the Britishi North
America Act; consequently, it is a .subject
about which we have nothing to say. I
know o! no reason why a distinction -should
be drawn between this session and any other
session, so f ar as it bas a bcaring on the
question my hon. friend has raised.
CUSTOMS TARIFF ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
FIRST,

SECOND

AND

THIRD

READINGS.

A message was received front the House
of Gommons with Bill 9, An Act to amcnd
the Customs Tariff Act, 1907.
The Bill was read the first time.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading o! the Bill. He said: It is a regrettable fact that this Bill was not even printcd when it was introduced in the House
o! Commons and deait with there. They
desît entirely with the subject as the
séliedules appear on the votes and proccedings of Friday last in the House o! Gommons. I understand those details have
.been distributed. On page 23 of the Votes
and Proceedings o! the House of Gommons
bon. gentlemen will find the scbedules set
out, and also in the debates of the House
o! Commons, of Tbursday last, page 30. 1
regret under the circumstances, therefore,
that we have not the Bill printed, 'but all
the information will be obtained from the
Votes and Proceedings. The ýincreased duty
affects chiefly four particular articles,
namely, coffee, sugar, spirits, cigars, and
also the changes wbich necessarily take
place in the excise tariff respecting those
same articles. Approximately, it is thought

that the tax on coiffce will realize the sum
of $500,000. The additiona1 duty on sugar
will realize five million dollars; upon
spirite two and one-haîf million; upon
cigars and cigarettes, two hundred thousand, and the excise duty on those sàme
articles will realize $ý3,600,000, in ail -about
$ 14,800,000. Bo that it is thought, that approximately during the seven months we
may rely upon an increase in duty exceeding $7,000,000, which will be applicable to
the deficit which we &hall be called upon
to meet.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The question is
one that is entirely in the bands, of the Government. They are responsible for adopt.
ing the measure they consider best in the
interests ocfthe country to, meet the extraordinary circumstances of the present situation. I do not altogether approve of the
way in *which the Government propose to
meet the necessities of the country, but it
is for them to devise the measure to meet
the emergency. The condition of the country to-day is very serious. The declaration
of war bas upset the trade and financial
interests of the country in a way that is
without'precedent in this Dominion. Practically I niay say the whole world is ini a
condition which.probaibly has neyer existed
up to the present time. We have already
seen the cost of living increased, and 1
understand that the Government bas taken
steps to sec that the prîces of food are not
necessarily raised. Whet the Government
have done in this case will no doutt affect
food prices throughout this country. One
of the principal measures we should adopt
in order to, help the situation is to, increase
the food supply to as great an extent as
possible. I hope the Government will do
èverything they can to increase the food
supply of the Dominion. For many years
we have been opening up this country, and
developing it by improving transportation
facilities in the interests of the whole counttry, but unfortuntately the conditions that
have arisen mean that immigration into this
-country will be very much curtaîled. Not
onlly that, but in order to do our share, in
helping in the defence of this -country and
of tihe empire, a large number of our people will probably ibe drawn away from the
very necessary work of producing food.
We have therefore to consider wb*at le the
best way to arrange for s large 4an increase,
as possible in the food aupply of this counttry. The condition of wainge prevailing today aleo, affect very materially a large number of the manufacturîng interesta of this

SENATE
country. I hope that the Government wili
aid them in securing for Canada the manufacturing of .nes that possibly have not
itherto been established in this country
because of certain conditions which no
onger exist. By doing all that can be
lone in that direction, I think we shall be
accomplishing a great work, not only for
Canada but also in the interest of the
empire.
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.

throughout the Dominion of Canada? No.
They go to the weal.thy clase. I have no
objection to a man being wealthy, but what
I say is this; the Government should have
sought to get a piece of that <wealth from
the men who could afford it, instead of
shouldering the tax on the poor working
wage-earner, and salaried officer. We of the
Liberal party are supporting the Conservatives in this move on account of national
necessity; and if it were net fer n-ational
necessity we weuîd hear much more. The
Ministex cf Finance and his Government
bave made a istake in leading the tax cf
this
tbey wilI hear more cf this laVer on when
tie time, the propitieus time, will ceme. I

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do not rise to oppose the Bill. War is war, and war measures
muet be taken, and we do not oppose the
policy of the Government. But we reserve
the right to criticise it .at the moment, and
later on to condemn it. When the Government was called upon to face the situation say on dividende paid cf eight, ten, twelve,
which exists to-day, it is 'the opinion cf and twenty per cent in ail these institumany in this country, and of myself in par- tie, whieh exist by Federal sanction.
ticular, that it should have 'aimed higher at What would it be te put five er ten per
gathering taxes for the war instead of load- cent en the dividende declared hy snch ining the taxes on the wage-earner, the sal- stitutions? Lt wcuid be se easy te declare;
aried clerk, and the ordinary citizen. and se easy te bear. For instance the
What do I mean by that? This: that the Canadian Pacifie Railway Company on a
men who -draw thousands, tens of thousands, capitalcf three or four hundred million doland hundreds of thousands of the country's lars declares a dividend cf ten per cent
wealth every year, should have been made with a bonus. The Gevernment should
to pay their share towards the defence of simply say: 'we want ten, tenty-five, fifty
the country in which they are making their per cent cf that dividend,' and the same
wealth. The Government should have seen with the banks, insurance cempanies and
to it that men who are drawing large divi- ail ether companies that come under Domdends-rightly so, legitimately so-should ien charters or Dominion legisiatien. Lt
pay their fair -quota towards the defence of weuld be the eaiest matter in the worM
the empire, by putting -a tax on their divi- to cellect that money; and whe weuld feel
dends-not a tax on their wealth, not a tax it? Nobedy. The rich sheuld net objeet
on their property, not a tax on their in- te centribute a few dollars during seven or
dustry, but simply a slight tax on their eight nîenths cf the war te aid in the deemoluments and profits. Can any one deny fence cf the empire. But when you put a
that that is a fair proposition? We have tax on sugar, the wealthy man with a smali
banking institutions iall over this land family may use a ponnd cf sugar wbere te
paying large dividends every year, .any- wage-earner and the working man uses five
where from five to one hundred per cent and ten pounds. Ont cf t
Bye millions
eome of them; we have insurance companies cf revenue which the Minister cf Finance
paying large dividends, anywhere from five expects te derive frcm he tax, ninety-five
to thirty and forty per cent; we have large par cent will be paîd by the peor werking
railway companies bonused and subsidized man. Is it fair Vo put Bye millions on those
by the Dominion Government paying as high who are te-day furnishing the men whe are
as ten per cent, with bonuses on a tremend- geing te the front, many cf them leaving
ous capital; we have all kinds of .institutions behind them their wîves and children?
paying large dividends, and to whom do
these dividends go? Do they go to the
workman in the street earning $1.50 or $2
lin. Mr.'CLORAN-Is it fair fer the Geva day? Do they go to the man in the mill, ernment te-day te put a tax cf five million
whether it be a saw mill, a 'foundry, or an dollars on the peor when they ceuld as
agricultural establishment? 'No, these divi- easily have got i eut cf wealthy corporadends do not go to the wage-earners who get tiens cf this couutry? We vote fer thebud'ne, two, three or four dollars a day. Do get, but we vote in spite cf cur cemmen
they ge te tbe salaried eierks, and shtp girls sense and serîe of judice
but the
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK

AUGUST 22, 1914.

day will come when the people of
Canada will demand an account from
the Government tbhat imposed that tax
upon them unjudstly anid unfairly when
they had other meane and other resources
at their command.
The motion was adopted and the Bill
passed through its final stages.
INLAND REVENUE ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
FIRST,

SECOND

AND

THIRD READINGS.

A message was reoeived from the House
of Commons with Bill (10), An Act to amend
the Inland Revenue Act.
The Bill was read the first time.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading of the Bill. He said: This B3ill is
complementary of the Bill which has Just
been passed, and simply imposes the additional excise duties on the same articles.

23

to a f act which came to my notice yesterday
afternoon that foreigners who have been
earning a good living in Canada for a number of years, have returned to Austria and
Germany respectively to take up arms
again.st the British Empire, leaving their
wives and children behind. While nobody
can object to these men having gone, once
they have gone they should be treated -as
-nemies. When foreigners leave thjs country to go to Germany and Austria to take
up arms against the British Empire, their
wives and children are liable to become a
burden on the community. This country
should not in any way support those defenceless women and children, and 1 think a
pairtof the fil ty mflldcns would be well spent
in kindly and charitably deporting women
and children of that kind to wherever they
belong, and flot leave th-em in Canada to
become objects of charity, and to have oui
good money spent on them.

Hon. Mr. DENNIS-How would you do
it?
The motion was adopted and the Bilf
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Simply by buying
passed its final stages.
their passage and putting them on board
THE NATURALIZATION LAW8.
ship and sending them over.
Hon. Mr. DENNIS--Sending them where?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Would my hon.
friend allow me to make a suggestion with
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-To their own country.
reference to the Naturalization Act? I am
been living
informed that many who have
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-How would you get
ini Canada for a number of year-s are not them there?
British subjects. Some of them are FrenchHon. Mr. CLORAN-Buy the ticket and
men. I saw one of them this morning, who
send thern. We are not bound to look alter
is engaged in very meritorious work, organwho are
izing a brigade of artillery o! whieh he is the women and children of men
be plaoed in command. He is not yet fighting the British Empire.
to
a British subject, but I believe he must be
An hon. -MEMflER--hoot them.
in order to get the commission which wilI
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No, we will be mort;
entitle him to 'take comnmand of thie brigade
of guns, and he wants to become naturalized. generous than the Germans, and send them
I do not know whether it would be possible home as eomfortably as possible. Canada
for my hon. friend to include in the Bih] 1should not be called upon to spend a dollar
a provision which would make naturaliza- -on the support of these women and childtion possible within a day or so. I am tak -ren. Il the proposition is brought to the
ing this case merely to ihlustrate the point, attention of the Minister of Justice, he will
but it is by no means an isolated one; I say that the money should not be spent in
believe there are quite a number of cae sthat direction. I understand that a large
of that kind. The gentleman in question number of Austrians and ýGermans have
is to be given the rank of major, but hi abandoned their work in the mille, factories
muet become a British subject. Under th< and mines, leaving their families to be
Act as it je at present, I think that couic ttaken care of by Canada. We should have
not be done within the time îequired. I b regard to the old proverb, ' Charity begins
takes a monbh. If that case can be met, Iat home.'*
Hon.* Mr. DANIEL-While I do not prothink it would cover a number of simila r
cases.
fess to know anything about the law in
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I wish to cali thie connection with the matter Ibrought up by
attention of the leader o! the Governmen t the hon. gentleman from Ottawa, (Hon. Mr.

SENATE
Belcourt), it appears to me it would not be
necessary for a French citizen who becomes
an Officer in our army to be a naturalized
British subject. Every mdn when he enters
the army takes the oath of allegiance, and
it appears to me that that would be sufficient.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-The gentleman in
question has been advised that it would be
necessary for him to be naturalized. Let
me draw attention to subsection 3 of section
2 of chapter 44 of the Naturalization of
Aliens Act. It is quite possible that under
that subsection the Secretary of State could
grant the certificate of naturalization in
the case I have mentioned. The subsection
reads as follows:
The grant of a certificate of naturalization
to any such alien shall be in the absolute discretion of the Secretary of State of Canada, and
lie may, with or without assigning any reason,
give or withhold the certificate as he thinks
most conducive to the public good, and no appeal shall lie from his decision.

I have no doubt under this section a certificate 'could be granted, were it not for
the preceding section, which reads as follows:
The residence required by this section is residence in Canada for not less than one year immediately preceding the application, and previous residence either in Canada or in some
other part of His Majesty's dominions, for a
period of four years within the last eight years
before the application.

Possibly the Minister of Justice might be
asked whether, under subsection three, the
Secretary of State could grant the certificate
in the case I have mentioned, and that
would obviate the necessity for legislation.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Has the igentleman to whom my hon. friend refers not resided in the British dominions previously?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I think he has,
but not for a period of four years within
the last eight years.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I shall mention
the matter to the Minister of Justice.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I should like to
throw out a suggestion which emanates from
the Westminster Gazette of recent date,
which I think should be carried out here.
It is that in face of the situation of the
British Empire now, all the difficulties, in
Ireland especially, have been apparently
wiped out, but the paper suggests at the
same time that they ought to disappear permanently, and there should be no delay in
passing the Home Rule Bill, in order that
Hon. Mr. DANIEL.

all grievances between different citizens of
the Empire should be entirely wiped out.
The suggestion is a good one, and I hope it
will be accepted over there. But the same
thing could be adopted in this country. We
have so far shown a united front. This
country has done everything possible for
the safety and defence of the empire, but
there are also grievances here, and this is
the proper time to reinove them. It can be
very easily done. This is neither the time
nor the place to discuss these grievances,
but I throw out the suggestion to the leader
of the Government in this House and ask
him to place it before his Prime Minister,
and I will ask the Prime Minister of this
country to eall the attention of his friends,
the Prime Ministers of Ontario and Manitoba, to endeavour to wipe out discrimination which causes grievances in those two
provinces. It seems to me the time is opportune to carry out entirely the entente
cordiale, and put all the citizens of this
country on the same footing. We have seen
the Czar promising his Polish and Jewish
subjects full rights and liberty, and the
Westminster Gazette repeats that statement
and says that it will also be the proper
time to remove every grievance which- may
divide the citizens of its own country. I
throw out this suggestion with regard te
Ontario and Manitoba, in order that those
who, in matters of language, religion and
education, are suffering, may be given the
rights to which they are entitled, so that
we may hear no more about their differences. The schools will be reopened very
soon, and the regulations which infringe on
the rights and privileges of the minority in
those provinces should be abolished. I
ask that the minority in those provinces be
placed on the same footing as the minority
in Quebec. You never hear in Quebec complaints of discrimination in matters of
rationality, religion and education. The
nwinority is receiving a full measure of justice according to the constitution. I ask
my hon. friend to look at the article in the
Westminster Gazette of recent date to which
I have referred and consider whether the
suggestion cannot be adopted here at the
present time.
The motion was agreed to, and the riouse
adjourned until 2.30 p.m.
SECOND SITTING.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at 2.30 p.m.
Routine proceeding.

AUGUST 22, 1914.

THE SENATE DEBATES.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED) moved that the
Olerk of the Sonate be authorized to pay the
official reporters of the debates of the Sonate the sum of $1,000 for services inclusive
of their staff for the five days' session of
Parliament and for their travelling expenses. Ho said: We have a oontract with
the reporters for a lump sum of $10,000 per
session. This session -being a very short
one, we feIt justified in saying te the reporters that there ýshould ho a very substantial reduction, and that they shou-ld bo
only paid for the services which they have
rendered during those five days. They have
incurred considerable disbursements in
travelling and on account of their staff, and
we have fixed the amount at $1,000.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Possibly some
arrangemient could be made te continue the
contract fer next year. We generally ýmake
a contract at the end of the session for the
following session. When the House prorogued last June we did not expect this
short session bo intorvene. Could there be
a -word added te -the report providing that
a contract -be made for next yearP

are precisely in the language of the English
Act.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Has the hon. leader
had an opportunity to inquire into the mat-.
ter referred to by the hon. gentleman from
Ottawa?
Hon. Mr. iLOUGHEED-I had not an opportunity of diecuesing it with the Minister of Justice, but I discu-ssed it afterwards
with the hon. gentleman from Ottawa, aud
I am bound te say th-at I thin-k it ia ~Impracticable to legisiate for one particular
individual. He -and I both agreed th-at pos,dibly -the Secretary of State might see a
way for the exercise of the powers vested in
him towards meeting the conditions wthich.
mýy hon. f riend pointed out. The more desirable way is to take At up with the Secretary of State, and ascertain if tahis power
cannot ho exercised to the extent the hon.
gentleman dosires.
The motion w-as -agreed to and the Bill
was read the second snd third ti-mes and
passed.
*CANADIAN PATRIOTIC FUND BILL.
FIRST,

SECOND

AND

THEIRD READINGS.

A message mas received. from the Honse of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand the Com.mon6 with Bill (7) Au Acdt to incorporreporters accopt that as a contract for next aVe the Canadian Patrietic Fund.
year. There is ne question about it in their
T-ho Bil was read the first time.
mind.
Te

motion was agreed te.

NATURALIZATION ACT, 1914, AMENDMENT BILL.
PIRST,

SECOND

AND

THIRD

READINGS.

A message -was received from the Hlouse
of Commons ivith Bill (8), An Act te amend
the Naturalization Act, 1914.
The Bill was read the first time.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading of the Bill. He .said: The objeet of
this Bill le to incorporate a number of gentlemen who have volunteered their services
for the purpose of esltabliehing a fund te ho
used in case of need for the wives, c.hildren and dependent relatives of ufficers and
mien resident in Canada -who, during the
present war, may be on active service with
the naval and militia forces of! the empire,
and also with Great Britain's allies. The
intention is thait this corporation should
administer whatever fund may ho provided
lu tlie interests that I have mention-ed. It
is somewhat similar, I believe, lu the framework of -the Bill to the fund. which was established at tihe time of the Sout.h African
war. The gentlemen who -are being incorporatod, and who6e namnes are set out in
clauffe 2 of the Bill are of the most representative character, and I am satisfied that
in the hande of these gentlemen this fund
will be wisely administered.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading. Ho -said: The ameudments te the
Naturalization Act o! the session of 1914 are
brought about owing te the werking eut o!
the English Act. These aniendments are
for the purpose of 'bringing our Act into
conformity with the English Act. They have
made the saine amendments there. The
purport of the amendments la t'hat the widows of aliens w-ho -were British subjeets,
and aise married wemen who axe British
subjeets and married to allons, should enjoy
a very much more favourablo status than
Hon. Mr. .DANIEL-I think the membere
was provided in the Act. The amendments o! thi-sChamber will ho very pleased indeed

SENAT&

to hear from the leader of the Government,
if he is in a position to give the information, as to what measures have been taken,
or are likely to be taken, to look after the
welfare of the wives and families of the
men who are going to the front. The patriotic fund is all right as fax -as it goes. It
is a purely voluntary fund. It may b
quite sufficient, or it m.ay be insufficient to
meet all the demands that are likely to be
made upon it. What we ought to have is
some undertaking from the Government
that if the .amount of funds voluntarily subecribed by the people generally should not
be sufficient, they will be supplemented by
the Government of this country in such a
way that no wife or child of any departed
soldier will suffer. I was in touch yesterday, in common with another member of
this House, with about a dozen men who
came from Prince Albert to join the Princess Patricia regiment here-as fine a body
of young men as I ever saw in my life. Two
of those men were leaving wives, and one
or two children, one of the latter being very
young indeed, and they were anxious to
know in what position they were leaving
their families. and what they could inform
their wives they could depend on after they
left. It is extremely important that that
matter should be cleared up, and that the
soldiers themselves -and their families
should know exactly what they have to
look to. I do not know whether the leader
of the Government is at present able to
give that information, but would like to
have any information he may have on that
subject, so that these men, when. they leave
will go with the knowledge that their families will be absolutely looked -after and protected.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I regret that I
cannot give my hon. friend as definite information upon that subject as he would
desire. This is largeiy a matter to be yet
worked out. The generosity which bas been
expressed in the gifts of so many, and the
amounts which have been promised for
this purpose will, I think, establish a sufficiently large fund to meet the requirements pointed out by my hon. friend. I
understand that in the Commons yesterday
the Prime Minister intimated that if it was
found necessary the Government would
supplement this fund sufficiently to bring
it up to such an amount as would meet the
required purposes. Provision has already
been made hy the Government, not only
as to the remuneration which will be paid
to the troops leaving for the seat of war,
Hon. Mr. DANIEL.

but the civil servants who have enlisted
will receive their salaries during their absence, the same as if they were performing
their ordinary duties here. This, I understand, will extend to all branches of the
Civil Service. I also understand that many
of the large corporations, financial, coinmercial and otherwise, have proffered similar assistance to those of their employees
who have joined the different regiments
that are leaving for the seat of war. I
therefore think I can assure my hon. friend
that, with the spirit whieh is abroad
throughout the
Dominion, particularly
touching this phase of the war, there need
he no apprehension as to the families of
those who are fighting the 'battles of the
empire being left in destitution.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I would like to
add my quota of information to what bas
already been stated. During the South
African war a fund was raised amounting
to $350,000. As you all know, there were
but 3,000 men from Canada who left for
South Africa.
Hon.
think.

Mr. DANIEL-5,000

altogether, I

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No, 2,500.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I thought there
had been three contingents of 1,000 each,
and there was the Stratheona Horse besides that, which would make 3,500 altogether, but I stand to be corrected; yet
with that small number of men leaving,
over a quarter of a million dollars was expended in support of the families that were
left behind. In the present instance we
will have 22,000 or 22,500 men leaving Canada for a terni abroad. Besides these we
will have our militia, which has been
already called out to protect our public
works. Besides that again, we will have
to take care of the families of the reservists
of Great Britain's allies-French, Belgian,
Russian and Servian. The amount which
will he needed to take care of a few thousand families that will be in need and that
will draw from 'the funds gathered, will be
considerable. At first some icitizens of
Montreal who were discussing the situation
were under tha impression that we would
need to levy in voluntary subseriptions a
million dollars; but my impression is now
that we will have to double that amount
throughout Canada, and it seems to me
that munnicipalities all over will need to
think of contributing to that fund. The
amount wiich was gathered during the

AUGUST 22, 1914.

South African war was not completely exhausted, and it is provided in this Bill that
the amaunt which was unexpended may
,be transferred ta the present fund. Saine
$73,000 remains of -the South Afrioan fund,
and I believe that nothing will stand in
the way of the transfer of that sum ta the
present fund.
Hon.
do-ne.

Mr.

JAFFRAY-That

has

been

and for aimply loal purpo.... It woul (
be very much better to concentrate on this
one big fund so ithat «1l may be treated
alike, -and all'treated with justice, and more
than justice.
Hon. Sir LYMAN MELVIN JONES-I understood the leader of the Honse to say that
the earning power of those who a.re êerving
either at home or abroad will not be les&ened under conditions we are looking forward to, as campared with. their ea.rning
power in peace times. T9hat, then, leaves
the earning power of the heaade of familles
equal ta what it has been. An important
question in the 'minds of some of the faanilies af those w'ho are preparing to go to the
front or have gone, ils whether tihe Goverinment have miade arrangements for ithe distribut ion, sa.y monthly-not at greater inteirvals than thatr-of at least, .4 substantial
percentage of the earnings of the men,
which wil1 be forwairded,'to the families.

Hon. Mr. DANflURAND-Han. MT. Jaffray telle me that at a meeting which was
called yeeterday a decision was arrived at
ta transafar that fund. 0f course the public
corporations are daing -what they cari ta
help the families of their emplayecs rwho are
leaving for the seat of war, by giving themo
their full pay, or a part af their regular
pay. I know that they will also cantribute
te that fund. This *morning I saw with
pleasure that the Bank ai Montreal had
taken the lead, and suhscribed aver $100,Hon. Mr. DANIEL-Hear, hear; that is
000. If every large banking institution folthe idea.
lows ,at that gait, we may perhaps facilitate the gathering of two muillian dollars
Hon. Mr. LOUGIIEED-Of course my
t.hat will very likely be needed for tis pur- lion. friend will understand that I limit
pose.
that entirely ta those employed in the pubHon. Mr. DANIE-I amn very gl'ad ta .lic service.
îhear the remarks ai -my han. iriend. I rnay
Han. Sir LYMAN 'MELVIN JONES-The
say that at the time of the Boer war-and At public service includes the man wha hss
appears as if the example was being fol- gone ta tight for his country.
lowed ta saine extent riow-there 'were a
~Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Na, the Civil
great many different funds collected in diiferent parts of the country, ail having. the Service.
one abject, but differing from one another,
Han. Bir LYMAN MELVIN JONEÀS-Then'
and hence the çwhole iuind at the disposal if the families know, and if thase wlio are
of the cauntry for tihe benefit of aur troops proba.bly giving families credit fram month
at the front and theur families was nat under ta manth for supplies required by them
one control. If tihe peaple ai this country know that the Gavernment are giving them
who are int-erested 'ln raising funde for the a aubstantial portian of the ealary due ta
benefit of aur troops and those dependent the bread-winner of the hame, and that it
on them wexe ail ta unite in thia one big will reach them monthly, it will immedipatriotic fund, it would be very'much bet- ately create a situation that will be very
ter, and in that way nane, would be omitted; satisfactary -and helpfu.
,ail would be loaked alter, -and ahl treated
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Cape Bretan)-Thic3
in the -same mariner. I think this is very
important, and I hope tLhe idea will epread lund 'will require a great deal af care, and
in 13hi5 country, that in the different citiea, 1 think it -will be one that will be very diimunicipalities and provinces, whexe funde ficuit ta adininister. I have had same ex;are raised and given for thie purpose, tihe perience with relief funds, alang the saine
main patriotic fund, for the incorporation lines; and when we consider sueh a large
of which this Bill is naw before us, should eoncern as this, and realize haw diffleuit
concentrate -ail those fundi;, and in that it will be ta reach the different parties who
way every one will bc properly looked after 'will have dlaimis upon this fund, the systein
and 'get what is right. That -would be very for carrying out that distribution will have
much better than frittering away the maney ta be a very good system indeed, or At will
and the effortis ai different municipalities sjoon m.iscarry. My hon. friend's remarke
througahout tihe country on different abjects, ,are in the right Une. He strikes the nail

SENATE
on the head. This is the proper time to
'discuss this matter, and to have a proper
understanding. We propose to have some
little information to communicate to the
people when we reach our destinations.
There should be a definite understanding
that the Government of the country should
work in harmony, or in conjunction with this
organization in such a way that there shall
be no miscarriage of the objects for which
the fund is created. We can understand
the condition that would arise throughout
this country, where there are a great many
families depending on the proceeds of this
fund for the support of their children, if
there should be any miscarriage. I most
heartily endorse what has been said in this
matter. I think my bon. friend who bas
just spoken bas rather misunderstood the
matter in regard to the publie service. That
referred principally to the men from the
Civil Service who enlisted in the contingent,
and not to ail who went to the front.

people of this country in the cities, towns,
villages, bamlets and conces-sion roads, contribute money, that money should be under
the control and supervision of responsible
parties, responsible to the Dominion Government. The hon. member for St. John
has made a suggestion, and I think the
leader of the Government would be justified in placing before his colleagues in the
Government this proposition: that ail the
moneys collected on patriotic grounds or
otherwise, be placed in, I will not say one
hand, but in the hands of a commission
under Government control, so that the people will be sure that the money they give
will go to the objects to which they contribute.
Hon. Mr. JAFFRAY-I think that the
necessity for assistance already to some extent exists. It does not follow because the
funds are collected now that they should
be expended at once. I took an active part
in the collection of funds at the time of the
Fenian raid, and the South African war,
and I think it can be said that there waa
never a single charge made against the
committee which handled those funds that
the funds were not properly applied. It
would be too much to expect that you could
keep np the tension which exists now, and
I think now is the time to raise the funds
and put them into shape, and nothing will
give the people who go to the front so much
confidence as to know that these funds are
being raised, and that the people are prepared to see that the families of those who
are going to the war are not neglected. In
the Fenian raid every man who was earning wages in Toronto received fromi that
fund five-eighths of the money he had
earned for his family, and it worked out
most admirably, and the funds were sufficient to meet ail obligations. If there
should be such a thing as an extended and
p:olonged war, these contributions will have
t5 be renewed. These men who are going
to the front are not going to fight for themselves but for us, and we have an obligation which we must discharge to the utmost
of our ability. I do not 'think it is desirable that cold water should be thrown Upon
the present efforts. The greater the war the
more urgent it is, and the better for the
country that contributions should be given
without delay.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-My idea of the situation is similar to that of the Minister of
War of Great Britain, Lord, Kitchener, who,
the other day, issued a proclamation to the
people of Great Britain, and the empire at
large, not to be too hasty in contributing
to so called patriotie funds. He is a man
who knows what be is talking about, and
he advised the people of Great Britain and
the empire to withhold these contributions
until they would be required. That was
issued in a declaration from the War Office.
I think the Government of Canada, under
present conditions, would do well to follow
his advice. There is no immediate hurry
to establish these fundhs. There may be a
great necessity for these funds in one, two
or three months hence. It is aIl very well
for gentlemen of fortune, or ladies of leisure
to colleet funds at the present time, but
they are not exactly required just yet. As
Lord Kitchener says 'Reserve your money
for the hard months that are coming.'
That is the warning given to the people of
Great Britain by the war officer, Lord Kitchener, and that warning I call to the attention of the leader af this House and the
Government. It is not tbat I am opposed
to any mai contributing $1 or $100 to this
fund, but let it be done at the proper time
and place. I agree with the hon. gentleman from St. John (Hon. Mr. Daniel) that
ail these funds that are created in cities,
towns and villages, and hamlets should be
Hon. Sir LYMAN MELVIN JO.NES-This
placed under the control of the Dominion Bill, when passed, will not neces¶arily
Government, and, as he says, not be left to merge into one control all the moneys conbe frittered away .here and there. If tle tributed to the patriotic fund. Just as in
Hon. Mr. McKAY.

AUGUST 22, 1914.
the case of the South African war, we are
liable to tind different funda created in
different municipalities, or different cernmunities, where the people feel that they
'would prefer to look after the local situation.
Ini so far only as they voluntarily contribute to this fund will the fund lie administered by one central corporation. I
think we will ail agree that it is extremely
important that one central organization
ought to contrai the entire fund. There
will necessarily be subcommittees in the
different, provinces, and in different cities,
which thiz law will make provision for. So
that while the fund will lie administered
by a central body, the actual detailed work
of this organiaztion wilI be done 'by committees appeinted in the various cities,
towns, municipalities and provinces, and
these are ail linked with the scheme beeause
of the fact that'the lieutenant governors
and premiers of ai the provinces are made
inembe-rs of the central organization for
the administration cf. the fund, and it is
important that the outlying provinces understand that local committees there will be
created under this Act for taking care
locally of the work in the different parts
cf the country. If we are ta have a plan
that will work out satisfactorily that will
insure a proper dealing with this fund and
dealing with it along similar lines from
acean ta ocean, it is clearly necessary, to
my mmnd, that it should lie under one
central organization, with representatives
from the different provinces. It wiII therefore help the -situation if -the members
carry away with thema the thouglit that,
while his Bill bas been put through, àt
does net contrai tbe fund; it is entirely voluntary, as I said before, on the part cf al
those contributing whether they will put
their money into this fund or contribute
otherwise. The explanation made in this
Chamber, and the explanation made in the
variaus provinces in the country, will
be materially
helpful in giving information and bringing about a condition which. is se
much desired.
Aiready energetic efforts are being made ta,
collecet maney for the purposes for which
this measure is enacted, but in the meantime the organizàtions that are at work
along local lines are net at ail merged into
this. It is hoped and expeeted, and I believe iA wilI bie, that when it is properly
understood they will merge their funds int
tbis central organizatien and general good
wilI ble brought about; but there is a condition ta which we need ta lie ýalive if we

are ta create a situation that will be most
lielpful. We will have in this legislation
the enabling power and the continuity of
conditions that are inevitably necessary for
a situation such as is being created. It is
ta be greatly hoped that the entire suliscriptions from ail associations cf any kind
whatever will merge into that central one,
having in mmid the knowiedge that it is
flot going te be controlled by one centre,
but by ail the associations throughout Canada on lines fair te every family that requires assistance. They wiil receive on the
sarne lines and conditions in every part cf
the Dominion.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bll
was read the second and third time, and
passed.
THE FINANCE ACT, 1914.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved that the
House adjourn during pleasure.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I want to ask a questien about Bill No. 4, « An Act ta Con'ierve
the Commercial and Financial Interests cf
Canada.' My question has reference te
clause No. 4 of the Bill, and subclause 'a.'
That part reads as follows:
4. In case of war, invasion, riot or Insurrec-

tion, real or apprehended, and in case of any
real or apprehended financial crisis, the Gavernor In Council may, by proclamation published
In the Canada Gazette,<a) authorize the making of açIvances ta the
chartered banka and te the savings banks te,
which the Quebec Savings Banks Act, 1913, applies, by the Issue of Dominion notes upon the
pledge et securities, deposited wlth the minister,
of such kind and amaunt as may be approved
by the Treasury Board; such advances ta be
repayable at such tîmes as the Board may determine with Interest at a rate likewise determined by the Board of not less than five per
cent per annumn.

.My attention has been called to observations made in the House o~f Commons by
the Minister of Finance with reference ta
this clause, and At is with a view te making
an inquiry that I amn calling attention ta
this *matter. On page 68 of the Coxnmons
'Hansard,' I find a question asked by Mr.
MeLean, and asreply by the minister. Mfter
xeferring te the fact tbat war had broken
out, the minister said:
In order that 1 might be in touch with events
in the financial and commercial world, 1 caused
ta be convened a meeting of representative
bankers ta, keep me in touch with the situation.
After we passed the Order in Council under

which the banks were authorîzed ta, make use
of their excess circulation priviiege during the
month ef August, and ta make payments in
bank notes, and arter we had passed a further

SENATE

Order in Council authorizing advances to be
made to the chartered banks upon securities to
be approved by the minister, I continued this
committee as an advisory committee upon securities. The committee consisted of the president of the Canadian Bankers' Association, as
chairman, and the general. managers of the
I convened
three largest banks in Canada.
the committee at Montreal because it was very
convenient to Ottawa, and I could be in touch
with the situation by telephone from day to day.
Since the announcement was made that banks
were authorized to issue their own notes instead
of Dominion notes and gold, and to make use
of their excess circulation, and that the Dominion Government stood prepared to make advances to chartered banks upon the security of
approved collateral, the banking situation in
Canada lias been normal, and up to date we
have not issued any Dominion notes.
I should say further-and this will answer
in part a question asked this afternoon by my
hon. friend from Guysborough (Mr. Sinclair)that, without assuming to interfere In any way
with the banks' conduct of their business, I
have asked the banks to exercise as liberal a
policy as is consistent with the principles of
sound banling towards the commercial community, and I have asked them not to hesitate
to make use of the facilities afforded them by
the Government through this arrangement. i
have been asked as to the machinery that bas
The advisory committee that I
been devised.
have mentioned pass upon the security put forward in connection with an application. There
is a certain order in which these securities are
to be talken. There are Dominion and provincial guarantee securities and other high-class
listed securities, bonds and stocks and commercial paper. I think it inadvisable to lay down
a hard-and-fast rule, because the several banks
carry on their business differently. While there
may be a good deal of trouble in connection
with the release and substitution from time to
time of commercial paper, such paper may be
quite as good as high-class bonds or other collateral. This committee of bankers pronounce
upon these securities, subject to the final approval of the Minister of Finance. In this connection I should call the attention of the House
to a provision of the Bank Act. I think It is
section 135 which provides that the Dominion
bas a second charge, next only to the note
issue, upon advances made td banks. So I do
not think the question of security need give us
very much concern.

What I desire to know is whether it is
the intention of the Government that advances should be made upon guaranteed
securities which have not been marketed,
as for instance the guaranteed securities
that were given to the Canadian Northern
railway. It is stated in the press that,
owing to existing circumstances, these have
not been placed, and it was stated also in
the press that that company had brought
the matter under the notice of the Government and applied to them for relief in the
matter. What I should like to know is
whether this clause is designed, and is it
the intention of the Government to give the
relief sought in that way in respect of securHon. Mr. KERR.

ities guaranteed iby the Government but
which have not yet been placed on the
market. Can the company by simply passing them through a bank get cash from the
Government which they could not otherwise
obtain? Is it intended by placing these
bonds in the hands of one of our own
banks or some trust -company, that these
guaranteed bond, shall be in any way
dealt with or advances made with respect
to them under this clause? Is thic clause
designed to cover such a case as that? If
so, the country should have been taken
more into the confidence of the Government
before the Bill was passed. The language
I have spoken of is so general in its terms,
that it nay be described as a stepping
round the corner by way of answering a
direct question. Under the circumstances,
I think it is well that we should know
whether the Government in passing this
Bill intended to enable them, through
banks or otherwise, to legally cash these
securities out of this fund.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The specific case
ientioned by my hon. friend, of the Government having been approached for the
purpose of assisting the Canadian Northern
upon a deposit of securities guaranteed by
the Dominion Governnent, is not a case
that comes within the Act, inasmuch as
the application was made, my hon. friend
intimates, by the Canadian Northern. I
am not aware that such an application was
actually made, but mîy hon. friend intinates
that it was. My answer to that is, that it
would not come within the Bill, inasmuch
as the Bill only makes provision for the
tendering of the securities in question by
the chartered banks, not by railway conpanies, or other corporations. It is quite
manifest if a bank approaches the Dominion Governmnent with a view to taking
advantage of this section, that bank becomes prinarily liable to the Dominion
Government for any advances which may
be made. Consequently, the Government
lias not only the securities which will be
deposited for the advance, 'but will have
the security of the bank itself. Now my
hon. friend has put a hypothetical case,
and I cannot therefore give him an answer.
He asks if these particular securities should
be tendered through the channel of the
banks whether the Government will make
an advance in Dominion notes. Inasnuch
as the matter is entirely one of discretion
with the rninister, and the Treasury Board,
it is manifest that I cannot give a reply to
my lion. friend on a suppositious case

AUGUST 22, 1914.

An Act ta conserve the Commercial and Flnancial interests of Canada.
An Act ta confer certain powers upon the Governor ln Council and ta amend the Immigration
Act.
An Act respectlng Dominion notes.
An Act ta amend the Customs Tariff, 1907.
An Act ta amend the Iniand Revenue Act.
An Act ta amend the Naturalizatian Act.
An Act ta incorporate the Canadian Patrlotic
Fund.
An Act for granting ta Hie Majesty aid for
military and naval defence.

Each case will have to 'be deait with as it
arises. Each case will have to be deait with
on its own merits. Variaus factors will
doubtless govern the Treasury Board as ta
whether these advances should be madethe necessity of such advances being made,
the class of s curities, the desirability of
diverting a very large amaunt ai Dominion
notes with reference ta one particular class
of security-would of itself be a matter for
seriaus «(msideration. Ail thes factors enter
into the exercise of the powers vested in
the Government under clause 4, and I regret very much that I eannot give my hon.
iriend an absolutely decided answer upon
the particular oase which lie has su'b-mit-

IIn

ted.

!the

Hon. Mr. KERR-I intended ta broaden
the suggestion a littie 'because I understood
irom what appeared in the publie press
and what has -been said in consequence ai
that, that the application had been made
'by the Canadian Northern Railway Company for assistance. The Government can
tell us whether that is sc or not. That was
done prior ta the framing of this Bill. The
next question is, was this Bill framed as
it is with a view to enabling t.his to be
done. or sa that At could be done if the
bonds passed through the hands of the
bank. It is quite true that ail of that could
be done. Then the question I want ta
know is whether that is a case that would
corne within the. scape of this Act, and one
on which the Government intend ta make
an advance.
The motion was agreed ta.
PROROGATION.

To these Bis the Royal Assent was pronounced by the Clerk af the Senate in the
following words:
His Majesty's namne, His Royal Hlghness
Governor General doth assent ta these Bis.

Alter which His Royal Highness the Governor General was pleased ta close the
Fourth Session of the Twelfth Parliament
ai the Dominion af Canada with the following
SPEECH:
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate:
Gentlemen of the Hous af Gommons:

1 thank you for the prompt and effective consideration which you have given ta measures
necessary for assurlng the defence of the country, for conservlng the interests of aur people
and for maintaining the lntegrity of the empire
ln the present emergency. It la my fervent
hope and my confident anticipation that these
measures will prove adequate in every way for
the great purposes which they are deslgned ta,
fulfil.
Gentlemen of the House of Gommons:

I than< you in His Majesty's namne for the
liberal provision whlch you have made for the
needs of the country in the grave conditions
High- whlch have arisen through the outbresk of war.

At four o'clock p.m., His Royal
ness the Governor General proceeded in
state ta the Senate 'Chamber, and took bis
seat upon the Throne. The memilers ai the
Senate being assem-bied, His Royal Highiness was pleased ta owniniand the attendance of the bouse of Commons, and that
bouse being present, the following Bills
were assented ta, in His Majesty's name,
*by His Royal Highness the Governor General, ViZ:

Ilanourctble Gentlemen of the Senate:
Gentlemen of the Hanse of Gommons:

In relleving you for the time being from the
important and responsible duties ta which you
were sumnmoned se suddenly and unexpectedly.
I commend ta the Divine protection the people
of this Dominion in the firmn trust that the
future will continually grow brighter and that
there will be a favoursble and honourable issue
tram the war in which the empire la naw involved.

INDEX
PART I -

SENATORS

The following abbreviations are used: Ist R., 2nd R., 3rd R., 1st, 2nd and 3rd Readings; *, without
remark or debate; Acets., Accounts; Adjn., Adjourned ; Aint., Amendment; Amts., Amendments; B.
Bill ; B.C., British Columbia; Can., Canada or Canadian; Coin., Committee; Co., Company ; Consdn.,
Consideration; Cor., Correspondence; Dept., Department ; Govt., Government; His Ex., His Excellency
the Governor General; H. of C., House of Commons; Incorp., Incorporation; Inq., Inquiry: Man.,
Manitoba; Me's. Message; M., Motion; m., noved; N.B., New Brunswick ; N.W.T., North West Territories; N.N., l\ova Scotia; Ont., Ontario; Parlt., Parliament; P.E.I., Pri- ce Edward Island; P O.,
Post Office ; Ques., Question : R. A., Royal Assent ; Rem., Remarks ; Rep., Reported ; Ret., Returned;
Ry., Railway ; Sel., Select; G in h., 6 months hoist; Withdn., Withdrawn.

BELCOURT, Hon. N. A.
Naturalization Laws: rem., 23, 24.
BOLDUC, Hon. J.
Address, The: 1-4.
BOSTOCK, Hon. H.
Address, The: 6-7.
Business of the session : .rem., 13.
Custom Tariff Acts amendment Bill:
21-22.
Dominion Notes Act, 1914: rem., 19.
MeMillan, the late Senator: rem., 12.

rem.,

CHOQUETTE, Hon. P'. H.
Naturalization Laws: rem., 24.
CLORAN, lon. Il. J.
Address, The: 11-12.
Can. Patriotic Fund Bill: rem., 28.
Custom Tariff Acts amendment Bill: rem.,
22-23.
Naturalization Laws: rem., 23.
Vacancies in the Senate: rem., 20, 21.
War Measures Act: rem., 17, 18.
DANDURAND, Hon. R., P.C.
Address, The: 10-11.
Canadian Patriotic Fund Bill.: rem., 26-27.
Senate debates: rem., 25.
DANIEL, Hon. J. W.
Canadian Patriotie Fund Bill: rem., 25-26, 27.
Naturalization Laws: rem., 23-24.
JAFFRAY, Hon. R.
Canadian Patriotir Fund B.: rem., 28.
JONES, Sir Lyman Melvin, Kt.
Canadian Patriotic Fund Bill: rem., 27, 28-29.
War Appropriation Act, 1914: rem., 19.
War Measures Act: rem., 17.
65743-3

KERR, Hon. J. K., P.C.
War Measures Act: rem., 15, 16-18.
Finance Act, 1914 : rem., 29-30, 31.
L IHIIEED¯¯Hon. J. A., P.C.
Address: 7-10.
Business of the session: rein., 13, M 14.
Canadian Patriotic Fund B. M. 25: rem., 2526.
Custom Tariff Acts amendment Bill, M. 21:
rem., 21.
)omnoionî Notes Act, 1914, M. 19: rem., 19.
Finance Act amendment Bill, lst, 2nd and 3rd
L: reim., 14 ; rein., 30-31.
lli* loyal Highness's term of office: rem.,
12-13.
lnland Revenue Act amendment Bill, M. 23:
rem. 23.
MMillan, the late Senator: rem., 12.
Naturalization Act Amendment Bill, 1914, M.
25: rem., 25.
Railways, an Act respecting, lst R., 1.
Senate debates, M. 25.
Tariff Bill: rem., 20.
Vacancies in the Senate: rem., 21.
War Appropriation Act, 1914, 1st, 2nd, and
3rd R.: rem., 18.
War Measures Act, 1914, lst, 2nd and 3rd R.:
rem., 15, 16, 17, 18.
McKAY (C:B.), Hon. W.
Canadian Patriotic Fund Bill: rem., 27-28.
POWER, L. G., P.C.
Tariff Bill: rem., 20.
War Appropriation Act, 1914: rem., 19.
War Measures Act: rem., 16.
SMITH, Hon. E. D.
Address, The: 4-6.
WATSON, Hon. R.
War Appropriation Act, 1914: rem., 18, 19.
War Measures Act, 1914; rem., 17.

PART 11-S1JBJECTS
CANADIAN
PATRIOTIC FUND BILL: lot,
2nd and 3rd R., 25; assented to, 31; Mr.
Cioran, reffi., 28; Mr. Dandurand, rem.,
26, 27; Mr. Daniel, rem., 25, 27; Mr.
Jaffray, rem., 28; Sir Lyman Melvin Jones,
rem., 27, 28-29; Mr. Lougheed, M. 25, rem.,
25, 26, 27 ; Mr. McKay (C.B.), rem., 27-28.

RA-ILWAYS, AN ACT
Lougheed, Tht R., 1.

RESPECTING:

SENATE DEBATES: Mr. Dandurand,
25; Mr. Lougheed, M. 25, rem., 25.

Mr
rem.,

SESSION, BUSINESS 0Fi THE: Mr. Bostock,
rem., 13; Mr.
rem., 13 ; Mr. Cioran,
Lougheed, rem., 13, 13-14 ; Mr. Power, remn.,
CUSTOM TARIFF ACTS. AMENDMENT BILL:
13.
lht, 2nd and 3rd R., 21; assented to, 31;.
Mr. Bostock, 21-22; Mr. Cioran, 22-23; Mr. SPEECH FROM TEE TERONE: Mr. Bolduc,
Lougheed, 21.
1-4 ; Mr. Bostock, 6-7 ; Mr. Cioran, 11-12;
FINANCE ACT BILL: lot, 2nd and 3rd R.,
14; assented to, 31 ; Mr. Belcourt, rem., 14;
Mr. Kerr, rem., 29-30, 31; Mr. Lougheed,
M. and rem., 14, 30.
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS' TERM 0F OFFICE:
Mr. Lougheed: rem., 12-13.
INLAND
REVENUE
ACT
AMENDMENT
BILL: Ist, 2nd and 3rd R., 23 ; assented to,
31; Mr. Lougheed, rem., 23.
McMILLAN, THE LATE SENATOR: Mr. Bostock: rem., 12; Mr. Lougheed: rem., 12.

NATURALIZATION ACT AMENDMENT BILL:
lot, 2nd and 3rd R., 25 ; assented to, 31;
Mr. Belcourt, rem., 23, 24 ; Mr. Bostock,
rem., 25; Mr. Choquette, rem., 24; Mr.
Cioran, rem., 23 ; Mr'. Daniel, rem., 23-24;
Mr. Lougheed, M. 25, rem., 25.
PROROGATION:

Bis

assented to, 31.

Mr. Dandurand, 10-11; Mr. Lougheed, 7-10.
Mr. Smith, 4-6 ; text of opening speech, 1;
text of closing speech, 31.
TARIFE BILL: Mr. Bostock, 20; Mr. Cioran,
20; Mr. Lougheed, 20; Mr. Power, 20.
VACANCIES IN THE SENATE:- Mr. Cioran,
rem., 20-21; Mr. Lougheed, remn., 21.
WAR APPROPRIATION ACT, 1914: lot, 2nd
and 3rd R., 18 ; asented to, 31 ; Sir Lyman
Melvin Jones, 19; Mr. Landry, Speaker, 19;
Mr. Lougheed, 18-19; Mr. Power, 19; Mr.
Watson, 18-19.
WAR MEASURES ACT, 1914: lot. 2nd and
Srd R., 15; assented to, 31 ; Mr. Bostock,
rein., 18; Sir Mackenzie Bowell, remn., 15;
Mr. Cioran, 17-18; Sir Lyman Melvin Jones,
rein., 17; Mr. Kerr, 15, 16; Mr. Lougheed,
M. and rein., 15-16, 17, 18; Mr. Watson, 17;
Mr. Young, 17.

