DEBATES
0F

THE SENATE
OP

TE

DOMINION OF CANADA

1915
REPORTED AND EDITED BY

HOLLAND

AND

BENGOUGH

(Oficial Reporters of the Senate of Canada.)

FIFTH SESSION-TWELFTH PARLIAMENT.

OTTAWA
PRINTED BY J. DE L. TACHÉ, PRINTER TO THE KING'S MOST
EXCELLENT MAJESTY
1915

SENATOBS 0-F CANAD-A
ALPHÂBETICAL

LIST

1915
SENATORS.

DESIGNATION.

POST OFFICE ADDBESS

The Honourable
.....
......................
BAIRD, G. T ..
.. ........
BtiQuc, F. L.. *....................
...........
RL..... ...................
BmaT,
BuaoouaT, N. A., P.C0..... ....................
.............
.......
BOLDUC, J ..........
.........................
B08TOCK, H .......
BouCHERVILLE. SIR CHARLES . BOUCHER, DE,

Perth, .B.
Tictoria ...........
Montres!, Que.
)e Salaberry ...
30wmuanviUe...Bowmanville, Ont.
I
Ottawa, Ont.
)ttawa ............
St. Victor de Tring, Que.
.auzon ............
Kamlops.........Monte Creek, B.C.

Montreal, Que.
Belleville, Ont.
Montreal, Que.
Montrea4. Que.
Québec, Que.
Montreal, Que.
Beflevile, Ont.
Edmundston, N.B.
Âmihermt, N.S.
Montreail, Que.
.St. John, N.B.
Montreal, Que.
Prince ..Ulbert, Sask.
Halifax, N.S.
Halifax ........
.........
DENNis, W ..... ..... ..............
Brockville, Ont.
.. ..... Brockvile .........
DERBysaiRE, D ................
St. Hyacinthe, Que.
Rougemont ........
DESSAu-LLES, G. C..........................
.. Lethbridge, Alberta.
........ Lethbridge .......
..............
DEc VzBER, L. G ..
Rothesay, N.B.
Rathesay ..........
............
DoxviLLE, J., Lt.-Col ..........
Pinkerton, Ont.
............ South Bruce....
'DONNELLY, JAMES J.
Tantall1on, Saskatchewan.
Tantallon.«... .. ..
..........
DOUGLAS, J. M ..................
Ottawa, Ont.
Rideau .... .........
..............
......
EDWAIEDS, W. C ........
Liverpool, N.S.
Liverpool .... ......
........................
FARRELL, E. M ......
Rimnouski, Que.
Gulf ...............
.
FisET, J. B. R..........................
......... ........ Baniff..............Banff, Alberta.
FORGET, A. E ..............
Leeds and Grenville Smith's Falls, Ont.
.. ........
....
FROST, F. T ..................
St. George, N.B.
St. George .........
.... ...............
GILLmor,, D . ............
. ntigonish, N.S.
... . Antigonish .... .....
GIRBOIR, E. L ... ......................
Beauceville WVest, Que.
....
La Salle .......
.....
.... ...............
........
GOD)BOUT, J
North Bay, Ont.
Nipimaing ..........
.......
..............
Goauo.-, G ............
Toronto, Ont.
Toronto .... .......
JONES, Sin LymAN MELViN, KT ................
Ont.
Tnto,
. Toronto .. .........
.........
KERR, J. K., P.C ................
Chipnian, N.B.
Quee's. ...........
................
....
KING, G. G.............
andiac, Que.bec, P.Q.
Stadacona .........
LÂNDRY, P. (Speaker)......... ................
St.Boniface, Man.
Provencher ........
....
LA RiviÉiiE, A. A. C ..............
Arthabaska, Que.
Kennebec ..... .....
........
LAvERGoNE, L ....................
..... Repentigny......Louieville, Que.
...........
...
LEGRtis, J. H ............
algary, Alberta.
Calgary.......
LouGijEED), J. A., P.CO......... ..............

......... tiontarviLle ...
K.O.M.G., P.C .................
...........
(Sir Maekenzie), K.C.M.G., P.C... Elatings
BowELL,
Rigaud ............
I
BoRn, A ................................
De Lausudière ...
CAW43EÂIN J. P. B........ ....... .......
Grandvüle .........
COoqoUEru, P. A .........................
Victoria ...........
CLOaÂN. H.L
J............................
....
Belleville ......
....
COUERT, H...........................
. Victoria, N.B.
GOMTGAN, J., P.C. .....................
.. ... Amherst ...........
CUr, N .........................
...... De Lorimier ....
DANDUBaND, R., P.C...............
...... St- John. .........
DANIEL., J. W .....................
Mile lies..........
DAVID, L. 0O............... .......
T. O ............. ...... ........ Prince Albert. -...
DAVIS,
....

SENATORS OiF CANADA

iv

PO>-T OII-1

SNTR.DESlIGNATION.

AtDI)RESS.

The Honourable

Al..... .. ....... Montreal. Que.

............................
A K
MACKeUY, D................................
MAsoN, JAMESa, Col .........................
McCÂLL, ALExANiDERt........... ............
...........
MCDONALD, W .... ...... .....
McHUGH, G ...............................
.. ... .... ............
MCKAi, W .........
.... ... ....
McLÂREN, P .............

MeSwiEENEY, P ....................

.....

. . Nohumberland..

...........
..........
MONTPLAISIR, H......... ..............
MITCHELL, W........

MURPHY, P.

Halifax, IN.S.
Toronto, Ont.
Simene. Ont.
Glace Bay, N. S.
Lindsay, Ont.
Re8erve Mines, N.S.
Perth............FPerth, Ont.

Cape Breton ....
...
Toronto. ....
Simoe ........
Cape Breton ....
Victoria, O ... ....
Cape Breton ....

C .......................

..

Monct n" NB.

Wellington .... .... Druminondville,.gQue.
Sbawenegan......Three Rivers, Que.

Tignisb ..... ...... Tignish, P.E.I.

Inkermnan..... ... Montreal, Que..
......
OwENs, W .............
Acadie...... .... Shediac, N.B.
.... .. ..........
FOI RIER, F ...............
Cookhire, Que.
... Bdford ..........
POPE, &. H......... ...................
Halifax............ Halifax, N.S.
PowER, L. G., P.C ..........................
..... Saskatchewan...Battieford. Sask.
PRINCE, B ...........................
.Charlottetown, P.E.I.
.Charlottetown.
.............
FxxOlvE, B. C.............
RATz,

V ..........................

Ruzy, G..................
ROcME, W ................

itou, J.

~I.

....
...........
... ................

North Middlesex..New Ranxburg, Ont.
Victoria, B.C.
Victoria, B.C.
....... .Halifaxc, N.S.
lf....

......................... ..... Regfina...........

POSÉ%, W. B................................
SmmyN, J ................................
SurTH, ERNEsT DimAii................. ....
...............
TALEOT, P..................
TayI.oR, G................ ..... ...... ....
..........................
Tmaama, JuLES...
....
THiBAUDEAu, A. A.....................
........
TxxownsoN, F. F ...... ... .........
.........
...........
THORNE, W. H ......
WAIson, R ................................
WVILSON, J. M.... ............................
....
.............
YEo, J ..................
...........
YOUNG, F. M ...................

Moosejaw, Saskatchewan

Middleton, N.S.
Middleton .........
lAurentides....Quebec, Que.
Winona, Ont.
Wentworth ........
Lacombe, Alberta.
Lacombe...... ....
Lesds............ Gananoque, Ont.
De la Durantaye .... Quebec, Que.
De la Vaiire. ... Montreal, Que.
Fredericton......Fredericton, N. B.
St. John.......... St. John, N.B.
Portage la Prairie ... Fortagela Piairie, Man.
........ Montreal, Que.
rl....
F..
ort Hill, P.E.I.
Eaat Prince .
Killarney ..... .... Kilarney. Man.

THE

SENATE DEBATES
FUTH SESSION-TWELFTH PAMBIAKET.
The earnest and resolute spirit of patriotism
which animates the whoie Dominion han evoked
a magnificent response to the cali for service
Ottaw, Thursday, February 4, 1915.
beyond the seas. Large additionai forces have
been organlzed froni which further contingents
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Two- are ready to be despatched as soon as t.he
necessary arrangements for receiving them and
thirty p.m.
compieting their training can be consummated.
Notwithstanding the inevitable disturbance
Prayers.
of trade which was created by the outbreak of
the financili and busiThe Senate was adjourned during pleasure. war on no vant a scale, Dominion have shown
nes conditions of the
great stability, and on the whoie the country
hs.s adapted ltself to the new conditions in a
SPEECH FROM THE THRONE.
very effective way.
My advisers will submit for your ceonaiduraHis Royal Highnesa the Governor-Gention measures rendered necessary by the part..
eral being seated on the Throne.
cipatiori of this Dominion in the great task
which our Empire lhas undertaken In this war.

TME SENATE.

The Honourable the Speaker commanded
the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod to Gentlemen of the Homse of Commons:
proceed to, the House of Commons and
The accounts for the iaat fiscal year will be
laid before you immediately and the estimates
acquaint the Honse that,-

for the net fiscal year wili be submitted withIt la His Royal Highness the Governor Gen- out delay. You will be asked to make the
eral's pleasure that they attend him imme- iiecessary financibLI provision for effective aid
in the conduct of the war.
diately ln the. Senate.

Who being corne, with their Speaker,
His Royal Highness the Governor General
was then pleased to open the Session by a
gracions Speech to, both Houses:

Ronourale Gentlemen of the Senate:
Ge-nt"een of the Rosse of Commona:
The strong unity of purpose which inspires
His Majesty's Dominions gives us the firm assurance that the cause for which this war has
been undertaken will be maintained to an honourable and successful issue. I commend to
your favourable consideration the measures
which will be submitted to you for aiding that
great purpose. and 1 pray that the Divine blessIng may be vouchsafed to your deliberations.

Honsotrable Gentlemen et the Benate:
Gentlemen of the Rouse of Commons:
During the months which have elapsed since
the outbreak of war, the people of Canada have
given mont abundant and convincing evidence
of their firm loyalty to our Sovereign and of
His Royal Highness the Governor General
their profound devotion to the institutions of being pleased to retire, the House of Comthe British Empire.
Since I last addressed you. a Canadian Ei.- nions withdrew.
peditionary Force of more than thirty thousand
After some tume the Sena te was resumed.
mnen han been safely despatched across the Atlantic, and after arriving ln the British Islands
has been engaged ln completing the necessary
BILL INTRODUCED.
training before proceeding to the front Notwithstanding the unusually severe weather
Bill(
An Act relating to Railways.
conditions which have prevailed lni the British
Islands, the training lias proceeded satisfacThe Senate adjourned tili Tuesday next at
torily Rnd It is anticipated that the. force wi!ll
very- «"'4rtly take its place ln the fleld of action. three p.m.

S.-'

REVI5ED EDITION

SENATE

THE SENATE.
Ottawa, Tuesday, February 9, 1915.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at T.hree
o'clock.
Prayer and routine .proceedingýs.
THE ADDRESS.
MO0TION.

The Order o! the Day being called.
Consideration of His Royal Highness the
Governor General's speech on the opening of the
fifth session of the twelfth.Parliament
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-In rising to performi a time-honoured task 1 must thank
the hon. leader of this House on behalf
of myself and the province from which 1
have come for the honour hie bas conferred upon us by his designation on -the
present occasion. That honour is ail the
more accentuated by the fact thaît we are
passing through conditions wvbich will
make indelible pages on the world's
hietory, and will have a potent effeet on
the future divisions -and development of
the human zace. The position in which
I find myef Liien, beixig et a period of
sucha historie importance, I naturally approach it witll a certain amount of diflidence that I know will be a passport te
the indulgence of my honourable colleagues
during the short ime I -shahl occupy their
attention. The speech of Hie Royal H.ighness our Governor General delivered to us
in coinmon with our fellow legisiators of
the House of Commons, mu-st have a
àolacing effect in its note of optimism. It
gives us the gratifying knowledge that
Canada is fulfilling its du-ty in the
troublous times through which we are
passing. The mention of our Governor
General reminds us of the favt that His
Royal Highness, with his dutiful consort,
came to us as connecting links in oui
chain o! impqrîalism, as the visible tokeni
to the premier colony that Britain's Empire bad entered a new cia. Veicing 'the
sentiments o! the Senate o! Canada then,
I beg îespectfully te bear ýtestirnony not
only to the *manifest loyalty which goes
out 'te His Royal Highness as the representative of oui beloved King, but te
assure their Royal Highnesses the Duke
and Duchess o! the heartfelt thanks o! a
grateful people for the many evidences
given us o! their love and devotion te
Canada. Especially dees the thanklE of
our young nation go out to them for their
decision to remain at our liead under

present eonditions -or until the dove
ôf peace again alights on our fair
land. We are not unindful of the fact
either that the Royal Princess has from
the beginning eti&nulated recruiting by
allowing a regiment to be named after hier,
and with her own bands presented them
with their colours. The deopatch, of the
large expeditionary force wbichbhas alTeady gone forward, the largest to evex
cross the ocean, and the clockwork piecision of 14e mobilization and embarication
refleet -the highést credit on ouT Militia
Department and Government, and are a
source of pardonable !pride to ail Canadians. The subsequent reciuiting, and
the readiness of a decond contingent to
embark after three months' training, with
the third in preparation, is an object lesson
to thfe world of Canada's national status.
The assurance that oui soldiers in training
or at the front are giving a good accounit
of themselves, often under the trying circunistances of a most severe winter, and
the information we have of the splendid
work of the Princeas Patricia's Owni, who
had their first baptism in the trenches of
France, make every breast swell with
patriotie pride. The fervour which permeates every corner of this great Dominion,
and the intense feeling which it imparts,
has been shown in the rush te the recruiting
centres, and muet be a source of satisfaction
to everybody. While comparisons are perhaps invidious, and at the present time may
be uncalled. for, I cannot refrain fromn pointing ont on this occasion that the heroic
littie province I have the honour to represent has, in proportion te its population,
the largest number of Canadian citizens on
There is a sense of
the enlistment rolis.
satisfaction, too, that this same spirit and
courage pervade every clais and creed, and
are impelling oui people te further and
further sacrifices until the desired goal is
reached, the emancipation of oui civilization secured, and oui empire emerges
triumphiant with the flag that has braved
a thousand years flying as of yore. We are
reminded, too, that not only sacrifices of
brain, and blood and brawn are essential
in a crisis of this kind, but what is known
as the sinews of war-the money te prosecute and properly equip and maintain oui
armiy in the field, with ail that this entails,
is also a prime requisite. In this connectien, notwithstanding the dislocation incidentai to war, we are glad to know
that Canada's trade is stili buoyant *and
lier financial institutions are on a stable
basis, perhsps unparalleled by any other

FEBRUARY 9, 1915

1

3

country outside the motherland. We might us, and they left no doubt ini our minds as
here observe, too, that on the strength of te the strenuous efforts made by Sir Edward
l3ritain's standing, which, after ail, ia the Grey and the British Government in the use
best index to hier ability for prosecuting of every art known te diplomacy to avert
,%ar, she is practically the banker of' the war. These official papers of our Empire
neutral world, as she bas been in modern have since been reinfomced. by the officiai
times the clearing bouse of the financial documents of Russia and France, nay,
world. That our security under the present more, they are negatively supported by the
circumstances is altogether due to the suppmessed or non-published official comsupremacy of Britain's navy, no one wil munications with passed between Berlin
deny. If our trade is flot demoralized and and Vienna duming these trying times.
our trade routes untenable, entailing finan- There is, therefore, no doubt as te the
cial panic and its consequent disaster to our righteoumness of our cause ieft in the minds
populace, we have the fostering care of of the umprejudieed, and peace-ioving
It is not only Canada people though we are, our sons, out
Britain to thank.
that should be grateful under those condi- mothers and our daughters are prepared
tions, but the neutral countries of the world for a suprenle sacrifice. We thank God
owe a debt of gratitude to the statesmen as we gaze in retrospect over the past
who anticipated the day when a military six months, that Canada has been a unit
mad despot and his entourage would at- in response to duty's cali, and we are
tempt te overrun the world. We can take pouring out our blood and treasure to
consolation, too, from the fact that Canada -an unprecedented degree that civilization
in recent years has earned the sobriquet of
in its proper sense may not perish fromn the
'Granary of the Empire,' and in thia earth, and that the nefarious dictumway is
an added
strength to the 1Might is Right ' shahl not prevail.
mother
country
in
lier
hour
of Our -sons march te the strains of'
trial. -That Britain can depend upon the Tipperary'
aide by side with tnie
plouglis on Canada's farina, gives to hem that sons of the composite and' so]idified
air of sta.bility so necessary under the.cir- ~British Empire, fromn every corner of. the
cumstances.
habitable globe to help emadicate the f aise
We hardly needed the gracious speech morality and ethica of a Nietzsche or Bemnbefore us te bring home te us the necessities hardi. They charge.-the trenches and man
of the occasion, and the desire of all the firing line too, te assure -the world of
humane people that this disastrous war, the future that such monstrous doctrines
with its awful human carnage, sbould have be stiil-born. In this noble work it is
every effort made te stop its devastating gratifying te have the active co-operation
effects.
of a nation- which is the parent land
When last we met within these walls we of -many
cîtizens,
our
best
of
were juat on its threshold, and in our whose ancestors firgt trod the banks
wildest flights of imagination we could not
like Lallemant
then picture the sudden devolution of out o! the St. Lawrence; men
noble lives
twentieth century culture <save the mark!1); and Breboeuf who gave their
that savagery might flot. longer -bold sway
we could not dream of the unbridled lîcense
which has characterized our'eneniies in their in the countries drained by its migbty
muarch through Belgium, with its mutilation waters. Every catastrophe, bowever, has
and
result
of cbildren, its outraging of wonîen, its its compensations, have as a fruit! ni o! this
lesson
the
awful confiet we
looting of Louvain and its sister cities, the
ruthless destruction of ancient cathedrals o! the irttensity of feeling for the mnotherand the priceless treasures of art, science land, which makes her sons rush to the
and literature, which had passed unscathied colours froni every corner of the Emipire on
through the wars of centuries, prosecuted whieh the sun neyer sets. A splendid obby- countries which, in our self sufficiency, ject lesson in this respect is the action o!
we would then have been pleased to sneer the Premier o! S3outh Africa in the present
at as barbarous when compared with these crisîs, and denionstrates the colonizing
Justice and right are power o! Britain, which in a iew short
modern Huns.
natural conditions precedent to embarking years makes the strongest friends out o!
in such a terrible nation'al confiict as we the bitterest enemies. We note, too, a pacihave undertaken at the present time. Wben fied Ireland, the home of my forefathers,
in August last we convened in an extraor- after a struggle o! seven centuries and we
dinary session, the officiai documents of can even xfow gaze in pro spectu on the meHis Majesty's Government wvere laid before stored Parhiament Halls on College Green,

SENATE

and we can see Orangemen and Roman
Catholics figliting shoulder to shoulder in
frost-bound Flanders to-day. Suffering Poland, too, is coming into its own, and
we look for the effacement from Europe
of the unspeakable Turk, and the relief of
the persecuted Christians of Central and
Southern Europe through the good offices
'cf our mighty Russian ally. We have entered into this war, sorely against our will,
to maintain the honour of Britain and to
proteet the weak against the strong; to
prove to the world and future generations
that the scrap of paper with Britain's naine
and the seal of Britain's Empire is always
at par, and to demonstrate to the German
autocrat and the Germany military cult
the falsity of their assumption that God
is always on the aide of the heaviest bat-tallions, when authenticated tablets stand
at the lodge gates of every epoch of the
world's history, both sacred and profane,
to prove the contrary.
We join in the spirit as well as the letter
-of the speech from the Throne in our feeling and determination to make every sacri. ce until this modern Attila is disposed of,
and we can stand out as a regenerated
world freed from his influence and see his
military despotism made powerless for evil.
Our last man will go on the firing line and
on the ships and our last dollar in themelting- pot in the interest of true civilization and to avenge poor, bleeding, suffering Belgium and rehabilitate her as far as
lies in our power. We regard ourselves
and the opportunity for the performance of
this duty as instruments in the hands of
the Creator, for after all " Vengeance is
mine, saith the Lord."
I thank you my honourable colleagues for
the kind attention you have given me and I
beg to move, seconded by the hon. member
from Antigonish (Hon. Mr. Girroir):
That the following Address be presented to His
Royal Highness the Governor General, to oaer
the humble thanks of this house to His Royal
Hlighness for the gracious speech which he has
been pleased ta make to bath Houses of parliament; namely To Field Marshal, His Royal Highness Prince
Arthur William Patrick Albert, Duke of Connaught and of Strathearn, Earl of Sussex in
the Peerage of the United Kingdom, Prince
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain ana
Ire1and, Duke of Saxony; Prince of SaxeCoburg ana Gotha; Knight of the Most Noble
Orer of the carter; Knight of the Most
Ancient and Noble Order of the Thistle;
of the Most Illustrious Order of St.
'iicýht
Patrick; one of His Majesty's Most Honourable
Privy Council; Great Master of the Most
Honourable Order of the Bath; Knight Grand
Hon. Mr. MURPHY.

Commander of the Most Exalted Order of the
Star of India; Knight Grand Cross of the
Most Distingulshed Order of Saint Michael and
Saint George; Knight Grand Commander of
the Most Eminent Order of the Indian Empire;
Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian
Order; His Majesty's Pesonal Aide-de-Camp;
Governor General and Commander-in-Chief of

the Dominion of Canada.
May it please Your Royal Highness:
We, His Majesty's most dutiful and loyal
subjects, the Senate of Canada, In Parliament
assembled, beg leave to offer our humble thanks
ta your Royal Highness for the gracious speech
Your Royal Highness bas addressed to both
Houses of Parliament.

Hon. Mr. GIRROIR (in French)-Je
dois d'abord complimenter le proposeur de
sénateur de
cette adresse, l'honorable
Tignish sur le discours habile et éloquent
C'est un fait
qu'il vient de prononcer.
remarquable que de voir deux anciens
ennemis, alliés aujourd'hui et luttant la
main dans la main pour une cause uui
intéresse la liberté des nations et le
trioinphe de la justice dans le monde entier.
Jamais encore, dans tous les grands conflits que le monde a vus on s'est trouvé en
présence d'intérêts si gros de conséquences;
jamais encore ne fut si grand le sentiment
d'une victoire certaine. Dans leurs gloires
particulières, l'Angleterre et la France ont
fait plus pour la civilisation que tout le
reste de l'univers, et pouvons-nous nous
étonner quand des traités solennels sont
déchirés, des lieux sacrés violés et quand
l'envahisseur barbare efface d'un seul coup
les merveilles de l'industrie et les résultats de siècles de 'travail, pouvons-nous
nous étonner, dis-je, d'entendre l'appel aux
arrhes retentir dans tous les pays où se
déploient les plis de l'Union Jack ou le
tricolore de la France. Pour ceux d'entre
nous qui ont dans les veines un peu du sang
de la vieille France il est doux de savoir
que nous pouvons nous réjouir des victoires
de nos ancêtres sans diminuer un seul
instant notre loyauté et notre attachement
à la Grande-Bretagne et à l'empire britannique auquel nous appartenons et dont nous
Le Canadien
sommes si justement fiers.
français a versé son sang sur maints
champs de bataille pour la cause de
l'empire, et personne ne saurait douter
qu'il se battra aussi bien sur les champs de
bataille de l'Europe qu'il l'a fait à Châteauguay ou sur -le veldt du Sud-Africain. Nous
espérons, que dis-je, nous croyons fermement que, parmi les braves jeunes Canadiens français qui se pressent sous la
bannière de leur pays, il surgira un autre
de Salaberry, et que, sous sa direction, ils
repousseront vigoureusement les ennemis

FEBRUARY 9, 1915

1
years signa were not wanting te bear tbem
eut in flua. There was the rebellion in
South Africa, unrest in India; ah! India,
it was there tbey said it would begin.
(in English)-I Hindus, lawful subjects cf the Empire were
Hon. Mr. GIRROIR
must first congratulate the mover cf this clamouring for entrance into Canada and it
address, the bon. member for Tignish, was denied tbem. Ireland in the very
upon the able and eloquent speech which. bearf cf tbe Empire was armed ta the teetb.
he has just delivered. It is a remarkable Orangemen and Nationalists were at each
fact that twc ancient enemies are to-day others throats, deflance was burled at
engaged as allies fightispg shoulder to government and the decrees of the mother
shoulder in a cause which involves the of parliaments were flouted. Surely they
liberty of the nations and the triumph of said the end bas ceme. She had ne great
Justice throughout the entire world. Never central government control cf ahl these
before in -any conflict that the world bas lands wbicb fly bier flag. Eadh bas. its own
sedn were the issues sc great. Neyer before distinct system cf government, eadh an
was there a greater certaînty of vietory. empire witbin itself has its parliament, ifs
England and France have in their day done courts and ifs armiies, ail that is necessary
more for civilization than aIl the world for nationheod. Tliev have grown sfrong
besides, and need we wonder when soleinn and virile, they will b;reak away and set up
And scarcely liad tbey
covenants are broken, hallowed places for theniselves.
desecrated, and the ruthless inivader would fbougbt thus when Gerinany and Austria
efface at one feli stroke in the fields of cballenged hier righit as the worid power
indust-y and learning, the results cf cen- te insist on the observance cf solen
turies of foul and care, that the cail to armis treaties fo demand fIat the law cf riglit
resounds in every spot wbere waves the rather than that cf mught should govern
Union Jack cf England and the tricolour of fhe nations. And in an instant she arises
France. To those cf us in whose veins flow greater by far and nobler tban ever befere.
the blood cf old France it is ccmforting, to~ Nationalists and Orangemen, Hindu and
know that we can glory in the victories cf South African, Canadian, New Zealander
the land cf aur ancestors without for one and Australian and freni the four corners
moment lessenîng cur loyalty to the great cf the earfb tbey bear ber cail and arise
British Empire to which we belong and cf as one man fa conquer or te die.
The French,
which. we are all se proud.
The Australian and New Zealander are
Canadian shied his blood for this empire on flghting ber battles in the sbadew of the
many a well-fougbt field, and none need pyramida, fhe Hindu sheufs ber battle-cry
doubt but that he will fight as bravely for on the bilîs cf sunny France, and the Gerlier on the battlefields cf Europe as hie did man lina bends under fhe charge cf fhe
at Chateauguay and on the veldt cf South 'Patricias.
We hope, yes, we believe, that
Africa.
In Nova Scofia in tIe countias cf Pictou,
among the brave Frenchi Canadian youths Antigonisb, Inverness, Cape Breton and
ivho flock beneath the banner cf their Victoria Z.v can raise fan thousand brave
country another De Salaberry ivill arise, Scotch Higlanders, as brave as Wallace
under whose leadership they will huri bsck and
GuysAntigonislh.
In
Bruce.
the eneinies cf the greatest empire t)pe borough, Richmoend, Inverness, Digby,.
world bas ever seen.
and Yarmouth, fIera are 40,000 Frenchi
We have been wont to speak witb pride Acadians as loyal and true te the Empire
cf this great empire cf the wvonderful ex- as oe born in London could be. They
tent cf lier ferritory on wlîich the sun neyer cherial their language and thair customs,
sets, and cf the mighty deeda cf lier soldiers as people cf spirit should, and woukt. as
and sailors who have won and colonized willingly lay downl their lives for the
and civilized tbe world over, cf bier splendid Empire on the Nile as on the shores of
institutions, bier parliament, the oldest cf Halifax.
parliaments. cf ber courts, bier great instiIt is a fact worf I ment icning fiat the first
tutions cf learning and bier great financial deafh among the Canadian seldiers who
institutions. The world bas seen great.
for the front was that cf a
empires rise and fall but none se great as volunteerad
Frenchi Acadian namned Gallant. He died at
sbe. The student cf bistcry almcst stood
agbast at ber gates that she yet lived on. Valcarfîer' not as lha would bave wisbed on
for the
The summit they tbcught had long since the battlefleld, but jusf as truly in vain.
anid she could hot go fcrward Empire. We know ha bas not died
been reacbed,
she must go back. Within the last few England bas won the love and affection and
du plus grand empire que le monde ait
jamais vu.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.

S ENA TE

-

loyalty of the French Arcadian as she
won the loyal support of the princes
of India
and the Boers of Soîuth
Africa. This is the great secret of the success of English rule that it, gives to each
and ail the privilege and right to conserve
their language, their religion and their
customs.
Britain stands for right and
For
liberty and justice and freedom.
- liberty and freedom to ail and justice to
the weak as well as to the strong. She has
of course made mistakes but in the end
riglit and justice have triumphed. You wili
say that 1 amn an Irnperialist. If I arn, it is
because my country is an Empire. The
war bas been forced upon us. It is our war
because -we are of the Empire and because
our privileges, our liberties, and our safety
depend upon the issue. Canada lias given
of hier treasure but she has given lier
greatest giit in the flower of lier manhood.
Thirty thüusand have gone, thirty thousand
more will go and there wvill lie neither stop
nor hait nor looking hack untîl victory
peace is
and a
'crowns our arrns been saidlasting wvhenever
assured. It lias
that
great crises arise in the history of the
Empire she lias neyer wanted great men to
preside over lier counicils or guide lier host
to victory. The namnes of Asquith, of Grey,
of Kitchener and of French wili for ever
illumine the pages of lier history, while the
patriotism and loyalty of our people wili
raise Canada to the highest place among the
nations. The soldiers of Canada and the
Empire wiil noîv as in the past uphold the
best traditions of the British army defending the weak against the strong, driving
back the foes of their country and planting
upon a thousand hieiglits that oid fiag .which
bas hraved a thousand years the battie and
the breeze. And we must flot forget whule
we glory in the deeds of the soldiers and
sailors of this Empire that Frencliman, and
Belgian, and Russian, and Serli, and Japanese have joined hands with us in this
struggle with a bravery and devotion that
is'the *admiration of the entire world.
I have mucli pleasure in seconding the
iiiotion of the hion. senator for Tignisli.

I .also wish to congratulate the hion.
senator front Antigonish (Hon. Mr. Girroir)
on the eloquent address whicli lie lias made,
and to join with him in 'lis admiration of
the soldiers and sailors wlio are to-day defending the rights of this country on the
battlefields of Europe. My lion. friend front
Tignish referred to the hiappy event tbat at
the present time we liave as Governor General of this country His Royal Higlineas the
Duke of Connauglit, a man wlio lias. liad as
mudli, if not more, experience in military
matters than moat men througliout the British Empire, and wliicli is of very great benefit to us to-day. We realize the addition to
Canada, and the distinction that we have
received from Hîs Royal Highness being
here to-day as our Governor General, and
his having had extended the terni of his
governorship here. We aiso recognize and
appreciate the great interest that lias been
taken by Her Royal Highness in the troops,
and in the questions that affect the country
at the present time. We join in our admiration of the work that they have done, and
the interest they have sliown in the country.
Before taking up the question of the speech
from the Throne I wouid desire to say a few
words on the question of the representation
of the Goverament in this House. During the recess we bave seen c1hanges made
in tlie Cabinet; and aithougli we do not
want to make any reflections on appointments to the Cabinet that have been made,
out of consideration for this House and
aiso for the esteeni and -respect tliat we
hold for our lion. friend, the leader of the
Governuiient iii this House, we sliould ail
have beeri very imudl pieased if the Government lîad seen their way to give Min, as
we most sincerely think lie deserves, recognition by giving hirn a portfolio in the Government.
Sonie lion. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. '-%r. BOSTOCK-This is now the fifthi
session of tlîis Parliament, and after tlîe
long years of service that rny hion. friend
lias given to bis country and the discretion
and ability vitil wlich lie lias liandied the
Goveriment business in this House, I think
tlîat lie lias not been fairiy treated in tlie
way~ tlîat lie lias been overlooked in the matter of this portfolio.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCË-Allow me to congratulate the lion.' senator from Tignish
<Hon. Mr. Murphy) on the interesting
speech whiclih li as made, and further to
congratulate the little province front which
Some lion. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
lie cornes on the record that they have estalilished in the enlisting of men to take their
Hon.,Mr. BOSTOCK-I hope that this ivili
part in the front for the defence of the be remedied, and that we may lie able to
Empire. We only wish that his province congratulate him on lis designation to a
In
future.
near
the
iu
was larger than it is at the present time. portfolio
Hon. Mr. GIRROIR.

FEBRUARY 9, 1915

unexpectedly
we were
last
August
cailed together on account of the sudden declaration of war throughout the
Empire. At that time a great many thought
that this war wouid be over within a short
trne, and that the session for which we were
then called together, and the measures that
we had then to sanction, in order to enable
the Government to carry on the aftairs of
the country, would be an exceptional session, aud that when we met this Urne we
should be able to attend te the general business of the country. But now nearly six
monthH have passed, and we are called again
together for the purpose of dealing entirely
with matters of war, and the administration
of the country, owiug te that condition of
war. We recognize the great gravity of the
struggle in which, as part of the British Empire, we are ail engaged, aud we realîze, perhaps to-day more than ever before, that this
is no ordinary fight, but a struggle iii which
the very existenct of the Empire and of ourselves is concernied. It was alniost impossible for those who have not had any opportunity of studying the feelings and the
training that the people of Germany have
gone through for so many years--the teaching of their public men, o! their philosophers and of their professors-te realize that
they have trained aud led their people te
think that they have a right te the position
of dominance in the world, and that that
is the object for which their whole trainiug
is put forward, and for which te-day they
exist.
It is difficuit for those traîued up with
the views that are put into -the rninds of
the British people, and of the people ni
this country, te realize that any people
should te-day think that .they have a right
te enforce their will, civilization, and
culture, on Europe and eveutually on the
whole world. Suoli thought was alxnost
inconceivable before we saw whait happened in August st. To-day we realize
that we are engaged in the struggle in
wliich we are fightiug for the liberty and
the freedom of the smaller nations, and
for the democracy of the world; and we
have te bend ail our energies and ail our
power to bring about, the resuit, that this
nation against which we are fighting shall
realize that they can.not force upon the
world the particular civilization that they
thinik is best, and their paiticular will, in
the way they -had expeoted to do it. Tt
came as a great surprise te them that the
British Empilre Kcould 'astaud together in
the way Af has done. In their training and

in their examination of the -conditions
under whieh the British Empire exists
they :had camne te the conclusion thi.t the
Empire was fa.iliug, that it was falling tLo
pieces, and that it would quiekly go te
pieces wheuevex an attack was mnade upon
if. But much te the eurprise, and 1 may
say te -the disappointmeuf of the Kaiser,
hie found thaf instead o! the British Empire going te pieces, it came together iu
a way that astoui.shed not oniy himself, but
other people throughout -the world. Today we see a uuited front -presented te the
forces of Germauy. We -are alsn to take
into consideration the wonderfui unanimity
that exisa amoug the allies, in carrying
on this fight. Iu spite o! the endeavours
that have been muade te bring about disagreements betweeu the nations that are
allied tegether for the purpose of this wax,
they have stood tegether and fought together in a way that has cau-sed the admiration of the whole world. Such being
the example that is set before us, it behoves the î eople o! the different parts of
the Dominion f0 show the same unauimity,
and to endeavour in every way fa show
that we are ail agreed on the hune o! action
that ie beiug taken, and that we are workiug together for this one particular end
and objeot. As we said in the, session of
August last, we -are aIl -working fa help,
as f ar as we possibly tan, the Goverumeut
lu the work of the administration of the
country. We do*not propose in auy way
te hamper the wS>kiug of the Government
in car.ryiug on -the heavy administration
that uecessarily falls upon themn at the
The Goverument must
present, time.
accept the full responsibility for -ail the
adminisitration, aud realize thaît we wil
have a righf to critidise when a more
favourable aud better opportunity occurs;
that although we may not eutirely agree
with w.hat they do ait the present Uie, it
is in the interest o! the counutry that we
should ,withhold rnost of the criticism that
we- have ta offer. In the future when the
terrific .struggle in which -we are now takiug
part has been brought to a final conclusion we may have au opportuuify of
examining the record of the Governmeut, and showing the country «wherein
in
wroug
were
they
thiuk
we
what they have doue. At the present time
we propose ouly te offer such criticism as
is reasonable, and should be of assistance
te the Goverumeut, sud let them know that
we are as desirous o! helping them, aud
the country, as they are theniselves. The
work that has been doue by the _Govern-

SENATE

nment in despatiching the first contingent of
men over to England has been a good work,
and one that has been appreciated throaghout the country, but in connection with
that I would like to draw the attention of
my hon. iriend the leader of this House
to the question of recruiting throughout the
western country. There-was in the West a
great deal of dissatisfaction expressed in
the way the firet part of this recruiting was
conducted, and a great rnany men who had
corne from long distances were very nîuch
disappointed te tind that after they had
been enrolled they were again disbanded.
They had corne long distances in erder te
give their services to the country, and they
were unable te return te the work that they
had left, and were placed in a position of
being thrown on the country without anv
prospects of obtaining xvork, and without
any knowledge cf where to go and look for
it. Then aise there was a large nuimber of
men who came a long distance, gave up
their homesteada, left thein for the purpose
cf enlistmng, and when they get te, the
point where they thought it was possible
for them te have an eppertunity cf enlistîig, they found that they could get ne
information, and were left witheut knowing what tbey could de. This condition cf
things was shown up by some letters that
appeared in the Spectater cf London, Eng.
land. The first letter appeared on the 26th
December, 1914, and reads as follows:
The Lack er iRecrulting Facilities in Canada.
Tc the Editor of the Spîctator.
Slr,-Yeur editorlals, your lead'ing articles,
the correspondence
yeu publish, reiterate
weekly the need fer men and more men. Here
In western Canada, and 1 believe It is the saine
in eastern Canada, nien single and unemployed,
the vast majoritybetween the ages ef eighteen
and thirty-elght, the vast majority born In the
British lsies, are flecklng Into the cities and
are willlng and anxious te fight for Canada and
For
the mether country. What de they find?
every man requlred for the Canadian ferces
there are flve or more offerlng themsolves. The
chtien they have corne to have ne werk for thern,
the country districts and rallread camps they
have corne frein require thein ne longer; they
are ferced. te, beg, borrow, or steal a liveliheed .
The press and public men in public speeches
onboth aides et politice have sought In vain an
explanatien for the anernaly frein the Government on thîs aide of the Atlantic. Io there ne
chance of an explanatien cemling frein your
aide? If the British Governinent chartereçI a
steamer te, sal frema Halifax on Christinas Day,
ne better Christmas glft ceuld be given te
hundreds et Young men In Canada than the oppertunity te fight for their King. If Canada
cannot mebilise these men here, if Canada canHon. Mr. BOSTOCK.

not give thein empleyment, let hier at least see
that they are s'lven the oppertunlty te, fight.
I amn, air. etc.,
J. Howard T. Talk
126 Etelbert street,
Winnipeg, Man., Canada.

Then there is a note te that letter,
appended by the editor of the Spectator ef
London, England:
(If the tacts are es stated by our correspondent, a great opportunity would seeni te have
been mlssed. Every citizen ot the British Empire who wlshes te joîn the Im-perial terces
oughit te be gîven facilitiez fer dolng so, provlded he ta eligible. It should in war turne be
his inallenable rlght.-Ed. Spectator.)
Further a letter appeared on the 2nd January frein a gentleman signing hirnself « A

continental chaplain,' which reads as follows:
The Lack ef Recruiting Facilities In Canada.
[Te the Editor et the Spectater. ]
Sir.-I read with great satisfaction th. -letter
et yeur correspondent frein Winnipeg, with yeur
appended note In appreval. There must aurely
be some defect lin thre organization fer recruiting in western Canada and British Colunoia m'y
whlch we are loulng large numbers of men whe
would furnish thre bient iaterial for thre addition se much needed to our present forces. The
tacts conoerning lack et employment.cited by
your correspondent are new.here more appalling
than in Vancouver, where, as a private letter
(froni my son-ln-law) informe me, there are at
present some fitteen thousand men In enferced
IdIeness. I feel confident that If sufficlent facilitiez were offered, the urgency of the need properly put before thein, and recruiting serieusly
pressed, a very large proportion et these would
giadly offer therneelves te, serve. If, as It would
appear, the fauit et slackness rests with the
Canadian Governrnent- caniet the Initiative
cerne fremn the Home Geverninent? It ls net te
be theught that censîderations of expense of
transcontinental transport can pessly stand
in the way, in view et our national need,I amn,
sir, etc.,
A Centinental Chaplain.

Then on the 9th January, a week later, a
third letter appeared as follows:
The Lack et Recrulting FacilitIes in Canada.
[To the Editer et the Spectater.]
Sir,--Since reading Mr. J. H. T. Falk's latter
and the editerial note In your Issue ef Deceinber 26, 1914, I have recelved a letter frei nmy
brother, whe ln In Saskatchewan. Befere going
te Canada hae was in a yeomanry regimant, and
ls a good ahot, yet he Einds It Impossible te get
Into any Canadian force for active service. He
bas heen trylng since the war started, but has
only succeeded In gettlng Into a local corps
whose chances et golng te tiha frent are exTis Ia what hoeaays In the
ceedingly remoe.
latter I racaîved on Dacamber 27:

After the quetation the writer centinues:

.

FEBRUARY 9, 1915
Perhaps you will thlnk this a matter worth îvay that the Government can safeguard
pursuing. especially as 1 understand that the .tself in a matter of this kind is Iby letting
physique of the great majorlty of would-be re- .t ho known that any man who daes not
cruita le finer than that of the contingents ulfilthe speeffications of his contract, who
already sent, the latter being iargely young men
tramn the towns, who are neither s0 robust nor does not carry out that contract ta its
eo capable of turning their hands ta anythiflg strict letter, will ho brought to time and
as the western settiers.-! arn sir, etc..
hiave ta give an account ta the country of
EL J. P.
his delinquency; no mnan, whatever hie
If this matter has -not already been position, who is shown ta be responsible
drawn ta the attention of the Government, for sending out supplies that are not up
it le ane's duty ta bring it ta their attention to the speoifications, should be bift off the
now, because fram ail the information vo delinquent list. The Government have a
have, f rom the speeches ai public mon groat responsibility on their shoulders in
in England, tram the reports af Sir John this matter, and I arn sure that they wili
French, and from private letters fram the take it up and show ta the country that
mon eerving in the tronches, the groat need they realize the seriousness af the situaat the present marnent seems ta ho mon; tion, and are prepared ta do everything
it is almoat heart-rending ta read some of that should ho done ta see that aur men
tho letters that were published in the are properly equipped, and that they should
beginning: ai the war froni mon who %vere not suifer in any shape or faTm irom the
thon fighting, who pointed aut so strangly nan-fulfilment af the cantracts that are lot
that had they had mare men at that tinme by the Gavernaient. There is not very
they could have done sa very much botter. much ta be diseussed in the speech from
The mon who are ýready ta corne farward the Throne . The whole Address deals with
should bo in training and getting them- the question of war and there is only one
selves roady ta take their places in the fight- clause deali-ng with the- trade af the couining lino. In the near future it ie going ta ho tly. We are very glad ta know lrom that
a question of being able ta put the greatest statement that the trade of the country
passible nuxuber af mon in the front, and has been able ta stand the strain that has
ail those men who are ready and anXious been put upon it by the exceptional conta do their part -and go ta the front should ditions which arose in August last. We
have an opportunity ai getting there either hope ta learn froni the Government later
through the Canadian Governrnent, or by an, what they -have been able to do. ta assist
being placed in a position ta go over and the trade of the country in meeting those
join the farces in England. I hope that the conditions; what new departures they have
Governrnent will sc their vay ta giving been able ta make ta help in meeting the
attention ta this matter. and dealing %vith conditions that thon arose. At this time 1
it as promptly as possible. Another mat- wauld like ta draw the attention of the
ter whieh bas been widely talked about in Governrnent ta a notice that appeared in
the country and by the peaple is the ques- a paper a short time ago that the Gaverntion af the supplies ta the men, especially ment af Australia had nat been able ta
in the matter of boots. It was very grati- see their way ta giving ta Canada a preferfying ta find the Minister af Militia when once in the Australian markets. We had
hoi vas on bis tour in the West the other ail hoped that eomething ai this ki-nd could
day. stating that hoe was going to make it have been obtained when the Gavernment
very warm for the man who supplied those af Australia vas reconsidering the question
boots, as soon as ever ho could find him. af taýriff, and it is a groat disappaintment,
We hope that the Government are gaing especially ta the people ai the WVest and
ta take every passible measure tavards British Calumbia, that they are nat gaing
bringing ta justice these contractors, or ta ho able ta get any preference in the Auswhoever it is that is responsitble for having tralian market for the gaads that they send
issued ta the mon those undesirable bots, dawn there. We hope that this is flot a
which have caused trouble not only in Eng- final arrangement, but that the Gaverntment
land, but also in the western country. The viii assure the cauntry that they will
Government, dealing vith large sums of bo able ta mnake sanie negotiatians wîth
money as they have ta do at the present the Australian Government whereby the
time, and with large contracte, -are sure ta trade in Caflada can ho put in a more procorne acrose mon who are not as scrupulous terential position than that of aur neighbours
as they ought ta be in carrying out their
the south. Befare I sit down 1 will try
contracte and in supplying the goode they ta
ta express the appreciation and the confidare called upon ta supply, but tho only

SENATE

-

ence that is felt at tbe present time in tbe circumstances and conditions under whichi
way that tbis -Etrugghe in wbicb we are en- to begin. In the moxïth of August last
gaged is being handled by the British Gov- when war was declared, in a few days
ernment. We ahl appreciate the enormous thereafter Germany had over-run Belgium
difficulty of the figlit, and realize the diffi- and practically occupied the territory wbîcli
culties of .tbe situation tbat had to be met she is. now seeking to hold to-day. The
by the British Government. We ahl appre- allies having had only an inaccurate idea
ciate that tbe difficulties of the situ- of Germany's designs were naturally found
ation bave been handhed in a very able unprepared and our last session of Parliaand masterful way. We also desire to ex- ment found them in a scarcely more adpress our admiration for the courage of vanced position than a process of mobilizathe men wbo bave so nobly laid down tion. We are in a position to-day to look
their lives in the trenches in figbting back upon six montha of the campaign and
for the defence of tbe Empire, and also for to examine the situation as to what has
the courage and endurance, tbe cheerfulness been accomplished.
Germany began the war with a trained
and bravery, shown by the men who are in
army approximating five millions of men,
training, and those also wbo are holding tbe
front in. the trenches to-day. The excep- far exceeding anything in size and effiTo
seen.
tional conditions under whicb this figbting ciency that the world has ever almost incarriel on is sometbing that confront and battie with thisrepresenting
bas had to be
no one couhd foresee, and the sufferings that conceivably gigantie machine,
strength
men bave bad to undergo wben tbey not only the greatest of numerical
for
have had te be kept iii the trenches, is but the highest genius which a nation
twenty-five years could' concentrate upon
enougb to caîl forth the admiration and
required a task on
appreciation of everybody wbo gives one building and perfecting,
such as no nation or
moment's tbought to the position in which the part of the allies ever been called upon
nations had
those men bave.been placed. We have also group of
Pargreat confidence in the men who are direct- to face in nmpdern or ancient history. more
rendered the
ing the, forces of Great Britain on land and ticularly was this task the programme of
of
sea, and also the forces of the Allies in the gigantic by reason
speed which had been adopted by the enemY
different parts of the world. We realize that
Paris
with those men directing this contest on the for the carrying out of its tampaign.
in
of the allies we shaîl eventually attamn was to have been reached and taken *,he
side
the fIrst month of the war, the arruy on
the object that we ar;e ahi s0 anxious to see
to join that upon the
acbieved-the gaining of tbe figbt for liberty. western frontier waswas to be overwhelmed
eastern and Russia
Some bon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear. in the second or third month of the war.
By some inconceivable flight of the enemy's
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We are indebted imagination our Empire was to be reduced
Address
to the mover and seconder of the
to a second-rate power, and the seas swept
for the excellent speeches that have been of bier navy and hier shipping before the
made upon the speech from the Tbrone and snows of winter fel. This programme of the
the very exhaustive and eloquent manner
has fortunately, not only for the
in which they bave dealt witb the subject. enemny but for the whole civîhized world,
allies,
Tbey, with my hon, friend the leader
of its consummnation.
of the Opposition, bave so wehl covered failed
For the hast forty years Germany bas had
that there rernains little
the entire subject
she has ever
to say except to again travel over the ground visions of world power,
dreamed of wvar; for a generation, she bas
tbey have so well surveyed. So much bas
in the
been said and written upon the war since sowed the seeds of war and of hate
is no phase ininds of hier population fromn infancy up;
the lst August last, that there
or feature of At that bas not been presented she has taught it in hier schools, in bier
te tbe public, thus making it difficult, if universities, in every ramification of life;
net impossible, te say anytbing new or she bas fed bier people upon the sphendour,
the magnificence and the national advaîit-interesting upon the subject.
Wben Parliament met in the montb of ages of war. It has dominated hier religion,
August hast, war bad been declared only a bier scholarship, lier literature, lier so-called
few days previously. As Germany bad been culture and every phase of lier national
twenty-five years preparing for this war, life. The whole national purpose of hier
and had its armaments ready and its plan people bas been concentrated upon building
of 'campaign absolutely decided upon, she up ajwar machine to overwhelm tbe otber
therefore selected the time, the place, the great powers in a world-wide devastation
Hon. Mr. BOSTCK

FEBRUARY 9, 1915
central
of if e and property. Its giories and its country and the historie cities of
triumphs se blinded their imperial vision Europe.
Probably the most striking f eature of
that naught else could be seen. War's
and inconceivable herrors were the ver has been the inconsistent, the
appalling
net for Germany, but for the nations upon paradoxical character of -the military
Though since, the
vhom she was te ruthlessly traxuple and party in Germ-any.
destroy vith the instrument whîch she had Franco-Prussian ver they have concentrated their greatest energies in preparing
conceived and builded.
of the
She wanted war snd she now is experi- for this war, aithough every feature
in ail its appelling national life has been perineated, and
encing war and
tregedies. The lest six menths have seen steeped with 4,his intention, and although
the German armies driven back on bothi the German Emperor selected -the occasion
fronts, the armies cf Austria-Hungary de- and the conditions under which this
moralized, Turkey in the way of disappear- colossal war was to be waged, and the
mng froxu the map of Europe, the lasses cf nationsJ against vhom directed, yet witli
the enemy runniug into millions, aixucet a paradoxical inconsistency and deception
every family iu Germiany ciothed in the he throws the responsibility of this war
habiliments cf sorrow, mourning for those upon Great Bzitain. NotwiLhstanding that
who have failen on their own red battle- he had declared war upon Russia and upon
fields, the grim spectre of vaut and cf France some dsys before Great Britain
hunger beginning ta stalk through its cities, made her declaration, yet bis press and
its exterual commerce wiped out, its vast his declarations teem with malicjous fuishipping bottled up, its ships interned iii sity as ta the causes and sources of the
the world's great shipping ports, its great war. Notwithstandiflg Germany's courage
volume of internai trade destroyed, its as a miiitary power, yet greatxS moral
financial structure demolished, its surviv- cowardice is not ta be found in hiuman
ing navy skulking behind the fortificaticas annale than the deception the Germen
cf the Kiel canal, the other cf its ships Goverument is inov seeking to practise
aunk off the coas cf Heligoland, off the upon the masses cf ber own people and
Falkland Islands and in the North Sea, its upon those in o4ther ationa credulouse
foreign possessions captured by the allies evough ta be deceived by the f aisity of
and its imperial unity and destiny which their representatians.
,demanded world power, threatened with
Âithough for a generatian she bas predismemberment.
pared snd preached an intended ver, yet
The luit six <months has seen the triple she nov vhiningly dlaims ta have been
entente re-duferced by Japan and Servis a nation of peace, and ta be oredited with
and Montenegro, vhile other powers avait striving te maintain the peace of Europe
the psychelogical moment ta throw in their fer the last forty years. A short tixue ago
lot vith the allies. England, France snd Professor Lasson, of the University cfRussie, none cf thexu prepared for war six Berlin, wrote a letter that lied wide cixrmontbs ago, -have since then built up in- culation, clainiing that Germen characvincible armies with armements equal ta, teristies were love, charitabieness, loyalty
if net superior, ta that cf Germany, ermies and truth, whule at the samne time he was
that wvill triumph over the enemy as author of a work glerifying the brutality
surely as -the sun will rie on the morrew. of war and, ignor-ing in, ver every law
Neyer in the histery of the British Empire human and divine, a verk now published
has -she mai.utained the -supremacy cf the by the German Governinent snd disses as cf ta-day. Neyer have ber arme tributed for popular use. In this work be
other
achieved such illustrions victories as in out-ran Trietchke, Bernhardi and the
German war
the last six menths au the battle-fields of of the snost brutal writers of
The German Emperor while
France. The whele Empire is net on]y literature.
for years avowing hixuseif the great proavakeued te the common danger -but bas
went, on prerespouded with a unity of loyalty aud de- tecter of the peace of Europe,
The whole venld paring for this war. He it vau vho urged
vetion beyond utterauce.
for -the Chine ver
bas been aroused ta the German menace, his arimy when leaving
Boxer troubles, thet
and the great national powers that have et -the time of the terrer amongst their
not yet arisen -are awaiting ta jein their they were to spread the metbods of the
and ta adopt
forces 'vith the allies sud crush for al enemies
He ereets altars te
time the military au.tocracy that is nov Hun-s under Attila. the battie fields of
as a pestilence the fruitful Almighty God upen
devastating

SENATE

Belgium amongst the -shambles of human
blood, the blood of innocent wornen and
eildren and non-combatants, mutilated
and mnurdered in cold blood in the protection of their homes and firesides, and
this to terrorize the inhabitan-ts of peacefui cities and towns. HIe deiiberately destroys the most historie buildings and works
of art in Belgium, buildings spared by the
barbarians of the middle ages, and then
professes te weep tears of sympathy and
sorrow at bis hiaving been coinpelled te do
se. HIe derides and ignores treaties and
conventions as miglit tbe expected of the
barbarians of ten centuries ago, and yet
at the same tiffne pleads
the conventions of the Hague Tribunal when lie
seeks -to enforce
themn
as
against
a neutral
country.
He eends
his
battleships
to
the
undefended
sea
coast towns of England, delibera-tely
murders women and children and then
whines because Great Britain has placed an
embargo upon contraband of war entering
neutral ports for use in Germany. The
psychological feature o! Germany wagîng
this war is a subject o! deepest interest to
every student o! human nature. It transcends ail human understanding that a
nation which became imperial in its constitution and in its national career since
the Franco-Prussian war, could conceive o!
their ability at the present time to achieve
world power in the overthrow o! the other
great powers of Europe. Neyer was there
such a case of national insanity as this from
which Germany is suffering. This germ of
world power seemed to inoculate the blood
of hier Empire immediately after it was
organized. It has been implanted in every
youthful mi, it bas permeated every page
of lier literature, bier scliools have taught it
as the religion of Germany, bier professors
have lectured upon it in every university,
and even bier ministers of religion have
preacbed it as a divine gospel fromn the pulpit until -the wbole nation became obse-ssed
witb tbe hallucination that this- was tbeir
v.
destiny
In no nation bas tbe national ego ever
been developed as in Germany. No nation
ever prided itself so mucb on its f aculty
and capacity for scientific, philosophic and
diplomatie analyses both of nations and
tbings as does Germany. In applying bier
standard of measurement te foreign countries
France was found te be helpless, Russia
a revolutionary mob and England corrupt
and decadent. Fully confident in bier world
destiny, ber constitutional. authorities have,
it is said, prepared a new constitution by
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED.

wbicb the belligerent powers are te ha
absorbed in the hegemony of Germany with
the German Emperor as tbe divinely appointed Over Lord of Europe. Neyer did
Germany pause te tbink that Great Britain,
that France, that Russia, that Japan and
the other great powers of the world bad for
centuries been building up their empires
both througb the arts of peace and of conquest when the present Germany was notbing but a country of Pcattered states and
principalities. ,Did she tbink these great
powors_ bad so far lost their virility, tbeir
manbood and their nationhood as for a moment to permit themselves to be overwbelmed or even overawed by this military
despotism'
Had Germany for a moment analysed the
trend of civilization, of deinocracy, of free
government and o! the diffusion o! intelligence and education among free peoples, she
would bave awakened from bier dream and
would bave pursued the even tenor of bier
way in building up bier own nation tbrougb
the arts of peace instead oi setting in motion
those irresistible forces by whicb she is,
destined te be crushed.
The civilization of a people cannot ha
built up in a generation, no more can it ha
destroyed in one; its roots extend down
into the grounds of centuries.
It is
the
product
of
many
generations,
it is a process of the slowest evolution,
its progress bears tbe mark of centuries.
Germ-any's hallucination
o! >t
destiny being world power is notbing short
of a national insanity which, for the protection of civilization, must be crusbed out
by the other nations of civilization. This is
the task wbicb te-day is f acing the allies,
the task in which. Canada, as part of the
Empire, bas joined, and which she is dtermined te pursue te the end.
The forces of civilization bave been figbting for centuries te combat the savagery o!
barbarism. Although civilization may not
have entirely eliminated the brute force o!
Germany which we see displayed in the
present war, yet it bas so implanted itself
in the make-up of the other great powers
of the present age that migbt can no longer
dethrone right. Mere brute force cannot
take the place of or supersede that moral
force wbicb miust ba fundamntal ini every
nation.
In this 2Oth century we have
arrived at that point when the moral forces
o! a nation are migbtiar than ahl the
dazzling splendors of empire, wben the
religion of cbristianity is more powerful
than. the religion of valour, when the mantle
o! buman cbarity is greater than that of

FEI3RUARY 9, 1915

Germany's shining armour, and when the from eight te ten million people, we can very
goodwill of nations is more desirable than weil understand and appreciate the difficula place in the sun. Civilization, after ties which naturally confront the Govemnbattling for a thousand years to place ment of the United States. We are, howhumanity on a higher plane than the Huns ever, sufficientiy in teuch with their instituof Attila, is flot prepared to turn back«the tions of government and with their ideals
hands of the dlock ten centuries and accept of civilization te know that the ideals for
a modern Attila as the guardian of its free- which the allies stand are the ideais which
dom and liberties.
pre-eminently distinguish the people of the
0f -ail the indefensible and destructive United States. It ahould not he overiooked
wars that have been waged in the history that the governinent of that country, while
of time, this is the greatest. There is not holding the scales of neutraiity between the
in it a semblance of justification, it has allies and the enemy cannot be expected
been conceived and carried out i ail itz te meet the expectations in ail cases of our
devastation to gratify the vanity, the pride own people. Questions have arisen between
and the ostentation of a military autocracy. the United States, and Great Britain as to
When the Napoleonic wars overran Europe, the difficuities arising in exercising the
there was about them a semblance of cause right of search at sea of neutrai vessels
and effeet.
Alsolute monarchy in central carrying American exports to neutral ports
Europe had been trampiing. upon the and which apparently up te the present have
liberties of the masses. The French Revolu- received the moat carefui attention and contion set free and unrestrained tihe passions sideration of the British Government, and
of democracy, a wave of license and per- which promise te be adjusted te the satisfacsonai ambition swept over Europe, the tion of both nations.
national institutions of despotism began te
No littie feeling has been created in the
crumbie and te make way for broader ifiBti- United States over the introduction in Contutions of government. The time suited the greas of the Ship Purchase Bull. Whiie a
quenchless ambition and incomparable very animated discussion has taken place
genins of Bonaparte,-and what was then both in the press and ini Congress on the
the greatest war of modern day. swept the
monarchicai institutions of Europe from effect of the Bill should it 'become law,-and
their moorings and a new order of things the resulta which would flow from its operawas established. But this war is indefen, tion, it may be safe te say that the present
sible; it is without just cause and without indications are that even, if passed, which
reason.
Its responsibiiity is upon the js doubtfui, in its present form, the Govshoulders of the German'Emperor, and he ernment of the United States wili not seek
wiil go down te history, yea, and te eternity, to violate in any sense the conventions afhis soul weighted by the awful responsi- fecting the purchase of interned shipping.
biiit-y of the most appalling destruetion of It is, therefore, most desirable on the part
life, of the most wilful atrocities and the of public sentiment in Canada that due-apmost overwheiming devastation of property preciation should be shown for the friendly
attitude of the people of the United States
ever recorded in the histery of nations.
O0wing to our close neighbouriiness te the tewsrds the great struggie in which the
nation te the south of us' I cannot refrain allies are engaged and that the good sense
from making reference to the relations be- of the Canadian public shouid be shown in
tween the United States and Great Britain the exercise of cool, calm and deliberate
arising out of the many international ques- judgment in considering the difficult positions which are naturaliy expected te arise tion which that Government has been called
between that nation and ourselves in the tipon to maintain in its neutrai relations beobservance by that country of its neutral tween the allies and their heiligerents.
The principal feature of the legisiarelations with the beiligerent powers.
Whiie no officiai expression of sympathy tion o! the present session will be that
with the allies has been made by the Gov- of supply for the assistance we are
At the
the Empire.
ernment of the republîc, yet it is a matter rendering te
we
of
Parliament
session
of profound satisfaction not only te the August
people of Canada but te the people of Great entered upon the noboilization of the First
Britain that the Anglo-Saxon press of that Contingent. As the months have gone by
country almost as a whoie is in deep sympa- the developments which have taken place
thy with the struggle which i. being s0 suc- in the theatre of war have grown so enorcessfully carried on by Great Britain and mously as to throw upon Canada the reher allies. With a German population of, sponsibility of entering more largely into

SENATE

the defence of the Empire than was contemplated at the beginning. Tbis is a strugg]e
that belongs to Canada as miuch as it does
to Great Britain herseif. We are engaged
in the struggle as much directly as Great
Britain and ber allies, and as a part of the
Eýmpire we are proud to contribute mien and
treasure to the utmost ïhat can be done.
The greatest tribute that can be paid te the
integrity of the Empire is the response that
bas been made by India, Egypt and the
Overseas Dominions. This struggle bas
welded anid consolidated the Empire as
nothing else could have doxie. When the
smoke of battie shail have cleared away
and peace is declared, there will arise from
its- present foundation the stately edifice
of an Empire greater -and mîghtier than has
been.
-Reference bas also been mnade in the Address to the country's financial disturbance caused by the war. This feature bas
impressed itself upon us individually as
well as collectively. Probably no more iiiconvenient time could. have, arisen for a
contraction of our financial arrangements
than the present urne. Immediately previens to war breaking out, owing Wo the
almost abnormal growth and expansion in
Canada, we had already experienced a resction' of conditions and this acoentuated
hy the universal contraction whicb. bas
taken place in the i.orld's finances bas
necessarily made itself acutely feit throughout the wbole of Canada.
Canada being peculiarly a spending and
borrowing country, and having fer the lart
few years entered upon great publie undertakings involving the expenditure of hundreds of millions of dollars and depending
upon the European money markets 'being
open We our requirements, the money
stringency which we are called upon to
face, presents one of the most serious problems with wbich we have te deal. This
happening at a time wben we have been
called upon to meet much of the expenditure incidentai Wothe building of two great
transcontinental lines of railway, added to
wbicb will be our contribution Wothe Empire's defence occasioned by the war, confronts us with a financial problem far exceeding in its proportions anything that
Canada ever tbought of being called upon
to assume. The assumption of those obligations is rendered greater on account of
the falling revenues of the Dominion wbicb
are in inverse ratio with the increasing
ratio of expenditure.
The measures wbicb will be brougbt beHon. Mtr. LOUGHEED.

fore Parliament at the present session wvill
be few and almost exclusively confined Wo
dealing with the financial situation wbieh I
have already pointed out.. The situation is
an exceptional one and requiring exceptional treatment. Hence it may be said
that our legisiation will consist peculiarly
Notwithstanding the
of warý measures.
added burden of financial obligation which
the country has been called upon Wobear
and for which provision will have Wo be
made from time tW time, there is not the
slîghtest reason for pessimisma or discouragement. The resources of the Dominion
are more thaxi equal tW any and ail the
financial responsibilities which at any
time we may be called upon We assume.
Canada occupies practically a continent of
undeveloped resources, its agricultural, its
ininerai, its illimitable wealth of forest and
river and lake and sea ail present themnselves for the exercise of the enterprise and
energy of our people. The added burden
bear wil
which we have been called upon Wo
only serve Woawaken the people of Canada
to the illimitable fields for increased production and newly created wealth which
lie before them. With increased responsibilities will aris increased resourcefulness
for individjial and public enterprise.
While it is only uttering a commonplace
Wosay that the time is peculiarly one for
economy and retrenchment in public and
private expendîture, yet on the other hand
it is peculiarly a tinie for us Worealize the
great destiny that lies before us, and the
assurance that Canada and the Empire wil
emerge from the preseut stress and trial
into a condition of the greatest strength
and prosperity.
Permit me, in conclusion, Woexpress the
hope that the session may be a short one
and that in the transaction of the public
business that cornes before us we may deal
with it in a manner satisfactory to ourselves
and also Wethe people of Canada.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I can sincerely congratulate the hon. gentleman from Tignish
and the hon. gentleman from Antigonish
upon the speeches they have made in moving and seconding the Address in reply to
His Royal Highness' speech. It bas been
iny good fortune Wo have heard a good
many speeches on like occasions, but
I can say, safely, that I have neyer
two speeches in succession that
listened Wo
I found as interesting and instructive
as the speeches made by those two hon.
gaentlemen. If I were Wesay anything about
the speech made by the hon. gentleman
who bas just resumed bis seat, it xvould

FEBRUARY 9, 1915

That je unquestionable. If we go back a
be like attempting to paint the lily, and-1
am n ot much of a painter and amn not littie distance, the ides of our sending 30,00men within so short a time after 'war
very well up in flowers. 1 wish to say a
few words before the Address le passed. I began, and our being prepared to send as
was very much impressed indeed by the rnany more after the lapse o! a further
speech of the hon, leader of the Govern- short time, is something that a littie while
ment, but there are one or two points that ago we could hardly credit; but we have
might have been nentioned. It seems to done so, and hence one can cordially enme that in addition to the armies of both darse what His Royal Hlighness says there.
aides of this war, Providence has had a The next paragraph to whieh I shall cal
very visible hand. The plans of Germany attention is this:
were, as the hon. leader has stated, under
My advisers viii ,ubmit for yaur consideraadvisement for a quarter of a century, and tien meaures rendered necemaary by the partitheir plans were made with the utmost ekill cipa.tion of this Dominion In the great taak
and craf t, but certain things happened that which our Empire han undertaken In this var.
rendered ail those preparations to a certain
We aIl cordially agree with Hie Royal
extent nugatory. For instance, if the city of
on that point. I may be allowed
Liège had not offered the sturdy resistance Highness
there je nothing
could have hindered to say a word or two, thoughthe issue of thie
that it did, nothing
fresh about it, as to what
the -German army from getting to Paris;
defeated in thie
and aiterwards at Mons, when, under al war je. If England were
ordînary circumetances the allied armies war Canada would be conquered.
should have been defeated and routed, the
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
undaunted and stubborn bravery of the
English troops prevented that rout. These
Hon. Mr. POWER-As the hon. leader o!
are two cases where it seeme to me the the Government-has said, Prussian ambition
hand of Providence interposed. If my hon. vas to be a world paver, ta control the
friend wili not take it unkindly there is whole world; that was really -the scherne
one littie criticism I wish to make as to that they have ibeen vorking upon; and if
something hie said with 'reference to the England were defeated, Canada would lose
United States.
the liberty and the independence that she
He spoke of the Anglo-Saxon press of the has enjoyed for so many yeairs, and the
United States. Nov, I amn not aware that place of those would be taken by the. autothere je any special Anglo-Saxon press in cratic and tyrannical rule of Prussia. If the
the United States. There is an,-English- allies were defeated in this war, which I do
speaking press, that is conducted largely not think at ail probable, the whole world
by Irishmen (laughter>. To describe the would have to bow down to Germany; and
English-speaking press of the United States there le this thing about this power-the
as the*Anglo-Saxon press is slightly incor- hon. leader of the Government made it
rect. There are a number of newspaper abundantly clear that this power .is not
men in the United States who would not- *governed by internationa* law or regard
for humanity, but by a determination ta
like to be described as Anglo-Saxon.
I do flot propose to traverse the ground win by whatever means. Like Anger in the
that has been gone over in such a poem, Prussia 'seeke its prey, something
thorough and capable way by the hon. to tear with sharp-edged tooth and claw.'
That je it; it le tooth and claw without
nie.
have ..preceded
who
gentlemen
The iew words 1 have to say may, any regard for decency or propriety or any
to a certain extent, be considered as of the restrictions that civ-ilization has
endorsing those of -the hion. gentleman who placed upon war. The hon. gentleman releade this eide of the House. I just take ferred very properly to two or three inthe speech, and although I arn not going stances of the dropping of bombe on
ta deal with it at any length, I shall draw undefended towns, the bombardment of
attention ta certain thîngs that Hie Royal towns vhere the people killed 'were inoffensive and unarrned men and harmlesc
Highness says:
women and children, and latest of all, the
During the monthe which have elspsed since undertakîng to sink pascenger chips and
the outbreak of war, the people of Canada have
given most abundant and convincixig evidence mierchant chipe without giving the passenof their firmn loyalty ta Our Sovereign and of gers or crew any opportunity o! being saved.
their profound devotion to the institutions of
the British Empire.

As the lion. leader of the Government said,

SENATE

no country within the last thousand years
bas undertaken te carry on war in that
spirit. In opposing this power we are
fighting the battie of freedom and civilizatien against barbarism and irresponsible
government.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. POWER-With respect to the
German people, hon, gentlemen must have
noticed that there is no disposition, even
on the part o! the people of England who
have suffered from this barbarism. te place
the blame on the Gerruan peoples as a
whole. We have Germans in this country;
there are large numbers of them in the
province of Ontario; and there are no better
settlers in the country.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. POWER-We have Germans ini
the province of Nova Scotia; the ceunty of
Lunenburg is almost altogether German,
but there are no more industrious, peaceful,
or in any way better citizens in the province
than these Germans, and the descendants
o! Germans. They do not interfere with
their neighbours; they manifest no desire te
alter their neighbours' land marks or te
encroach on their neighbour's property. It
is just this: this war is the result of the
condition of things that the hon. -leader
of the Governiment bas referred to-the
people have been trained by the ruling class,
particularly of Prussia, te believe that their
rightful destiny was te be the rulers o! the
whole world; and they have been misîed
and misguided. To help the good cause, the
loyal Opposition in Canada are prepared te
aid the Government's efforts to do our duty
by the Empire, and te vote such sums of
money as are needed te carry on our part
of the war, and te support such measures as
the Government may show te be necessary
to bring the struggle, se far as we are concerned, te a successful issue.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. -Mr. POWER-Now I wish te address
a few more observations to the House in a
somewhat different strain. I do not assume,
as it appears to be assumed, that this session is te be devoted exclusively te provid.
ing for the conduct of the present war. The
August session was devoted te that purpose
alone. We came here and we made the
necessary provision for thé beginning of the
war at any rate, and at the present session
undoubtedly, our snost important busines 's
wiîî be te make provision for doing our part
towards carrying on the war. Speaking as an
Hon. Mr. PO0WEIt.

individual member, my own idea is that while
no controversial measure should be introduced, the necessary business of Parliament
should be deait with, as in an ordinary session. If this war lasted, as wars have
lasted, for a great many years, is it contended that the ordinary business of the
country-the things which are found to be
necessary for the good government of the
country-should not be attended to while
the war was going on. 1 cannot endorse that
view at aIl, and 1 wish to call attention
te two or three subjects whieh the hon.
Leader of the Government should try to
impress on hîs colleagues. One matter is
most urgent, and that is the organization
of a defence force. We have in Canada the
inaterial for a -magnificent fighting force,
but there is no organization at ail; there is
no provision for reserves; there are no
organizations except a few scattered battalions here and there; no organization that
can be called upon at the moment of crisis.
This is something that should be remedied,
and the hon. gentleman should, 1 believe,
present te the Government this view of the
matter.
The late Government was te, blame
nearly as much as the present GovWhile we have largely inernment.
militia
for
expenditure
our
creased
purposes, we have not increased the force;
we have no organization. Take the case of
Hon. gentlemen, even
the present war.
those who do not come from British
Columbia, know what a panic there was in
British Columbia for a long time after the
war. began. There really does not seem te
be any good reason why the squadron which
sank the Good Hope and the Monmouth
should not have gone in and destroyed Victoria and Vancouver. The people o! British
Columbia were very much afraid this would
happen, as there was nothing te prevent it.
If we had had a proper organized militia,
such as we had a good many years ago in
the province from which I come, the
Government would have been in a position
te cali out at once a sufficient number of
men te repel any force that would likely
have attacked British Columbia. Or suppose again, that, instead of going with England, Japan had gone with Germany, where
would British Columbia be? Hon, gentlemen must see that we have been Iivinz in
a fool's paradise. There is this thing about
the present Government-I said the two
n
'
g"overnments were almost equally
sible-but there is this difference. thait their
own inspector general reported te t'hp present Government two years age, pointing

FEBRUARY 9, 1915
out the absoluto necessity for doing sorne- d[o next session or -sorne other session.!
thing ta improve the condition ai the ' e'h difflculty is that 'when next session
doienco force. Then a few manths mgo there <~omes, if the war is over, yau cannot 'work
was a report fromn General Ian Hamilton, eople up ta look with favour upon a prowho had been brought out frorn England >osal ta incresse -the strength of the
for the purpose of making that repart, and mijiltia.
matter to
there is another
Then
that report shows most conclusively that
Canada had flot been doing hor duty in the which I wish ta refer. Borne couple of
way ai self-defence, and that she was not rears ago- the Governinent appointed a
It was ,omrnissioner, Sir George Murray, for the
in the position ta meet attàck.
the duty of the present Government ta purpose of inquiring into fLhe condition
By the ofaur Civil Service and reporting on it.
have attended ta that matter.
occurrence ai this war the attention ai the He mnade a very able report, and a report
Governent has been called directly ta aur which should have been acted upon before
practically undefended condition, and it is n0w, but no step 'has been taken towards
the duty of the Goveriýment'at the present .ntroducing any af the improveiments into
session ta introduce some measure ta put he service which Sir George Murray reus in a botter condition ta defend oursolves. commended. That is -a matter in regard
1 arn nat speaking as anything but an indi- to which something might bo done this
vidumi momber, but 1 arn perfectly satisfied session.
The Government introduced a
that mny reasonable measure intended to Bill Yast session but did not push- it.
organize the militmry power ai Canada wil This is not a party question. I do not
Fer- see any reason why the Govern'ment should
not be opposed by the Opposition.
haps somo -one may misconstrue what I not do -soenething with their Civil Service
have been saying; but 1 wish it to be dis- Bill this year. Then in addition ta thsttinctly understaod that I do not advocate and perhaps aencflre -urgent 'metter-isa thie
Conscription moans that a question of euperannuation. More Vhan
conscription.
very large proportion ai the young men ai one commnission have reported on that subthe country are taken away from their accu- j oct. The Governinent prepared a Bil and
pations and are kept years in bsrrmcks or introduced it last session, and I do not
camps. That is not what I mean. 'When I see sny reason why that Bill ehould not
talk ai a defence ,force,_I mean that the be gone on with. Superannuation is not
young mon, iromn 17 ta 21 at any rate, a party question. There is another matter
should have a number ai days' training ta which attention has beon callod more
The spirit ai that systemi is than once, and that is the matter of public
each year.
directly opposite ta the spirit ai conscrip- printing. I do nat care ta weary the House
We
tion, and what is called rnilitmrism;
by going in-ta that, but I say that I have
had a systom aif that sort in Nova Scotia, reason .to believe - that oomething like one
it; it worked
and no one complmined about
million dollars a year may be saved by
remarkably well, and it cost almast nothing. improvements in the practioe with referThe mon were not paid, mnd did nat expect once ta public printing. There is no need
ta be. I heard some hon. gentleman make of duplication of reports, and there is, at
some reference ta the poace that was ta present, unlirnited printing af reports that
follaw when this war was over. Now, as are almost utterly unnecessary.
There is
the American orator said: 'Gentlemen may .alsa tho distribution of reports ta gentlebut there is no poace.'
cry poaco, peaco,
want them. It is a
for mien whio do nat
nuthority
best
the
have
We
seriaus matter, but it is flot a matter that
believing that as long as man is should be very difficuit to deal with, and
man so long will there be 'wars and
tho Govornment needs ta save ail the
rumours ai wmr,' and it is aur duty ta
There is
are almost utterly unnecessary.
do something ta make ourselvos ready one irratter t.hat they ought ta deai with,
war cames. We have a great one in which fthey would have the support
when the
many blessings in this country. There is of the Opposition. I amn sorry if these
no *country in the world -that onjoys iew observations af 'mine should be thought
greater blessings than Canada, and we ta look es though thero was somo alight
should be prepared ta inake sanie sacrifices difference in the House, but there really
ai aur own ease and comiort for the pur- is. not.
pose ai preserving theso blessings. And
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-When wo 'met
thero is just this: naw the people realize
something ai the kind is necessary. Some in August last we feit convinced iromn the
lion. gentlemen may -say: ' Oh, that will news wo had corning through the cables
8-2
REvIsED zDOraN

SENATE
of the negotiations that had preceded the
war, that the allies steod for justice, and
that rt.hey were net the aggressors. We
had, besides, -the negotiations which we
had follo'wed from day to day, the opinion
of a nation who should net have been
biased in faveur of the allies; in fact, from
an ally of *Germany and Austria, namely
Italy, which declared that by the treaty
ithat bound her te the Triple Alliance
she
was not called upen te enter
a fight which w-as an aggressive one.
This stamped the action cf Germany and
Austria as one cf aggressiveness by its own
ally and friend, Italy. Sînce we separated
last August we have been able te look at
the correspondence which. was exchariged
by ail the principal powers ef Eurepe during
the crisis, and we have the satisfaction cf
knowing to-day that the universal conscience cf the werld approves the position
taken by the allies. Through ail the neutral countries the opinion is held that this
war was engineered frem Berlin, and from
Berlin alone. The evidence is clear that
Germany Tefused te abide by the effer et
Sir EdwaMS Grey of an arbitratien, which
sheuld be offered by two friends cf Austria
in the difficulty between Austria and
Servia, Germany and Italy en the ene aide,
and by twe friends cf Servia, France and
Great Britain on the ether. The answer cf
Germany was «I de net in Princiffle refuse
that suggest.ion, but I wilt net suggest it te
Austria. Let us see if Austria and.Russa
cannot open negetiations between themselves, and try and settle this matter between them.' Austria at first seemed te be
unwilling te appreach ]Russia and accept
the effer cf Russia cf a quiet discussion
between the two, but when Austria realized
that Russia was bound te stand by Servia,
if there were net some kind cf understanding, or agreement, at last yielded te
Russia's offer te a conversation between the
two powers. The very day this consent
was given by Austria, Germany stepped in
and declared war against Russia. The reading by any unbiased mind cf the histery cf
the negotiations which preceded the declaration cf war has crystallized public
opinion throughout the world in faveur cf
the cause cf the.allies.
But I want for a
few moments te dilate upon one fact which
was mentioned by my hon. friend the leader
cf the Governnient, that Germany was prepared completely and absolutely for this
war, as she thiQught, while France and
Great Britain were net prepared. 0f course
France was more prepared than Great
eritain for a land çampaign, but ît was
}Ion. Mr. DANDURAND.

very evident that France had net within
the preceding five years expended ail the
necesaary money te prepare its material, te
obtain for instance its heavy guns in order
te be ready at a given date. France had
reenacted the three years service just a
year before, but was simply erganizing its,
forces and preparing for a defence in case
an assault should take place such as that
which actually happened. It is evîdent te
ail military critics that on the first Auguat.
1914, Germany felt that it could net be more
prepared than it was, while France was in
the same condition that it had been during
the five er ten preceding yeara.
Great
.Britain it is evident was prepared for a
conflict at sea, but had net prepared itself
for a campaign on land to be begun on the
ist August last. This is clear. And this
unpreparedness cf France and Great Britain
is a complete vindication cf the attitude cf
mind cf the allies in this present struggle, cf
the fact that they had ne corrupt intention,
since they were going on in their
erdinary way without any special preparation for a conflict. If France was
haîf prepared, if Great Britain was net at
ail prepared for a land campaign,
it seems te me that we, in Canada eheuld
net be repreached with accusations of unpreparedness or dilaterineas, and yet it ie
saîd that we have net done ail that we
sheuld have done. I read the opinion of
Colonel Wood, who is a most estimable
gentleman fromn the city o! Quebec, whc
made a speech before the Canadian Club in
Montreal yesterday, and his theme was,
' Canada derelict in duty te Empire,' and
Col. Wood proceeded te establish ail that
Great Britain had done tewards Canada and
fer Canada, and the littie we had been
deing before sud more especially since the
first cf August for the general cause cf
Great Britain and the allies. The point I
want te make is that since we find thp
countries of Europe who had net in their
minds an assau]t upon their neighbours,
were net in a state* cf preparedness which
we would have liked te find them in, how
niuch more should we find an excuse for a
country like Canada, ivhich has neyer
thoug-ht of entering werld-wide wars, of
waging war beyond its border, which has
bad for one hundred years albsolute peace
within its borders. How much more excusable are we in havingu feund ourselves
in that perfect state of bhiss and peace up
te the first August last. We muet net forget
that one hundred years will produce many
generations, and in 1914 we were about te
celebrate one hundred years e! peace with

FEBRUARY 9, 1915

our neighbours, which practically meant
with -the world as far as Canada was concerned. In order to show out of the mouth
cf -oli. Wood aur state of mmnd, I will read
a paragraph cf hie speech reported in this
morning's Gazette. -He spoke as follows:
On the principle of 1Rep. by Pop.,' Lt.-Col.
Woods salît the ftraît contingent of 35,000 should
have comprised 6,000 Old -Countrymen. 10,000
French-Canadians, and 20,000 Anglo-Canadians.
While the exact figures were a secret, the real

proportions were about--Old CountrY. 32;»
Anglo-Canadians. 4; and French-Canadians, la pr'oportion which it was for Canada te sec
remedIed In the future.

He speaks cf 5,000 old countrymen. That
is English born.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-British born.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Yes, I do not
know that that represents exact]y what the
word is supposed to represent. I would say
British born on the other side, but I do
know that some Canadian born ceuld cal
themselves British born as well. This exemplifies the state of mind cf our Canadian
born population on the lat cf August
The
and in the month that followed.
old countrymen were hiere for a few years
only, and were quite as ready as a fish
taking te water te answer the call.
Hon. Mr. DÂNIEL-Could the lion. gentleman tell the House where Colonel Wood
got his figures, and whether they are officiai and reliable?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I think it will
be found when the list from Salisbury Plain
are laid on the table of this House or the
other, that his figures are net very f ar
astray. 1 may etate te, my hon. friend for
instance that the Pat's contain about 95
per Cent of old count-rymen.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Ninety per cent.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-We know very well
that that special regiment was largely ceinposed opf eld countrymen and men who had
seen service; but with regard te the whole
contingent outside cf that, that was what
the lion. gentleman was referring te.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Yes, the ValCartier contingent.
Hon. Mr. DANIE-I think that the statement in regard te the proportions should
hardly be made unlesa it was known that
it was really officiai.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Col. Wood declares himself that while the officiai. figures
are still seoret he is net far from the mark
S-24

when hie says the proportion is 30; 4; and i1;
and I believe that f rom my own investigation in the matter those figures will be found
flot very far astray.
Hon. Mr. DkNIEL-1 think they will be.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Before the end
of the session we should know. This, if my
hion. friend will allow me to, continue my
argument, shows what was the state of mind
throuÈhout Canada among the Canadianborn when this war broke out. Now I will
merely touch upon the fact that among the
Canadian-born, as between French and
English, one to four would exactly represe nt
the proportion of these two groupa. That was
the state of mind cf the country in August.
1 say it is flot the state of mind to-day. nor
was it two or three months after. The Government has now asked for another contingent. Am I right in saying that that second
contingent is supposed to be of about
20,000-because I have read in this morning's papers a remark from the Prime Minister that 50,000 men, with the present contingent already over the seas and those that
we are training, repreaented the two contingents that would go forward. I have not
had the officiai figures, and perhaps my
hon. friend the leader cf the Government
will know if I am right in saying that 20,000
is the nuinher fired for that second contin-:
gent.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cannot tell you;
it will be at lest that.
Hon. Mr. DANDURKND-It dees net matter very much in connection with the remarks that 1 want to add. Another- second
contingent' has been asked. At the same
time that it was asked it began to be
rumoured about that the Canadian-born had
not shown as much zeal in the first contingent as the flritish-born. A well-known
Canadian dector in Montreal, who belongs
te the militia, Dr. Mignault, feit, from the
number cf demands that came to him frozn
French Canadians whe wanted te enlist, that
seme opportunity should be given thein te
do se. He, therefere, asked our public men
te jein in a cali to, one province, and certain
leaders from the other House, Sir Wilfrid
Laurier and the Hon. T. Chase Casgrain,
accepted the invitation and addressed a
meeting in Montreal. French Canadians
were offered a regiment. The ambitions cf
Dr. Mignault and his friends were greater;
they thought that they sheuld be allewed
te enroli a brigade, but for resens which
have net been disclesed -by the Militia Department, enly a regiment was allowed.

SENATE

However, the cail for a regiment of 1,000 or
1,200 men was answered by over 4,000 men
of French Canadian descent from the province of Quebec.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND--So that if we
found on the first of August, a certain state
of mind running through the whole of Canada from the Atlantic to the Pacifie, quite
justifiable because of our long series of years
of peace, we find to-day the population
ready to follow in the footsteps of the Britisli-born; and I arn glad to say that in this
struggle in which Great Britain, France,
Belgium, Russia and Servia are engaged,
and which represents the defence of ahl our
ideals, the province of Quebec and the
Frencli-speaking part of that province will
do its share as largely and as liberally as
any part of the English and Canadian-borni
throughout Canada.
Some hion. GENTLEMEN--Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS. Hon. gentlemen of the
Senate. I had no intention whatever of
Being"
speaking in this Chamber to-day.
f ully aware of the ability and eloquence of
the hon, gentlemen who have preceded me,
[ did not think it would be advisable for me
to rise fromn my seat.
The hon. senater for Tignish, (Hon. Mr.
Murphy) who moved the address in reply to
the Speech from the Throne, made a speech
worthy of this Chamber and of the position
Hon. Senator Girroir,
which hie occupies.
whom we are always pheased to hear in this
Senate, has proven that hie is equally fluent
-and eloquent in both the official languages
of this country. This is an excellent note in
his favour and I heartily congratuhate him.
The two party leaders in this House have
not surprised us. We are used to their eloquence and the sound and judicious addresses they have just delivered is an additional dlaim to the confidence of their folhowers in the Senate.
It would be presumption on rny part to
encleavour to add anything to what they
have said withi a much greater eloquence
than 1 can command.
On the subject of war, there is but one
voice and one sentiment in this country, and
that sentiment is in line with the reasons
8o ehoquently expressed by the leader
of the Government, in order to secure
to the whole world a durable and
liuinane peace. But there is another matter
to which 1 desire t6 cail the attention of this
Hon. Mr. DANDURkND.

honourable House: this country is now in a
From one
most crîtical financial position.
end of it te the other, the criais is terrible.
In most of the eastern cities the distress
is -appalhing; the situation in the West is
alarming. I amn ready to admit that the
present situation has been accentuated by
the European war, but it seems clear to me
that we were already in the crisis before the
decharation of war. We are now summoned,
if we judge by the Speech from the Throne,
simply te vote millions and hundreds of milNo ineasure is
lions to- the Government.
announced. te show us that the ministers
realize the distress of the Canadian people.
There is but one thought; the securing of
millions for war puirposes.
The business of the country seems to be
forgotten, as though we were to cease living
until peace is signed, or as though the earth
were going to be at a standstill while the
guns are pouring shehîs over Europe.
In conclusion, allow me to say, hion, gentlemen, that I wouhd have been pleased if
the Government had announced its intention of adopting some means of ahlaying the
distress of the Canadian people.
If the Government had adopted this
course, I feel convinced that they would
have rcceived the unanimous support of this
Senate, and also the millions asked for war
purposes.
The motion was agreed te.
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock
tomorrow.

THE SENATE.
Wednesday, February 10, 1915.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine prooeedings.
INCORPORATION 0F GOMPANIES ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
FIRST READING.

Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE introduced Bih].
(A), An Act to amend the Act respecting
the incorporation of companies.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-WilI the bon. gentleman explain?
Hon Mr. DOMVILLE-This Bill should
comniend itself to the House. It is simply

FEBRUARY 11, 1915

following out the lunes of the* Englieh
Companies Act and the Ontario Act, whieh
I hold ini my baud. This measure requires
companies whieh are incorporated by Parliament, to file a list of their shareholders
with the Secretary of State so that anybody
eau see the naines on making application.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-In the saine manner
as the bankeP

the House of Gommons for a large nuinber of years; he was also cbief justice of bis
province for yeais; capable, always wiliug
to serve bis country in tbe best direction,
and neyer upon racial or religions lines. He
vas a man o! peace aud conciliation. 1
suppose it is a matter of forget!ulness,
rather tbâ.u o! negleot, tbat th. Euglish
speaking minority of the province o! Quebec is not represented in the list named by
the Speaker. I, therefore, on behaif o! the
minority of the province of Quebeo, auggest that the naines of the bon. senator
MacKay (Aima) ibe added to the list. Sir
Français Langelier vas mucb appreciated
in life, and bis death wili be very muelr deplored.

Hon. Mfr. DOMVILLE-Very much the
saine. It is to enabie any-body who is buying atock in one cf these companies to ascertain who bis partners are. In England
you psy a shilling for permission to look
at a iist of shareboiders, or you can get a
copy of the list by paying a certain fe..
That provision has, neyer been thought of
The SPEAKER-Those naines wili be
here.
added to the motion.
The Bill was read the first turne.
The motion vas agreed to.
BILL INTRODUCED.
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock
Bill (B), An Act respecting the Pollution to-morrow.
of Navigable Waters.-Hon. Mfr. Beicourt.
FUNERAL 0F THE LATE SIR FRANCOIS
LANGELIER.
The 8PEAKER-Following the precedent
laid down in May, 1911, it iê moved by the
Hon. Mfr. Lougheed, secouded by -the Hon.
Mr. Bostock, that the hou. the Speaker of
the Senate, the Hon. Messrs. Shehyn, Choquette, Tessier, and Casgrain tbe appointed
to attend as representatives of the Senate
at the obsequies o! the late Sir François
Langelier, late Lieutenant Governor of the
province of Quebec.

TME SENATE.
Tbursday, February Il. 1915.
The SPEAKER MHon. Mfr. Bolduc, in tbe
absence cf Hou. Mfr. Landry> took the Chair
at Three c'clock.
Prayers sud routine proceediugs.ABSENCE 0F SENATOR ROBERTSON.

Hon. Mfr. CLORAN-It was decided at
the meeting o! tbe special committee on
Orders snd Customs o! the Senate and
Priviieges of Parliament, sitting this alterHon. Mfr. MoSWEENEY-I would like noon, that a letter be sent to Hon.
the Hon. Speaker to add the name of Sen- Mr. Robertson, Prince Edward Island,
ator Godbout (Beauce) to that iist.
asking bim to give reasons wby he bais
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I would like to make not attended the sittiugs o! this House for
a suggestion on behalf of the province of two sessions. 1 do not know whether the
Quebec. SiT François Langelier was one action taken wili be reterred to this House,
of our best publie servants for nearly forty- but I should like to know whether that
five years past. He served not only the in- letter is to go direct froin the committee, or
terest o! -the people of his own race, but be whether it must be ordered by the House.
was a kindly, geniai man ail round, sud This is a very serions matter, and I do not
served the interests of the different nation- think the commi*ttee bas any right to send.
aiities in that province. Hia death, o! such a letter. -If I were Dr. Robertson I
course, had been expected for some turne, shouid ignore it. It is inhuman, undigni-but he bas leit on the records of the prov- fied', and improper under the circumstancee,
ince of Quebec rnany evideuces o! bie use- *ta ask the hon. gentleman in bis presfuiness that cannot be wiped out. He waE* ent condition, to gi#~e reasons why he bas
a kindiy and good-hearted man; b. waq1 not attended the sittings of the Benate. 1
mayor of the city of Quebec for mauy, many *wish te know -if tbat letter is to -be eent
years; one o! the rnost prorninent men àn without tbe fuil sanction o! the Senate.

SENATE

The SPEAKER-Ail the papers regarding
Hon. Mr. Robertson's absence will be submitted to the committee, which will meet
at the call o! the chairman, and I understand the report of the commîttee will be
submitted to the f ull House, and that will
be the time, as I understand it, to diseuse
the adoption o! the report.
The Senate adjourned until three o'cloek
to-xborrow.
THR SERATE.
Friday. February 12, 1915.
The SPEAKER took the Chair et Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
PURCHASE 0F NEW BRUNSWICK AND
PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND
RAILWAY.
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. MeSWEENEY inquired:
Hlas the Governmnent purchased the rallway

known as the New Brunswick and Prince
Edward Island Railway?
1. What is the length of the uaid railway?
2. Who were the owners?
3. What was the purchase price?
4. Io It being worked and operated. as part
of the Intercolonial system?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers to
the hon. gentleman's questions are as follows:1Tbere is an agreement for purchase.
1. 36 miles.
2. The New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island Railway.
3. To be $270,000.
4. It is being operated by the Intercolonial Railway.
THE LATE SENATORS JAFFRAY AND
KIRCHHOFFER.
lion. Mr. LOUGIIEED-In making re!erence to the death o! our late colleague
Senator Jaffray we are vividly reminded
that the years of our pilgrimage are growing apace. In the summer session of Auglust last he was with us and to all appear;ances gave promise o! several years o! public service. In convefsation with him at
that time he împressed -me as possessing
that usual vigour and strength o! mind
whicb he always evinced in the transaction
o! public business.
Those o! us who were unawaTe o! his very
short illness were startled to learn of hie
most sudden death. From a 111le o! great
Hom. Mr. CLORAN.

activity, identified as he was with many of
the great financial institutions of our countiy, he was suddenly summoned to that
Bar Irom whicli no traveller returns.
~The late Senator Jaffray belonged to that
splendid 'type of man who xnany years ago
came from Scotland -and laid deep and
wide and- strong the foundation o! our
national institutions. For over hall a century he was peouliarly identified in the
building u.p of many oc! the great
institutions
financial
and
industrial
men
Few
o! his native Province.
were so largely assoélated with the
business 111e of the city o! Toronto as
was, our late colleague. Coming into the
Senate in 1906 he rendered invaluable services tbrough the exercise o! his ripe experience and his cool and deliberate judgment ini those miatters of important legislation with 'whidh this Chamber has to deal.
He was most closely assocîated in business
and in friendship with our late colleagues
Hon. Senators Cox and Sir George Ross,
the three of whom by a strange coincidence
were summoned by death. during the year
1914. For over a generation he was probably more closely iassociated ty ties of
friendship with those of his late colleagues
whom 1 -have mentioned. than with any
others outside of his own family. They
were all men who left deep impressions
upon the publie affairs of Canada and this
Senate and the publie life of Canada have
suufered irreparable loss in their removal.
Whi]e Senator Jaffray, tbough deeply attached and loyal to the great polities!
party to which he belonged, yet in his
Iriendships and in the exercise of bis kindly
acts knew no distinction o! party. It is,
there!ore, 'with the deepest regret that we
place upon the records o! the Senate the
great loss which we have sustained through
the death o! our late colleagaue from Toronto, Senator Jaffray.
It bas been my melancholy duty on niany
occasions to mention to the Senate of the
loss througb deatb of the many colleagues
who within the last few years have left
With
vacant chairs in this Ohamber.
none of them bave I been so ciosely
associated as with niy departed friend, the
late Senator Kirchhoffer. He became a
member o! this Chamber shortly after 1
entered it and since that time dow-n to the
tinie o! his death the ties of friendship
united us moat closely. He was one o! the
Thirty
pioneers o! tbe great Northwest.
odd years ago wben a young man he left
the province o! Ontario and laid in- the

FEBRUARY 12, 1915

West the foundations of a prospereus settiement in a district within which for many
.years he lived and se well represented in
this Chamber.
Not in the histoicy of the Senate since
Confederation has any other enember of
this Chamber held the chairmanship of
a committee so long and se continuously as
did our late colleague in"presiding over the
deliberations cf the Divorce Ccmmittee.
For approximately twenty years hie was
unmnterruptedly chairman of that comnmittee and to him are we deeply, indebted
for the valuable services which hie rendered
in that capacity.
For many years in the social ie of Parliament ne member endeared himséelf more
closely and more acceptably te the passing
in its
Parliament
which
friendships
changing conditions brings about. His was
a most genial nature. He net enly believed
in the sunshine cf -nature but in its reflection upon human kind. During the long
period in which I had been acquainted
with him neyer do 1 recaîl having seen
him moody or depressed, but lie ever was
the personificatien of geniality and cheerHe was one ef nature's gentlefuiness.
men and reffected the spirit cf gentility
He was a leader in
wherever. he went.
%he world cf sport. At one time he was one
of the leading athietes in Canada and represented-Canada abroad in may ef her initernat.-onal contests. He was a man that
placed on a high plane this feature of our
national lite. He belonged te the best type
of our public men and whatever he did or
wherever he went hie neyer failed te upheld
Ho was leved by
the dignity cf Canada.
ail, and these whe knew him bost cherished
hie friondship mest. His death was a profound lees to the Sonate and te the DomOur deopeet sympathy gees eut te
inion.
his widew ard family whe threugh his
death have been plunged in the deepest
Fer many .yoare we shail chorish
grief.
the meoery cf our deeply esteemod and
belovod celleague Senator IKirchheffer.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I feel tha)t it je
difficult te add very much te what has been
se admirably said by the hon. leader et tho
House in refei'once te the departuro from
th-is Chamber cf our honeured celleagues,
Senator Jaff ray and Senator Kirchhoffer.
-Senator Jaffray was knewn fremn one end
of tihis Dominion te theoether. In oarly hife
he teck a preminent part in the affairs cf
his own province, and hie was reognîzed
b)y the leader of the Geverument at that

ime, Hon. Alexander Mackenzie, as being
a man cf preminence and goed business
ability, for hie appointed him as one cf hie
directers ot the Northern Railway, representing the interests cf the Canadian Gevernment. He was se succoseful in looking
atter the interests cf the Goverament on
that occasion that he secured for the Government the re-paymont cf ail the money
that haed. been put inte that railroad.
Senator Jaffray teck a great interest in al
the publie affaire of this country, and Ïhad
a great bellef in -the future and the prospority cf Canada. He was cloely associated
with thbe late Hon. Sir George Ross when hoe
was Premier ci Ontario in -the work of the
dovelopment cf tjhe northern part et Ontario, and was a very great help te Hon. Sir
George Ross in the 'wcrk that bie underteck
in that wsy. It is hardly necessary te mention te bon. gentlemen hie cennectien with
ether businesses, espocially in the newspaper world. He irnpressed bis porsenality
on the cempany which publis!hes the Globe
newspaper, and did a great work fer the
co.mpany 'in the indepondent and tearloos
st.and that ho vory olten teck ln the columne
cf the paper. Senater Jaffray was a man
for whom every une who came toi know tiim
foît the greateet respect and honour, for hie
integrity, and Ibis worth as a man, and for
the work that ho had done for this country.
Wo feel very sincorely hie lees in this
Ohiamber; where hoe was always lec>ked te
as a man cf great authority on ail matters
concerning the business of the country, and
one whe gave groat attention toelal tho
-menasures.t1ihat came before this Chambor.
As bas boon very truly said cf -him, he nçver
did an ignoble deed, bie nover eacrificed
principles through expodiency, he nover
served bIis own interoste befere thoe ocf hie
ceuntry. Ho was a great-hearted largemindod Canadian, and Canada can ill afford
te loe such as hie. We extend te hie
bereaved t*amily our hoartfolt isympathy in
the lues tbey bave suetained.
Our late celleague Senator Kirchheffor
was probabli co cf the beet knewn mombers cf thîs Bouse. Ho was bora in Ireland. I do net kaow whether he roally
recogaized himeelf as an Irishman, but hie
cortainly was boem in that country, and
had some traits cf the Irish character. Be
was educated in Eagland, and tromn that
cembination, I think we may say, hie gathored the great jnterest that hie teck in al
sports in ovory way. Ho was a man whcm
we ail apptociated. for hie kiadlinees and

SENATE
His opinion and advice on matters of
business and finance was seugbt by many
Many
of our most important enterprises.
years ago, on the deatb of the Honourable
George Brown, bie became interested fInancially, as well as politically, in the Globe
newspaper, of wbicb hie became president,
and from that time forward the bistory of
that great organ of public opinion bas been
influenced by bis efforts for its advancement, and by the advocacy-of ail tbat be
considered important in the vast intereat of
Canada-morally, politically and commercially. He was careful as to the nature
and character of all tbat appeared in the
paper, whether as editorials, news or
advertisements, and even of tbe patrons,
subscribers or advertisers, as well as the
moral and political advocacy wbicb it
He was justly proud of the
expressed.
position wbicb tbe Globe attained and
maintained as tbe exponent of Liberal
views, patrietic and moral views and
measures.
He did mucb for the advancement and
progress of Toronto and of Canada, and beld
firmly te the maintenance of British connection.
Hon. Mr. KERR-What bas been said bas
Those who knew hlm best recegnized in
so well said that, under ordinary cir- bim a truly noble Briton. While advocating
been
cumstances, 1 would bave besitated to in- àtrongly tbe importance of the -absolute lutrude on your attention et a.ll, but my rela- dependence of Canada in the management
tions witb one of those wbo bave been of ber own affaire, he was equally insistent
spoken of bas been se extended over haîf a
the
century, my intimacy with him and co- upon tbe duty of Canada to maintain in
fer co-operation
operatien witb bim in many tbings bas been Britisb connection and for uphoidini the
of such a varied character, that I would ahi things necessary
like to dlaim the indulgence of the bouse supremacy of the Britisb Empire. He was
wbilst I say a few words supplementary to a liberal supporter of ail works for the
what bas been said-so admirably welI said advancement, care* and improvement cf
these in need cf belp. He was a kind, con-in reference to bim.
Senator Jaffray would bave -attained the siderate and affectionate husband and
age of 84 years bad be lived but a few weeks father, and a faitbful, sympathetie friend, a
longer. He came to Canada in 1852, and good citizen, a consistent, conscientious
was actively engaged in commercial busi- poitician-tolerant cf those who differed
ness in Toronto from that time (1852) until from him while at the samne time clearly and
bie became interested in railway, commer- vigorousiy enunciating bis own convictions.
The country wbicb bie loved so dearly; tbe
cial and financial undertakings, in whicb bie
occupied a prominent position as a director, Senate, of wbicb bie was justly proud to be
always taking an active part as such. *a member; the city, where bie resided for
Amongst some of these bie was for many seme 63 years; tbe comununity and circle in
years a director and vice-president, and for which hie lived and moved, have ail lost a
a short time before bis deatb hie was presi. -useful
and able adviser; and if I may be
dent of one of our most important banks permitted te ifftrude myself into this brief
He was very active as one of the founders notice, in commen witb those wbo knew
and to the time of his deatb hie was a b im best, I bave lest a good and f aithful
director in the management of one of thi friend.
oldest and most stable trust companies
was oe of the most highly esteemed
He was a director of the Lif e Insuranc e He
name for more than baîf a and influential members of this Chaimber, ln
Company, wbose
oentury bas been identified witb the liS ewbicb hie devoted bis most careful attention
ta matter coming before us, witb a consciand rrogress of Canada-

consideration, and the cheerful way in
which he always bore himseli to ail those
with whom hie came in contact. His love
of sport was shown in the acquiring of a
very noted duck-shooting property in Manitoba, where hie was glad always to entertain
his friends. Large number's of visitors to
this country, besides those who knew him
so well in the Northwest, have very kindly
remembrance of bis hospitality, and the fine
sport that bie showed them whenever they
had the honour of being asked to pay him
a visit at bis shootmng-box. On one occasion bie had the bonour to entertain the
present King when be visited this country
as Prince of Wales, and I understand that
the duck-sbooting on that occasion was of
the very flnest order. Senator Kirchhoffer
took a great deal of interest in the work of
this Chamber, and of the committees, as bas
been said by my hon. iriend, and 1 arn sure
tha't I express the feelings of mesabers on
this side of the House when I say that we
shahl miss hlm very mucb. We sympathize
most sincerely with bis bereaved wife and
family.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-

MARCH 1, 1915

entions regard for the responsibility cf our
duties here.
S*enator Jaffray's long and useful lufe le
new ended; but hie activities and his uncompremisingiy conscientieus devetion te
duty in everything he undertook will romain with us as an inspiration te the faithfui discharge cf our duties here.
I join aise with those 6f yen on the other
aide cf this Chamber in deplermng the boa
sustained in the death -of our geod and
highiy vaiued friend, Sonator -Kircheffer,
and I endorse i ail sincerity all that has
been said reepecting him. He was a fine
type cf an Irish gentleman, and cf a good
Canadian citizen. Ho wae a useful member
cf the Senate, and occupied an important
place in the committees work, being chairman cf one important committeo for many
His bright and choory manner
yoars.
earned for him many friends who now serrow over his loss, and I extend our warmest
aympathy te Mrs. Kirohhoffer and the
family who survive hum.
The Sonate adjourned until
March i, at 8 o'oiock 1p.m.

MH
SENATIE.

Hon. Mr. CASG RAIN-In my opinion al
public Bills should be referred to the Coinm'ittee of the Whole.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not ffee why the
hon. mnember in charge of the Bill shouid
net ho et liberty to name his comxnittee.
A rnoaeure of 1>his kind, which contains
important details, can be better considered
in -a amali committee than in the Oominittee of the Whole.

Hon. Mr. DA.NDURAND-Is it in the
saine form as the Bill introduced iast year'
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-It îs the same
Bill.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-It is absolutely a
publie Bill, and At should be considered by
the Committee of the Whole House. It has
been the practice of the Senate in the past
te refer similar measures to the Oommittee
of the Whole, but we have strayed from the
right path on m'any occasions, and I have
protestied against it. I do net think it is
right for any publie Bill to be referred te
Monday, any special committee.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-To what committee
was this measure referred on the former
occason? Probably we m'ight pursue the
saine course as was adopted when the measure was considered hy this House before.

Monday, Mardi i, 1915.
The SPEAKER teck the Chair at Eight
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-My hon. friend
o'clock.
has stated the general rule, that a public
Bill goes te the Committee of the Whole,
Prayers and routine proceedingâ.
but we know that there are occasions when
POLLUTION 0F NAVIGABLE WATERS it would bo in the interoats cf a Bill te
BILL.
have At considered by a speci-al committee,
SECOND READING.
and we have followed that course very
Hon. Mr. BEWiOURT moved the second often.
The SPEAKER-lt le in the 'bande cf the
reading cf Bill (B), An Act Tespecting the
Pollution of Navigable Waters.
hon. member promoting the-Bill.
He said: I assume that hon. gentlemen
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I amn i the
do net expeet me te mako any observations hands cf the House. It is immaterial to
on this Bill. For three oonsecutive sessons
thies measure îs referred te the
this measure has reoeived the censridera- me whether on Public Health, or the CernCommittee
tien cf the Sonate, and has been passed
mitesocf the Whole House. I shahl adhere
unanimeusly on each occasion. Events, I to my motion that the Bill ho Teferred te
think have demonstrated tihe necessity and the Committee on Public Health.
urgency cf a measureocf thÎs sort. Eveoey
The motion was agreed to, and the Sonate
member cf this House realizes that the
Sonate bas neyer passed a more opportune adjourned until three o'clock te-morrow.
or bettor piece cf legisiation than this Bill.
Lium old wine, this measure is improving
THE SENATE.,
with age.
Tueeday, Maroh 2, 1915.
The motion was agreed te, and the.
Bill wes read the second turne.
The SPEAKER teck the Chair at Three
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I move that theo o'clock.
Bill be referred te the Çcmmittee on Public
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Health.

SENATE

TRANSCONTINENTAL

OPERATIONS.

INQUIRY.

The notice of motiion being cailed:
Hon. Mr. DAVID inquired:
What sections of the Transcontinental railway
between Quebec and Cochrane have been
operated since its construction and are now
operated?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The lollowinginformation lias been reoeived from tihe
Chief Engineer of the Transcontinental
raiiway:1. Last winter, from December 1 to
May 1. the line was operated from Hervey
junction, mnle 72, west of Quebee, to Division Point Parent, mile 245 west of Quebee.
This wiin er, the line is be'ing- operated
from Cochrane east Ito a point kriown a-s
Peter Brown Creek, 143 miles.
COMMERCIAL AND FINANCIAL
INTERESTS BILL.
MOTION.
Hion. Mr. LOUGHEED moved:
That It ls expedient, ln pursuance of the provieions of section 4 of the Act assented to on
the

twenty-second

day

of August,

1914, ln-

tituled: " An Act to conserve the Commercial
and Financlal Interests of Canada," to, continue

In force the proclamation, ln the form followIng, publlshed on the fifth day of September,
1914, in the Canada Gazette.
George the Fifth, by the Grace of God, of the
United' Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond
the Seau, King, Defender of the Faith, Emperor of India.
To ail ta whom these presents shahl camne, or
whom the samne may ln any wise concerfi,
* -Greeting:

A Proclamation.
E. L-

Deputy Minister

Newcombe,
0f Justice, Canada.

Whereas ln and by section 4 of an Act of the
Parliament of Canada passed in the fth year
Of Our Reign and intituled "An Act to conserve
the Commercial and Financial Interests of Canada." It was pravided amongst ather things that
ln case of war, invasion, riot or Insurrection,
real or apprehended, and ln case of-any real or
apprebended financial crisis, aur Governor in
Council might by proclamation published in the
Canada Gazette:
(a) authorize the making of advances to the
chartered banks and ta the savings banks
ta which the Quebec Savings Baniks Act,
1913, applies. by the issue of Dominion
notes upon the pledge of securities, depastted with Our said minister, of such
kind andamount as may be approved by
the Treasury Board; such advances ta be
repayable at such times as the board may
determine with Interest at a rate likewise determined by the board of not
hess than five per cent per annum;
<b) authorize the chartered banks ta make
paynients in the bank notes Issued by
such banks instead of in gold or Dominion
TIhe SPEAKER

notes, but the total amount of the notes
of any chartered batik ln circulation at
any time shall not exceed the amount of
is notes Issuable under the provisions of
the Bank Act and of the next clause (c) «
(c) authorize the several chartered batiks ta
issue excesa circulation, from and includIng- the tiret day of March in any year,
ta and including the last day of August
next ensuing, or during any part of such
period, ta amounts, fot exceeding flfteen
per cent of the combined unimpalred capital and rest or reserve fund of the
respective batiks, as stated in their respective statutory monthly returns ta aur said
mJiuter for the month immediately preceding that ln which the additional
amount le Issued;
(d) suspend tbe redetnption ln gold of Dominion note,Now know ye that by and with the advice
of Our Privy Council for Canada we do by these
presents proclin and direct that by and on the
date of the publication of this our proclamation
in the Canada Gazette, the said Orders ln
Council shail be revoked; and we do further by
these presents declare and proclaimi as foliaws
that:
(a> the making of advances ta the chartered
banks, and ta the savings banks ta which,
the Quebec Savings Banks Act, 1913, applies, by the issue of Dominion notes upon
the pledge of securities as provided ln the
said Act, be authorized.
<b) the chartered banks be authorized, subject to the provisions and limitations set
forth ln the said Act to make payments
in tbe batik notes issued by such batiks
instead of ln gold or Dominion notes;
(c) the several chartered batiks be authorized
ta issue'excess circulation as ln the said
Act defined f rom and including the tiret
day of March, 1915. ta and including the
last day of Âugust, 1915; and
(d) the redemptian in gold of Dominion notes
by the Receiver General of Canada be
suspended subject ta the provisions of the
said Act from the date of the publication
of this aur proclamation ln the Canada
Gazette.
0f ail which our loving subJects and ahl athers
a hom these presents may concerti, are hereby
required ta take notice and ta gavern themselves
accardingiy.
In Testimony Whereaf, We have caused these
Our Letters ta be made Patent, and the
Great Seal of Canada ta be hereunto affixed.
Witness, Our Most Dear and Entirehy Beloved Uncle, and Most Faithful Counsellor
Field Marshai His Rayai Highness Prince
Arthur William Patrick Albert, Duke of
Connaught and of Strathearti, Earl of
Sussex (in the Peerage of the United Kingdam), Prince of the United Kingdam of
Great Britain and Ireland, Duke of Saxony,
'Prince of Saxe-Cobourg and Gotha; Knight

of Our Most Noble Order of the Garter;
Knight of Our Most Ancient and Most Noble
Order of the Thistle; Knlght of Our Most

Illustriaus Order of Saint Patrick; one of
Our Most Honourable Privy Cauncil; Great
Master of Our Most Honaurable Order of
the Bath; Knight Grand Commander of Our
Star of
Order of the
exalted
Most
India; Knight Grand Cross of aur Most
Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and

MARCH 2, 1915

Saint George; Knight Grand Commander
of Our Most Eminent Order of the Indian
]Empire, Knight Grand Cross of Our Royal
Victorian Order; Our Personal Aide-deCamp; Governor General and Commanderin-Chief of Our Dominion of Canada.
At Our Government House. In our City of
Ottaw, this third day of September, In the
year of Our Lord one thousand fine hundred
and fourteen, and In the flfth year of Oair
Iteigu.
Ey Command,
P. Pelletier,
Acting Under-Secretary of State.

Re ea.kl: At thse laut session of Parhiament an Act was passed entitled "The
Finance Act of 1914." Inx that Act thse followirig powers, amongst ethers, were given
to the Governor in Council--authority ta
inake advances to chartered banks and to
sav'ings banos by the issue of Dominion
notes upon the p]edge o! seourities of sucis
kind -and amount as may be approved by
the Treasury Board; authority to tise chartered banks to inake payments in banli
notes issued by such banks, instead of in
gold 'or Dominion noetes; authority to the
several chartered. banks to issue excess eirculation 'within a particular period of thse
year. Powers were also given to suspend
thse 'redesnption fin gold of Do.minion notes,
power was aiea given Vo proclaim a morafjorium. «Under sulbsection 5 of section 4
0! -the Finance Act it was provided that.
No Proclamation Issued under the provisions

Dominion may enjoy thet flexibility which
is so bhighly necessary at this particular
time.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I have listened
'with a good deal of interest Vo the étate,ment of the hon. leader of the Government.
He has not given us quite as much information as we would like Vo have.
Hie
statement Wreas only to bhe firet subsemotion of thse Act, dealing with advanees o!
Dominion notes as authorized. He lias not
told us 'what the secuzdies are 'w(ltio have
been accepted by tise Goverismen-t for t'he
authorization o! these notes. Further with
regard to the third subsection, thse issue in
excess of circulation by thse banke, lie -lis
not told us w-hether that power Ïbas. been
exercised by the banks. 'We are ail very
glad to know that it lias not been necessary
ini the interests o! the country Vo deal with
the question of the moratorium, -and as iL
lias not be-en included in the notice before
us, I presume the G'overnment does not
caonsider, as far as thse Dominion ait any
Tate is concerned, that it îa necessary to
proceed with that. We 'have ýhad notices
from the Provincial Goveimmente, aind
sorne o! them have put a moratorium inVo
effect, and some are dealing with the matter now, but I think it is a very doubtful
question as to whether those moratoria
were wi.se in the interests of the country.

of this section should continue in force for more
than 30 days after the beginning of the first
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-I did mot mensession of Parliament held after the issue there- tion anytlung with. referenoe Vo the -third
of unleas It is aPproved by resolution passed
paragraph in clause 4, as mentioned by my
by both Houses of Parliament.

The G'overnor in Couneil, in pursuanoe
of the powe'rs vested by tise Act, fiksued a
proclamation along the lines of the powers
so vested. Those powers have been invoked
ta some extent, partieularly by thse chartered -banks. Up ta the 3lst o! January
last the Government advanced Vo the chartered banks $14,400,000 in Dominion notes.
0! that amount there bus since been repaid
'ta the Government $6,500,000, leaving $7,900,000 y%-t owing. Under the provisions of
the Finance Act this amount 'is Vo be paid
by the fir.st day of May next.
Thse sedurity required by the Act lias been
taken by the Gavernmeast from chartered
banks. The loaxis bear interest at the rate
o! 5 per cent. It hue been thought advisable
thbat this proclamation 'whieh lias been
issued by the Governor un Council, should
be eontinued during the wax. The vicissitudes of the war are 1sucis as Vo .possibly
require not only the exercise of the power,
but the advantages whiich are pra.vided for
in the A<,t, so that -the currency of -the

hon !riend, for-the simple reason that it
was unnecesaary. No excess circulation has
been issued by the banks. T.hat-power has
not been iavoked. Thse only power invoked
has been 'the issuance of Dominion notes
in the way indicated.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-What interest is thse
bank paying thse Government?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Five per cent as
required by the Act.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-What are thse securities?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cannot say
wvhat they are, but they are ample, and
have been pasqsed upon by the Treasury
Board.
.Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Wliat becomes oi
the provision with reference Vo thse moratori um? What effeet will thse dfact that it
is mlot included in the renewal proclamation have?

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No -proclamation
as Vo this has been made and if circumstances should warrant the Government
proclaiming a moratorium under the extraordinary conditions that miglit axiise,
we might have power Vo do se, but ait te
present ime there is ne intention of doing
80.

power will be exercised in a conservative
spirit, particularly as this Government is
supposed Vo be a conservative government.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Is there any reason why
the class of securities and the amounts
should noV be laid on the table, when we
are called upon for permission Vo continue
a credit. Should we noV be informed of Vhe
nature of the transaction up Vo the present
time? I think it is the duty of Parliament
te make this inquiry and ascertain what
the facts are. We should be informed as
te what use has been made of it; has it been
tised in general aid of the situation, or has
it been by particular aid, or particular
favours Vo certain banks? We ought Vo have
that kind of information before dealing with
this question.

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Do I understand
my hon. friend Vo say the moratorium is
covered by this resolution?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Ne, iV simply
gives power Vo the Government Vo exercise
the powers enumerated in the Act. There
i8 ia number of Vhemn.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do noV Vhink the
lion. gentleman lias given us quite ahl the
information that we should have had. Para-.
graph (a) reads as folio ws:
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-There is nothing very
(a) authorize the making of advances to the extraordinary in this power which is given
chartered banks and to the savings banka to to the banks under this reslolution. That
which the Quebec Savings Banks Act, 1913. applies, by the Issue of Dominion notes upon power exists in many countries, and it
the pledge of securities. deposlted with our is simply doing what has been done by the
said minister. of such kind and amount as Bank of England in England, the Bank of
egu
ako
h
may be approved by the Treasur>' Board; such Fac nFacb
egu
ako
h
nFacb
advances to be repayabie at such times as theanc
Belgium, by the Bank of Russia in RusBoard may determine with Interest at a rata in
lkawise determtned by the board of flot leus sia, and by banks in numerons other counthan flva par cent per annum ;
<b) authorize the charterad ba.nks to maka tries which couid be enumerated, and it is
paymants In the bank notes iasuad by such banica very safe legisiation to put on the statute
book as soon as possible. 1 may say I arn
Inutead of In gold or Dominion notas.
These are ertraordinary powers, and 1 connected with one individual bank, but 1
think the hion. gentleman should have made arn not speaking for that bank, because that
it clear that it was necessary that the Gov- bank did noV take advantage of that law,
ernment should be authorized Vo do these and has not borrowed money from the Govthings. As I understand, looking at the ernment.
But. I arn in a potsition to appreciate the
returns of the varioue banks that corne in
every month and are published every month, advisabiiity of coming Vo the ret-ciic of the
the banks appear to be in a most prosperous banks in general, and cnabling themn to
condition-large sums of money in their appeal to the Governiment, and obtain adcoffers, business good, liabilities less than vances necessary -for their Teqirements.
beiore-and it does not seemi Vo me that No doubt it was the duty of the Governthere is really any necessity for givîng the ment to see that the securities were absobanks control of more funds than the Bank lutely good and sufficient securities, and 1
Act allows. IV would be a great deal better have no doubt that the Government has
to let the banks go, as they are very well seen to that. As te the demand made by
able to do without any help fromn the Gov- hon. gentlemen as to why the Government
ernment. I do flot understand financial could noV give the namnes and securities that
questions very well, but there is another were exacted, allthat could be given would
matter I wish Vo refer to. 1 do noV know be the nature of the securities. It would
whether it was under this proclamation or not be suggested that it wouid be proper to
otherwise that the Government allowed cer- ask that securities given by any individual
tain parties Vo geV into their debt Vo a very bank should be published to the world at
large amount. I think there were some ten large. To do so would be a kind of breach
million dollars loaned Vo the 'Canadian of confidence on the part of the Government.
Northern Reilway Company, and seven mil- The law passed was in the right direction,
lion Vo the Grand Trunk Pacifie. We ought and iV was necessary, in certain cases, to
to feel sure when we are giving the Govern- enable banks Vo continue the advances that
ment power Vo do these Vhings that that have been made to their customers. The
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT.

MAROR 2, 1915

hon. gentlemsan from Halifax stated tbat the
banks are in geod condition. Well, we
should ail rejeice at that, but it is perfectly
well known from the returns as published,
that deposits in general have been considerably reduced. It is aise known i>hat
th-ere is cansiderable stagnation in industry
and commerce, and therefare that the banks
cannot commnand the repayrnent of the
advances that have been made as in normai
circumstances. For these reasons it was
necessary ta have recourse ta that special.
Act, and I have ne hesitatian in expressing
the opinion, for my part, that the Government is ta be commended for having put

that Act on the etatute book and in con-

tinuing it for another session; and I hope
that when the time cames te amend it, the
Goverunent wiii see its way te create
machinery which will enable them ta have
that system introduced in this country in
a permanent way. As it is, ail banks, even
the strongest bank in the countTry, with the
system cf branches that have been intreduced ail over the country, and, with the
deposits that are collected for the ,purpose
cf enabling the-banks te be able ta advance
the amounts necessary te industry and commerce, are exposed te runs; any bank may
be expos-ed te the danger of coming te grief
if a mun is started against su individual
bank. Other countries have systems which
guard against things cf that kind, because
banks can go witih undoubted securities te
a staie bank, or ta a bank sncb as the
Bank of England or the Bank of France,
and csn re-discount their securities or part
of their securities, and therefore command
the necessary amount cf cash te answer al
calis. In this cou.ntry we have net that
systern. Happily we have secured it for a
given period, and I hope that vohen the time
cornes it will be introduced in permanent
form.
Hon. lim. DAVIS-As far as the security
is concerned that bas been given te the
Govemument, it is not necessary ta press
for a list of that, because we assume that
the Government would net adiance the
money witbout proper secnrity. However,
the leader of the Governrent should have
-given us -more information. Il banks corne
te the Government and ask for a boan cf
ten million dollars or twelve million dol-lars or fourteen million dollars in Dominion
-notes, they snrely must have sorne reason
for wanting sncb a boan, but the leader cf
the House bas not given us any of these
reasonts. My hon. friend frorn Halifax says

that he -finds from reading the bank reporte
that the banks are in good condition in this
country, that they have large rest accounts,
and that their coffers are fulil. I have not
seen the amount ini the Bank of Montreal
with reference ta the reduction of deposita
that has been made in that bank; ini the
Bank cf Montreal, at axiy rate, these deposits have net been reduced very much.
Surely we ought te be in a position te get
information as te why the banka asked the
Government te lend thern this rneney. If
they did not need the money, why did theyý
ask it. I arn sure the banks are not iending any more rnoney out in this country.
The best business men in the West cannot
go ta a batik snd borrow five cents, ne matter what security they have; and yet banks
can corne ta the Dominion Government and
borrow 12 millions or 14 millions, and net
lend a cent te t~he business mn who are
doing legitl!nate business ail over the country, or ta the farmers. I would like a little
explanation as te what they got this rnoney
for.
Han. Mr. CLORÂN-Oh, a littie fringe.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURA2ND-The question
was put as ta the reason why the right
taken by the Government ta preclairn a
moaratoriumn was nat heing renewed by the
resolution proposed by my han. friend. I
find the reason a very simple one-that the
resolutian has for ils purpose the conflrming cf the proclamation which bas been
issued, and as ne moratorium bas been proclaimed, so far, there is ne necessity at this
moment te ask for a confirmation,* though
the right stili remains with the Government
te proclaim a moratorium. I hope that no
necessity will arise for sncb proclamation.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I arn net rising ta
discuss the merits of the resolutian, but
simply te point out ta the Governrnent of
the day when hon. representatives of the
people put questions ta the Goverinent,
there should be at least an effort made by
the Government te answer them, se that
very serions questions put by hon. senaters
on the floor cf this Hanse should net be
treated with silence, if net with contempt.
1 arn net referring now especially te the
present representative of the Gavernment
in this House, but the Government must
be made te understand that when fair
questions are put fair, honest answers must
The proposition made by the
be given.
hon. senater from Aiberta (Hon. Mr.
Davis) is a very fair one. He dees net dis-

SENATE

IMPORTATION 0F FUEL QIL INTO
pute the fact that 14 millions have been
CANADA.
granted, but he asked the Government a
INQUIRY.
very plain question, As has aise the hon.
senator from Toronte (Hon. Mr. Kerr) on
Hon. Mr. CLORAN inquired of the Gevwhat grounds were those 14 millions ernint:
advanced te the banks? Yet we have no
1. What quantU.-y of fuel *il was lmported
The Gevernment of the day into Canada during the yeara 1911, 1912. 1913
answers.
sheuid consider il its simple duty te and 1914, respectlvely?
2. What was the value of said cil lni each of
answer plain questiens like this.
these yeare?

The metion was agreed te.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers te
îthe hon. gentleman's questione -are as folThe Senate adjeurned until three o'clock
lows:
tomorrow.
1. During the fiscal yeara ended in 1911,
1912, 1913 and 1914 respeetively, " Petrleuin
crude, fuel and gas cils, .8235 specifie gravTHE SENATE.
ity or heavier at 0 degrees temperature,as provided for under tariff itemn 267, 1911,
Wednesday, March 3, 1915.
54,310,597 gai.; 1912, 72,231,006 gai.; 1913,
The SPEAKER toek the Chair at Three 143,W~8,070 gai.; 1914. 177,879,835 gai.
o'clock.
2. 1911, $1,626,141; 1912, $2,270,374; 1913,
$4,531,281; 1914, $5,994,318.
Praye'rs and routine proceedings.
BRITISH COLUMBIA INDIAN
IMPORTATION 0F CRUDE OIL INTO
RESERVES COMMISSION.
CANADA.
SINQUIRY.

INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCIK inquired cf the Govinquiired of the Gov- ernment:
Hon. Mr. CLORAN
Hlas the comnmission appolnted In 1912 te inernment:
vestigate the Indian reserves in Britishi Columbia completed Its work?
will it pay under the war tariff?
1. If no. hias any report been maje te the
2. If no, how wkil the value lie calculated? Government?
CanOn the shipping price or slling price ln
2. What la the nature ot the report?
ada?
3. What bas been the cost ta the Dominion
Government te date?
1. Crude cil coming Into.Canada-what duty

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The .answers te
the bon. gentleman's questions are as fiiows:

1. Crude petroleugi, fuel and gas oils, '823
specific gravity or heavtier. at 60 degrees temperature will psy under war tariff 5 per cent
ad val. under preferential; 7j per cent
under general tariff.
2. On price as sold for 'home consumption
at place ci direct expert te Canada.
TARIFF ON AMMONIA SULPHATE.
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN inquirred of the Gevernment:
1. Under the war tariff will ammennia suiphiate pay ?
2. If se, how rnuch?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers te
the hon. gentleman's questions are as f ol-

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The anaswers to
t~he hon. gentlemian's questions are as foli-ows:
The Commission bias not coxnpieted. fis
work.
1 and 2. Progress Teporte have been received, and seventy-seven interim reports.
3. $108,802.03.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION.
INQUIXtY.

Hon. Mr. FROST rose toDraw the attention of the Oovernment to an
Act passed on the 26th September, 1914, by
the United States Congress, entitled "An Act
ta create a Federal Trade Commnission" and ta
inquire whether It is the Intention of this
Government ta pas any legisiation of a like
character, to ineet similar conditions existing
in Canada, az existed ln the United States and
which provoked the adoption of the above Act.

He said: The Act te which I have oalled
attention 'was passed by the Oongress &f
the Uni'ted States on t.he 26th of -September
i. Yes.
2. Five per cent under preferential tariff; last and is now a law entitled " An Act te
Create a Federal.Commission. '
7j per cent under general tariff.
iows:

Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

MAROH 3, 1915

My reason for the inquiry is sinnply to
ask this Government whether they have
any intention oi creating a Dominion Trade
Commission to meet similar conditàons in
Canada. The. necessity $or comimissions
no-a-days is et once conceded lor the
reaison that business generally has beoodne
so complex, that with the gro-wth et the.
country, [t is impossible for -the Tresau!r
Board to give them as mauch time as would
meet ail foie situations as tihey camne up.
We know whet the Railwey Commission
bas done and I belleve there is not -a pean
in Canada found unwilling at this moment
to pay ail the ieessary coats which. it inours.
In loolving over the latest ceusus for 1911,
I find that the. manufactuzing interesis of
the. Dominion bas $1,247,58360 invested,
and that 19,218 persona are engaged in tihe
work of manufacture, produciug $1,165,975,635 worth of products and employing 515,203
persona, payiug in ail for wages and salaries $241,008,416. This is a very large interest to be dependent altogetiher upon hall
a dozen Minieters of the Crown, sud it may
possibly lie sbown thaît -wdth sucb an enormous açnounit of money -invested, with
all its ramifications, and auch e valuable
and essential asset as lA is to the Dominion
of! Canada, it ouglit to have a comiin
'of the very best men $io b. found
s to
sec thet -no injustice or unfairness is doile
between buyer and seller aud between capital and labour -aud with business going on
for th.e bene~fit of the people as a iitole
throughout the Dominion.
The. firet crecommendation iu the United
States to secure the recuits now aought to
be sohîeved tbrough the Federal. Trade Conimission, appears to -have been made in 1900
and whicih reada as follows:
The larger corporations-the so-called trust-should be required to publlah a.nnually a properiy audlted report showing in reazonable detail thefr assets and liabilities, 'wlth profit and
less; such reporte and audit under oath to be
subjeot. to Government Inspection. The 'Purpose of said publlclty ls to encourage competition whcn profite become excessive, thus protectlng consumera against too high prices and
t> guard the lnteresta of cmployees by a knowledge of the financlal condition of the business
In which they are empioycd.

Their final report Ïhad siso the following,
ta wit:
That there be created In the Treasury Depart-.
ment a permanent bureau the duty of which.
saoi be to register ail state corporations engaged in Interatate or foreign commerce; to
secure froin such corporations ail reports needed
to enable the Governmcnt to levyr a franchise
tax with certainty and justice, and to collect
the saine; to make such Inspection and examination of the business and accounts of such cor-

porations au wiil guarantec the completenesa
and accuracy of the Information necded to ascertain whether such corporations are observlng the conditions preacribed In the Act and to
enforce penalties against delinquents; and to
collate snd publish Information regardlng such
combinations and the Industries In which they
may be. engagcd, so as to furnish to the Congrees proper Information for possible future
legislatioIL
The publiclty sccured by the governmental
agency uhould be snch as wlll prevent the deccption of Uhc public through secrecy ln the organization and management of industrial combinations or through false Information. Such

agency would aloo bave at Its command the
bout sources of Information regarding special
privIleges or discrIiInations, of whatevcr nia-

turc, by whlch Industrial combinatIons secure

xnonopoly or become dangerous to thc public
welfare.
It ia probable -that the. provisions
herein recommended will be mufficient to remove mont of the abuaez which have arisen In
connection with Industriai combinations. The
remedies suggestcdl may be cmployed with little
or no danger to Industriel prosperlty and with
the certainty of sccuring Information which
would enable Congreas to protect Uic public
by further legislation If necessary.

In view of the passage of this Act, whieh
lias now become law and providing for it,
tbe cxcerpt froim the platfor.ms of the different parties who -sought the suffrages of
the. people et thc lsst presidentiil élection
are very interesting, ifor exazuple the Deinocratic party said:
A private monopoly ia ludefenaible snd Iutoîcrabie.

We therefore favour thc vigorous en-

forcement of thc criminal as well as Uic civil

law against trusta sud trust oMetcais, sud de-and Uic enactment of such additlonal legisiation as may bc nccessary to makc it Impossible
for.a private mnonopoly to cxlst In Uic United
States.
We favour thc declaration by law of the
conditions upon-which corporation sha.1 be
permlttcd to engage in Interstate trade, Includlng. among others, the prevention .of holding campantes, of Intcrlocklng directoris, of
stock-watering, of discrimination iu price, and
thc control by any onc corporation of no large
a proportion of any lndustry as to make It a
menace to competitive conditions.
We condemn the action of the Republican
Uic
administration In compromiaing wli
Standard 011 Company and Uic tobacco trust,
and uts fallure to invoke the criminal provisions of Uic anti-trust law against the officers
of Uiese corporations after Uhc court hiad declared that froin the undisputed facto In the
record, thcy had violated Uic -criminal provisions -of Uic law.
We regret that the Sherman anti-trust law
bas recelved a judiclal construction deprivlng it
of much of Its efficacy, and we favour the enactment of legislatlon which wlill restore to Uic
statute the strength of which It bas been deprived by such Interpretation.

At the Republican National Convention,
thc following was deol-ared by its lest platformi:
In the enforcement and administration of
Federal iaws governlng Interstate commerce
and, enterprises Impressed with a public use

SENATE

engaged therein, there la much that may be
committed to a Federal trade commission, thus
placing ln the hands of an administrative board
many of the functions now necessarlly exerclsed
«by the courts. This wlll promote promptness
In the administration of the Ioas and avold delays and technicalitles incident to court procedure.

While the Progressive Platform had this
to say, on bebalf of the Federal Trade Commission:
To that end (protection againat trusts and
monopolles) we urge the establishment of a
âtrong Federai administrative -commission of
hlgh standing, whlch shall malntain. permanent
active supervision over industrial corporations
engaged In an interstate commerce, or uuch of
tbemn as are of publie Importance, doing for
tbem what the Governmcnt now does for the
national banks, and what le now donc for the
railroads by the Interatate Commerce Commission.
tiater on in January, 1914, or a littie over
a year ago, the President made to the
Cengress, the following statement which no
doubt gave a certain impetus to this Act,
which I have already stated beesme iaw on
the 26th of September lasi:
The opinion of the country would instantiy
approve of such a commissin It would mot
wish to sec lt empowered to make terme with
monopoly or ln any sort to assume control of
business, as If the Government made itsolf responsible. It demazids such a commission onlyas an Indispensable Instrument of Information
end publiclty, as a clearlng house for the facts
by which both the public mlnd and the managers
of great business undertaklngu should be guidcd,
and as an instrumentality ln adjusting the
rcmcdy to thc wrong in a way that wIll meet
ail the equities and circumatances of the case.

It wouid appear to une Irmm these tacts
that this is wbat ie needed. in Canada to
settie-mauy- disputes a3 they oeur between
capital and -labour, no One wiill deny that
there is prie cutting preferential contracts
on machinery used for enanufacturing purposes or goods used in the manufacturing
process, black: liste, white Bos, -boycotts,
intimidation.
and
espionage, coercion
These evils have been before Congregs at
different tîmes, but apa.rt fromi references to
their characters as unfair practices, nothing
so far as 1 know, has been done. However the commission has power given te
tihis Act to gather and compile information
respecting erganization cdt business, conduct, praotices, and management of those
engaged in local or fo'reign commerce, in
aIl cases except banks or -railways. Aund
whiie it is au-thorized to investigate trade
conditions in foreiga countries there are
many other provisions made te provide, for
the complete carrying eout of the Act ini
question. Like the Railway Commission,
those who are appointed ishail have salaries,
Hon. Mr. FROST.

and a secretary, end other empîcyees wiil
be fappointed under the Dominion services.
In the United States where they have found
a Bureau of OorpoTations or the workings
oft the Sherman Act deficieut, and where,
after ail, monopoly has had f ull eway, this
law would take Ïts place giving teo
commission eufficient power te prescribe the
penalties wthich are given dcr the evile
dealt with. Tihe 'United States -have felt
perhaps more titan in Canada, the effect
ocda great enany conspiracieil in the past
and te avoid thes thinga in the future, it
je te ie be ped that this Act will meet the
case for aIl parties and give a more cheedful aspect than it ever lbas before seen ini
days gone by.
In the World's Work, February nmber,
referring te thie Act, it practically assumes
that ail business is public 'for it gives the
commission power te investigate and regulate, whether it be publie or private. The
aim of the regulation and investigation je
to cee that competultion le fairly cai-ried on.
Therafore ail adtivities oit the commission
cati unquestionably faciiitate both and get
a more speedy decision in cases than oould
lie obtained otherwise in any other way.
While we have many Labour Acts on our
statute books designed te settle industrial
disputes, as for instance, the Lemieux Act
eud others, none of them etrike at the root
of the trouble as would be done by a
Dominion commission for very obvions
reasons.
1 hope therefore that the tilme je zicar
when sucli a commission will lie constituted
end appointed, end I arn sure it, will net
only 'meet the expettat4ona cf, the people,
but redound te the credit of the Government, by whom such appointrnent ie mnade.
.Hon.. Mr. LOUGHEED-The legisiation
which has been referred te by suy bon.
friend. is quite new, and lias been only
recently passed in the 'United States. I
iuight say that such -a commission wiil 'ho
largely experimental, aud I have ne doubt
tihat we in Canada will watoh with very
considerable interest the operation oft this
experiment in the United States. Up to thbe
present time the acope of the work which
lias been out.lined for thie commission
bas largely, if net altiogether, been vested
in the Department of Trade and Commerce.
That departument lias very largely covered
thbe dutuies wbich apparéntly will be assigned
te the Federal Trade, Commission ini the
United States. I miglit eay te my hon.
friend that we are very much indebted to
himn for directing our attention te this vecry
important subjeet, and 1 shall be very glad

MUARCH 3, 1915

indeed ta direct the attention of the Governinent te the very fittîing remarks wbhic
he bas mode; but speaking ini regardl to
any intended action by the. Governmnent
at thue present tirne the Government has no
«intention. of seelcing eany legishation aimiler
ta that te wh~ich he has alludod. We. bawever, will watch, wiLh very conaiderable interest, the nienner iii -whidh it will 'work
out in the United States.
CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS 0F THE
SENATE.

1Speaker is flot called upon to act by the
Civil Service Act Amendment Act of 1908
and such committee shall report the resuit
of such consideration to the House for
action. Speaking for myself and I think
1 can .speak: for -the other members of the
committee there je flot the slightest desire
ta infriige in any way upon the rights,
privileges, or sphere of duty of His Hlonour
the Speaker, and inasmuch as the coimittee have to report the resuit of their
deliberations to the House, no one can be
hurt.

MOTIION.

Hon. Mr. POWER moved:That the Cammittee on Internat Ecanomny
and Contingent Accounts have power, withaut
special reference tram the Hanse, ta cansider
any matter affecting the internat Econamny of
the Senate. as ta which Hie Hanour the
Speaker la not called upon ta act by the Civil
Service Amendment Act, 1908, and such cornmnittee shali report the resuit of such oansld-

cration ta the House for action.
He said: Under the practice as it existed
Up te a few years ago, this resolution would
not be necessary, but at the present turne.
when the hon. leader of the Governinent
has moved and carried the adoption cf the
report of the Striking Committee, hie moves
that the several committees shahl inquire
into and report upon such matters as may
be referred ta them from time ta turne.
Adhering closely to the wording of that resolution, the Commîttee on Internai
Econorny could not do anything, because
the matters with fespect ta the internai
economy oi the Houge, the supphying ai
statianery, and other things ai that sort
could not be attended ta unless they were
specially reterred by the House; and hast
year wve adopted a resohution in order ta get
aver that difficulty, which, it wilh be
observed, is more sweepmng in its terins
than the resolution ai which I have givexi
notice. The resolution passed hast year
reads as follows:
That the Standing Committee on internat
Econamny and Contingent Accaunts be author-

The SPEAKER-I do not intend to declare this motion carried before calling
attention te the fact that last year a siniilar motion, although the present motion- is
flot so stringent, was by me declared out of
order, because it was calling the House to
pronounce itself a second time during the
session on a question which had been decîded in one sense, and asking a decision in
another sense. I sinîply cali attention to
this tact, and though the present motion je
manitestly out of arder, as no one object to
it. I dechared it carried.
The motion was agreed te.
COMPANIES INCORPORATION
AMENDMENTf BILL.

ACT

S-ICO%'D READING POSTPONED.
The order of the day being called:
Second Reading (Bill A), "An Act ta amiend
An Act Incorporating Companes."-(Hon. Mr.
Domnville.)

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I amn not the father
of this Bill. I have been asked by the hon.
gentleman who introduced it to see to its
procedure through the House. I regret to
say that the hion. gentleman is unable te be
hiere ta look after this Bill. The Bill contains princip les whichi are under consideratian now by the proper departinent of the
Government of Canada. Under these circunistances, I do not feel called upan, or
prepared to advocate the passage oi the-Bill
ized ta meet when and as often as It mnay deemn at the present moment, and I ask as a favnecessary, and withaut speciai reference ta aur not ta myselt personaily, but to the hon.
Inquire Into and report on auch matters connectcd with the Internat economy of -the senatar who is the father of the Bill, te have
Senate as It may- think In the interest af the it dropped tram the order paper to-day and
House.
piaced on the order paper for to-morrow
Hon. gentlemen will see that the reso- week so as ta give mue turne ta get inte comnhution which is now submitted je less sweep- mîunication with hum and acquaint hum
in- in its character. It contains this pro- with the condition ai things. I understand
vision, that the committee can consider the Bilh is considered very important. 1
any matter affecting the internai econiory ai theretore move with the permission ai the
the Senate, as ta which .His Honour the Blouse that the order af the day bie disS-3
AMMI5ED EDMTON

SENATE

,o the Tuesday adjourninent. In the event
charged and that it he placed on the orders t
of the Government not being able to furnish
of the day for Thursday, 'March Ilth.
he Senate with more important legisiation
here la always this question to discuess
The motion was agreed te.
the adjournment from Friday until Tuesday.
BUSINESS 0F THE SESSION.
Iarn sorry that my bon. friend the leader
MOTION.
of the Opposition omitted to consider that
very important subjeet, and that it lay wjth
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Before the motion my hon. friend from Montreal to suggest it.
of adjournment is put I would like to draw NSow, the precedent which we had invariably
the attention of the hon. leader of the Gov- followed in the Senate as to thîs Tuesday
ernmoent to the condition of business in this adjourrnment has been to throw the responHouse. We seem to have very little busi- sibility on gentlemen who live in Montreal,
rien befoxe us, and our hon. friend should or Toronto, or at intermediate poinfs-so
give us somie idea of what business the that I most willingly place that *responGovernment proposes te put hefore this sibility upon the shoulders of those hon.
House for discussion. Parliament mie on gentlemen, and I have no doubt thai. before
the 4th of February, and to-morrow it will Fridsy next we will hear from them by
be a month since we commenced business, way of a notice of motion.
yet, so far, we have had no Goiernment
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think the lion.
measures brought down to this House for
our consideration. I arn sure hon. gentle- gentleman from De Lanaudière <Hon. Mr.
men on both sides of the House are very Casgrain) misses sight of the fact that there
anxious to do ail they can te give proper iet other business for the Senate to transac-t
and earnest consideration to the measures besides the measures 'which the Government
the Governrnent wish to put before us for send up from the other House. To-morrow
the -benefit of the country, and we would ut least three committees of the Senate wiIl
like te have those measures brought down r.eet for the transaction of business, and
that business has to be transacted, and 1
aE quickly as possible.
the hon. thirzk we shail really find, alter to-rnorrow,
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Before
probably enough to do in dealing with the
leader of t1he Giovernment replies, might I business -in this House without troubling
him that, for many sessions back,
remind
ourselves as to the Government measures
it has been the practice te give notice at just now. They will corne, in due time, and
the beginning of our regular sittings, that I have no doubt they will receive most imuntil otherwise ordlered, when the Senate partial and favourable consideration in this
adjourns on Friday it should stand ad- House. I do not, however, object to the adjourned un-til Tuesday at 3 o'clock.
journment until Tuesday.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I presume that
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-I might remind
this.is thse moment -vhen I have te mi.ke
the usual sessional statement as to thse hon. gentlemen that while we are speaking
Bills
regrettable position ini which the Govern- of having nothing to do the package of the
placed, of noV being able te furnish on my desk is increasîng rapidly ail
ment is
any
the Senate with work. Very fortunately, time; I do not think we have dealt with
conditions furnish an excuse from session of them as yet.
to session, so that one can always find someHon. Mr. DANDURAND-Are they GomnVhing to say or some reason te advance Mons Bills?
engaged.
why we are'not kept continuously
This session, as hon. gentlemen know, is
Hon. Mr. DAINIEL-CommniOS Bills.
one in Which both war and financial
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-With
measures will absorb thse entire time of
Parliament, and that no general legislation reference to the number of Bills to which
is being brought down. In thse very nature tihe hon. Senator from St. John <Hon.
of thîngs. it is difficult to furnisis an active Mx. Daniel) has called attention, if
correct
are
reports
and energetie body like the Senate with the newspaper
of Justice has intimwork for every day of the session.
the - Minister
ated his intention of introducing a Bill
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
to extend ail the applications for railHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn glad te say, way charters. Now, the most of the Bills
however, that I have been holding in re- that I have seen coming from the Commons
serve the very important question that has are of that character, and if this Bill is to
been just asked by rny hbon. friead in regar
H-on. Mr. CLORAN.

MARCH 4, 1915

be introduced it will lessen our work to a
very great extent.
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-lt has been introduced.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
not yet seen it, te know what it ia. One
thing I may add, that -if the Goverment
have themselves umdertaken the responsibility of extending thé time for the commencement and construction of those railways. they are depriving the revenue cf a
good deal of money, because each of these
compamies would have te pay a couple cf
hundred dollars te get a reniewal, whereas
a publie Bill te extend the whole o! them
would cause the loss o! that ainount of
money.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE I3OWELL-I understood the hon. gentleman from Halifax
te say that a large number cf Bills had been
introduced that would come up for consideration. That is quite true, but if we are
te be deprived o! the privilege o! dealing
with all these railway extensions, cf course
there will bé-ivery littie for us to do other
than to deal with the important questions
which. have been submitted by the Government, which concern tariff and the*finances
cf the country more than anything else.
Hon. Mr. CAÉGRAIN-I move, 9ecoeided
by the hem. semator from. Belleville (Hon.
MT. Corby) that, pendmg further erders,
wben the Sexiste adjourns on Fridays it do
stand adjourned until Tuesday at three
o'cdock.
.Tlie* SPEAKER-That motion cannot bo
put, unlees the hon. leader cf the House
wifihdraws bis motion te adjourn.
.Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I withdra-w my
motion.

T-he SPEAKER-Then the question 18 om
the motion of the hon. senator from De
Lanaudière (Hon. Mr. Casgrain).
The motion was agreed te.
The Semate adjourned. until to-morrow at
three o'eleck.
THE SEXATE.
Thursday, March. 4, 1915.
TUhe SPEAKER tock the Chair et Three
o'élock.
Prayers and routine proceedimgs.

DISCONTINUANCE 0F TRANSCONTINENTAL TRAINS.
.MOTION.

Hon. Mr. DAVID moved:
That an humble address be presented to His
Royal Highnesa the Governor General; praying
that iai Royal Hlghness shalh *ubmlt to this
Boume copiez of ail petitions to the Government or any member of the sme, and of ail
correspondence and documents ln connection
with the discontinuatlon cf the trains of the
Transcontinental between Abitibi and Eervey
Junction.

He ad: This motion bas been placed
on -the orders of the day for Wednesday

next by an error, and iny notice of motion
regarding the development of agricultueal
reffourees of Canada has been placed. on
the order paper for to-day. These two
motions should bave been revereed. and
wifjh the permission of the Hous I wdi
now deal with the motion -regarding the
discontinuance of the trains of the National
Transcontinental railway between Abitibi
and Hervey Junction.
Hon. Mr. DAIiDTRAND-Do I understand that this notice of motion, which la
set down for Wedneeday next, was really
moved for to-day?
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Yes. This question bas
created a good deal ef sensation, espe<ially
in the province of Quebea. There ie no
doubt that when the mandate of Parlisinent
to vote millions of money for tihe construfilon of the Transcontinental zailway waa
given, it was thought tihet the entire line
would be ooeupleted and operated. A lJarge
section -of tbat lime 'between Cochriane and
Quebec,, or Hervey Junctioxi, wbieh han
been censtructed sud put into operation
has been disoontinued dor the last six or
eseven monthe, to the great dot-riment of
the trade, commerce, and agriculture of
tbat region, and to the great injury of those
who -have settled in that district and placed
their money in certain industries there.
There is -ne doubt that -a large number*of
the nierbers of Parliainent would not bave.
voted lor the construction of that line if it
had net been stipulated, and il the Government had net consented tD have fihat
part of -the lino hctween Cochrane and Quebec, or Hervey Junction built -and operated. It would ho very eaisy te establieh
that féet by quoting the speeches that were
made at that time by members of the Gevernment, and enembers of the House, but
I shall quote the declarations, made by thxe
Postiraaster General, wihen ho laid bis candidature beifere the electors of the county

SENATE

of Quebec in the .month of! Ootober hLast.
Ho was a member of the Gommons in 1903
when the Transcontinental Bill was introduced into the House, and when it was
st.ated that the promaters of the railway liad
intended to construet the line as f aras North
Bay only , a great many of the membere
from,the province of Quebec and the Maritime Provinces, protested, and said they
would nover coneent to have that money
voted for the construction o! the Transcontinental railway if At were not provided that
the Uine between Oochrane and Quebec
would ho built. It was to be bult
The
operated.
be
and It was ta
.hon. niinister said, as reported in the
papers at the time, that Quebec had
now the Transcontinental railway and the
bridge, but that wvas not enoughi, as Sir
Robert Borden had said that Quebec muet
be mnade a national highiway. 'ihe lino beho
tween Cochrane and Quebec was Wo built
.not only to bring the western trade to Quebec, but alea Wothe lower province ports,
St. John and Halifax, and to, develop that
rîcli and important region. This also, was
the ides, enunciated by the officers of the
Board of Trade of Quebec' i the interview
whioh they had with the Hon. Mr. Cesgrain in October last when, alter being
appointed Postmaster General, ho came
before the electors. The president o! the
Board of Trade said that the mifllster would
pardon themn for troubling himi s0 soon
alter -hie appointmont, but the matter in
question was one which called for an iminediate decision, becauso 2,000 now settlors
who had been induced Wotake upland on
the lino o! the Transcontinental railway
west of Queboc, at Belle River and other
points on Vhat vailwey, from 50 ta, 450
miles west of Quebec, and who had founded
a flourishing settiement on land of the very
best quality, now found themeelves in a
very perilous position. They had been informed that the Grand Trunk Pacific was
not ready to assume the oporation of the
railway until next epDing, that it was intended to close the road for the winter
ionths, and already some o! those settlers
liad taken fright and left the country, as
thoy hiad no other means of transportation
than the railway. Mr. Picaud said that
this would have a disastrous effoct on future
colonization, so important for the traffic of
the railway, and which already had shown
so pramising a commencement, and that
it would look very etrango for the Government, alter firet spending $30,000,000 or $40,000,000 on the road irom Cochrane WoHervey
Junction, to, close it up and allow it Wofal
Hon. Mfr. DAVID.

into disuse. H1e said that Quebec liad a
verv vital interest in this question, because
of the numbers of new settiers whicn had
gone trom the district of Quebec, and
wanted to, do business with that city. He
said that thoso new settiers would make
pulp-wvood and telegraph polos and othor
freight for the railway, if allowed ta remain there. The reason given by the hion.
Postmaster General not to acquiesce in the
demande of the Board of Trade of Quebec
and of tho settiers in that region was that
the oporation of the railway, on that part
of the lino, would cost too much and was
not necessary. The Board of Trado met the
objection as follows:
The statement of the hon. the Postmaster
(eneral in contrary to the opinion generally
held in this province asuto the extent and. value

of the lumberinz oporations In the St. Maurice
Valley, of lis vast water-powers, costly industrial establishments, valuable forests, and in
certain localities land suitable for settlement,
but we cannot help thinking that the Minister
of Railways must have been wrongly advised
Ir. the Information given to hlm as to tht s
country.

The following extract from a letter published in the press fromn Mr. Authior,
Mayor of Amos and agent of colonization
for the district of Quebec, shows that the
lion. the Miuter of Railways muet have
been wrongly advised, as alleged by the
]Board of Trade of iwueboc. I quoto his
lotter, and 1 want to, cail the attention of
the hion. gentlemen of this Houso to it, because it cDntains facte -which cannot be
denied, facts which have been admitted
by public men in many circumstances:
Since the month of November, there are no
more trains on the Transcontinental, between
liervey junction and Quebec or Abitibi. The
country therefore beholds this spectacle: a rail-

road which lhas cent more then one hundred
millions, la closed Just as soon as it ls cornpleted. These millions are left to ruet.
What ta the reason? Becauee, says the minjeter, the operating of the entire section between
liervey Junction and Cochrane would resuit in
a deficît of from $40,000 to $50,000 a month.
A competent contracter led me to belleve that
he would have a weekly service, on thîs section, during six months, for $100,000 or less
than $20,000 a month.
The construction of the railway is terminated
It is in the bande of the Government, which
lias aIl the necessary outflt for its operation,
the Intercoionlal's outfit.-Why, therefore, did
this Government not undertake the transportation of forestry produots from Abitibi to Hervey
Junction, at rates sufficiently 10w to allow
traffic of the saine. What would have been the
resuit, If the lumber and wood of Abitibi had
been carried to Hervey Junction at $2.50 a
cord or $2.60 per thousand feet
The result would have been,-for Abitibi
only,-tbe transportation, boforo the let of
June. net, of 30 or 40 thousand cords of pulpwood, of two million feet of lumber and of

MARCH 4, 1915

have been a deficit, it vas nothing as coipared to the evil done by the suspension of
the operation of the lins, to the great detriment of the agricultural. commercial and
îndustrial interesta of that rich country, in a
time when n0 much is said about the necessity of increasing agricultural production
among our -rural population. I cann 'ot understand the conduet of the Government in
this regard. It looks as though the intention
of the Government vas te ruin that section
of the lins, te make it only a local lins, te
remove from it it8 transcontinental character, contrary to the object whieh the promoters had in view, te the yull of Parliament, and te the viewa so often expressed
by our public inen on the necessity of
directing our trade to transcontinental ports.
It is not only a breach of contract, but it is
a breach of the obligation assumed by
Parliament; it %vil1 not only divert trade
towards the United States, but will do the
greatest harm to the settlement and progress of that rich portion of our country.
It will discourage the ssttlers-and this is
I have juet received another letter from not a time in which they should be disMr. Authier vritten on the 26th February. couraged. Ail the settlers of that district
It is vritten in French, and I shaîl quote have relied upon the continuous operation
only a few vords:
of the Northern Transcontinental,' and,
Nobody vIii question, I believe, the facts that hon. gentlemen, think of those settlers vho
1 have put before the public. Nathing basn have very littîs money, who vent there te
been dane mince ta assist us. Xt is vagueiy establish themsives, feeling assured that
rumoured that the Federal Gavernment viii
again band aver the Transcontinental between the law passed by the Government vould
Cochrane and Quebec ta, tbe cantractars next be put into execution; think of their fate
epring. That would mean the continuation o! with no railway te communîcate with the
aur actual trouble. so ta speak. There would principal towns of the country. Already it
bc three or four services--tree or four divisions. 1 mean--on that section. Passengers is said that a great number of settiers have
would be obliged ta change trains very often. 1sf t that region of the country. No doubt
and by the time each contractar has exacte] they niust go. Notwithstanding the ability
bis pound o! Sleeh there will be hardly anyth'ng left to the colonist who wishes ta settle of the lion. leader of the House, I do not ses
in t he forest of Abitibi. If it is intended ta how hie can justify the Government in such
thus have the road operated by contractors this a dereliction ci its diity. 1 hope, and the
summer. a direct service ought ta be established whole country hopes, that the Governmsnt
without interruption betwecin Hervey Junction
.nnd Abitibi. As I Ivas saying the Transcon- wili not transfer the Northsrn Transcontinental railway wvas closed this wlnter between tinental to the Grand Trunk without coinHervey Junction on the Canadian Northern pslling that conmpany to act in accordance
railway and Amas on the Harricana In 'the wvith its contract, according to the intention
centre of Abitibi in Queber. a distance of
of Parliament, and in accordance with the
over 350 miles.
of the country, so as to securs the
600 ta 700 miles from CJochrane interests the West to our national ports.
It is from
trade of
ta Quebe.
Let mie finish by quoting the speech of Mr.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I think bstwesn Casgrain on the transportation question,
Transcontinental
the National
when
400 and 500 miles.
te Railway Bill came before the Hous.
Hlon. Mr. DAVID-No, from CJochrane
The speech is more eloquent than anything
Qusbec us about from 600 te 700. The figures
I can say. He said:
Mr. Authier disposcd of the objecgiven by
and
tion made by the Minister of Railvays,
in the Northwest vs have, or are going te
a great
showed that- there vas no serious reason to *have in a short Urne, railway, many roada--the
the .Canadian
Pacifie
discontinue the operation of the railvay *Canadian
Northern, and prabably tlie Trans-Canada and
bstween Abitibi and Hervey Junction; and the Grand Trunk Pacific-all supplying the
even in the supposition that there vould needs of that vant territory and bringing ta the

thousands of passengers vith their provisions
and their baggage.
Add ta tbat the revenue of the country between Hervey Junction, La Tuque and Parent,
vbere powerfui companies employ thouoands of
men Ia their shanties. In a yard, the receipts,
even computed at exceedingly 10w rates, vould
have reached $200,000.
But It.iw very simple. There are 1,500 lots
allotted ta settlers ini Abitibi. They are
anxious te begin or ta increase their clearings.
There are waling for only that,--a train service vhich viii allow themn ta export their wool.
Sbould only 30 cords of wood have been eut
on each lot,-& settler cuts that much In a
month.--and vo vould have had 45,000 corda
to uhip. As the year le excellent for the pulp
.industry, every cord would have been sold.
If the minister had yielded ta our requesta.
there would have been, this winter, work for
tbouoands of men in Abitibi and ail aiong the
Transcontinental, instead of stagnation and hard
times whicb exist there to-day. In the spring
tiiere vould have been thausanda af acres of
nevly cleared land. WThen we knaw that what
in mont Important In that region, ls Imnmediate
andi extensive clearing, in order ta ensure progress of agriculture and the paying operatian
of this section of the Transcontinental. vs are
astounded ta see vhat a splendid opportunity
bas been lost.

SEINATE

seaports of the East the crops which grow there.
In the face of this state of things, is it flot a
patriotic duty laid on the shoulders of the
Government and aise upon the members of this
flOuse to see, as far as Possible, that we have
every benefit we can get from the bauling of
the grain from the Northwest down threugh the
tantern portion of the Dominion of Canada?
I arn a strong believer In a policy which would
force, as much as nature _would permit, every
bit of the grain Vroduced In the western provinces te corne dewn through Canadian territory and help to, build up our seaboard towns
on the Atlantic and on the St. Lawrence river.

Those were the views e! ail Canadian
public men at -that turne. The question of
transportation bas always been considered
a national one, and it has always been
considered that we are obliged te, encourage
Mr. Casgrain wvas a
our national ports.
member of the Opposition at that tiine, and
lie was speaking te the Liberal party. That
ivas in 1903, and wvhat xvas true then is stili
true. He concluded bis speech as follows:

-

Hon, gentleman opposite, I arn convinced.
desire as strongly as we to see Our own ports
Lult up. but, judging by the experience of the
past- If our western traflc Bhould beceme
diverted to, American ports, It will be exceedIrgly diffleult te bring it back into Canadian
chs.nnels and Canadian ports, either on the
Atlantic or the St. Lawrence river. Somne time
ago we were told by a gentleman of undoubted
autbority In railway inatters that our spoute
were tee smiall for our bopper. Wel, new is
the time, Mr. Speaker, 'when we ehould enlarge
Our ports on the St. Lawrence and Atlantic
Coast. New ia the time when we should inake

Our spouts sufficiently large te receive and te
distr'bute everything that cornes f rom the West.
Now la the turne te provide means for bringing

th- -normous products ef the West te our town
porte.
These are cloquent words, but now-iis the

turne to show that they are not rnere ly words.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I bave very seldom
listened te a speech in Ibis honourable
House that bas appealed te me more profoundly and more sincerely that that of the
senater who bas just resumed his seat. I
suppose this is due to the f act that 1 amn in a
position le endorse every word that be bas
stated, and every word stated by the authorities o! the district in faveur of the people
whom lbey represent. I know the facts,
l)ecause 1 passed tbrougb the district. The
Lion. senator has touched a most vital spot
in the administration of the public affairs
of this country, especially under the control
and command o! the Railway Department.
This country o! ours depends on honest toil
represented in bardy, strong colonization,
snd tbere is nowhere in Canada-probably
on the lace o! this wbole eartb-wbere more
hardy and bonest colonization is performed,
iagainst the most rugged difficulties, than in
Hon. Mr. DAVID.

the province of Quebec. The province of
Quebec stands out, an illustrious star, in
paving t.he way to civilization. Her Bons
three or four hundred years ago, and up to
to-day have hewn down immense forests,
have made the deserts bloom, and the sand
bills bear fruit. That bas been the work of
the French colonizer in the Lhigtory of Canada. Nowhere on earth has a man to face
so much difficulty in securing a foothold on
the soil, than in the province of Quebec-what is left of it now-in its mountains and
in its gorges, and it is the hardy lhand of the
toiler that brings down the trees and burrs
the roots, and then sows and plants a kew
potatees, and a littie barley, and -buckwheat. That is the beginning of colonization. >Up to sorne few years ago the Provincial Governinent undertook to pay the
expenses of the transportation of these products to domestie or toreign -markets. When
the country grew large, prosperous, and
rich, it undert-ook to build railway 6systems,
in aid o! the farmers, who work and toil
bard froin three or four o'clock in the morning until 7, 8, 9 or 10 o'clock at night. This
federal power, in alliance with the provincial powers, established a number of railway systerns, where that produot. obtained
hy se much blard work, was transferred to
the provincial or federal rmarket. The latest
attempt along these lines was laid by the
late Government of Righit Hon. Sir Wilfrid
Laurier. It was a tremendous task. Canada
had already a vast, expansive Transcontinental railway systeni; another one xvas under
way; the Government of the day undertook
to give to the fariner, nbt*only of the East,
but of the WVest, a means whereby that hardearned product would get a fair show, either
in tbe home market or in the foreign market.
It was a tremendous task for Canada with a
paltry population of six and a haîf or seven
mnillion to undertake, but under the direction o! Sir Wilfrid Laurier and bis Government Canada took hold and endeavoured to
pushi tbat railway froin Halifax to Vancouver. The undertaking- was applauded
by the country; it was endorsed at least on
one occasion at a general election, if not on
two. The building of this Transcontinental
raîlway-a bybrid, I arn very sorry to say,
the Government, not having undertaken it
on ifs own initiative, ibut taking the poorer
bal and letting tbe richer haîf go to tbe
country-was endorsed by the people o!
Canada. This is a malter which, according
to the remarks of the lion. gentleman, works
to the disadvantage of a large section of

M-\ARCH 4, 191.)
about the best
Canada. The rich parts of the National Quebec. The selection wvas
section of the
Transcontinetal railway will be held by a that could be obtained in that
poorer parts will country. When I went into that part of
private cornpany, and the
ago I found
have Wobe operated by the Government. the country some eighteen years
sea of mounAlready the Government is shirking its a vast mass of mountains-a
to eal
functions, and telling us it does not pay to tains, as Sir Edward Blake ueed timber
Columbia. There was wood,
run trains' in the winter months, because British
best, that lumbermen have been
there 'will be a deficit. The power or the of the
drawing for the past 100 years, and there is
Government that interrupts that train of
there for another 100 or a thousand
products froni the farmer to the home or enough When I went there in company
an enemy Wohie years.
foreign markets becomes
our Prime Minister of Quebec, Mr.
country. There can be no justification to- with
on a fishing expedition,
it
day for any Minister of Railways, or Prime Marchand, we was
landed on lake Maeketsy, 12
or any and when
Minister in the present Government
miles from Hervey Junction, over impassether government, Woeut 'that rail'road in' able roads, up and down mounitains, I eaid
that 'parts shall be
pieces, and say
te myseif: " Thank God, we are away froni
operated, and other parts remain idle,
pass
rot. civilization, and no railway will ever
and
desuetude
into
go
and
My prophesy held true until
t.he state. It is a here anyhow."
That ia a crime againet
Sir WVilfrid Laurier came down with his
crime that this Parliament should prevent
proposai, and what
as quick as possible, and not allow the con- Grand Trunk Pacifie
of a f ew dollars deficit Wointer- did iny brave Mr. Hervey do? He went Wo
sideration
fromn Montreal
vene and prevent those poor hardy workerB work throug-h the only pass
that hie could have got his
fromn getting their products Wothe market. to Labrador
There is not the slightest
This Parliamnent can vote millions and mil- train through.
doubt that this section of the road froni
lions-will I say te echemes that are unHervey Junction, some 55 miles,
profitable? Sanie tumes they are; not at Laroque Wo
hieraimoney ie voted; they is one of the best constructed on the
the moment when the
sphere, but one of the most coetly. Whole
are always made to look most profitable
of mountains have been blown with
then, but how often does it turn out that sides
voted Wo one blast straight into the lake, millions
the millions of this land are
millions of tons. There are bridges on
schemes that are absolutely uselees for and
the lake that are
development. And here we have a trestle-work going through
national
over cer- sirnply stupendous. The ballasting of the
Government who throws paralysis
road was niost perfect; the tien were of the
tain sections of the road, forsooth, because best; the rails of the heavîest calibre; and
deficit of $20,000 or $40.000
there might be a
to have it told Wo Parliament to-day by
a month. Ie that statesmanship' Is that
the senator froni Mille Iles <Hon. Mr.
protection foi~the tillera of the soul, and for
te ruat'the forerunners and David) that ail tihat le going
the men 'who are
well. 1 say that is a crime against
pioneers of civilization, humble as they may
National Treasury and is an outrage
be-poor men with a sack of flour on their thie the people whom that road is suptheir upon
back, an axe in their hand,'fighting
posed to- serve. Is that not plain P I amn
way through the forest? For whom' Juet flot a bit excited over t.he matter, but 1
sanie as your fathers did; they fought see it before me now, and coming back
the
for you; you are to-day along these rows of trom Hervey WoLa Tuque, that is only 55
benches in the Senate, and most of your miles, the road is huilt 250 miles up to
fathers were hewers of wood and drawers Cochrane-as the Senate cails it, Abitibiof water. And are we going to forget these one of the finest constructions in the world
circunistances and allow the Government of as f ar as Tailway construction is concerned.
the day to trample upon its own institu- Why, you would be surprised, you men who
tion, the Grand Trunk Pacific? This country travel thousands and thousands of -miles
owes a debt of gratitude te tihe senatoor from every week and every month, to nee the
Mille Isle (Hon. Mr. David) for having beautiful water tanks, not on-ly beautiful
brought this question up. Now as Wofacts
with granite -foundation, water
along this line. Hervey Junction has been but solid,
or
At was selected by the self-pumped from the laIes a hundred
frequently mentioned;
two hundred feet sbove them, ne ateain reengineer, Mr. Hervey, as the connecting
point between the Great Northern and the quired, a perpetual supply. of water-and
Grand Trunk Pacific running down Wo all this goingc to waste. It cost money to

S EFNA TE

run the pipe up to the mounitains for a mile
and a haif or two or th*ree miles and have
a perpetual supply of vater frorn the upper
lakes to the tanks along that railway. It
would do your -heart good ta see them, but,
my God, it wouid make your hçart grow
sorry to see themi becoming useless, and nov
un-used. Stations are 'buit that would do
credit to any first class station in England
or France, and that is saying something;
they are ail rock, and ail the stations are
good Ïhardwood, weli painted, vith beautiful platforms, fine baggage moins, excellent comforts for station -agents; but they
are ail locked, and cobwebs are beginning
ta grow on the windows. I have seen that
for the past three years. Do you know why P
Because there is a dispute between the contractor who built them-and no doubt he
did his -work splîendidly-as ta the value, or
as to prices, but the passengers will have
ta remnain on the piatforms without sheiter
from ramn or storm, from snow or hcat, tir
have ta stand on thse track; and that is
goîng on, ta niy own knowledge and experience, -for the past three years. This
country bas ta put up vith that state of
affaire, this Canada of ours, and especially
Quebec, from which the senator from Mille
[les -and myseif came; but we will not put
up vith that without uttering a word cf
compiainýt. Do you think that the cry for
pity. for mercy, for heip, from the senator
f ram Mille les is not well timed? It is
late, it is a late cry. At Hervey Junction
I have seen passengers nurnbering any%vhere-frcm twvo to three hiundred, men,
Ivoiren snd bhildren, many of the ladies
with babies in their arms, not only on one
occasion -but on dozens, and evexy day it
wvas the sanie thing-waiting after they had
corne down irorn Cochrane and fram La
Tuque ta make connections at Hervey J'unction with the Canadian Northern. I have
seen those citizens of Canada, I have seen
those mothers with their babies in their
armis, insulted by drunkards frorn the
shanty. There was no protection for thern;
no police ta look after thern; and, of course.
vou wili understand that men coming fromi
thie shanty very oiten are not responsibie;
but out of that two or three hundred it onlv
toak three or four men ta create disturbances that were a disgrace ta aur administration, and ta our respect of womanhood.
And why ? Do you know what vas at
A box car that
Hervey Junction ?
had
been deraiied, that
was
unfit
for pig-s or for animais, and that
Hon. Tr. CLORAN.

the
Canadian
-station of
was
the
Noz'tbern for at least eight or ten yeaTs, as
long as I have beau going there. They Lhad
a better station eleven years ago, but it va's
burned dovn, and they put up this der..iled box car, a cattie car, and they mnade
the women,-ansi children go in there andi
buy ticketa. Why, you would not go in
there 'ta seil a pig. Onoe d-ay six or seven
years ago I saw 250 or 300 passengers en
the platform of the sa-called station waiting for the train. I vent into the telegreh
office and wired ta the Railway Commission
that they vere mot doing thedr duty by thse
people o! the country, and that the things
that vere going on et Hervey Junction vere
a disgrace-to civilizatian. j sent that ta the
late minister, who w'as lihen a commissioner
on the Railway Commission, Mr. Bernier,
and my appeai had its effect, for a f-ew
monthis a! ter a beauttitul -st.ation vwas put
up. a regular junction platform vas built
for the convenience of the traffle. When
I vent back next year the station vas finished, bedutifuliy painted, ail hardvood,
everything fine, and I tz'ied ta get in the
door, but I vas told it hail net been opened
since I left the previaus year. Nov, that
is thse way things are going on; it vas not
opened because the econtraotor wtho built
that flrst-el-ass station .could no't get his pay
fromn the departinent. Tise Canadian Northern vho were getting $45,000,000 last year,
are still keeping the people in -the old box
car not fit for dogs or piga. I vant that, ta
go out ta the vorld-not fit for dogs or pigs
-and yet doing an immense amount -of
business du express, telegraph, ýbaggage,
and passengers. I venture ta say that at
Hervey Junction there is more traffic, profitable traffia for the Canadian Northern and
the Grand Trunk Pacifie than at any other
station between Montrea-1 and Quebec. And
lhat is thse district that the hon. senator
has been Tepresenting for the last several
years. Do you wonder at bhis indignation?
Do you vonder at rny expo-sé aof the faets?
I arn nat indignant; I got aver it; I arn
exposing the facts just as they are; but do
you wander at his indignant exposing of
these things on behaif of himself and those
that he ýrepresents? Will net the Government corne dovu and use some meanis
vhereby respect can be given ta ordinary
coxnmon fernales vitis their chilIdren? That
is a plain question. Cannet they do it? I
am putting the expression so that they viii
understansi; if I talkcd ta thern of ladies
they vouid not understand. There ie the
condition of things ut Hervey Junction

MARCH 4, 1915

aiong the Canadian Northern and along ered with cobwebs, with every door locked
the Grand Trunk Pacifie. 1 hold that there and every window ahut. Tha.t is thbe conis no party politice, there ino partieanabip dition of things in that section of the counin this, but it ought to b. up ta .every mn try-a section whloh oeis for cionization
in t-his House to cail upon the Goven- along the hardest ilinos iu the Dominion
ment ta fhave this situation of affaire rom- of Oanada, a section vhere theiy bave no
edi-ed. That la the plein English cf it. I open fields, ai.mply having to scratch tihe
have 'been down there lookiung ait tihose earth and aov the grain and thon reap the
poor creitures. Tbey Sau neot do it; they harveat; colonization do-wi in thone diaeau not pull the Minloter cf Baiiveya or tricta 'takes the greateat pluck of a man,
the Railvay Commission by the coat-tail, the strongest sinew that a man oen lorm 10,
but vo cen grab thein by the scruff of thie do the vork, whereas the western fermer,
neck and make them do it if vo wsnt ta. siinply by laoking et it, can <get e orop,
That le the size of it. Wo ougbt 10 assiat whlo the fellow out lu ouT section has to
these poor people. Ncw the other point la work mighty biard and toil long bofore lie
thior-and this is where «tie Goverument cen got results. And thbis la the treatinent
cernes lu-ram Hervey Junction, in lact that la meted out ta thern by the Goverufroni Montrewi ta Hervey Junction end ment cf tho day in regard ta this national
from Quebec ta Hervey Junction on the railway. The hon. îenator froîm Mille Ilie
Cenadian Northeru, I sey, it vas the. meut cau sec for himseli that I speak frýom the
profitable station-not counting in Joliette feeliùàgs af *my heart and from kuowiedge
or L'Assomption or any of those-as a of the f-acts that have beeu before me. 1
ithout eaying anytliing. I
Whule the Grand Trunk Pacifie' was to on
whole.
v-as under construction trains were run rdo not suppose the leader of the Gaveruby the firm who built thst section. mont eau cure ail the evils, or give a remMacdonald and O'Brien. Tbey rau trains edy for ail the lUe thet ve suggest to himn,
f.rom Hervey Junetion to La Tiique, same but I hope thast ho vill seniously bring th-ia
12 miles, ta Mosqito, some 25 or 50 miles. matter ta the atten-bion'of the Geverninent,
They coined money with two trains a day. and espeoia'lly the departiment vhosu it may
cunceru. I kuow that he bias a difficult
The (Janedian Northern had a line frei
Hervey Junotion dcvii by the-nortb, they position to 1111 bore ini listen-ing ta the tales
lied te. go saine 10 or 15 mfles i urther and cf woe ci everybody, and 10 the demanda
then up ta La Tuque. The Canadian North- for -merey end .pity, and appealo for grâce,
eru gave the Grand Trunk Pacifie every and for thisansd that. I say here deliberpossible obstacle to overcame before they ately that it la a shame, aud it às not fair
could get a stick of tiiuber or a rail. While ta the leader of thc Gavernmeut te placevo voted 45 millions last year e nd are ad- him ini that -position cf heving ta -res>ond
vaucing some ton or fifteen millions tii ta «Il the demanda -made upon him by 87
yoar, that is v-hst the Canadien Northenn senators representing different parts cf thbe
bas been doing ta our nation-al raiivay con- Dominion. I give hum credit for his ebiletructicu. Macdionald &aud O'Brien Ïhad ity, I give ihim credit for his goodwvll, but
every difficulty in the venld te get lu their it la net fair fia him or ta the country filet
supplies; but once they bad ea footbald, ail those demanda should be oonsidered by
they established a systein of trains; and as !him -alone ini this country; -and I say agaiu
sean as -a mile of road vas built the train ta tbe aenator irom Mil-le Ilie that the
ran that mile. Tihese two men, Macdonald people of Quebeo wili thank im for what
and O'Brien, gave more satisfacion ta the he bas doue to-day.
Hou. Mr. DAVID-I forgot to say that'
people of that regien for huudreds of miles
than bas the entire Government of Canada, the bon senator for De Lanaudière (Hon.
and I arn glad to be able 10 oay that they M~r. asgrain) las a motion, and perhaps it
lait neth.ing by it, lor thbe trafflo vas good weiîd anly bo lair for hum ta speak.
and they gat re-turus, bath in trade sud
Hon. Mr. GORDON-I bave great regard
passenger; but now that this trafflo bas
been heanded over ta the Governaent whet fer 'the sinconity of the hon. senator frein
do vo fiud, according to the senator froni Mille Ile, sud I wish ta ask hum, if a train
been run this year frein Cochrane dowu
Mille TIeP Clesed dcvii; that beautiful %bad
read, that richly bui*lt road going ta vaste, ta Hervey Junction, wblch ho Bays la a
Last spriug 1 sav enyself, vhere tides laid distance et 700 milesseven years ago vere rotten, awhere -rails
vere Tusty, sud beautiful rails, soin. 82 o> Hon. M*r. DAVID-I said from ochbrane
86 pounds; vhcre tihe station was being cov- to Quebee.

~SENATE
Hon. Mr. GORDONý-WelJ, 'froan Coch- sold by the farmers from the province et
rane to Quebeo-I amn of opinion, end I Q-uebec, delivered in that lake at B price
think he will find umiversal agreement that #.hich I am sure they cou]d not obtain i.o
I amn right, that not one car of pulp-wood bring that pulpwood either east or west.
would have gone from Cochrane or troir With regard to what miglit ha done with
Abitibi in that direction. It is an econornio pul'pwood or lumber Biter you get farther
impossibility because the Transcontinental east thin Abitibi, I 'lrnow not, but, I would
and Northern Ontario railway runs tore ju4st say that one large item wvhioh the hon.
Cochrane te Toronto, and 1-rore Cochrane gentleman mentioned as an inducernent for
down te Niagara Falla would be only about the Governmnt te operate 'the railway
500 miles to tlhe pulp mnilla Bt the Fails, was 2,000,000 feet of luenber at $2.50 per
where they require thre pulpwood-about thousand. Perhaps il soe hon. gentlemen
200 miles lees than f rom Cochrane te Que- are not eo aoousterned Bs 1 amn te handflng
bec eording te the distance given by mny lureber, end they might tbink thBet would
hon. friend. The Timiskarning and North- arnount to a lot of money, but -it really
ern Ontario railway i8 dre.wing pul!pwood only arnounts te about $5,000. 1 am. thoraai a very 10W Tate in order te hel-p out the fore, of opinion -that if my bon. friendr will
setliers. I understand the rate is only one- look into this 'malter a littia more thoroughhall cent per ton per -mile. Now, bon. gen. ly he will flnd tirat if that road hadl been
tlemnen wiIl see et -a glaxiee that it would operated in tilat vicinity this year it would
be impossible for the other road te give a have incurred an extremely heavy loss.
rate anything like that and dm-w the pulp- I -have been up in that country considerwood se mu-ch farther. In connection with ably, -and have travelled over fthe Transthi-s point I want te say still1 further that continental, and one of the very things
thousands of cords more would corne down which my hon. iriend fron Montreal rnenfrorn Cochrane and that vieinity, and be 1 tioned as a reason why the road should be
rnaTketed in thre American market on the oprae-because of thre gres.t -end beauf rontier this yaar, were it not for the fact tif ul stations which are built along ther-that pul.pwood can be brought in and is is one of the things 'which in future will
heing brought in during tihe sumîmer inonths militate against our freiglit rates. I could
from the island of Anticosti Bt a much go -with you 'to places whera there is 'De
chisaper price than it can be delivered for, chance or possibility, .f trade being ohtained, but where stations hava -been built
frorn up thera.
of 10,000 or
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Is tihe bon. gen- that are good enougir for townsona of thre
sure that any pulpwood has neyer 15,000 population. TirBi was
tleman
thre grat faults
corne from the island of Anticosti te the great objections and one of
I have te find with th. construction of that
uprlakes?
end I think hon. gentlemen who
upperroad,
Hon. Mr. GORDON-Yejs, plenty cf it; would acoompany -me over tirai road would,
thousands of corde go frem Anticosti right' aise corne te the saine conclusion. Having
up te Ogdensburg. If you go over to placed my bhon. friand right as te its being
Ogdensburg you wilI see thousands of cords an economic i.mpossibility te ship pulpbeing -unloaded item, tire boats which came wood .up thera, I arn sure ire would investigate -the matter a littie furthar and
from the island of Anticosti.
Hlon. MT. CLORAN-Why cannot Yyu do! find out ire às wrong.
Hon. -Mr. DAVID-I would like te ask
it ight -here in Canada?
Hon. Mr. GORDON-Last surmner I had the hon. gentleman what is the object of
occasion te ask one of the firms who were letting the road rust there? Dees he net
purchasing -wood irom Anticosti why Vhey Ithink that the Government should operate
could net purchase more oi it up in tihe thre railway on tirat section?
locality itemn which the bon. gentleman
Hon. Mr. GORDON-Tqhat îs a matter te
wanis the wood to be transiermed down teGovernment
w.ards Quebec, and that was the reasn lie ha taken up between the railway; I do and
not
the Grand Trunk Pacifie
gave me.

~

-t-.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-W-hat was the reason ?
Hon. MT. GO1IDON-I want to point out
furtLhem that around Abitibi during tis
winter pulpwood is being taken eut and
Hon. Mr. DAVID.

.

il

4

T

4-11 41.

hon. gentleman ibis much tirat it is à good
Vhing for the country te-day that the Govern-mant is not operaiing it. Imagina a
train leaving Winnipeg to-day and going
te Moncton; whet would it have in tire wey

M-ARCH 4, 1915

<cf passenger or freightp You know as well
as I do that they would have notb.ing te
carry, and that we would b. up against it
tremendously. I1 sny good friend will travel
over the, Canadian Pacfi railway to-day
he -would find millions of dollars' worth o!
locomotives and cars that have been tied
up al1- wInter. That road ie not doing a
fith of wiiat it je able to do; therefore,
what ehould we expeet the. other road te b.
doing to-day il other trains were runnlng
over it?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I Vould aek the
Houie if they will agie. to adjourn this
debate? I would like to speak on this eubject on Tuesd-ay or Wednesday next. I
'therelore anove thie fadjo'unment of thie
debate until Wednesday next, unless the
leader of the Government is piepared te
speak now.
Hour. Mi. LQUGHEED-No; I shahl look
lorward with a good deal of interest to vhat
my hon. friend has to say upon the subject.
The motion was agreed to.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill- No. 4, An Act respecting the. Alberta
Central Raihway Compe.ny.-Hon. Mi. De
Veber.
Bill No. 5, An Act respect.ing the. Athabaska and Grande Prairie Railway Gempany.-Hon. Mi. Talbot.
Bill No. 6, An Act respecting the Brantford and Hamnilton Eleotric Railway Gempany.-Hon. Mi. Batz.
Bill No. 7, An Act respecting the. Britishi
Columbia and White River Bailwey Gempany.-Hon. Mi. Casgrain.
Bill No. 9, An Act iespecting the Essex
Terminal Railway Goapany.-Hlon. Mi.
Taylor.
Bill No. 10, An Act iespecting the. Grand
Trunk Railwây Company o! Canada.-Hon.
Mr. Thompson.
Bill No. 13, An Act iespecting the, Montreal end Southern Qounties Raî'lway Bill.
-Hon. Mi. Casgiain.
Bill No. 21, An Act respecting the. Cenadian. Northern Ontario Railway Comipany.
-Hon. Mr. Joues.
Bill No. 22, An Act iespecting the. Canadian Noîthern Quebec Railway Company.
-Hon. Mr. Mitchell.
Bill No. 23, An Adt reapecting the. James
Bay çand Estern Railway Company.-Hon.
Mr. Mitchell.
Bill No. 24, An Act respecting the. Ottawa
and New York Railway Gompany.-Hon.
Mr. Dayis.

Bill No. M5, An Adt respecting the. South
Ontario Pacifie Railway Company.-Hon.
Mr. McHugli.
Bill No. 26, An Aot respecting the Southiern Central Pacifie Railway Companiy.Hon. Mr. Bostock.
Bill No. 39, An Act to smend the Oanad-a Patriotie Fund Act, 1914.-Hon. Mr.
Lougheed.
SENATE AND HOtISE 0F COM-MONS
ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
FIRST RE1ADING.

A message -was ureoeved from. the House
of Cominos with Bill No. 57, An Adt to
amend the Senate and House of Oomimons
Act.
The. Bill was read the firet time.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED mnoved that the
Bill b. read a seoond time on Tuesday next.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-What is the nature
of the Bill?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--On eccount o!
several membere -of the. Houe of Oom*
Mons, end possibly soine mzembers of thià
honourable body, having gone to the war,
A4 ie proposed that the. Sonate and the.
House of Gominons Adt aiould alot a!ppIy
to them, and that their absence from Parliament on active service during 'the war
should not -render them ine'Igible as inembers, and likewise that they ehould be entitled to their indemnity duxring their absence.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is ail riguht.
OMISSION IN -DEBATES.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Yesterday aiternoon,
while the House was in session I performed
a duty for au -absent colleague in asking
the House to have the second reading of
a very important Bill put over until this
day week, which request the House graefully granted. At the saine time I gave
my reasons for doing so, alth 'ougii not father
o! the Bill, but sianply te please the hon.
gentleman in charge of! the Bill. I explained 'why Vhis postponement was esked
and the ressons I gave were that tLhe Bull
was a very important one; that the Government through on. of its principal departments had the. mïatter under etudy,
that 'tihere was no opposition se far as
could be ascertained. to the principle cd
the Bill, but that the amend-ment dovetailing that principle into the Companies Act,
might creat. difficulty. Thereupon I asked

SENATE

this thonourable House te -have the Bil
poatiponed until Thursday next. Not une
word of what I said yesterday appears in
the Sénate Debates to-day, and I make th!is
explanatien net for 'myseif but for the sake
of the hon. gentleman who is unavoidably
absent, and who would like te, see that his
Bull lias net been scantily deait with. 1 hope
whoever contrels the debates o~f the Senate
wil1 ses that the remarks I new make are
not cat aside, as my TeMarks yesterday
were. I do mot know wboc ie Chairman. of
the Debates, but -my -understandinÈ ia that
every word uttered, gramatical or otherwise,
should go down in the "Senate Debates."
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The remarks of
my hon. frîend should certainly have appeared in the Debates. Personally I amn
mot awars of the reasen why they were
omitted. I feel reasonably assured that the
reporters would not bave purposely ornitted
my hon. f riend's observations.
The omissien must be entirely by mistake, and I
would suggest to my hon. friend that hie
ehould mention the matter te the reporters,
and I arn sure that any oversight of that
kind wil'lbe rectified.

remernbr.ance è>f whet took placé.
Debates at page 44 read as followa.

The

H-on. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-1 move, seconded. by
Jie hon. senator from Belleville (Hon. Mr.
Corby) that, pending further erders, when thie
stand
Sene.te adjourne on Friday it do
adjourned until Tuesday at three o'cieck
The SPEÀ&KER-That motion cannot be put,
unless thie bon, leader of the House wlthdraws
his motion te adJourn.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I withdraw rny
motion.
Thie SPZlAXER-Then thie question la on thie
motion of thie hon. senator from De Lanaudière
(Hlon. Mr. Cangrain).
The motion was agreed te.
Thie Senate adJourned tinti to-morrow at
three o'ciock.

I think it veryý important that what happens here should be correctly î-ecorded;
and I eall attention to, this matter because
t.he resolution affects not only Our meeting
on Tuesday next, but the meeting of cvery
Tuesday during the reinainder of the sessien, and until otherwise ordere<1; and 1
assume the clerk will see that the Minutes
are corrected.

Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-I would like to iiiquire if the hon. gentleman from Halifax
bas read the whole of the. Debates, because
if I remember correctly His Honour the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have dons se.
Speaker -put the motion et 'Lhree o'clock,
and lhe said " I cannot understand the
ERROR IN MINUTES.
figure whether it is three or eight,» -and a
great .many members sung out '"eight
Hon. Mr. POWER-Be'fore we adjourn I o'clock," and hie accordingly put it eight
1
desire te eall attention to an errer in the o'dlock..
Minutes of the proceedings of yesterday. In
the Minutes of yesterday appears the folHon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That is right.
lewing:
The SPEAKER-As a matter of fact I
WAth leave of the Senate,
The Honourable Mr. Casgrain moved, rec- think the version* gîven lYy my -hon. friend
frein Leeds is a correct one. 1 put the moconded by thie Honourable Mr. Corby.
That, pending further orders, when thie Senate tion first for three o'clock, and halîf eadozen
adjourna on Friday At do stand adjourned until members asked for eight o'clock, and ln
Tuesday, at elght o'clock ln the evening.
The question of concurrence being put thereon, response te those replies 1 said, "«well 'the
the same was resolved in the affirmative, and figureon sny motion iG se confused I do n>ot
Ordered accordingly.
know whether it is 3 or 8," and thon I put
Ne-w my rerneibraneoe of what toek place it eight o'clock, and it was carried in Vhat
would go te show that the Minutes do not way.
faithfully represent what occurred. The
Hon. Mr. POWER-I objected. for onc.
hon. gentleman from De Lan-audière <Hon.
Mr. Casgrain) rnoved that -when the Senate
The Senate adjourned until three o'ciock
adjeurned on Fridays At do stand .adjourned Io-morrow.
until Tuesday at three o'celock in the afterneen. The hbon. gentleman *from De Lanaudièrs rsdueed his motion te writing, and
TEE SENATE.
it was put frein the Chair, and. thers was
Friday. March 5, 1915.
ne amendment made or suggested te that
motion, as fer as I reniember, and conseThe SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
quently it seems te -me that Vhe're ie ne
o'clock.
justification for the entry in ths Minutes.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
I find that the Debates confirm my own
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

MARCH 9, 1915

BRITISH COLUMBIA BETTER TERMS
COMMISSION.
INQUIRY.
Hou. Mr. BOSTOCK inquired, 0! the Governsment:
1. Has the third commissioner been seleteed
for the British Columbia Better Ternms Commission? If no, what'is hie narne. and when
ws he appolnted?
2. Han any 'work been done by the other
memibers of the commission or the secreta.ry
during the. financlal year 1914-1915?
8, Wbat bas been the cout of the commission froni the Urne of the firat appointment, to
the present date?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answerii t
the hion. gentleman's questions are as f olIows:
1. The third commissioner has not beau
felected yet.
2. The two «>mmiaoioners, Mesurs. Lash
and Bodwell lied one meeting, and rnuch
coorrespondence regarding the appoîntment
of the third commissioner. The seoretary
conducted the correspondence and performed
the work pertaining to the daties of his
office.
3..88,095..
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday nexi
at 8 p.m.

TEE SENATE.

the provisions et the Finance Act, 1914.
Of this suni $7,047»27.5 has been repaid.'
No advances'have been made to trust compallies.
The following amounts have been advanced to Tailway cooopanies: $ 10,000,000
t. the Canadian Northern Railway omepany upon the security of $12,500,000 of
that company's Mour per cent debenture
stock guaranteed 'by the Dominion under
the provisions cl The Canadian Northern
Railway Guarantee Âot, 1914. These suma
were placed ta the credit of the Minister
of Finance and Vaid out under the provisions of tihe deed of truEt Fecuring th1e
issue of said debenturo stock. This advance is repayable, May 1, 1915, with interest at five per çent per annum. $6,000,000
advanced to the Grand Trunk Pacifie Railway Company upon the secuzity of $7,500,000 o! that cormpany's four per cent bonda
guaranteed by the Dominion under the provisions cf The Grand Trunk« Pacifie Guarantee Act, 1914. These sums were placed
to t~he credit of the Minister of Finance
and, paid out under the provisions ol the
deed o! trust seeuring thé issue of said
bonds. This advanoe ie repayeble May 1,
1915, with interest at five per cent per
annmn'
Thie Government does not regard it as;
exPedient to igive detailed information as
to the advance mnade to individual banks.

Tuesday. March 9, 1915.

Hon. Mr. MeS WEENEY-The lion, leader
does not kill us what Tate o! interest the
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eight banks are paying.
o'elock.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes; five per
Prayers and routine proceedings.
cent. That ia the rate fixed by the Act.
EMERGENCY CURRENC£ AND
GOVERNMENT ADVANCES.
TRANSFER 0F GOVERNMENT STEAMER
EARL GREY TO RUSSIAN
INQUIRY.
GOVERNMENT.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY inquired of the
MOTIO-1N DROPPED.
Governmnent:
The Order o! the Day being called:
The namnes of the banks who tooli advantage
of the emergency currency; the amounts bor.
rowed; the rate of interest charged; also, th(
names of trust companies, raiiway corporationg
who have been advance-d money by the Gov.
ternment; the rate of interest charged; also thi
amount borrowed?

Hon. Mr. PROWBE:

That an humble address be presented to ±±îs.
Royal Highnese the. Governor Generai, praying
that Hie Royal Highness shal submit to this
House cogies of ail letters, telegrams, correHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As te the firsi spondence, and documents, in connection witn
part of -my bon. friend's question, the Gov -the transfer of the Goveranent steamer Bari
does not regard it as expedient t Grey tu 'the Russian Govertiment

ern'ment
give detailed information as to the advancei
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-As the information
made to the individual banks. Then pro
Sasked for in this motion lhas been supplied
ceeding lrom that point I would say: th4
sum of $14,439,767.55 was borrowed by Can *by the Government in the Lower House, I
r
âdian batiks froni the Governznent unde« withdraw the motion.

SENATE

PARLIAMENTARY REPRESENTATION
0F PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND IN
THE HOUSE 0F GOMMONS.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. PROWBE moved:

-

That an hjumble sddress De presented to'l-Lb
Royal Highness the Governor Generai, praying
that Your Royal Hlghneus wIll be pleased to
transmit the following address to His Mont
Excellent Majesty the King, as folIiowa:
Mls Most Excellent Majesty the King:
We, your Majesty's muet dirtifui and loyal
subJects, the senate of Canada In Parliament
asaemabied, desire most earnestly In our &,wu
name and on -behaîf of the people whom we represent, to renew the expression of our unswerving loyalty and devotion to your Majesty*s
person or Governlleul
We wouid respectfuliy represent to your Majesty tilut at a geners.i eleotion In Prince Bdward Island hed li the year 1873 A.D., ixpon
the question of the entry of that Island Int'
the Dominion of Canada it was olearly underutood that the Island should for ail time have
a representatioxi of not tees than six members
in the House of Commons of Canada.
And tiat the eleotors of the Island at that
election voted in faveur of becomning a province of tihis Doyninlon on the clear and distinct
understandlflg that the new province should for
aU Urne, be su repreoented by not iless than six
mernbers In the House of Commuone. lAnd that In drafting the terme upon whlch
Prince Edward Island shouid beoome part of
thie Dominion, the proviao With regard to a
permanent representation, of flot lee. than six
membeis .4n the Hotue of Cumulons was
through inadvertence or mistake omnitted to be
:r.zeer*ed.
And that by reasoci of such omission the
province of Prince Edward Island has frc.i
tine te time been reduced lI her represe1t%her
tien lI the House of Commons, untIl now haIf.
representatton thereln han been rediiced. by
your MaiestY
We would respectfulli request
to be graciousiy pleaeed to give your oonsent.
tu submittiiig a. measure to the Parliainent of
the rJU>lted Kingdom te amend certain provisions
of the British North America Aot, 1867, and any
Act amending the seame or any Orcier in Council
or terme or conditions of union made or approved under the eaid Acta or any Acte of the
Pariament of Canada. lI such a miner that
thse province of Prince Edward Island shall, In
accordance wîth the underl-andiTig upon which
that province agreed to becorne a part ef the
Dominion of Canada, De henceforth repreented
by not
lxi the Bouse of Conmons of Canada
less than six mnembers. being two f romn each
cOUTifty of eaid province.
Ali of wihich we humbly pray your Majesty tc
take into ý our favourable and graclous cçonsîderation.

He said: I have sevexal objects in vie-w
in bringing this mnatter hefore this honourable House. While it bas been threshed out
once or twice en tuhe floor of this Ohamber,
and at soe great length at different times
during the last twenty years in the Lower
House, the grievance o! Prince Edward Island has neyer been corrected. Ail tho-ce
Hon. Mr. PROWSE.

who have looked into the matter and taken
up, knew weil enough
the trouble to study AL
that an enror was nmade by tfhe Fathers of
Conlederation. Wlhen Prince EdwaTd Island entered Conlfederation, six years alter
the British North America Act was coincpiled. she went ini with the distinct understanding that she should have at least six
members -in the House of Gommons for ail
time to corne. I do not know who is responsibie for tihe xnistake, and I do not
intend to atteinpt to find out, but 1 will
endeavour to prove that tfhere was a mistake made, sand the mistske was mnade by
both sides. The different telegramas and
correapondence in connetion with the contract 'then made, between the Dominion of
Canada and Prince Edward Island, ail
proved beyond a doubt that the intention
of the 'framners of tfhat contrect was that
Prince Edward Island was to have six mernbons for ail ime. Rad, the 'members then
constituting the Dominion of Canada told
the representatives dt Prince Edward Island, " Well gentlemen we will concede you

six representatives, but after ten

yeaTs, or

possibly two decades, we will reduce it to
five, posibly dour, -and then eventually
take aiýl your representation away,' do you
think these men for one moment would
have consented te Prince Edward Island
coming into ConfederationP I say we would
remain to-day a- province goveruing ourselves, and neyer would have forined part
of the Dominion of Canada under those
conditions. The reason 1 want te make
the statement I arn making is this, a lot of
the eider men in the Senate had heard
this question tDiresfhed out time and aogain,
but we have many new senators 'who have
cocue in lately, -and who are not acquainted
with the lacts of the case. The 'men who
came up qhere to assist in the lorming e«!the
union of Prince Edward Island were net
straw inen-they were men o! ability. We
have net any abler 'men te-day. I know
the names o! these mnen, and some of the
oldei members of this House wili be tamiliar with them; names such as Hon. J. C.
Pope, Mr. Haviland, Mr. Howlan, Mr.
Hensley, Hon. Mr. Duncan, -Robt. Haythorne, and Ed. Palmer are familiar to ail
hion. gentlemen. Do hon. niembers suppose
for one moment that those mnen would corne
up here, and then go back with a contract
which permitted their representation te be
reduced and reduced againP Do hon. gentlemen t1hink you could have 'found a man
on either side of! politics that weuld have
stood for it? Now when it is clear that an

MARCH 9, 1915

injustice bhas been done to Prince Edward
Island, it is only right and just that we as

jourrisd meeting was heid in Quebec, October,
1864.

Prince Edward Island refused to enter into
union uniess six representatives were conceded.
'nie following extracts frein the speeches of
MeSWEENEY-How could it the Island delegates at the Quehec Conference
show definiteiy their ressons for standing out:

a body efhouId rectiiy it.

Hon. Mr-.
be doneP
Mr. Haviland:*
"Prince Edward Island would re.ther be out
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-By an arnendment to
of the Confederation than consent to tht. niothe British North Arnerica Act.
tien. We wouid have no statue, only flve mermHon. Mr. PROWSE-By an ainendinent

bers out of one hundred and ninety-four wouild

A
to the British pNorth Arnerica Act. ous reso- give the Island no position."
~
Palmer:.
*,Mr.
las
lutinfcm te Lwer
cime

.pi
nt
*Representation by population entapi
lutin cae
upfromtheLowe Houe lat
number of provinces are
year and if the matter b.d corne over here in catile when a certain
a separate petition, it would have been car- throwinc up their self-government and indlvicolon>' aurrenders thst rlght
ried by this Bouse, and would have granted duallty. When a somethlng commensurate mn
&ho should have
Prince Edward *Island a representation ofthe Confederetlon. Wh~y give up so great ceifour. If we can arnend the British North talntteu where we have only a feeble volce? 1
America Act te grant Prince Edward Island neyer understood -that an>' proposition at Chaifour 'mernbers in the H1ouse of Gommons lottetown wss to bie binding as to representation
when thé constitution only allows three, bColooeulation.
-I arn lnstructed b' xmy co-delegate to saY
I say we can a-mend that constitution so as to allow the province six, which that th~e provision of five members i. unsatisis right and just. I would like to talk for factory."
0fAt the followlng session of the Legislature
anheuranda
abou an a haf o thi, gntie
alfon his getle ofPrince Edward IslaML held .in 1865, the Queabou anhou
up your bec resolutions were diseussled. These resolumen, but I de not like ta take

ime; I -arn going ta ask the privîlege of
to present a brief
the Bouse, !however, oJ•mA. Mthesn, piethe on.
.MteOPý
o.Jh
pared by th
mier of Prince Edward Island, which covers
'the ground. It takes in ail the corresponddifferent
and
ence. the telegrass Hus the bt. ade deo!
o
Lwe
baescith
bats f heLoerRoseon-bthaiesof
politics. and it shows beyond a doubt iat
tihere, was not in the minds cf any uingle
individual the idea that oui representation
iththe
t 1~er~ued
sholdime Lly
ith he
shoud atanytimebe rd-ued.
privilege ofthe Bouse I will subrnit this,
and ask that it be capied in aur Debates:

tions provided:

1f7. The basis of reprezentation in the Boue
of Commonls, ahlmal be population, as deterined
ythe officiai censtu. ever>' ten years; and the
umber of member s± tirst shall be one hundi'ed and ninety-four, dlatilbuted as folIows:
82
Ulier Caflada. ..........

Lower Canada...........65
Nova Scotia............19

15
New Brnwick. .........
Newfoundland............8
and frince Edlwa.rd Island......5
The Honoureble, J. C. Pope, Prime Minister,
fterwa-ds Ministei- of Marine. said - If the relative circumistances of Canada and
Ibis Island rendered a Union practicahle, the
evident injustice of the terme agi-ced ta by the
Quebec Conference would prevent their belng
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Agreed.
ratllied by the Legislature of this Island. WithHon.Mr.
ROWE: Te bref e whclhout adrnittlng the pinciple of representation
accoi-ding to Population under aIl circunstances
ý brelîows:t
as
iROsE
I on Maerfren
be sounid, it le, In the opinion of thi. Bouse,
i as
I hae reerene ,ollws:tu
as applied ta this
When this province ente-ed Conte<eration, It pari-tcularly objectionable Canada, taklng into
Island In conneCtion wlth
thugh
W8.SIMUSd
sx rpresntaives
lloed
was sx rpresntaives thughon a cansideration that the number of ouri- nhahitants
basis of population it would only have obtalned il anmd muet continue compai-atlvely eînall, owing
the tact that we have no Crown lands, mines,
five.ta
other resources sufilcient ta
On the redistribution followlng the censua of minerals, or to settle here, ai-nd that we induce
neyer
1881 no reduotion was made although it had 1mmnigrants
can expect to becomne te any extent a rnanufacetill but five unit. of repi-esentation.
Atter the census of 1891 representation was turing people In consequence of oui- navigation
being closed for nearly haIt the year, and al
reduced to Èive.
After the census of 1901 it was reduced ta ti-ade and communication with other countries
sopd
four.
And later, in the sarne debate, Mr-. Pope is
If the sanie prinoliple I. applied, the next
Redistribution Bill wiii reduct lts representa- rep>oited thus:
ÀinAong these objections I may mention the
tien to thi-ee.
A
by population.
It I. claimed that according to the spirit of principle of representationwill show that the
simple calculation
wadsanvery
the ternms upon which Pic Princ
FAwrd 1lanaadoption of this as a standard would entitle the
entered Confederation, the originel number of cit>' of London to, send to the British House of
ltâ representetives should net be decreased, Commons no les than seventy representatives,
and that in order to carry out the truc compact atnd the cltY of Montreal in the Confederate
Pai-lianient wouîd have a representation greater
that number should be restoi-ed.
The ti-st Confederation Conference wa. heid than that of this Island. Its statistlcs warrant
In Cha.rlottetown, September, 1864; an ad- t>e beUsf t>mRf ii q fu',w véai thp population wil

SENATE

be se lncreased hy the influx of the tide of immigration that te Island would lose in the
halle of legisiation even the small voice which
skie might maise at hier entrance in ta the union.'
tDebates P.E.I. Legislature, 1865, p. 45, et seq.)
Honourable Mr. Hensley:
"The ternis of the report before us are, in my
opinion, very unfavourable ta titis Island. On
the scale of, representattion proposed, we would
be without the slgiteat influence ln thse United
Parliament. It la true tisat, if we went ino thea
proposed Union, we would have ne rigitt ta expect as large a number 0f representatives as
either of thse Lower Provinces, but then why
should wa throw away thte Indepandence which
(Debates P.E.I. Legialature,
we now enjoy? .
1865, P. 50 et seq.)
Mfr. Howlan:
-Represeittation by population miglit be vary
wall for Canada hersaîf, but ln a ganaral Union
,of the Colonies, it would oparate injuriously for
the Maritime Provinces, as they could flot expeet
ta protect tiseir interasta witen they would have
te contend with one itundred of a clear majority
Thtis principle
ovar titeir own rapresentatiori.
would give the clty of Montreal with its ana
hundred thousand inhabitants one representaQuite differetît is
tive more than titis Island.
the representatiofi of Great Britain, for whlîe
London bas about the saine population as
Setland, that city itas only sixteen members in
tit~ House of Commons, while Scotland itas flftytitree. But if may bie argued that as aur population Increases aur rapresentation will increase.

This ln very doubtful. Indaed, under the operatien 0f thes 20tis and 21st clauses of thse report It

seain probable that we niight lose our represantation altogatiser. Lower Canada is alway2
ta have slxty-flve niembers, and the representatien of thse otitar Colonies la te be arranged

every tan years se as te gîve aach tisa sanie ratio
tc population as she wiil then pesses. Now

siteuid thse population of Lower Canada increase
more rapldly titan titat of tisis Island, which ts
aiment certain te ba tite case, aur representatien weuld decrease, and we would be lef t parhaps without a membar at ail."

Mfr. Duncan:

*'As te the General Legialature I- consider thea
raprasentation ln It allowed te this Island unfaiîr ane unJust. The five representsitives ailiotted
te us ini tise Lower House would not give tise
Colony mucis influence there; but as our population will not increasa se rapidly as that of
Canada, tisera la a prospect, titrougis thse operatien of oe clause in the report, that aur five
rapresentatives would dwindle doîvo te three.
Taking ail thesa points loto consideration, therefore, it le clear te me that we have nothing te
gain and much te lose by adoptlng te Quebec
(Debates P.E.I. Legisînture, 1865,
scitime."
p. 65, et seq.)
The aboya axtracts represent the attitude of
bath political parties ln tise province at that
tume.
The Canadian Government continued desîrous
to round off Confederation with the addition of
Prince Edward Island, but ne definite pragreas
was madea until the year 1873 when tlîat Gevernimant at last concaded six members as tise
f ollewing correspondance shows:
Telegram froni Robert P. Hnythorne ta Lieutenant-Governar Robinson, datefi February 26,
1873:
Increase of annual
HFeld two confaiences.
ullowance. Probable yield six representatives."
P. HaYihorne to
Telegram from Robert
X.ieutenant-Governor Robinson, March 6, 1873:
Hon. Mr. PROWSE.

- Il
.ghly probable get six representatives; tr,.
and send reply Couneil as soon as possible."
Telegrani froni Lieutenant-Governor Robinson to Rtobert P. Haythorne:
1'Council wvill conCur ln advising dissolution.
We hope six representatives will bie conceded."
Telegram to the Honourable ]Ddward Palmer
froni Robert Haythorne, March 6, 1873:
"Except modifications statad and lnteresL
difference old debt, better ternis allowed. Six
members conceded."
First Ground.
That we were te have a minimum representatien of six is made clear enough froni the aviBy somne
d&fce and facts above submittefl.
oversight or mistake the memorandum emnbedylng the termes did nlot ln clear and unequivecal
language previde for' such. That, however, was
the joint mistake of both contractlng parties
and a mutual mistzke ehould neyer ha iseld te
be bindlng. Had there been more care show n
at that time iii seeing that the underEtandine
for a minimum repreaentation of six had been
clearly placE1 in the agreement. no aone woulil
WVe are m1l
have made the lenst abJEction.
ui
asking now that the mistake then ri-f le ColSecond ground.
The declîne in tise population of titis provInce was owlng ln some degree to the failuro of
Canada te carry out lis contract to place " the
Island ln continuous communication with the
railway systern of the Dominion."
Prier te Confederation, titis Island bail a wefl
establîshefi commerce dlrectly with Great Britain, the West Indies and other lands, and hadl
a very smati proportion or lit commerce wltlî
the colonies- now cosnprlsed ln Canada. By entering the union the direction and control of its
commerce and industrlal development weredetivered over te Canada; the Independent lines
of trade whlch -the Island had establiahed were
dlverted to Canadian channals and continuons
communication with the snalnland as a cosequence becamne essential te its wedfare.
Canada defaulted in Its contract.-It is unnecessary to set forth ln detail -the extent of
this default. It was admitted in 1901 when the
Dominion agreed to pay annually to this provInce tlie suni of thirty thouaand dollars "for
nen-fulfilment of the teinm a f union as respects
the mnaintenanre of efficient steani communication both eutomer and wlnter between the
Island and the ma'lnland,"'
The utter inadequacy ef this allowance need
not be consldered ln this connectien. The point
is tlîat the breach of contract was admitted by
Canada.
was
this Island
Prier te Confederatien
doubling its population every thirty years; its
revenues were doubling every twelve years. In
1841, its population was 47,034 ; ln 1871-the
last census before Confederation-it was 94,021.
At a steadily dlminlghlng ratio of încrease It
reached 109,078 in 1891 and then declinefl
rapidly ta 93,722 ln 1911.
If the pro-Confederation ratio of increase
had beeri malntalnedl the population would now
bie 219,000.
In the neighbouring colony of Newfoundland,
in which the natural advantages were miuclh
less and where ratio of increase had always
been rnuchi lower, the population increased froin
161,374 in 1874 when Its cenaus was taken, to

MA.RCH 9, 1915

upwa.rds of 240,000 In 1911. Population alwaye
tends to niove frorn dluadvantaÉe to advantage.
It le but fair to assume that the unfavour.ble
conditions brought about In this province bY
the non-fuZfi:rent of the terme of Confed.ers,tion haît much to do wlth its Ions of Population
and It in contended that It lB mont unJust that
this province ehould be penalized by Canada for
Canada's default.
It la Imposuible to corne to any other conclusion than that the draughteman In drawlng Up
the terme of Union overlooked the agreement
that had been arrlved at -as to representation
and neglected to urne words necessarY to provide
for a minimum reprenentation. It in clear that
our province refused to accept the Quebec terme
becaune that minimum of eix ws denled ue.
U. it remeonable to suppose that. having refued to corne in for nine years on account 0f
the smaliness of the representatioxi whlch. the
Quebec terme offered, ait these objections would
vanish In 1873 and that the Island would Joîn
the Union knowing that It would only have six
niembers for a few years?
Atter the cengus of 1891 we lost one member.
After that of 1901 another, and unless this Conference cornes to oui relief with a recommendation we will certainly lose a third as a result
of the censu. of 1911; and In a few years our
province will only have one representative In
the House and eventually none at ait. When
this takes place an intolerable situation will
arise. Taxation without representation la under
constitutional government impossible, and to
this Prince Edward Island la steadily drifting.
It is net the part of wlsdomn to watt till that
day arrive,. The remedy should be given and
thtq mistake under whlch oui province suffers
ehould be corrected now. Delay only aggravatez
situation. and renoers the final adJustment
-the
monre difficuit.
Dated at Ottawa, this 27th day of October
LAD. 1913.'!

There je not a eingle hon. gentleman
in this Houee who altýer reading thie
carefully will eay that Prince Edward
Iql .and ie not rightly.and ju-stly entitled to
her six representatives. I will add that,
while I amn a young man-ihough possibly
1 may not liVe any longer than some o!
the older gentlemen--as long as I am in
this House I will never Test satisfied until
Prince Édward Island gets lier just rights.
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
The SPEAKER-What is the motion tb
be put before the lIeuse' Il the -motion je
the one on tihe Order Paper, I do not know
that it is a proper motion. We might perbaýps discuss that question. The motion je
-That a humble address be presented to
Hie Royal Highnese the Governor General."
That je the motion-to present an addres;
but the address has not been carried by
this Hlouse nor by the House o-f Commnrs.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-We are going to t.ry
to carry it.
The SPEAKER-I arn just pointing out
the difficulty; I'arn not giving a decision.
S-4

I arn asking the hon. gentleman il lie thihke
Ibis motion ie jn order ini tbis form-that we
should presen.t an addreas to Hia Royal
Highneee-an addrese which bas not yet
been adopted by this Hous.
Hon. Mr. CLORA2N-1f the motion carrlea
it wi11 be adopted.
Hon. MT. PROWSE-I wrnl move the resolution, seconded by the Hon. MiT. Yeo. 1!!
réquired I wlll reed it over.
The SPEAKER-As 1 undéretand the
procedure that ehould b. followed, it would
be thie: a motion to adopt the address
boere, and then. alter that addreea hae been
adopted by tbis House, es a consequence
one oft1he members in this Roues wil
present the addrese to Ris Excellency the
Governor Gexieral. By the present motion it
je aeked to present to Hie Royal Highnese
an addreee which hae. not yet been adopted.
Hon. MT. CLORAN-Malte a motion to
have tihe addrees adopted.
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-I move that the fllowing addrees be adopted.
Hon. -Mr. CA8QRAIN-That, la enough.
-*Hon. Mir. PROWSE <'ht an humble
addres i>e preaented to Hie Royal Higliness the Goveinor GeneralSeveral hon. GENTLEMEN-Diepense.
The SPEAKER-T he hon. gentleman
moves now t;hat, the following addreaa be
adopted by this Houe. If any one has
anything to saySeveral hon. GENTLEMEN-No.
The SPEAKER-lt je snoyed by the Hon.
Mr. Prowae. seonded. by the Hon. Mr.
YeoHon. Mr. POWER-Hon. Mr. Yeo ie not
here.
Hon. Mr. ÇLORAN-Seconded by Senator
Cioran.
The SPEAKER-That the folowing addrese be adopted. If we adopt the address,
then afterwards the address, as adopted, will
be sent to the Governor General.
Hon. Mr. GLORAN-In rising to epeak
to thie motion-e-aul it addrese or call it
what you will-I think I rise to a question
of fair play and a question of justice between the smaller element and the larger
elernent in Conféderation. Confederation was
obtained under certain conditions; Confederation was assured under the provisions

REVISED EDITION

S ENATF&

50

Scotia,
of the British North America Act guaran- the laws of New Brunswick, or Nova -affect
might
the province of Quebec its undeni- or Quebec, or Ontario, that
teeing
were thriving 'well,
able right to have 65 members of the Houze their commerce. They
they were rich and happy until the time
of Gommons in that province, whether there
under certain
was 1,000,000,000 or 10,000,000 or 100,000,000 they entered Confederatioli,
Canada. That was the conditions. What 'has happened to that
in the Dominion of
on the bosom
stable basis of Confederation. Then one o! littie spot o! land that lies of the island
the next points mnade by t)he Fathers of Con- of the Atlantic? The drawing
not destroy the fer'federation was that certain questions should into the Dominion did
cer- tility o! the soul, nor did it dim inish the
belong to the Federal jurisdiction, and
there as a tranta-n other questions should corne under beauty o! its aspect, lying
That was a sine quil swan or dove on the bosom of that
provincial jurisdiction.
of what every mani
qua non put down by the Cartiers, put ocean; but w'hat became
he has to
down by the Dorions, put down by ail the considers the greatest obligationr-ights and
o! the province o! Québec, and fulfil, namely, respect for bis
able men
Island people
by the able men o! Ontario. These con- liberty? The Prince Edward
had been used
ditions have been fulfilled since 1867; con- sacrificed these rights which
they
ditions of ibirthright, civil -right, of repre- in the best interesta o! the community; Canpublic life lhanded them over to the Dominion o!
sentation-in every branch of
was the only
have these conditions been respected by ada on the ground- and it
sought
Gonfederation of that day, of four condition 1 think, which the island
the
to obtain from the Federal power o! Canprovinces coming into this Dominion. Then
into your
what do we find? We find Britis<h CoIUM- ada-" Gentlemen, we will gothat the re
on a material condition- country, but upon condition
bia conîing in
to-day, which
a condition that a transcontinental railway presentation o! our population
reniain foi
should be built from Halifax to Vancouver. num-bers 100,000 or 105,000, willmatter whe r
bas carried out that obliga- ever and ever the'same. No
The Dominion
or 300,000 or
tion, and bas placed that far-away prov- Vher we grow to be 200,000
ask is tha t
ince o! the union in harniony and in con- mil-lion of population, ail we
a
members in
junction with the rest of the Dominion. you give to the island six
of Canada.'
Then we had Manitoba corne in. Some aay Federal House o! the Dominion
ques
probably the question will be raised Now, to xny mmid there is no party
-and
has violated ane lion in this, there is no political questioid
to-morrow-that Manitoba
be, and there i
o! the essentiai conditions under which that in il; there should not
came into the Dominion. I arn nol. The only thing thal should absor4s
province
in dealing witl
not prepared to discuss that now. 1 may the mmnd of public men
the principIe t
tell you that il was not the Federal power this question is respect !or
honesty
violated il. And finally we have that o! justice, fair play, and coxmon
that
the sea, not That is the oniy duty that this great Domin
littie Island, the garden o!
towards than
thoroughly populated, not much more so ion o! Canada bas to per!form
came i r
garden of Eden; but a finer spot heiples littie iàland. The island
than the
be duplicated saying, "Yes, we will round up youn
o! earth than that cannot
Dominion, we will 'be a part o! you, o 'e
in the Dominion o! Canada.
condition that the representalion we hav
Hon. Mr. M-%URPHY-Or the continent o! to-day, six in number, should not be r
duced and shall not be augmented." Nov
Amerîca.
who is going tif
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is a spot o! earth where is the statesman
cast aside an agreement o! that kind,
containing, at the timie it came into Conbe fair, and if he bn
federation, a sturdy population, a virluous he be honest, if he
probably the just? I care not how litIle the populatio
population, and I -may say,
It bas dwindle
mosl inteliectual population in the Domnin- o! the island rnay become. and 98,000, biuit
Canada, for Prince Edward Island froua 105,000 down to 99,000
ion o!
does not chant e
men are !urnishing to-day the brains o! a dwindling population and the principi'
the universe to the United 6tates and other the nature o! the contract honesty and fa ir
o!
is
parts of the civilized 'world. Now the which underlie it-those
were happy play. There is no politics in that; there ld
Prince Edward Island people
After all what wou
at -home, they did not want any inlerference no party spirit in it.
representation t
count
with anybody; Vhey did six members225P andin a vears from thia of
from any-body or -~~
ýe
o
,rf
--three hundred members? But let Ca
commerc-and by foreign ]aws, I mean
Hon. Mr. CLORAL..

MARCH 9, 1915
ada hoid its name ared in regard tive ai the Canadian Confederation as At
ta people who are unable ta defend then exieted, that we were ta have an irreAs the question was put-I ducible minimum ai six members for al
themeelves.
forget by wliom-when the senator fromn tinie ta came. Our contract o! ConfederaPrince Edward Island was speaking ta the tien is verbatim with the contract ai
House, in order te preserve the provisions British Columbia, which entered inta Conof this contract what are von going ta do? federation the year before, and, by analogy,
ThwL strikes me as an .,bsolute decapitationi hon. gentlemen will ee that it would lie
of the island. Why? Appeal ta the people absurd that we, wh& had stayed out af
of Canada over the heade of its represen- Confederation for six years on account of
tatives, if they are nlot fit ta deal with a nat being conceded the irreducible miniquestioh of that kind on a basis af honesty, mum of six members, ehould at that time
British
fair play and justice, according ta contract. corne in wîthout that concession.
of Columbia the year before entered the ConThe Island is nat aeking for the pound
-flesh. The Island tells Canada that if ite federation with a population o! ten thousand
population increases it wants six members, white people ini a total population ai !orty
as granted under the Confederation Act, thousand, and that province was çoanceded
and if the population diminishes it is not an irreducible minimum ai six niembers for
up ta the bigger dog ta chop up the littie ail time ta corne. It muet appeal ta ail fairIsland, with
dog and eat him alive. The hon. enember rninded men that Prince Edward
did not say it in those upwarde of six times the white popu.lation,
from Charlottetown
words, but I will express it in that way. It would hardly lie content ta came inta Vue
practically means that when the population pact uniess it was conceded at lea.st the
of Canada becomes 40 or 50 or 75 millions, samie terrns as Britishi Columbia. The rethat Island will nlot have a single repre- cord, as I put it before hon, gentlemen lest
sentative, but will lie chewed up by the year. and the record as it blas been well
bigger dog. le the Parliament of Canada put ini that memorandum 'submiïtted ta
going ta stand for such doctrine in regard the Inteaprovineial Conférence by the
ta national agreements, and national con- Premier of Prince Edward Island on lietracts? 1 know that what we say here half of the province, shows clearly the
ta-night will have no Immediate effect, but intention-although by came clerical error
I hold that if the senatare would have the -the intention was not implemented ini the
courage o! their convictions, and put themn writtien agreement,--that, we should. have
down in black and white, in years ta corne a minimum o! eix. By oame uniortunate
they would bear fruit, and the electors of error in the writing ai the contract, the
"
the future would understand that the appeal word -"readjusted was used instead o!
of the downtrodden Island ehould be heard the word " incroased," as it appears in
and met in all fairnese and justice..
the Britishi Columbia contract. For that
reason when it came ta the oensus of 1891,
Han. Mr. MURPHY-Hon. gentlemen will readjustment was taken ta men dçwn or
remember that on two previoue occasions up, and on accaunt of our lose of populast year I spoke somewhat elaborately on lation as cornpaTed with Quebec, a rethie subject, during the debate on the adjuetment was made that gave us iewer
Address, and aiea on the motion ta allow members than before. Now the men ai
increased representatian from the West,*ta the Upper provinces neyer thouglit for a
which was attached an application ta the marnent, in their aptimism as ta the sucHouse o! Commons and bouse ai Lords, oce ai the nation, that there wauld lie
England-the Government of England, ini sucli a thing as a readjustment downward.
other wards-to grant an amendînent ta the We had been increasing in as fair a
British N orth Amerîca Act which %vould ratio as a-ny other province, but aur Statesgive us four members instead of the three men saw tliat, owing ta aur position, and
which. we are entitled ta under the last owing ta aur want ai a chance for induédistribution. This matter o! the representadevelopment,-our lack ai mines and
tien of Prince Edward Island is a sore spot trial
could not keep
with the people of my province. In fact the forest,-tliat t.he province
people feel that we-have been deceived ini pace with tlie other provinces ai 'tlie unioncame way, by 'whom we knaw net. There Hence tliey said: Our voice will go ta the
is no question at ail that, at our entrance vanishing point," and tliey therefore deinta Confederation, it was understaod by manded a fixed representation for ail time
the men wlio represented our province at ta carne, sa as ta giVe US at least sanie
the time, and it was also underetood by the srnall voice in thes affaira ai the great
other party ta the contract, the representa- Dominion. Now, with-.individ-uals, sO with
S--4'

SENATE

nations, treaty obligations. whether written
or implied, should be lived up ta. We see in
the àemonstration ai the world to-day, the
resuit when 4treaties were endeavoured ta
be set aside, and high contracting parties
are in a "position ta correct the errer. I
wauld say that under the circumstances,
having thie adnmission from ail sources that
there was an evident intention ta -have a
written contract at 'that time 'ta the effect
that we should have a minimum ai six
members for aIl tim ta corne, thsk the
ps.rty on the one oide, 'the Dominion cf
Canada should concede te Prince Edward
Island what -was intended. Let us see
"ow -this mstter af Tepresentation bias
worked eut. When we en'tered dnto Confederation we were only entitled ta five
members on a pro rata basis ai population
as cempared with Quebec. But we 'were
given six--that goes without saying. In
1882, aiter tihe decennial census, we were
Gtili only entîtled ta five, but the staitesman who had planned Coniederatian, who
had made the bargai.n, ivas stili living,
a.nd Sir John Macdonald, at 'the head af
his Goverument in 1882 did nat attempt ta
take away our aýBpresentation of six. Lt
was not until 1891, when the statesmen who
had made the Conservative Coniederatian
contract had passed away, that the men
then in central ai affairs-S6ir John Thompson being Premier of Canada,-hewed ta the
line, and applied the law to-the province,
and we were put back ta five.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAI'N-Did the population decrease between those tirnes '
Honi. Mr. MURPHY-No, up ta that tixne
it had not decreased ta any appreciable
extent. We were only entitled ta five on
the basis ai population, but Sir John '%acdonald knew the bargain, and sa did not
attempt ta put us back. Lt was not until
Sir John Macdonald passed off the scene
that aur representatian was reduced. and
the Federation pact was, in its essence,
violated. It bas been stated, and w~e hear
it around the corrido-"-ýWhy should
Prince Edward Island, with a population af
93,000, any mare than ane ai the ridingsý of
the city ai Montreal ai that population,
have six representatives, while the riding in
the city ai Montreal bas anly one?" That
would seen 'on the face ai it a fair question
ta ask, but the city ai Mantreal was neyer
a unit; it neyer gave up its autonamy. It
was only a part ai a great province, and
when a colany gives up its a'utrnorny-its
Han. Mr'. MURPHY.'

sel.f-governing privileges-the amalleT it i-9
the more it gives up; therefore, in givinýg
that up,~ it gets a quid pro quo, and that
quid pro quo should certainly be conceded
ta it with generosity, and not with niggardliness. There is another thing- I would like
ta cali -attention to, and that is that the diiference in urban and rural represeitation
is very great. For Canada the unit of rural
representatioin is 18,000 ta 20,000, as compared with 32,000 and 33,000, the average general representation. We in Prince Edward
Island are practically a rural population,
and we have really anly one city with a
population oi about 12,000-you could put
us down as rural. Take the population of
93,000, divîded by 18, and this would gîve
us five members on the basis of rural representatiain in Canada. I contend on this
point alone we are entitled ta a return ai
aur loat members, because as a rural populatiion we are entitled ta representation
along those lines. Another matter 1 would
like ta. draw attention ta is that representation by population is something that has
been argued over and over again, and representation by population, as far as cities are
concerned, as compared with the country
districts, is not put ini the same category.
For instance, take the city of London, today, and put it on the same basis as the
representation ai Ireland, and we wauld
have 150 members for that city alone. Hence,
for the purpose of comparison, provinces
and large cities should not be compared on
the basis ai a unit with Prince Edward
Island at alI. There is another reason, too,
why we should get our representation back,
and that is that there were two aides ta this
contract; the one was on the part oi the
Dominion Government ta furnish continuous and efficient steam. communication,
which would keep us in communication 'aith
the other provinces ai Canada and enable
us ta trade with them. That provision lias
neyer been implemented up ta date, and for
that reasan we have lost population. It is
patent ta any hon. gentleman present that
you migbit as well sever the main arteries
in a nîan's leg and expect the feet ta devclop, as ta cut off communication and expect commerce ta flourish. Hence we lost
population by the Government not fulfilling
part ai the obligation as written down in
the bond between the province and itself.
1 cantend it is not fair ta turn around
and penalize us on the ather side oi the
bond because we have lost population as a
resuit af the fault ai the larger party ta the

MARCH 9, 1915

contract. This principle of an irreducibie
minimum is not a new thing; it extends back
in the building up of the varions nationalities under the British constitution, and the
latest example we have of it is that of the
Australian commonwealth. Their unit of
representation is. ascertained by dividing
the population of the state by 72, snd in
get the number of
that way you
membars conceded te that particular State,
but there is one exception te this milethe saine exception tbat applies te British
Columbia, and that we thonght applied te
us--there is a fixed minimum; that is when
this 72 puts the representatioii of the Commonwealth beiow five, that State receives
live of a representation. -In other words
it is a fixed or irreducible minimum-no
State of the Australian Commonwealth

a fixed representation in the Senate of two,
the saine as New York State; ail of wbicb
goes to show that there is evidence of a
general varying of representation that goes
to give a weaker State such representation
as will maintain its autonomy as a State.
Look at the absurd position if the iaw, as
it is now.'interpreted by the Privy Council,
is appied to us. You can see the vanisbing point in a short time, and would see
what I do not think any member of this
House wouid wish te see, namely the day
when we in Prince Edward Island would
only have one member. I do net know
whether yen could make it any lacs than
one-the day might corne when we would
have none at ail.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-You have four
in the Senate.

Hon. Mr. MURPHY-Yes, but we are
principie, Tasmania i the Commonwealth,
which is only entitled te a representation talking about the House of (Jommons where
Af three under the imitary Ïbasis, etill bas the money bags are held, where they pass
A voice in the
five, and western Australia which is only important legisiation.
entitled to four on this principle now has popular chamber is aiways essentiai for the
five. So that it is no new thing in Ans- proper government of a province. Such a
tralia, and it is the most up to date exampie itate of affairs as 1 suggest is something
Our provwe have. When they were framig their whxch nobody wouid desire.
Commonwealth constitution they saw the ince surrendered its right to seif-governrelations,
necessity to maintain the communities with- ment; we dislocated our trade
outtheopprtuityfordevelopment, as coin- which were chiefly with the United States,
Indies; we,
NeW'oundland, -and the West
hon
iigprso
for
ootni
th
e
fe oceun- thirew ourselves into Confederation. and conivn pat
m
tr;d wih them ore
cmnsthe irrdce i sequently into new channels; and we fouxid
to
wasry;ar give them
for a time, the worst penalized
maincu ar the give the thead ir ecbi ourselves, in Confederation, because thbe
minium
te sae asCanaa gae ~province
British Columbia, and the samne as we upper provinces did not take much of our
thought they gave to us i Prince Edward products for a long time. The Maritim~e
Provinces had not developed, and our trade
Island, when we entered Confederation.
Mr. CLORAN-The point made'in was cut off with the West Indies, NewfoundHon.
regard to Australia is ail riglit. 1 have no land, and the UJnited States, so that for a
opportunity now to dilate on the fact that time after Confederation the dislocation
the State of New Hampshire, the State of was almost more than tihe province could
Rhode Island, and those littie buckwheat stand-it nearly reduced us te' beggary.
states, have as great representatioxi i the However, we got beyond that stage. I was
UJnited States senate as New York State, talking to a financier the other day and lie
or Pennsylvania State, with their millions said that the further west you went, the
of population. The hon. gentleman might worse financially the country became. He
introduce that feature into bis speech, and said: " Start with Prince Edward Island, it
it would make a good point in the future. is the best, New Brunswick is next, and the
We have the United States Congress domin- further you go west the state of the country.
ating the entire world to-day, ail tbrough la in a diminisbing ratio; the further you
the bands of bahf a dozen mnen who corne go west the heavier the monetary stringency
bas affected the different provinces." 1 want
from small states.
hon. gentle- hion. gentlemen te understand the position
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-The
symman will remember that last year in speak- that exista, and 1 wish not only the
of every
ing to that resolution in regard to increased pathy but the active co-operation
to rerepresentatioxi in the West, I referred te member of this House to endeavour
cited was dress the wrong under wbich. we labour. I
that question, and tbe case I
the legisiaRhode Island, the smnailest state in tbe shaîl read from the speeches i read a teleunion, with haîf a million population, and ture in 1865 and 1873. I shall

SENATE

gram at .the conclusion of the debates by
Mr. Hawthorne, who was Prem-ier of the
province at the time, and chief representative of the Prince Edward Island'a aide of
the case. This was addressed te the then
Colonial Governor of the province and
speaks for itself. The last telegrams, at the
conclusion of the pour parlers were-as folIowa:
Increase of annual
Heid two conferences.
ailowance. Probable yield, six representatives.
Telegram from Robert P. Haythorne te

Lieutenant-Governor
1873:

Robinson,

March 6,

Hlghiy probable net six representatives; try
and send repiy councli as soon as possible.
Telegram from Lieutenant-Governor Robinson te Robert P. Haythorne:

Couneil wlil concur In advislng dissolution.
we hope six representatives will be conceded.
Telegram to the Hon. Edward Palmer
iroxn Robt. P. Haythorne, March 6, 1873:
Except modifications stated and lnterest dit-

ference old debt, better terms ailowed.
inembers conceded.

six

What could be fairer than that? There
ean be no doubt about the honesty of our
case. There ie a telegram after negotiations
were completed from the responsible mininter of the province at the time, to the governor of our province, and it shows clearly
that the intention was, whatever was written in the contract, that we, like British
Columbia, should have an irreducible minimum. Let us see how we are situated te-day
as compared with what we were in 1873
when we entered Confederation. At that
time we had six representatives in the
House of 189 or a ratio of one-thirtieth of
the House. As it stands to-day, if we do not
get some relief we will have three in a
House of 234 or one-seventy-eight, so that
you will see the difflculty under which we
are labouring. The worse feature is that,
lookinga into the future, we can see no0 hope.
We niay live in hope and die in despair.
We see no hope for the province, except
legislation by this branch of Parliament,
and by the House of Commons as a coordinate branch, asking relief. I have no
doubt if that relief is asked, and the proper

step taken, as I hope there will be before
this Parliament closes, such relief will come,
and we will not be in the humiliating position of having a further reduction of one,
and of coming back with only three members of the House of Comnions when we
ineet next session.
Hon. Mr. MURPHY.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If my hon. friend
should insist upon submitting his motion
to vote of the House, I should like
to point out 'the objections that may
le
be urged te the proceeding which h
is about to take, and te show hirn
where it would flot be desirable on the
part of this Chamber to adopt this
motion. There is one thàng that may ne
said before dealing with the question before
us, and that is to, eay that hion. gentlemen
from Prince Edward Island are not only te
be commended, but te be congratulated
upon the persisterlcy whidh characterizes
their efforts in .presenting to the Parliament
of Canada the varions dlaims of Prince Edward Island. This is meritorious. One
cannot take any exception te it whatsoever,
but persistency may not always be wise]y
exercised. It must not be overlooked that
we are dealing with a very serious subject.
We propose to approach the Imperial Parliament upon a subject not only affecting
Prince Edward Island, 'but affecting the
whols- Dominion. This address or this
motion makes emphatic a statement that
ini 1873 when the termis of union were being
discussed between Prince Edward Island
and the Dominion of Canadja a very grave
and fierions mistake entered into the
arrangement which was then concluded in
the shape of a pact or termis of union between that province and the Dominion of
Canada, and duly reduced inte Imperial
legislation. Now we are asked upon the
statement which the hon. gentleman has
made to say that this mistake then took
place, viz., that Prince Edward Island was
then entitled, under the agreed terms of
union, te be represented by an irreducible
minimum of six members.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It wvas only a clerical
error.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This Chamber
should not be asked in this way to commit
itself after some forty odd years to the
statement that that mistake did actually
occur. It must not be overlooked, with al
due regard to the persistency which lias
marked the action taken by Prince Edward
Island down to the present, that we and
they adopted the present ternis of the
Union at that time. The representatives of
Prince Edward Island were present, I believe, at the Imperial Parliament when the
legisiation was then passed by that Parliamuent. They entered into Confederation
under the inanifest lernis which then

MARCH 9, 1915

formed the Imperial Statute. They proceeded for -some years under the terme of
the Union then adopted, and did not at the
time take the steps vhich then might have
been taken.
Hon. Mri. CLORAR-Which vers nal
necessary.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-TO have impressed not only upon this Parliament but
upon the Parliament of Great Britain the
iiiistake which they to-day allege took place
at *iat lime.
Hon. Mr. CLOBAN-Which
neesay; Sir John-

vere

not

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Now, I amn not
questioning. for a moment the 'fact that
such an impression or such an understanding xnay -have existed between those, who
represented Prince Edward Island in the
negotiations whieh then took place, but I
do say tjhat at this particular perio.d of
lime it is most difficuit for hon. gentlemen
in this Chamber or in the House of Gommons to say that the solemn compact then
entered into and ratified -by Imperial legWs
lation contained a material. mistake whidi
was of the essence of the pact then entered
into, and thal the terne of Conféeration
f0houid now be disturbed without an officiai
inquiiy et lest. I think the Parliament of
Canada muet deal more seriously with important subjects vhich larm the subjectmaltter not only of Ixuperial legialation but
of Dominion legisiation than to treat lightly
what vas then so solemnly adopted by te
legisiation to which I have referred and
vthich we nov seek te upset by this motion
which has 'been moved .by my hon. friond.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What ls the
question?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-You have laid the
law down, and il according ta f acta, cannot
be controverted; that I admit. Nov you
assume-Han. Mr. LOUGREED-WiU m'y hon.
friend not enter mint a lengthy discussion
of the matterP IfI there is a question Qmbt
cen be answeredHon. Mr. CLORAN-Why, if the Imperial
Act vas as you ay, Bir John A. Macdonald
in 1882 vas the firat te violate it by giving
Prince Edward Isl.and six meinhora? Nov,
if you w«ant a question, answer il.
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Hon. gentlemen
vili observe by looking eat thé motion that
we are asked te commit ourselves te this
statemnt:
We would respectfully represent to your
Majesty that at a general election In Prince
Edward Island held In the year 1873 JÂD., upon
the question of the entry of that Ibland Into the
Dominion of Canada it vas clearly understood
that the Island should for ail Urne have a representation of not; lems than six members In
the louse of Commons of Canada.
And that the electors of the Island Kt that
election voted In favour of becomIng.a, province
of th15 D)ominion on the clear and distinct un-,
derstandiiig that the new province should for
ail Urne, be no repreisented bY not less than six
members In the flouse of Comns.rà
A.nd that in draiting the ternms upon vhich
Prince Edward Island should become part of
this Dominion, the proviso with regard to a permanent representation of not leus than six mernbers In the flouse of Commons vas through Inadvertance or mistake omltted to be Inserted.

No-w, il is needîcas -for me to point out 10
hon. gentlemen that vo have not before us
the evidence to varrant us in corning te any
such conclusion.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Will the hon. leader
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Seniator Murphy
allow -me to put him a questionP
gave it to vou.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wye do not doubt
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Permit me te
say te my hon. friend this-that I do not for a moment the statements or the good
said that
etleman vhoste
ftehn
propose to discuss the merits of the situ- fat facthae ro.elyn
r
cre
th
ation at ail, as to whether it vould e ex tefcshv
r
ste
elyocre
Island should
pedient that Prince Edward
in tbis resolution; but il is an
be represented. for ail tume by an irredu- embodied
thing 10 have that evi,cible minimum of six. I do not think that entirely different in the clear light of day,
Ibis dence before us
that enters inte tihe consideration of
same as a court would require vhere
ll.the
impotanatquetio
were called upon to rectify an imqustio
impotanatah.they
sncb as this
Hon. Mr. CLORýAN-Will you allov me portant agreement or contract that in my
is. Nov, may I furtber say,
a question?
te put
tbis is not a question in vhich
-judgment
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
the Parliament of Canada bas jurisdiction
te lte
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I simply do it in the to say vithont any doubt vhatsoever repreput Imperial Parliament that upon the
interest af justice, and 1 amn going to
1sentation of the Federal Parliament of Cente you a very plain question.

SENATE

ada this aileged mistake should be rectified. There is another very important consideration to which. I would invite the
attention cf my hon. friends from Prince
Edwaýrd Island, and that is that Confederation is a compact between ail the provinces
cf Canada and net between one province
and the Dominion cf Canada. If the terme
of union herein were disturbed and an
irreducible minimum should. be fixed for
Prince Edward Island, what would Nova
Scetia say? What would New Brunswick
say? What-would Ontario say? What would
ail those provinces say that in each decennial period when the Redistribution Bill
ie being passed, are having their representation reduced?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-What about British
Columbia?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-At the first session of Parliament of the present year, the
representation of Nova Scotia, of New
Brunswick and Ontario was reduced-reduced by a substantial number-and those
provinces, I do submit te hon. gentlemen,
wouid have the same right te ask the Imperiai Parliament-to adopt an irreducible
minimum cf representation as would the
province cf Prince Edward Island. I did
make the suggestion some time ago, when
tis question was being discussed, that this
was pecuiiariy a subject which should ceme
before the different provinces in one of their
interprevinciai conferences.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-And I feel fully
assured th.at net enly was the Premier of
Prince Edward Island fuliy convinced cf
that fact, but iikewise the members from
Prince Edward Island, because at the last
Interprovincial Conference held in the city
of Ottawa this subject was taken up by the
Premier of Prince Edward Island and the
matter was discussed, and aise, if I receliect, in the Provincial Assembiy of the province of Quebec.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But there is this
to be said about it, that notwithstanding
the fact that the representatives of Prince
Edward Island in the Interprovincial Conference of a year or more ago took this subject up with the representatives of the various provinces, there was, to say the least,
the echo cf an opposition te it, although
more or 'less encouragement was given to
the represehtatives of Prince Ed.v:ird IsHon. Mr- LOUGHEED.

land that they should proceed on those
lines and secure the support of the various
provinces to this proposedamendment. No
exception could be taken to proceeding with
such a course, but 1 would say to xny hon.
friend who bas moved this resolution that
he will at once find that immediately the
province approached with a view to
sanctioning the proposed amendment, every
province in the Dominion will seek to import into their terme of union the principle
which he .new - advocates. Namely, that of
an irreducible minimum. May I aiso refer
te my hon. friend-,
Hon. Mr. PROWSE-Excuse me one
second. Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and
the other, provinces came into Confederation under the British North America Act;
Prince Edward Island came in under a
separate contract.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I amn aware of
that, but I wouid say te my hon. friend that
by a judgment of the Privy* Council-I
think my hon. friend from de Salaberry,
who is familiar with most cf the decisions
of that important tribunal, and wl correct
me if I arn wrong, will confirm my statement that this subject was practically decided by the Privy Counil-that the word
"Canada" ini the British North America Act
was interpreted as n6t only applying te -the
then four provinces cf Canada which entered
Confederation at the Urne of the first Act,
but the term ie interpreted in a broader
sense, te include ail other provinces that
may conie into Canada kereafter. 1 think
I am right in that.
Hon. Mr. DANIELS-Not by a subsequent
Act.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is splitting
hairs; I don't believe in that.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would say te
my hon. friend that 1 arn not opposing for
a moment the principle which he seeks to
advocate, but I am opposing the process by
which he seeks the legisiation te accomplish bis purpose. I would say, f urthermore, that my hon. friend can scarceiy hope
to accomplish any good purpose by moving
this motion in this Chamber. This is a
subject matter which has te do with the
representation of Prince Edward Island in
The terms of
the House of Commons.
union assure te that province a fixed number of senators, without- fear of any disturbance whatsoever under any Redistribution Bill; but when we discuss represenltation in the popular Chamber, I nêed

MARCH 9, 1915

not say to hon. gentlemen here that the
popular -Chamber would naturally resent
any address which we rnight seek to pass
without its being the joint address of both
Houses to the Imperial House. I would,
furthermore, say to my hon. friend that the
Imperial Parliament would give no regard
whatsoever' to an address simply of this
Chamber vithout its being joined by a
similar address from the House of Gommons, and more partioularly ini view of the.
tact that a sirnilar motion vas negatived
during the present session in the House o!
Gommons, as my hon. friend very wel
My only suggestion is that the
knows.
province of Prince Edward Island shouid
proceed to take this up with the other provinces of Canada, and upon obtaining their
sanction in an interprovincial conterence
-as very possibly rnight be successfully
done-then my hon. friend, or any o! the
representatives o! Prince Edward Island,
rnight then corne with every conifidence to
the Dominion Parliarnent, and I arn sure
that whatever the wishes o! the other provinces of Canada rnay be as to meeting the
wishes o! Prince Edward Island, this-Parliament would doubtless give effect in so t ar
as possible to any. such agreement- or
arrangement.
Borne hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, héar.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-If 1 were in order 1
would like to say hers to the House and the
country that a more unf air representation
of a constitutional question I have not
heard.
Hon. GENTLEMEN: Order, order.
The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman has
already spoken on the subject.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-You ailow me to get
hait way through and then stop me. Now
what is the sense in that?
The SPEAKER-The hon. gentlemen je out
of order. The hon. gentleman wiii take bis
seat.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Certainly I wiii, no
doubt o! that, but I ask youThe SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman wiii
please take his seat.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No, he won't; he has
dons it; but I wili say it is most unfair; I
waxit Vhat ta go on record-a rnost unfair
representation.
On the question being put, the motion was
declared iost.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN cailed for yeas and
nays.
The SPEAKER-The yeas and nays must
be called for by two members.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I understand the
hon. Senator from 'Halifax (Hon. Mr.
Power) called for yeas and nays; *Iseconded
it; has he withdrawn hie eall?
Hon. Mr. POWER-I voted yea, but I did
flot eall for a division.
Hon. Mr. CLORkN-AI right, I back
out.
CANADIAN PATRIOTTO FUND ACT
ÂMENDMENT BILL.
SEMOND REA4DING.

Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second reading of Bill 39, "An Act to amend the Canadian Patriotic Fund Act 1914."
He said: The object of this Bill is to enlarge the scope of the existing Act. It is
proposed to give authority to the Patr&otic
Fund Committee to grant assistance in case
of need to residents of -Newloundland,
the wives and children and dependent relatives of officers and men who are on active
service in the Canadien naval or niiltary
forces notwithstandingý the fact of their
being in Newfoundland. Tiiere are quite a
nInber of Newfoundlanders who have entered the service of Canada, and it is only
right that the advantages of this (und
shoul be extended to their families.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Wouid the hon. gentlemani say what service they have enteredP
Hon. Mr. I.OUGEIEED-Chiefly the naval
service, if not aitogether. There is ânother
imnportanit amendment being made, and that
is to permit of the fund being applied
to officers and men residents of Canada
who return to Canada incapacitated by
wounde, injuries or disease received or contracted while on active eervice; aiso to permit of the same being paid to residents o!
Canada who are widows, children and relatives of men who are residents of Canada
who have died of wounds, injuries or disease
contracted while on active service. Then it
extends the trne for granting this assistanice
for six months after the cessation of war.
I move the second reading of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I- do flot wish to
appear as opposing this Bill in any way, but
I would like, for information, to know frorn
my hon. friend how clause 3 wouid be interpreted. It says:

SENATE

-

3. The corporation may aise. during the war
iand for six months after the termination ef
the war. assat in case of need.
Is there any intention ef the Government
takmng any steps with regard te pensions
alter that period cf six monthe? Has that
question been considered at aîl as te pensions to widows and families?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-ýYes, 1 would say
to my hion. friend that the subject is receiving the serions and very close attention cf
the Government at the present time, and I
presume at an early day the Government
will. take the necessary stepe to give publicity thereto. The question of pensions will,
cf course, have nothing te de with the
Patriotic Fund.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-No; I meant with
regard te this question of six months. 0f
course it proviues that the Patriotic Fund
may support those people for six months,
and 1 presume after tha-t time there will be
some idea that a pension arrangement would
corne into force.
Hon. Mr. ý,OUGHEED-Yes, 1 bope before
that.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-This Act le for
the purpose cf filling the gap between the
hie
return cf the eoldier and the time when q
gees on the pension list.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, the time
when hie gets settled down te the ordinary
routine of lite.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill'
was read the second time.
SENATE AND HOUSE 0F GOMMONS ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED xnoved the second
reading cf Bill No. 57, An Act to amend. the
ïSenate and House cf Cominons Act.
He said: Owing- te certain mcembers of
Parliament beîng on active service it is
necessary te amend the Senate and House
of Gommons Act. One o! the amendments is
te provide that persons -menibers of Parlisment, who are absent froni Parliament on
active service shall net be ineligible for
members. Another amendment makes provision that the members shahl net be disqualified for being on service in naval or
military forces during the war whilst receiving compensation frin the Crewn and
which, under the Senate and House of Cernmens Act to-day is net perrnitted. Furthermore, we provide that ne deductien o! the
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK.

indemnity shall be made as to members who
are on active service; they shall be entitled
to their indemnity as if they were attending
Parliament.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I would like to draw
my hion. -friend's attention to this Act. 1
understood himý te say when this Bill was
introduced that this Act was aiso te apply
te the Senate.
Hon. Mr. LOIUGHEED-Yes, so it does.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-1 do not read it that
way. On referring te the statute in the
Rev. Stat. of Canada, 1906, chapter 10,
cited in the first clause of this Bill, 1 find
that section Il of the Act has at the head
of it, 'Members cf the House of Gommons";
therefore section Il of tihe Revised Statutes
only applies te members of the House cf
Gommons.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, it ia only
necessary in such a case; that is, this would
apply te the eligibility cf the individual te
beceme a member cf the House of Coinmons. Of course a senater je placed in an
entirely different position. The other clause
weuld be te the advantage cf the senator;
that is, hie shall net be disqualified by being
in service.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-Suppcsing that a
member ef this Heuse became an officer or
even a private soldier for that matter, in
our expeditionary force, and hie were net
here fer twe sessions, would any legisiation
that we passed have any effect in preventing
hirn from losing his seat?
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I do net want te
press this particular point new, but 1 think
-when wýe go into co'mmittee I wil do se.
and 1 hope my hon friend will look into
that matter.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If my hon. friend
points eut any defect cf that kind we shall
be glad te rectify it.
Motion agreed te, and Bill read the second
time.
BILLS INTRODUÇED.
Bill (C), An Act fer the relief of William
Ewart New.-Hon. Mr. Talbot.
Bill No. 12, An Acit te amend the Independent Order cf Foresters Consolidated
Act.-Hon. Mr. Gorby.
Bill1 No. 16, An Act respecting the Title
and Trust Company and te change its
name to the Ghartered Trust and Executor
Company.-Hon. Mr. Douglas.

MARCH 9, 1915

Bill No. 27, An Aot respecting the St.
Lawrence and Adirondack Railway Company.-Hon. Mr. Davis.*
Bill No. 28, An Act respecting the Toronto
Eastern Ra.ilway Company.-Hon. Mr.
MèHugh.
Bill No. 31, An Act Tespeeting the British
Columbia gouthern Railway Company.Hon. Mr. Bostock.
Bill No. 32, An Act to incorporatie The
Brulé, Grande Prairie and Pea.o. River
Rsllway Company.-Hon. Mr. Pope.
Bill No. 34, An Act respeoting t.he Manitoba and Northwestern Railway of Canada.
-Hon. Mr. Watson.
Bill No. 36, An Adt to inôorporate the
Northern Pacifie and British Columbia
Railway Company.-Hon. Mr. Bostock.
Bill No. 37, An Act respeotingc the Peace
River and Athabaska Railway Company.non. Mr. Pope.
Bill No. 39, An Adt respecting the Vancouver, Victoria and Eastern Railway
Navigation Coiupany.-Hon. Mr. Bostock.
Bill No. 41, An Act respecting the Athalbasca and Northexn Railway Comnpany.Hon. Mr. De Veber.
Bill No. 42, An Act aespecting Canada
Preterred Insu-rance C<mpany.-Hon. Mr.
Bostock.
Bill No,~ 45, 'An Act respecting tihe VanLif e Irraurance Co.-Hon. Mr.
couver
Bestock.
Bill No. 46, An Aot respecting the
Western Dominion Railway Company.Hon. Mr. Talbot.
Bill (C>, An Act for the relief of WVilliam
Ewart New.-Hou. Mr. Talbot.
Bill (D), An Act for the relief of Helene
Suzette Baxter Douglas.-Hon. Mr. Daniel.
SECOND READINGS.
Bill No. 4, An Act respecting The Alberta
Central Railway Company.-Hon. Mxf. De
Veber.
Bill No. 5, An Act respecting The Athabaska and Grande Prairie Railway Conipany.-Hon. Mr. Talbot.
Bill No. 6, An Act xespecting The Brantford and Hamilton Electrie Railway Conipany.-Hon. Mr. Ratz.
Bill No. 7, An'Act xespecting The British
Columbia and White River Railway Cornpany.-(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.)
Bill No. 9, An Adt respeeting The Essex
Terminal Railway Company.-Hon. Mr.
Taylor.
Bill No. 10, An Act xespecting The Grand
Trunk Railway Company of Canada.-Hon.
Mr. Thompseon.

Bill No. 13, An Act xespecting The Montreal and Southern Counties Railway Coinpany.-(Hon. Mr. Dandurand.>
Bill No. 21, An Act respecting The Canadian Northexn Ontario Railway Company4--(Hon. Mr. Taylor.)
Bill No. 22, An Act respectîng The Canadian Northern Quebec Railway Company.
-(Hon. Mr. Ross.>
Bill No. 23, An Act respecting The James
Bay and Eastern Railway Company.-Hon.
Mr. Mitchell.
Bill No. 24, An Act respecting The
Ottawa and New York Railway Company.
-Hon. Mr. Davis.
Bill No. 25, An Act respecting The South
Ontario Pacifie Railway Company.-Hon.
Mr. McHugh.
Bill No. 26, An Act respecting The Southern %,Jentral Pacifie Railway Company.Hon. Mr. Bostock.
The Senate adjourned till three o'clock
tc-unorrow.
TEE SENATIE.
Wednesday, March 10, 1915.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
Prayers and routine pxoceedings.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
<E), An Act respecting the Premier
Bill
Trust Company.-Hon. Mr. Belcourt.
Bill (F), An Adt respecting the Edmonton, Dunvegan and British Columbia Railw8y4--Hon. Mr. Talbot.
Bill (G), An, Act xespecting- tlhe Patent
Nation-al Wood Distilling Company.-Hon.
Mr. Bostock.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN CANADIAN CITIES.
INQUIRY.

Hon Mr. BOSTOCK rose to
Cali1 attention to the condition of employment
at present existing in several cities throughout
Canada, and to Inquire if the Government are
taking any stops with a view to dealing with
the situation?

He said: In drawing the attention of
the Govexnment to this question o! employment throug'hout the country, I want to
make a le~w remarks for the purpose of
showing, if I possibly ean, the position tihat
existe at thie present time. As hon. gentlemen know, through causes 'which have now
been in effeet for some time, the condition
of empioy'ment throughout this colintry
trom Halhifax to Victoria, is such that thexe

SENATE

are probably more people seeking employ- ities suifer in dealing with a question of
ment to-day in the principal centres of the this kind is that they are not sufficiently
country, than there have beau on former in touch with one another to be able to
occasions. It is not possible to get any bring about the interchange of ideas and
exact statictica dealing with this inatter, the information which is neoessary to place
to show what the exact position ci affaire these men *where their eervicas are, most
is. but it is -within the knowledge of hon. required. If &orne systen -were adopted
gentlemen in fjhis Chamber that this con- whereby, not only between the municipal-,
dition exista at the present time, and that ites, but also possibly to some extent by the
it ia due to various causes, aifecting flot Provincial Governments, there could be
only this country, but the whole world at help in arranging to give these men the inthe presant moment. The condition does formation necessary to brlng the employnot at the present tilme show any signa of ers and employed into batter communicaimprovemeut; in fact lrom information that tion with one another, it would very matoeve 'have, especially from the West, I fear rially assist in the solution of this problem.
that condition is rather apt to get worse The Dominion Government is really tihe
tihan better, and it is principally from that right authority to take up this matter and
point of view that I wish to direct the at- deal with it. If At is taken hold of by the
tention of the Government to this whole Dominion Goverument the danger of overquestion, and to obtain, if possible, some lapping would ha very matarially doue
idea if there is any possible way of dealing away with, and a lot of probably unneceswith t.his matter, and bringing about an sary work would be avoided. The systemn
improvement in the condition of tlhings of labour bureaus has been deait with in
throughout the country. When there is a Great Britain for a num-ber of years. It
condition of depression throughout the coun- cani be shown there that the work has beexn
try, and when work on the railroads and very satisfactorîly carried out, and that
'work for the development of the country is good resuits have beau obtained through
not as abundant as it has been, the natural the development of those bureaus. At the
cendition is that people drift into the time the plan was firat mentioned and first
towns. Men w'ho are best employed in the organized in England, the trades unions
work cf the country, men employed on the and other associations with whose mnemlarmeansd in other development work of bers it was proposed tihat those bureaus,
the country cf that kind, are uaturally in- should deal, were very consîderably opclined to drift into the towns, and v'ery posed to it. Since that time they have
cf tan. through a lack of employment get learned to realize the value of those labour
into a condition where tbey are not nearly bureaus, and in subsequant years, at meetas useful or as able for work at a later ings of the tradas unions and other public
period as they would ha if they could be meetings of that kin*d, they have fouud
that the assistance given..to meinhers of
looked after in some shape or form.
We hope that in this coming sunnner the unions by those bureaus astablished
there will ha a great deal of work in the throughout the country bas beeu very great,
country and ou the farma owing to the de- and they have passed resolutions putting
velopment of the extra amount of land t'hem in the position of favouring vary
tihat bas been brought under cultivation, strongly the system as it now exists ini Engand the crops that we hope to see this land.
In Great Britain tie Board of Trade has
co;uyitry produce ibis yeaj-. It is veirs
largely on aocont of this that I want, te constituted advisory committees for the
.isk the Govýernn1ert if any steps have 'Ic'en purpose of giving advice and assistance in
taken for thie puiposc cf arranging th'dt the management of labour exohanges. The
those men %,hzo are now drifting into thie methods of dealing with country districts
towns, and 'have 'argely filled the ranks of are the distribution at the post office of
the unemployed in urban centres wili 'te registration forms to ha ffiled in by appliplaced in sueli a position that they ean cants for employment and to be posted to
find out wvhere their services are iinost the nearest exchange, and this enables tho-se
keenly wanted and can be made uise o! people to obtaîn information whicli it is
with the greatest advantage. This is, oi not always easy for themn to obtain
course, a large question, wvhich has been in otiher ways; and this resuits in bringdeait with to soe extent by the mnmici- ing together the employer and cmpalities in different parts of the country; ployees very much more quickly and conbut the condition under whiehi municipal- veniently than was done before the estabHon. Mr. BOSTOCK

MAROR 10, 1915

throughout this Dominion of Canada; and
if I arn rightly informed the matter was
brought to the attention of the Minister of
Labour either last year or the year before,
and 1 think thiit hie promised te take some
action in connection with it. As f ar as I
know, nothing bas definitely been done with
regard te that, and I presume hie bas not
had time to give it ail the cons ideration that hie thinks the question deserves.
But I submit that at the present time this
is a question which is of very considerable
importance to this country, and that it
should receive attention as soon as pýossible.
We know, of course, P-t the present moment
that the demand for labour in Great Britain
is very great, and that there might be a
possible suggestion that something could be
dons by the Government to arrange with the
borne Government that certain special
skilled men on this side w<ho were not in a
position to find *work at the present time
should be transferred for a short period over
there--say during the period while the war
is on. 1'hey might be of use te, the country.
We saw in the paper the other day that
the Government ini England had taken very
drastic measures te deal with the whole
Glve-a-Man-a-Job Association Formed.
Toronto, March 4.-At a meeting this after- question, se, that they may be in a position
noon lncluding representatives from every .te have a plentiful supply of munitions of
phase of charitable work In the cl, a Give-a- war and other necessary supplies required
Man-a-Job Association was organlzed, Mayor
Church b.ing thc Instigator. A atrong advl- for carrying on the great .struggle in which
sory commlttcc was appolnted ta prepare de-. the country is engaged at the present time.
ta. s and devise a comprehensive scheme to re- It is, of course, rather a wide suggestion te
Ileve the unemployed situation in thc clty. The make, but the Government might find we
inayor advocated the reorganization of the
labour bureau and cânsiderable Increase tn Its could be of very valuable assistance te the
"If outside municipalities wil taire country; both a help te this country and
scope.
care of thei-r unemploycd," said the mayor. also te the Empire in dealing with the mat"Toronto, which has been a dumping ground
for the province. will do its duty.' A number ter in this way, and also in rendermng
of suggestions were made whlch wiIl be con- assistance te the people at home. This is
silered by the commlttce.
a matter which requires attention at the
The mayor brought out in that statement present moment.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I was not aware that
a condition wvhich I arn trying to inîpress
upon the House-that it is net only in the this matter was going to be discussed tobig centres that this question of unemploy- day, and I wîsh to speak on it. It is a
ment requires te be dealt with, but also that, matter of some importance and the data
in the smaller nîunicipalities and the ceuni- cannot be collected in a day; I therefore
try districts, something- should ha done te move that the debate be adjourned until
prevent those nien drifting inte the big Tuesday next.
centres wvhere they naturally think that a
The motion was agareed to.
great deal more work exists but where, in
COAL IMPORTED FROM UNI±ED
ail probability, they may find that there
STATES FOR INTERCOLONIAL
is no more work, or not as much, as in the
RAILWAY.
districts wivhch they have lef t. Of course,
there have been a number of petitiens preINQUIRY.
sented to this House dea.ling with this quesHon. Mr. Power inquired of the Goverution and expressing the opinion of public ment:bodies and other people on the question of
1. How many tons of coai have been .purthe establishment of labour bureaus cbased yearly from the United States for the

lishment of these exohanges. 0f course
they have a regulation which provides that
at a time when a dispute is going on between the trades, where the wages are lower
than those current in the trade or district
where the employment is being souglit, that
those bureaus will not interfere in any way
with the condition then existing, and by this
regulation they do not interfere with the
work of the union, or _with the question
of the rate of wages as between the employer
and employee. They also have a provision
for advancement of fares se that erployeu
may be sent from one part of the country
te another at a reasonable rate; as far as
Great Britain is concerned it bas been found
that this arrangement works out very well;
there lias been very small loss in dealing
with this question. That is a mnatter, of
course, which niight be very niuch more
difficuit to handie in a country as large as
the Dominion of Canada.
The other day 1 read in the Ottawa
Citizen a notice witb regard te what was
being donc in the city of Toronto. The
item reads as follows:
Tor onto Prepares to Ald Unemployed.

SENATE

-

Intercolonial railway ince and Including the
year 1896?
2. What did the uaid coal coat per ton delivered on the mtain line of the Intercolonial
raiway, uay between Ste. Rosalie and Halifax?
3. Who were the mainisterg in charge when
these purchases were made?
4. What reasois were given ta justify the
purchase and Importation of uaid United States
coal?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers to
the hon. gentleman's questions are as follows:
1. 1900-01, 61,079 gross tons; 1908-09, 36,059
gross tons; 1913-14, 15,331 net tons.
2. 1900-01, 14,300 grass tons at $3.75 Loc.b.
cars, Montreal; 27,646 grass tons at $5.30
t.Q b. cars, St. John; 3,977 gross tans at
$3.93 f.o.b. cars, St. John; 556 gross tons
st $4 f.o.b. cars, St. John; 14,600 grass
tons at $4.20 f.o.b. cars, St. John; total
grass tons, 61,079.

Above prices do not include duty of 59cts.

per gross ton, as the coal was admitted
free of customs' charges.
1908-09.: 36,059 gross tons at $4.85 f.o.b.
cars, St. Hyacinthe, duty paid.

1913-14: 15,331 net tons at $4.10 f.o.b.
cars, Ste Rosalie Junction, duty paid.
3. 1900-01: Honourable Andrew G. Blair.
1908-09: Honourable George P. Graham.
1913-14: Honourable Frank Cochrane.
4. 1900-01: Apprehension on the part of
management that friction hetween
the
minera and certain coal operators would
lead to cessation of work.
1908-09: Strike in existence at the Springhili Mines and inability of other collieries
to, make up shortage.
1913-14: Greater consumaption of coal
than anticipated and inability of manageta obtain additional quantities re-ment
quired, when wanted, from usual sources of
supply.
ONTARIO BILINGUAL SCHOOL
QUESTION.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. DAVID moved:
This House. without derogating from the principial of provincial autonorny, deemis it proper
and within the ianits of its powers and jurisdiction and in pursuance of the object for which
it was establislied. to regret the divisions which
seem to exist among the people cf the province
of Ontario in connection with the bilingual
school question and beiievee that it Is in the
interest of the Dominion at large that ail such
questions should be considered on fair and
patriotic Iines and settled in such a way as ta
preserve peace and harmony between the different national and religiaus sections of this
country, in accordance with the views of the
Fathers of Confederation and with the spirit
of aur constitution.
Hon. Mr. POW%ýER.

He said: At the session of 1906, 1 concluded a speech in the Senate by the foailowing words:
."

Preserve the Senate, Improve it, if you lkle,

but lceep It, ln order that it may fulfil Its mission of peace, order, harmony and justice."

It is under the inspiration of the same
views and feelings that I now rise, and I
think it proper ta declare, "«That I was
induced by no person, either in this Hanse
or elsewhere, to make the present motion;
that I alone am responsible for it, and that
it is in accord with my weil-known ideas,
80 often expressed, as ta, the mission of the
Senate."»

One cf the main reasons alleged hy the
Fathers cf the Confederation ta justify the
establishment af the Senate was, that a
High Chamber, where ail the provinces
would be equally represented, would affard
In
adequate protection to, minorities.
order ta nieet the objections cf his adversaries, and even cf some af his friends, ta
the representation cf the provinces in the
House cf Commons being based upon
population, Sir George Etienne Cartier declared several times that the province af
Quebec, being represented in the Senate by
one-third cf its members, would find there
the protection which it might require, either
for itself or for Catholic and French
minorities, in the different parts cf the
country. He said, and his organs repeated,
that there would always be in the Chamber

enaugh reasanable people ta do what was
right and juat towards *ail creeds and
nationalities. I was one ai those who did
net share entirely his confidence and did
But the
not believe his predictions.
honourable meînbers of this House will, I
hope, take advantage af this occasion te
justify his hapes and views.
Sir John A. Macdonald and George
Brown, the two principal Fathers cf the
Confederation, expressed about the same
views on the abject ai the establishment cf
the Senate and its mission. The fact that
the members of that Heuse are appointed
for life was considered as a guarantee that
they would do justice impartially and independently, would fill the functions cf a
high court of justice, of a board of arbitration, af conciliation.
Well, there is a province, the province of
Ontario, where a minority considers itself
ill-treated, and deprived of one ef its mest
sacred rights, by the famous by-law No. 17.
Has the French minority the right te cernplain ai that by-law, to contend that At has
changed its position as regards the teaching
ef the French language? It is a tact which.

MAIRCH 10, 1915

It bas been clearly
cannet be denied.
established in very eloquent and forcible
speeches and pleas by aur colleague, the
Honourable Mr. Belcourt, and several other
It
gentlemen, Irish, English and French.
lias bean officially admitted. by the cOmmission cf six inspectors appomnted by the
Department cf Public Instruction, ta report
That
upon the aperatian cf the by-law.
commission was composed cf three (3)
French-Canadians and three (3) EnglishCanadians, who unanimously reparted as
fallaws:
W. consider the. by-law as an atternpt ta

the example of national end religious
quarrels, se detrimental te its welf are and
I cannot botter express the
progres?
viewéa nd feelings of reasonable people
on that question than by quoting what lias
been said and published by eminent men
and important newspapers of different creeds
and n!ationa-lities. I have beside -me the
speech cf Bir John A. Macdonald, thé great
chieftain cf the Coaervative party, wbom
all 'the Canservatives so mucli loved and
admired. I cannot help quating what h.
said on the same question in his speech
as reparted in thei debates of the House of.

gradualiy eliminate the. French language trom Gommons ini the year 1890, page 894:
the nvilh-Fenchschols.In
a few remarie I made the ether nlght I
That such was the abject and would be intended ta have ciied the attention Of mny
the effect a! the by-law has been so frankly hon. friends frorm the pravince of Ontaria to
-of Upper
the
admitted by some cf the most important what was the actian cf was prav-ince
and held it
but 1
'advocates cf the bv-law, that I consider Caad in 1793, opportunity. tired,
ovrfor another
I will cl attention ta It now, ta show what
uséless ta insist now on that point.
Is the by-law légal or constitutional e was the feeling of the people of Upper Canada
question, upon béoré ongandthough lntroduced by very great measure. aiIt is a big Counil illpronunc which the Privy a Century ago. By a avery unwîse man, Mfr. Pitt
heore ongandin 1790. the aid province of Quebec wa dividea
Counil illpronunc
whieh I préf er net te diseuss now. I rather into two-Upper and Lower Canada. It was
wish to place myseli on the larger and thought that inatters would be ulmpllfted by
cf this vaut
hig'hér ground cf patriotism and cf public keex>lng the French ln oe incorner
anather. and they
onciia-country, and the Engish
and
the province of Quebec Into provinces:
initerest, of fair play, justice adcnia-divlded
tien, acnd express views which cannat hé From that unwlse measure camne meut cf aur
The Legisiature met ln 1791 at
troubles.
contested.
It oannot b. denied that the new by-Iaw Newark. afterwards Niagara, and was composed
of Englishmen. They were severed fram the,
lias changed thé condition cf the Frenchi Fr~ench, but they had a colony of French on the
in t4he sehools cf the province of Ontario western frontier of the pravince of Canalda. what
and that it is a cause ai agiluation, af in now the caunty of Essex. These Frencbmen
number, bout their rights were
were few
national friction whioh must be deplered pratected atinthe second meeting of the Leglulaby ail those who lave their country and tureeof Upper Canada. Thé province was a
areconvinced that peacé and harmony b.- smaë}l ane and peer, and ceuld net alferd even
but
tween thé différent creeds and nationalities ta print the proceedings of its Législature;
the feelings cf their féliuwai Canada are necéssary for its wélfaré and the people regarded réad the resolutien, whlch
Let me
ceuntrymen.
prosperity and fer its future. And if there ls etîli ln nianuscript. The original volume *111
was ever a time when feelings of fratérnity be fourni ln our library. This la thé arder of
should prevail in Canada, it is the présent June 3, 1793: that such Acts as have already
IOrdered
time, when eux mother countries are fight passed, or may hereatter pass the Legisiature
ing se heriocally on the ba.tptléfields cf ef thia province hé translated inta the French
Europe for thé triumph cf Tight and justice, language fer thé benefit of thé Inhabitants of
and other
and oeménting their alliance in the blood thé western district of this province
French settlers whe may corne ta réside w1thin
MeDonald, Esq., cf
and that JAL
of their bravé soldiers, in thé interest aif this province,
civilization and humanity, in ordér te this Heuse, member fer Giengarry, bé likewise
for this or
restoe te certain weak nations and states emj>iayed as a FPrench translater
There is no doubt, ote urposes.'
their natural rights.

main rethé partiprinciplé
ta these
smail peoplés oi théir national lii e. .
Will thére bé only one country, oply one
province w.heré national friction will continue ta exist and will that province b.

hon. gentlemen, that one of the
suits ei 'thé present war will be
tion of Europe, based upon thé
cf nationaliuies, the réstaration

Now, ihis is thé inference hé drew from
that resolutien, and which is bet>tér statéd
than anything I can say:
on ob
Aewoehnrdyaeltr

tanh-aada
ub.
u
ierlt
ls
than thé tew Englishmen, United Empire Lcycilots, who seettled Ontario. No, Sir. This reso0
lution wculd cause shame on men who trled ta
French friends ln thé
nteliget pov-deprive aur thé privilège given 'them province cf
prspéeusand
thé rea, prspeousand
a hundred
nteliget pov-Ontaria of
the rea,
ince ai Ontario? Will Canada aloné give years ago by a body of men altagether speaklng

SENATE
cloquent and good ast deserving to be again
There may have 0tmei
among them onme member front thc western dis- recorded, -but 1 will be content with citing
trict, of F'rench -crigin-pertaps Monsieur tho following cite, which is s0 much in
Baby, who for years was the soie repréenta- accord with the position I take now; it is
tive In the province of Upper Canada of that tie justificationî of-.xny motion, whieh does
portion of the French race wito were living in
Upper Canada. Are we going ta be, lesi liberal? not go further titan these words pronounced
In the narne of by our honourable colleague.
Forbid It, Mr. Speaker.
the Englisit language.

humanlty, In thte name of clvllîration, In tce
naxne of. the progres of titis country, I a.ppeai
to ail our friends a i house, wltitout reference to party. to farget witat may be an Inconvenlence when they go -back to titeir constituents on botti aides, to forget that for a momuent, and to merge everything In thte great desire to make Canada. Frencht and Engllsh, one
people, witbout amy hostile feeling. wittout any
of opinion. furtiter than that whlch
-difference
arises front the différent literatures and the differont stralas of mmnd titat rua always la
different races and which sever thc Scotcitmam
and the IrlsiTiftf fromn the Englishman as much
as it severs the Frencbnian front kthe
Englishmnan. Let us forget titis cry, and
seelng
In
our reward
shall have
we
been
bas
this unfortunate rire wilch extlnguisited
kindled froni so0 snaîl a spark,ý
as wc have been
for ever. and wc shall go on,
going on since 1867, as one people, wlth one object. iookiag to one future. and expecting to lay
the foundation of one great country.

1 took titis ground In the Government. of
which I had the honour or belng the head for a
short trne, and the Goverument of which I
witi a member under other heade, that certain
rlgitis were guaranted by the constitution to
al, %vliatever their race or creed might be. and
iliat theze rights uiîould be resPected at ail
Iin.'.trts. 1 amn stili of that opinion, whether
thec complaInt corne front the ]Protestants of
Lower Canada. or the French half-breeds of the
Northwest, It la a niatter of perfect Indifférence
t> me-it la slmply a question of the constitulion and the maintenance or peace and harnOtiy
throughout the counltry.

They ail declared that oui' national or
religious difficulties should be settled by
way of conciliation.
I think proper now to read an extract
front the eloquent speech made by the
Premier of Quebeo, Sir Lomer Gouin, at
on the motion to abolish the opening o! the Legisiature:
In 1890, speaking
the French language in -the Northwest
I désirs to niake an appeal Ia the naine of the
territories, Sir John eaid:
entire population of Canada--cf Englsh Cana-

dians, Scotch and Iish »s well as French-Canadians--to the Governinent and to the rnajority
of the province of Ontario. In the name of
Justice and of the gaerosity of which Engiand
bas given no msny proofs, and whicb cannot
Som
fait to animate every truiy British citizen, as
wbich our
Please remark hon. gentlemen the words- well as In the name of the struggles civilization
torefathere sustained in> opening to
"equa.lity o! language"-does by-law No. 17 the riait domaine which are our comrnon pstrirespect the views and advice o! theeminent mony, 1 ask that Justice be done to the French
W. bave a constitution now, under whlcit ail

-British subjeto are la a position of absolute
equ5ity, having equai rlghts of every kind,
of language. religion, of property and of per-

minority of Ontario, and thàt if necessary tiey

even generousiy deait

be flot only justiy, but
Six John Thonipson .moved in amend- with. In the name of te sublime expressions
that it bas given to buman thought. 1 ask for
ment to that motion, as follows:
Titat this House. itaving regard to the long
continued use of the Frencht language la old
Canada, and to the covenants on that subject

embodicd in the British Nortit Âmerica Act,
cannot agree to the déclaration contained in the
said Bill as the basis thereof. that it Is expedient la thte interest of thte national unity of the
Dominion that titere should be community of
language amongst te people of Canada.

Sir John Thompson, as you see, hon.
genîtlemen, refused to admit that the comn1111î1ity of lngtage was in the interest o!
tlie national unity of the Dominion.
All the Prime Ministers of Canada, iiicluding our most esteemed colleague, Sir
Mackenzie Bowell, held the saine language
and took the saine position towards the
rights aequired or possessed by minorities.
1 shall take the liberty of quoting the
wvords prorîouîîced by Sir Mackenzie Bowell.*
'Tiiero are mflany things which I could cite,
1
d
,rîaîy quotatioîîs whichi 1 coffl make, ail so
Hon. -Nr. DAVID.

the Frencli language the rigbt to corne to trie
lips of the scbool cildren of Ontario who wish
to iearn and to epcak: IL.

Let us see now how this eloquent appeal
to -fair play and justice was appreciated
by the Journal of Commerce of Montreal:
In titis eloquent passage we have the finest
spirit. of truc Canadianlsai. Canada is a country inhabited by peoples of different maces and

liferent crccds. If is a liand where above nearly
everythlng else, we need toleration and broadIt should not be necessary to
rnindedness.
argue as to the légal rights of minorities. The
majority everywhere, especiaiiy when such delicate questions as those of race or creed arise,
should not ask titentelves, " how little can we
grant to the minority and stili kcep within the
law." but. "itow mucit can we grant, how far
can we go, witout doing injustice to any to
maet the dlaims, the wisites and even the honest
We are confident
prejudices of the rninority?'
that If thte question of thte Frcnch language In
those sections of Onta.rio witere the population
is iargely Frencht Is approacited In the spirit

MARCH 10, 1915

oet forth la Sir Lomer Gouin'as peech, a solution

wlll be found.

The Star of Mon'treal, and other English
papers expressed the marne views and gave
the saine advice.
The News of Toronto, suggested ithat the
meeting of a conference between repreentatives ofi the province of Quebee and'
the Minister of Public Instruction of Ontario be held in order .to corne to some
amicahie arrangement.
8ir Lorner Gouina speech which I have
just read wnm made in support of a-motion
aimilar to the resolution which is now before this Bouse and whiich was xnoved and
seconded in the Quebec Bouse by two
English members, Messra. Bullock and
Finnie.
Let us listen now to the voice of a man
wlio enjoyed during niany years thie coulidonce of the province of Ontario, Sir Oliver
M,'Iowat:
The Frcat-h population contributed to the support of the sehools, and the object sought could
be secured a: thousand times more effectually
by respecting their prejudices, by respectiag
their love for their language, by respocting
their desire that their children should bo taught
their own tongue. than by adoptlng a coorcive
poj.icy (,cheers). Ho wanted the French to loarn
their language, to utudy their language, to read
books ln their language, and ho wanted them
ail to atudy the language and lteratureo f England. The object aimed at couiC nover be accompllshed by exhibiting a spirit of hostiilty to
the French population. Cortalnly not by proscriblng the use of the French ln the schools.
Gleorge Ross said:
It is proper, it la just, It is desirable, it la
natural that the chlldren whose mother tongue
is French should leara the English language by
the inter mediary of his maternai. tongue.

Sir

Sir James Whitney has on record the fôlIowving letter Nvritteil to a priest:
2lth July, 1911.
Reverend and Dear Sir:

I arn directed by the Prime

inister, Sir

James Whitney, to acknowiedge 37our letter of
the 2lst and to state that 'no change has been
made ln the Suhool Law or the Departmentai
Ro.gulations affecting the study of the French
language la the schools.
1 arn directed to point out that the question
is one entirely under the control of the board of
trustees.
(Signei)- A. Hl. U. Colquhon,
Deputy Minister of Ed-ication.

spirit of the provisions regarding educatioil
contalned ln the British North Arnerica ý&x
whlch bas always been regarded as the oducationai settlement.
The requirements that a1tei~ the firet year,
French speaklng pupls must take the ordinary
achool subjects ln the English language, seemis
to me severe and unjust. One does flot need
to be a practical oducator to see that satlafactory resuits in the way of true education catiflot be obtalned from such a systeni.
The rights and privileges of mîpiorities were
very slimply consldered by the fathers of Confederatlon, ai one may see by reforence to the
dibates of 19(b5, and the clauses ln the British
North Axnerica Act viz.: Subsection 1, and
subuection S. of section 93, regardlng these
rlghts and prîvîlegos, shoýuid be loyally respected
and observed.
The freedom of the English rninority ln the
province of Quebec ln regard to its languager
and iti schools bai nover been restricted by
the, French maJority. In fact tuqe Legialature
bas glven to the Protestant Cominittee of the
Councl of Publie Instruction, the power to control the organization of Protestant schools, to
proscribe text books and courses of study, and
genorally to be Independent of the majorlty ln
scliolastic rnatters.
I' trust and hope that a settiemont of the
question ln our sister province may finaiiy be
mnade ln accordance with the sme spirit -of
Justice and right feeling and according to the

true Intont and meanIng of the educational provisions of the British North America, Act.

.The sarne wish and hope bas been -expremsed by many other Engli8h and Irish
gentlemen who have had the courag >e of
protesting against the extreme views of Gmre
of their countrymen. Our Irish compâtriots
cannot forget the patriotic efforts, the stiuggles *and sufferings of their ancestors in
order to preserve their native language and
their national institutions. They cannot but
sympathize with 'thome who, under tihe
empire of the sarne feelings pursue the sarne
patriotic object. And they cannot forget that
in their struggle for Home Rule they, have
had the sympathy of the French Canadians.
fhey cannot forget that in the great calamity
of 1848, when thousands of Irishrnen died
on our shores, -hundreds of their poor chuldren were harboured, brought up and educated by our priests and French families.
1 could namne meveral of those cildren who,
owing te that protection, have prospered and
become good and emninent citizens. The
French Canadians think they have good
reason te rely upon the sympathy' of the
Irish population, when following their example they vindicate their rights.
Mir. IL. O'Hagan at a conference lu Mont-al. gavco soine very irîteresting statîstics
in this connection. He said:

Please now give your attention to the
opinion expressed by the late Hon. M. MacKenzie, ex-treasurer of the province of
Quebec, in a letter written tw'o years before
*his death, and published lately by Le
Ia Wales 46 per cent speak the Weish toague.
Devoir. of Montreal:
and the natural language is taught to the
chlldren. In Ireland 641,000 speak the Irish
I amn fully coavincod that the new regulatlons of the Dopartment of Education ln On- language, which is now an obligatory language
tario are contrary te the latent, meaning and

for matriculation gpnd graýduation ln the Nati-

S-5
RxVISan EDMTON

SENATE
irom the Atlantic ta the
Pacifie, and irom Hudson bay ta the waters
ai the Mississippi, which have been iminortalized by the courage, the heroism ai'
our ancestars, had a soul and could speak,
they would ask us ta preserve the civilized
language whieh first brake the silence ai
their vast solitude, and their tangue, vould,
in truth, be French. It is the language by
which we were taught ta adore and pray
God, and ta cherish British institutians and
British liberty; the language spoken by all
kings and princes ai Europe, by the Royal
Dr..Foran has been kind enough to send Family, by. all the eminent gentlemen who
me an extract of a patriotic article pub- came fram England ta govern aur country,
lished by Thomias Osborne Davis, a true the language spoken with so much elegance
patriot. uncle of aur colleague, Senator by H. R. H. the Duke ai Cannaught and his
Davis, in the Nation, No. 1843, which extract noble family, the language used by the
reads as follows:
great men who have enriched and adorned
The language which grows up with a people the intellectual world with sa many liter ery
I. conformed ta their organe, descriptive af their jewels.
clima.te, constitution and inanners, mlngled InThe French Canadians ai Ontario know
separably with their history and their soli.
any other language to express their that their ancestars have foughi. and suiferfitted above
prevalent thoughts In the most natural and effi- ed and have very aften shed their bliod t-:
cient way. To impose any other language on transmit ta their descendant,; that rnost
auch a people la ta send their history adrift preciaus part ai their heritage. their Janamangut the accident af translations. A people
without * tanguage of ats own in only hait a guage. Is it not cruel ta askc theni ta
nation. A nation shouMd guard lit language
abandon that treasure, to do what they
an act ai cowardice and ai
Alter having made the bistory af the Irish would consider
troubles and struggles, Mr. treason?
language, its
Let us suppose for a moment that tihe QueDavis cancludes by the follawing elaquent
'bec Parlisment would umdertake, whetfier
words:
legally or not, ta aboliah the teaching ai
It~e language was no characterlstlc of the English in the schoals ai the province ai
race that the moat fearful extreines were renorted ta In order ta abolleh it, because it pre- Quebec. What would the British people say?
served ats history, embaimed their traditions What would they do? Do you think that
and perpetuated their natianhaad.
the people ai Ontario would remain indiffer1 amn sure that aur esteemed colleagUe ent and sulent? No, no!
Who would dare in any part ai the world
thinks and feels on that question as his disdeprive English children ai their right of
tinguished. uncle did.
tangue, ai
Hon. gentlemen, we French people have being taught in their maternal
extent using the language which has been the
aur faults, which resemble ta a great
those ai the Irish; we are a littie too quick vehicle through the world aof social snd
by
and impressionable, but we are always ready palitical freedoni, the language spoken
soie ai the greatest poets, histarians and
ta sympathize with those who suifer, who
are un-happy or ill-treated. We are faith- speakers ai the world! Milton, Shakespeare,
ful ta aur religiaus and national traditions, Macaulay, Chatham, Pitt, Fox, Burke,
and if we were not, we would be justly de- O'Connell, Gladstone and many others.
Do you not thik, hon. gentlemen, that
spised by aur English and Irish countryby the most the occasion is favourable ta apply the
nmen. And it has been affirmed
unta others what you
eminent men in England that the diversity golden rule: "Do not
do unto you '! I
af nationalities was an element of progress would not have others
admit that if it could be alleged and proven
We lové aur maternai
and civilization.
ai the French
language and we want ta preserve it, be- that the use and the teaching
it is the language which was spoken in the province ai Ontario would be detricause
by the discoverers ai this country, by the mental ta the efficiency af the acholar
progress, it
courageaus pioneera who left everywhere system and ta its intellectual
-e through would be damageable ta aur cause, but who
gloriaus traces ai their passag
The
British North America. The fact is that if can seriously make such an assertion?
and the-land8, the foreSta and public men ai Ontario are too intelligent and
all the seas,
Bon. Mr. DAVID
anal University of Ireland. Last summer 14
colleges in Ireland gave course ini Irish during
the months of July and August. In the month
of December 1910 lt was announced that there
were 181 schools In Ireland In which complete
courses of ntudy were given in bath -Irish and
Engllah. In Scatland 250,000 speak the Gaelic
tangue; and in the Islands there are many
schoola for the teachlng of this language. Hie
cites, what ln taklng place in the Channel
Islands, in Malta, In fwitzerland. in Austria. In
Sweden. In Swltzerland especlaliy, where there
are three languages-German. French and
.Italien, which are taught In the schools. But It
wouid take me too long ta cite them ail.

the mountains

MARCH 10, 1915

have tee much experience not to be able writers of France, on the question of nationto give satisfaction to the French people alities. 1 cali the attention of my hon.
colleagues to the following extract from
without imparing their echools.
And ie it necessary to demionstrate that thtat reinarkable productionNations are particular, speclal. original orgathe use and teaching of two languages instead of being an element of weakness for a finim, whlch wild prosper and thrive only ln go
and mafeprovince or a country, is rather an element far as their autonemny ia respecteS
it would flot lie weil for Europe to be domninof progrese. of inteflectual developmentP
even
Engii.h or the Russian
Who will deny the advantage for a man or a ated by thenation. Thle European spiritorshould
people of having at hie disposai, in order te the F'rench exist, but It would precisely be the
devlophisintllgene, he cintiiclitr-no doubt the Engiah spirit, the Russian spirit
deveop is
ntelignce th scentfie lier-respect of
ary and pooticai treasures cf twO greît or the Frenchi spirit and of their differences,
their liberties.
te
nations? Has the bi-lingual school system that la tiret geay' of cf General Joffre te fthe Alesbeen detrimental te the moral and inteilec- ,The was : Word will respect your traditions."
" We
elans
te Blgias, hat eop
tualprogessof
oftheBelgans tht popl ofHe .polke. viien speaking thug, a truli> phiiosotuaiprorea
by
heroes' Net only in war but aise in mechan- Phical langUage. a language inspired even the
the.
No nation, mlot
ice, industrial and fine arts, they 'have nhl'oeophy of hlstory:imposeS its yeke without
han
tey tat infrio teno atin. ]onvin natien,original civilisations. which flot
provdtat ereinfeiorto n nai
extîngishing
heywer
provd
It bas been said that the French speken cnly liai the rIght te live but had te live ln the
and taught in the province cf Quebec and gesteral TtIntereet of humnanity. A nation la a
be sevthat
la
generally in Canada was bad and broken torch.lumninousimportant ln the there shouldthe Gerworld. If
centres
eral
were to doininate, twenty national
French. Alas! how many extravagant things man spirit
have been said on both sides, and ivho spirits woiaid be extinguished anS destroyed. 1
'veuid be entitled te throw the first atone. n at R loss te sece how Europe and humnanlty
have cnly te would benefit thereby.
reel
but o tat aseri1
huranity lis with us. it le because It lntht aserionIf
butte epe
remark that if it ware true the books etinctively feels that seversi of lit vitals are at
and the speeches cf our poets, writera stalce and would lie annihilated ln thec event of
Uldees
established.
and oraters 'would net be appreited Geilual suuremacy belng out several *y« of
wente te put
Geriny and replace themn b> one eye or
.nPue
and praised as they 9re in-niFiII
1 ould naine a number of them. cyclopa.
Weli, using thle language cf Mr. Faguet,
But 1 do not think it is iiecessary. Let
me recali only that three er feur years ago I say that we have in Canada, two lights,
a great demonstration teck place ini France two great national lighta and that we cannet
hrwtou
rte
te celebrate the erecticn cf a monument toexigshteoe
andthe
r eoter
Montcalm. Great speakers were heard, but afetingis routhe
the audience that future of our country.
it wae aeknewledged by
eallhtl
mrprt
ontth~I
the best speech had been made by a French
hti
orcl
1d o hn tipoe
Canadian eur celleague, Hon. Mr. Dan- 1888. speaking in the Legisiative Assemb>'
durand. And lately at the immense demontoc plce a Nore Dmecf Quebec on the question of nationalities,
straion hic
olw
yte
m pec
de Lourdes in France, the two most ad- Iwocds:
and applauded speakers were two wrs
mired
1 have ne ieelitation ln deelaring that even If
ad
Gauther Heri
twere lu my power te abollsh the Engllsh
French Canadians, Mgr. GuheanHnr
îailonallty lu the province of Quebec I would
Bourassa.
refuse the it. because of extlngulshlug to
Hcn. Mr. CLORAN-He wvas not a Nation- asturneto dorespenulblllty I would .not likeoe
of the. iighta ef Canada and of the whole worid.
aliet then.
Yeu see, hon. gentlemen, that auy views
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I cannot deny his
aîbility, althouglh I do îîot approve of ail the on that question are not new. It is because
the great statesmen of England bave put
opinions hie expresses.
Where did those eminent writers aud into practice those views in ail the British
oraters receive their formation? In cur possessions that we see thousands of people
schools, in our celleges. As to the illiteritte running from ail parts cf the British Empopulation, it bas been acknowledged by pire, even frcm South Africa, to the battieeminent French writers that if the accent fields of Europe in order ta help the Mother
je rude and bard the French je geod, better Country. De you think that we would conthan it je in several departmnents cf France. template such a display cf loyalty if everyThe Canada cf Montreal has publisbed a where, in ail the British Empire, national
few days. ago, the views expressed by Mr. rights and traditions were not respected'
Faguet, one cf the meet brilliant French Justice, fair play, and toleration are the
8--"

SENATE

best guardians af the British power in the
world and I hope that Canada will not be
the only country where they will not prevail.
Do not farget, hon, gentlemen, the lessons
of histary; do nat forget that a national injustice is a seed ai discord and may be
compared ta a maliciaus cancer which may
ultimately endanger the whole system. Is
not ta a great extent, thé present war, the
horrible conflict which terrifies the universe,
the result of the cruel spoliation ai the
French territory?
.We are proud af aur country, we entertain a high opinion af its destinies, and it
is our bounden duty ta avaid ail which may
jeopardize its gloriaus future.
1 do not feel inclined ta consider now the
question in its legal and constitutional
aspect, although it hias been establiqhed by
eminent lawyers that the spirit and a reasonable interpretatian af the treaty af 176.3,
-oi the Act ai Quebec af 177d4 and af the
Federal Act of 1867 entitie the French Canadians ai Ontario ta the teachinug ai the
French in the achools ai that province. 1
prefer ta remain in the limits af the resoluLion and. ta. say that there is a law above
ail other laws: it is the law ai nature, which
makes a. man, a people, love, cherish and
keep as a sacred treasure ahl the characteriutic elements of its national ity. Nobody
will.deny that the national language is one
ai those elements.
Triere is another law, a Divine law, wvhich
was edicted by Christ himseli, when he said
ta His Apostles: " Lave ye ane another as
I haveloved you."
There was neyer a time xvhen it was more
ta address and repeat those sublime
-propef
words ta Canadians and even ta the citizens
af thLe whole Empire and ta apply that noble
precept not anly for charitable purposes,
but also for patriatic purpases, in order thiat
being united they be strong- enough ta do
what the interest ai Canada and af the
whole Empire requires. If the union ai the
French and the Eng-lish is now se beneficial
ta their influence in the world and useful te
civilization and mankind it is nat less necessary here for the welf are and prosperitv o!
the country and for its gloriaus destinies.
Those who leave aur country, be they
English, Scotch, Irish or French, ta go and
fight aide by aide an the battieflelds ai
Europe give us a lesson, an example which
we ought ta fol]ow. If we are net called
ta shed, aur blood as they do, we ought at
least ta have enough patriotism ta avoid
national quarrels'equally dangerous ta Canada and ta the British Empire.
Hon. Mr. DAVID.

Really the time is iii chosen to give to
the world the spectacle of aur divisions,
when we are preparing to receive ail the
unfortunate people who aiter the war will
seek a refuge on our shores-a place where
they would find peace, justice and fair play
and the respect due their religions and
national traditions.
Do nat you think, hon. gentlemen. th.at
they will fear ta enter into a country
trouhled by internaI divisions aiià whIere
theyw~ill have reasan ta thînk that thiey cau
nat flnd the rest which they so much desire?
There are naw millions of people who pray
the God of war, let us in Canada pray the
God af peace who lias been so good ta ns;
let us sacrifice on its altars aur national aiîd
religious prejudices in order that wve inay
continue ta live and prosper in peace and
liarrnony. 1 hope tlîat the lion. menibere
of tliis Hoîise will not liesitate ta give
patriotic evidence af their spirit af conciliation and fair play by vating for a resolution
whieli einbodies the views af ail those wha
put the geoneral interest and welf are af aur
country above ail other considerations
1 hope that it will flot be contended that
the Senate should not intervene in such a
matter, that it cannat appeal ta the generasity, tu the patriotism, ta the noblest feelings af aur people. It would be a bad precedent, a blow ta the high opinion which we
ought ta have of the functians and of the
noble mission af aur Chamber.
A wvîsh, a prayer, are always in order, and
welcome ta God and ta man.
lion. Mr. McHUGH-In seconding this
resolution I do so on account of the broad
and generous wording of it, and because of
the confidence I have in the judgrnent and
good sense of the mover ta do and to say
only that which maires for peace and liarmany.
Let it be understood that this is net an
atternpt to invade provincial autononîy. but
ratiier in the iorm af an appeal for full investig-ation by lawfully constituted authority
ini the hope that a solutioni of this disturbiiig question may be reaclied, a settleînent
tlîat Nvill let us hope commend itself ta the
gaood sense af the -fair -minded who on one
side or the other feel interested in it.
The question is not insoluble, and if
I)ressed home ta aur public men 1 have unhounded confidence in their ability ta flnd
a solution based on justice. Such a séttlemuent niay flot satisiy the extremist on
either side, but ail reasonable people wil]
I arn sure welcome a settiement that wiIl
reinove the present unrest.

AMARCH 10, 1915

The French people love their language, it
ie like asking themn ta silence conscience to
ask that they forego the teaching of it ta
their own children.
I concede the right and een the neceseity of the state ta look aiter the education
of Our youth.
The child muet have instruction, and that
in no mean degree, if the man ie ta earn
for himself an honest competence, and
acquit bimself of the duties which, for its
own lufe and prosperity society exacts froni
ail its members.
The family is one of the oldest orgafiizations in the world, therefore do I say the
imparting of such instruction is primarily
the function of the parent. The Divine
appaintment is that under the care and
direction of the parent the child shaîl grow
The state
in mind as well as in body.
muet coine iorward as an agent af instruction, but only when the parent refuses or
negleets his duty, even then first principles
should not be forgotten, since as I have
already said instruction is primarly the
function of the parent; the parent passesses the righit ta educate his child in the
manner agreeable ta himseli, provided always that the education given in this manner suffices ta fit the child for hie ulterior
duties ta society. 1 do not purpose entering inta details refarding the bi-lingual
issue, nor do I expect that I could throw
much light on it at present. However, I
muet say that my sympathies go out very
strongly ta my fellow citizens af the French
Canadian minority in the province af
Ontario whien I note the generaus manner
in whîch they deal in Quebec with the English speaking rninority. I cannot but wish
that their exaniple could without injustice
ta others be emnulated in my own province.
At Confederation certain rights in regard
ta the English language wvas guaranteed ta
the minority of the province of Quebec at
the sanie time similar rights ta the French
language were guaranteed ta the iiiinoritv
af the province af Ontario.
Let me hiere read ta you an extract from
a recently published lufe af Sir George E.
Cartier, you will then see what Sir George
E. Cartier and Sir John A. 'Macdonald hiad
ta say for the protection nf Englisli in Que.
bec and French in Ontario at a tiîne when
these provinces were about ta enter into
Canfederation. In ansver ta a question ai
Dorîon's hie said:
Cartier, 4owever, apparently -feit tha.t the
spirit of fair-play and of justice amonget the
English-speaklng members of the Government
and of Parliament would always be sufficlently

strong ta assure fair treataient for the French
Canadian representation In the Federal Pariamen'- thouîlh the latter would be In a mtinorlty.
It was also explicltely stated by bath Cartier
and Macdonald durlng the discussion that *teps
had been taken ta guarantee the cohtlnued use
of the French language. Dorlon had expressedl
the view that there was no guarantee for thie
contlnuanoe of the language of the French
Canadien@ but the will and the forbearance of
thé mnajorltY. John ALMacdonald In answer ta
thîs emphatlcally deolared that It h&d been proposed and assentedl ta by the deputation f ram
each province that the use of the French language should f ormn one of the principles upon
whlch Confederation should be establlshted and
that Its use would bc guaranteed by the Impertl Ac~t.
To the remarks of his colleague Cartier
addeui: "I will add ta what bas been sta.ted by
the honaurable Attorney General for Upper Canada that Il was also necessary ta proteet the
English minorlty In Lower Canada wlth respect
ta the une of thelr language, because In the
lerai Parliarnent of Lower Canada the niajarity
wiIl be pomposed of French Canadians. The
membhers of the conference were destraus that
lt should nat beý In the power of that rnajorlty
te (peee the abolition of the use of the English
la2lgupre in the Legislature of Lower Canada
ans' more t-han lt will be In the power of the
Federa Logisiature ta do so with respect to the
French language. 1 wlll saso add that the usé
of bath languages will be secured In the Imperl ai Act, ta be baaed on those resolutlons.'
Th, lt wiot merle perfectly plain by the two
leaders that Confederation was ta haéestablished
on the princîple of perfect equality between the

two great races of tht country.
Thes. remarks by sncb éminent statesmen of that day le, I think, reasonably conclusive evidence that the French Canadien
minority were ta 'have some rights in regard
ta liheir language in the province ci Ontario in the Dominion that was then, about
to be created.
I desire now ta quate for this honourable
Chamiber the words of Dr. J. K. Foran K.C.,
delivered last St. Patrick's day in St.
George's Anglican church in this city.
This was some inonthe before the outbreak of the presént war, and de1ivered. by
a man w'ho bas consecrated hie pen and
voice for many long years past ta this
very cause. On the occasion referréd ta,
Dr. Foran said as follows:
*"Itlai In 'the Interests of the flupire 1
speak. We have heard and read, an ail aides

the praises of French Canadian loyality; lt has
bacc establishod by facto that are Indellbly
wrltten In the histary of Canada; and were we
ta find the Empire In danger to-morrow thase
facto would. be repeated from one end of Can.ada ta the other, wherever a French Canadian
la ta be faund. Did you ever ask yoursalves
what was the source of that extraordinary
loyalty ta the Empire on the part of a people
whase ancestors were the pioneers of Canada
but whose ald xnotherland was France? Permit
me ta tell you whence cames that fervent
loyalty. It bas its arigin in the gratitude of
the French-Canadian for liberty accorded and

1SENATE
one side and some on the otber. I have
eo
every respect for the opinions of bot.
long as I believe tixose opinions are hionestiy held. 'but there is anotxer é4ass of
writers -for whoan I cannot say as mueh,
that is tihe anonymous quill driver. I have
received soene sucli letters. I saw one in
a locewl paper ini my own town, aigned
««Anglo f3axon," dh.arging inconsistency in
my attitude on t-his question, and on the
Manitoba Sehool Bill of 1896. 1 plead net
guilty te tihe charge. On the Manitoba
Schoo'l Bill, I asked for investigation, conciliation, and generous treatment for the
minority, and that is uxy appeai to-day on
this resolution.
" Justice"- and -"Truth- are other gentlemen who have done me the honour of
Ietting me know what they think of my
action on this question. Let me just say
that Anglo-Saxon, justice and truth are al
names for w'ebich 1 have the greatest of
It is this sentiment so -weIl expressed rby respet; but for those who make of theni a
Dr. Foran it seems to me that underlies the
harour of refuge behind whichi to conceal
whole issue.
their identity, when making att.acks, for
There is in the learned doctor's words a such people I have very littie respect. Let
strong plea for unity, for loyalty, and for me say te such, pull off the mask of conpatriotisma-unity of our people, loyalty ceaiment, then- we will know w'hat weighit
to our Sovereign, and patriotism to our to give te your opinions.
country. What magic there is in that word
I arn aware that in certain districts fric«Ipatriotism " Praise it as you Will, you
tion exista between the teaching of French
cannot go beyond its deserts, for is it not it and English in the schools; this is to be
that impels our young -mnen at the present regretted, and let me say here again that
time to endure the 'hardships and face the this is another strong reason why we sixould
dangers of this terrible war, doing ail this make en honest effort te solve the problem.
for the freedom of manltind and the glory
It bas been stated in some quarters that
of their countTy?
or French teaching will ho detri*wio would bi-linguai teaching of English in our public
1 have to differ with those
mental to
treat thîs as a religious question. I do not and separa-te schools.
see it as such, it is purely hi-lingual or
This should not, and must not ha parnational to both.
mitted. I aay this in behaîf of the EnglishI have treated it as a matter concerning spaaking people of the province of Ontario.
the family, the family -being the very
Let me now say that if the French-Canafoundation of society-a father's and a dian minority of that province have rights
mother's affair.
in regard te their language, these rights
The child should be taug-ht so that on hia should be respectad. I think that undar the
return home from sehool hae may be able British North America Act thay have rights,
to explain to bis parents in their own ian- but I arn not discussing this from a legal
guage the progress Ihe has mxade.
1 know they have a much
standpoint.
There may be difficulties in the way; I
strongar right, the Tight of conscience.
arn free to admit~ that, there are serious
is a right that no man should ba asked,
difficuities, -but w'ho wi¶Il deny that unrest This
much less compalied to do violence to.
exists-unrest that should be removed.
It was the force of the plea for freedom
Under these circumstances are we to be
when the
when it is incumbent of conscience that pravailed
stopped by difficulties
Roman Catholic minority of Upper Canada
on us to reacli the goal?
ware granited separate schools.
Since this resolution was placed on the
I remember the fears that were expressad
House, I have
Order Paper of this hon.
and tha cries that wera raised during that
seen a -good deal concerniflg Al in the press.
One argument usad was, that if
Men of great respectability, high standing struggle.
-schooi
on it, some on yen separated the children in their
and learned, have written

guaranteed to themn by the Constitution. and
lnx that peculiar senne of duty which la a
chs.racteristic of their teachlngs.
"1Do you flot think that we are on the verge,
right here ln Ontario to-day. of up-rooting one
o' the sources of that loyaity? Are we flot
running the great risk of effacing that feeling of
gratitude and that sentiment of confidence ln
those who adminlater the provisions of that
Constitution, in the hearta of that same people?
liefiect upon lt from that point of view. In It
ln the interests of Canada, or ia it ln the greater
interests of the Empire that aught should bo
dons to weaken, even ln the sllghtent manner.
that bond of union which maires for soiidarity
and harmony?
"My questions need only to be asked. 1 do
not require to dweli upon the obvious reply. It
a point ia to be strained ln any direction, should
it not be ln favour of drawing tighter bonds of
union between all elements ln Canada-for the,
mutual pro.perlty of every section of this Dominion. and for the greater atability of the
-%bole Empire. Think it over: la It not worth
while no acting that Canada may he enabled
to set another column ln the grand Temple of
Empire-a column that no Samnson of prejudice
or Intolerance can ever shake?"

HON. Mr. McHUCH.

MARCH 10, 1915
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS moved that the
days, you placed a chasm between them
that could neyer be bridged over. Has not debate be adjourned until Tuesday next.
the unity of our people, at all times, proven
The motion was agreed to.
the fallacy of this assertion? It was said,
toc, that a system of separate achools would PROHIBITION 0F NET FISHING IN
destroy the little red ichool, and with its
LAKE 0F TWVO MOUNTAINS.
destruction the whole public school syatemn
MOTION.
wss in danger. Ha. not the experience of
over fifty years proven how utterly groundthe Day being called:
The Order of
leas was this fear? The word went forth
By> Hon. Mr. BOYER:
that the petitioners for and supporters of
That en hunme address be presented to Ris
separate schools were the enemies of the
Hlghness the Governor
public scbool. Speaking as one of -the peti- Royai Hia Royal Highnesa General, praylng
mibmlt to the
.that
tioners for and a supporter o! the separate Senate, copies of ail correspondence. telegrams
schools, I deny that statement. We are not and documents exchanged between the Departthe enemies of the public achool. We recog- ment of Marine and Flaherles and the Minster.
Department of
Service
nize with pleasure the noble work it is doing of the Naval Mines andand the
Fisherles of the. provColonisation.
in the direction of dispelling mental dark- ince of Quebe. relating to the rescindlng of the.
neas; we say, "*withered b. the hand and proilbition of net fishing ln the waters of the
and
the 'tongue that would Lake of Two Mountains, St. Francispassed St.
pained be
ln
(197)
Ver Order in
we
want Louis, asThursday. 28th Council January, 1915.
it;"
against
aught
aay
day of
Ottawa,
to
allies,
we
want
to
be
your
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does the- hon.
emulate and even excel you if we
can, in all that you are doing for gentleman submit this as a question or does
the spread of secular knowledge and, he propose mnaking observations on it?
afteT having donc that w~e want to go one
Hon. Mr. BOYER-I would lik.e to get
step further. WVe want freedom of conscience the papers first.
to give our cbildren religions instruction.
Now, alter fifty odd years o! experience, ca~n *Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I should be glad
any one be found bold enough to say that to read to my hon. friend what the departthe separate sehool system has ever been a ment states upon the subjeot.
menace to the public school, or that the
The SPEAKER-I suppose the proper way
public school, bas ever been a menace to the would be to have the motion addpted. The
separate scbool? The answer must be in the~ hon. member asks for an address, and if
negative. Under separate management, each adopted thîs address will be presented.
having its own board, both have flourished.
Hon. Mr. BOYER-Then I move that the
Friendly rivalry there has been, but this motion be adopted.
only served as a stimulus for greater efforts
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If my hon.
on the part of both.
Would it not 1Ëe within the bounds of pos- friend should desire to avail himself -if
sibility, without injury to existing systema, the information which I have, and which
to edd another; eaU it bi-lingual or French, I presume covers the points on which he
if you will, but let it be an additional want8 information, I should be very glad to
stimulus for greater efforts on the part of lay it on the table. It reada as follows:
all. I care not w~hat the solution may be, Re Correspondence relating to cancellation of
prohibition of Net F'iahing ln Lake
se long as it doea not impair exîsting
of Two Mountains.
systems, and that it solves the problem of
On the 12th January last, the Minister ut
freedoni of conscience for the Ontario
Colonisation, Mines and Fisheries at Quebec.
nlinority.
wrote urglng thst the regulation whlch, as it
Freedoîn of conscience for the religions then exieted, prevented net fishing ln Lake of
niinority of Upper Canada (now Ontario), Two Mountains as well as ln other waters,
was obtained only by the support it received should be amended so as to aliow net fishing ln
lake. Hie Intlmated
representations
from the Frencli-Canadian members of that bcen made to hlm that that fishermen ln the
the
had
13
y their iocality were in a precarious position, and If
Lower Canada (now Quebec).
votes on that occasion, 1 was qiven the they were allowed to carry on a llmlted amnount
right wvhich I availed myseif of, viz., the of net lishing until the spring It wouid help
right to educate niy children as my theqn a great deal. government is administerAs the provincial
conscience directed. For thîs right I have ing the fisherles in the non-tidal waters of the
always feit grateful.C
province. and as It could prevent over-finhlng
I will show my appreciation by support- by restrioting the number of licenses, there
seemed no objection to havýng the reg'ilatlon
irfg this resolution.

SENATE

amended so as té aUkow such net fishIng. lHence.
this was done by Order ia Council cf the 28th
January ultJmo.

The motion was agreed te.
CANADIAN PATRIOTIC FUND ACT, 1914.
AMENDMENT BILL.
REPORTED

FXtOM COMMITTEZ

The House resolved iteh inte Committee of the Whole on: Bill (39) "An Act te
amend the Canadian Patriotic Fund Act,
1914."--(Hon. Mr. Loughheed.>
On clause 1:
Hon. Mr. 'BOSTOCK-The hon. leader
said yesterday ini discussing this clause
that Newrfoundland people were engaged ini
the Naval service. Can hie tell us on what
particular boatsP
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, I arn sorry
1 cannot tell my hon. friend. I think they
entered inte the service of Canada just as
if they were Canadians, but I understand
they are engaged chiefly in the Naval
By the time we reach the third
service.
reading, if my hon. friend desires f urther
information, I shaîl make inquiry.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Under the present
agreement does the Naval service include
the Fisheries -ýserviceP
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, that is a
separate service.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I thought they had
been amalgamated.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is obvieus
that those -sailors are net in the Fisheries
service.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Oh ne, they are
in active service.
The clause was adopted.

-lia. Nothing shail render Ineligible, as
aforesaid, any Person serving ln the naval or
mniiitary forces of Canada, or in any other of
the naval or milltary forces of the Crown. wtiile
such forces are on active service ln conseqluence
of any war. and receling salary, pay or s.Ilowance as a member of iuch forces wbHe on such
active service."

Hon. Mr.BOYER-In regard to this clause,
paragraph la, the question was debated
in the House of Commons and it was stated
that there were some Canadian members
cf Parliament who were actually serving in
the forces of the Allies; Dr. Beland's case
The question was put
was mentioned.
whether this amendment te the Senate and
House cf Gommonis Act would cover Dr.
Beland's case, and if 1 arn rightly informed
the Minîster cf Justice said no, but that
the Bill would be amended se that it would
cover any Canadian serving with the Allies.
Here we only mention -naval or miilitary
forces cf Canada, or in any other cf the
naval or military forces cf the Crown."'
Surely serving one's country in Belg-iumn is
servinga the interest cf the Allies, and this
Bill should be made to cover the case cf
any Canadian on the Continent.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-ýI would say te
my hon: f riend in answer te that, while the
point he has raised is new it would be unnecessary te make such a provision, because
as my hon. friend. very well knows that to
accept any remuneration from the Crown
w ould operate as a disability on a nienber
of Parliament, yet a member cf the Canadian Parliament could receive emolument
fromn any foreign government. This applies,
and could only apply, within the scope cf
our own Act; consequently it is net necessary te make provision cf that chariiter.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-When this Bill was
up for second reading yesterday I raised
the question with mny hion. friend as te
Hon. Mr. Bolduc from the Cornmittee whether this had any bearing in relation te
the inembers cf the Senate. 0f course, we
reported the Bill without amendment.
know at present that none cf the niemibers
SENATE AND HOUSE 0F COMMO NS
of the Senate have gene te the front, but 1
ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
know ne reason why some of tliern should
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
neot possibly do se, if they wished.
The House resolved itself inte Cemmittee
ny hion.
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will
of the Whole on: Bill (57) "An Act te friend give us the names?
amend the Senate and House cf Cemmons
Act."-(Hon. Mr. Loughheed.)
lien. Mr. BOSTOCK-We have the lion.
and gallant member from Toronte who I
On clause 1:
understand is a colonel, and he mighit wish
1. TPhe Senate and House cf Cemmons Act, te take part at the head cf his regiment.
10. As
Revised Statutes of Canada, 1906, chapter
amended by inserting lrmeédiately after section
11 the following Section:
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

lion. Mr. DENNIS-Colenel Taylor.

MARCH il, 1915
tion of this Act might bhe looked upon as
excluding sudit a case.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Becauso we have
no officiai information as to the. services
which Dr. Beiand is rondering. Titis Governflient couid not have any officiai in-formation s to the capacity ini whioh lie is
ac.ting, but we have officiai information as
to our own men vite are acting in the service of thei Crcxwn, and =y hon. f riend willi
readily se. the.difliculties wthicii couid arise
if ve made a generai provision of that character.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I see.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL from the committee,
Hon. Sir MALCKENZIE BOWELL-I miglrt reported the Bill without amendment.
suggest to my hon. friend who raised the.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
question as to Dr. Beland that if the law
Bill (H), An Act respecting the. Grain
which ié proposed does net cover hua case
it is very easy to nieet the case by placing Growers' Grain Company, Lixited.-Hon.
an item in the Estimates, as has been don. Mr. Pope.
Bill No. 17, An Act respecting the Canoftoen before, te cover membors vito are
absent fromi sickness or otiter causes. I adian Pacific Raiqway Oompany.-Hon. Mr.
am quite sure the leader cf the. Sonate vill Young.
Bil No. 29, An Act respecting the Van
call the attention o! has colleagues te that
f act. If there is the eligitteat doubt in the. Buron Bridge CJompany.-Hou. Mr. Derby.
mimd o! the Minister of Justice on that shire.
peint sucit sum wull be put ini the. EstiTHIRD READING.
mates.
Bill (B), An Act respecting the PolluThe clause -was adepted.
tion cf Navigable Waters.-Hon. Mr. Belcourt.
On clause 3:
3. The. said Act la amended by inserting the
The Sena-te adjourned until three o'clock
fo:lowlng section immediately after section Sa to-morrow.
thereof:

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The Speaker is also,
1 understand, a military man. 1 do not
think that this clause woubd cever a case
of that kind.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems te me to
b. unnecessary te an*ticipate what will not
probably or possibly arise. I fancy there
fa very littie probability of any hon. gentleman in this House reqniring te, ivoke such
a clause as that whicit we are now considering. However, as my hon. friend wi observe, section il only deals witit the mombers of. the Houa. o! Commons, and if circunistancea ehould create such a condition
as titat pointed out by my honi. friend 1
can assure hlm w. should ho only too glad
te brin.- down the necessary legisîstion.

"36a. In the caiculation of any deduction
frorn any meznber'a stissional allowance on account of absence. days which were apent by such
member In the naval or miiitary forces of Cana-da or tIn any~ other of the naval or mliltary
forces of thre Crown whie sucir forces are on
active service tin consequence oft any war, shali
flot be cormputed."

THE SEKATE.

Thursday, March 11, 1915.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I would caîl the attenPrayers and routine proceedings.
tion of the hon. leader of the Houa. to the.
fact that clause 36a could not possibby ap- OTTAWA AND NEW YORK RAILWAY
COMPANY. BILL.
-ply to any one in the Belgium service; It
appqlies expressly te the forces of the
AMENDMENT CONCURRED IN.
Crown.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE, from the Committee
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No; the point is on Railways. Telegraphs and Harbours, tethat if the indemnity cf Dr. Eeland aheuid ported Bill No. 24, An Act respecting the
im it cau be placed in the Esti- Ottawa and New York Railway Company,
hoe paid
mates, and if a representation of that char- with an amendment.
acter is made te the Government I have ne
He said: The object cf the Bill is te
doubt that very favourable consideration authorize this railway to bease its lin., te
would be given te ut.
the New York Central. The Bibl as passed
SHon. Mr. KERR-W-hy should net tite by tite House cf Commons .provided for a
Act 'ho made eomplete? Because tite adop- terni of ton years. The committee passod an

SEINATE

amendment su'bstituting a terma of 21 years
lor t.he term ai 10 years fixed by -the Gommons. The committee was informed thiat
the Minister af Railways had given his consent ta this amendment. I =ove that tihe
amendment b. concurred in.
The -motion was agreed ta.
SEED

GRAIN PURCH1ASED BY THE
GOVERNMENT- IN 1914,.
MOTION.

The notice of inquiry being called:
Hon. Mr. DAVIS inquired:
1. How much wheat, oats and barley has the.

Dominion Government purchased in 1914 for
seed to be distributed in the West giving the
amount of each kind.
2. Where ias aid grain stored, and what rate
of storage la the. Government paying on sarne?
3. How much did the Government pay per
bushel for oats, barley and wheat purchased for
.ald provinces, and when was said grain purchazed?
4. Have tbey given a contract for cieaning
said grain, and ta whom, and at what price?

by the Feders.l Government for the purposes of
agriculture during the years 1909. 1910 and
1911, respectively.
6. Â statement of the ainaunt granted and
pald to each of the provinces of the. Dominion
by the. Federal Government for the purposes 0f
agriculture during the yearg 1912, 1913 and
1914, respectlvely.
7. A full and det&iled statement of ail amounts
apent for the purposes of agriculture by the
Flederal Goverfiment ln the. province of Nova
Scotia, during each of the yeara 1909. 1910,
1911, 1912. 1913 and 1914.
S. A full a.nd detailed statement of ail amounté
fromn Federal grants to the province of Nova
Scotia upent by the provincial Government of
aid province under the direction of or agreement with the Federa! Government or DePartment of Agriculture durtng each of the yearis
1909, 1910, 1911, 1912, 1913 a.nd 1914. respectlvely.
9. Copies of all agreements entered Into between the Federal Governinent or Department
of Agrlcllture and the government of Nova
sSotia with respect to the expenýditure of Pederai
grants ta agriculture ln aaid province durlng
the years 1912, 1913 and 1914, respectively.
10. Copies of ail reporte from the government
of Nova Scotia to the Federal Government or
Department of Agriculture wih respect ta agriculture and the expenditlire of Dominion Government grants to saitd province for agriculture
iii the sald province of Nova Scotia for the
years 1912, 1913 and 1914, resPectlvelY.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The information
The motion was agreed to.
asked for by this inquiry will be very
voluminous; it is necessary ta communieste with Winnipeg ta aibtain the informaNET FIBSHINO 1W LAKE 0F TWO
- MOUNTAINS.
tion required. I suggest that the notice
remaig on the Order Paper as it is but in
Hon. Mr. BOYER-I desire to cail t~he
the shape of a motion for a return, and I
attention of the leader of the Government
-shall
have the papers prepared et once.
to an answer given'yesterday ta a question
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I arn quite willing ta put by me. I moved:
meet the view ai the leader ai the Hlouse,
That an humble address be presented, to Ris
and my -motion will bo that au aider ai the Royal Highness the Governor General, praylng
to the
Hous. be issued for the information asked that Hie Royal Highness submit telegrams
Senate, copies of ail correspondence,
dor in my inquiry.
and documents exchanged between the. DepartThe motion was agreed ta.
DOMINION REVENUES, ETC., 1909-1914.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. GIRROIR moved:

ment of Marine and Fisheries and the Minister
of the Naval Service and the. Department of
Colonization Mines and Fisheries of the province of Quebec, relating ta the rescinding of the
prohibition of net fishing ln the waters of the
Lake of Two NountaIns, St. Francis and St.
Louis, as per Order ln Council (197) passed in
Ottawa, Thursday, 28th day of January, 1915.

That an order of the Senate do issue for a
The answer I received was that, on the
return of:
Minister af Colonizaof the Do- l2th January last, the
1. A statement of the Revenue

tion, Mines and Fisheries ai Quebec, wrote
urging that t1ge regulation, which as it then
existed, prevented net fishing in Lake of
during the yenrs 1909. 1910 and 1911, respec- Twa Mountains, as well as in ather waters.
tively.
3. A statemerît of the Revenue of the Domi- should ho amended so as ta allow net fishCannat I get a copy
nion of Canada for the years 1912, 1913 and ing- in that lake, te.
1914, respectlvely.
of that letter, or is the department too
4. A statement of the amount voted and spent
by the Dominion Government for agriculture busyP I -want to sec it mys'eif.
minion of Canada for the years of 1909, 1910
snd 1911. respectively.
2. A statemnent of the amounts voted and spent
bv the Dominion Government for agriculture

during the. years 1912, 1913 and 1914, respectively..
6. A 'statement of the amount granted and
pald ta each of the provinces of the Dominion
Hon. Mr BPEnTU.,

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Very vell, il will
be brought down.

MARCH il, 1915

Hon. Mr. DÀNIELr-I might say the bon.
CANADIAN PATRIOTIC FUND ACT
19141 gentleman bas not explained this Bill, and
AMENDMENT BILL.
he is asking us to give it a eecond reading.
- THIRD) READING.j
1 do net know what principle is invclved.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the thnrd He ought to explain the nature of the. Bill
reading cf Bull No. 39, An Act te amend tuhe before he asks us to pas. it.
Canadian Patriotie Fund Act 1914.
Hon. Mr. CORBY-If bion, gentlemen
H. said: I promised te seoure'lor mir
friend information as te thie manner would, attend the meetings of committees
bon.
in Wbicii residents cf Newloundland' are they would undexstand the Bill.. I know
employed ini the active service of Canada. I nothing about the. Bill except that I introunderstand that <liere is a Naval Reserve duced it into the. House.
in Newfoundiand. The. members of fuhat
Mon. Mr. DÂNIEL-The hon. gentleman
reserve are employed on the Niobe, in the. aska the Senate te pas. on the principle of
active service of Canada, that is te the. a Bill, and nobody knows what the prinnumber mentioned.
ciple is. W. had better pass over this,
The motion was adopted, and tih. Bill was until the hoi, gentleman who lias obarge cf
the. Bill is able te instruct the Senate as te
read tlie third time.
what the Bill means.
INCORPORATING COMPANIES ACT
Hon. Mr. CASGRADI-I arn surprised
AMENDMENT BILL.
that an oid parliamentarian like the. hon.
gentleman' who ha. just taken his seat ha.
BILL WITEDRAWN.
net taken the. usual course. These Bille
The Order.cf the Day being cal led:
are printed in Englieh and French, and
Second reading of Bill (A), "An Act te tiie hon. gentleman might have read that
Bill in one of tise languages before liii.
amend an Act incorporating coimpanies.'This ia a private Bill, and ehould go te
<Hon. Mr. Domville.)
the. Private Bills Committe. on Banklng
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I want te withdxaw and Commerce, te which private Bille are
th. Bill. 1 arn in charge of the. Bill on generally referred.
behiaif of its author, the lion. senater from
Hon. Mr.,CORBY-I understand thie Bfi
Rotlhesay <Hon. Mr. Dornville). I wi te is ini reference te the. funds cf tahe society
iniformn the. Houa. tfhat he i. unable, te b. (reading the Bill) that f. the whole Bill as
Last far as I know.
lie and take charge cf the. Bil.
*eek 1 esked -for the pestponement of the.
The motion was, agreed te, and the. Bill
second reading until to-day, se that I miglit was read a second time..
with the. auther et the. Bill.
get ,in teucii
H. writes me that bo will b. unable te be
TITLE AND TRUS5T COMPANY ACT
probably for the balance cf the.
- preeent,
AMENDMENT BILL.
session, and lias asked me to request thbe
SECOND READING.
House te have the Bill dropped, especially
Hon. Mr. Edwards moved the second
in view cf the. fact that matters in relation
te tii. Bill are under consideration by thie reading of Bill No. 16, An Act respecting
Governrnent. I therefore sirnply put before the. Titie and Trust Company, and te
the Hous. the. request of thie hon. senator change ils name to " Chartered Trust and
*who is uns.ble te b.o present, -and aek te Executor Company."
have the Bili withdrawn.
Beveral hon. GENTLEMEN-Explain.
The motion was agreed te, and the order
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I do net think
there is any great explanation to ifflke.
was discharged.
It is simply a Bill desiring a change in the
INDEPENDENT ORDER 0F FORESTERS name.
CONSOLIDATED ACT AMENDMENT
The motion was agrecd te, snd the. Bill
BILL.
was read the second time.
SECOND READING.

SECOND REÂDINGS.
Hon. Mr. CORDY *roved the. second
reading cf Bill No. 12, An Act te amend the. Bifl No. 27, An Act respecting the. St.
Independent Order cf Forésters Consoli- La'wrence and Adirondaek Railway Cernpany.-Hon. Mr. Davis.
dated Act.

SENATE

Bill No. 28, An Act respecting the Toronto
Mr.
Eastern Railway Company.-Han.
McHugh.
Bill No. 31, An Act respecting the British
Columbia Southern Railway Company.Hon. Mr. Bostock.
Bill No. 32, An Act ta incarporate the
Brulé, Grande Prairie and Peace River
Railway Company.-Hon. Mr. Pope. Bill No. 34, An Act respecting the Manitaba and North Western Railway Company
of Canada.-Hon. Mr. Wats--n.
Bill Na. 36, An Act ta incarparate Nortihern
Pacifie and British Columbia Railway 0Cmpany.-Hon. Mr. Bostock.
Bill No. 37, An Ac't respecting tihe Pacifie,
Peace River and Athabasca Railway 0Cmpany.-Han. Mr. Pope.
Bill No. 38, An Act respecting the Vancouver, Victoria and Eastern Railway and
Navigation Conipany.-Hon. Mr. Bostock.
Bill No. 41, An Act respecting the Athabaska Northern Railway Company.-Hon.
Mr. DeVeber.
Bill No. 42, An Act respecting the Canada
Preferred Insurance Coinpany.-Hon. Mr.
Bostock.
Bill No. 45, An Act respecting the Vancouver Life Insurance Oompany.-Hon. Mr.
Bostock.
Bill No. 46, An Act respecting the Western Dominion. Railway Companiy.-Hon.
Mr. Talbot.
Bill (D), An Act for the relief of Helene
Suzette Baxter Douglas.-Hon. Mr. Mitchell.
Bill (C), An Act for the relief of William
Ewart New.-Hon. Mr. Talbot.
THIRD READING.
Bill No. 57, An Act ta amend the, Senate
and House of Commons.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
DISCONTINUANCE 0F TRANSCONTINENTAL TRAINS.
DEBATE RESUMED.

The Order of the Day being called:
Resumning the adjourned debate on the motian
of the lianaurable Mr. David:
That an humble address be presented to His
Royal Highness the Governor in Counili; praying that His Royal Highness shaHl submitt to
this House copies of ail petitions ta
the Government, or any inember of the same, and af
ail carrespondence and documents in connection
with the discontinuation cf.the trains of the
Transcontinental between Abitibi and Hervey
Junction.-Hon. Mr. Casgrain.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I desire ta crave
the attention of the bouse most particuHon. Mr. DAVIS.

larly on this very important question, and
I desire hon. members of this Chamber ta
realize that the Transcontinental rail-way
fromn Winnipeg to Moncton is your property, the property of Canada to-day, in
the hands and uzider.the immediate contrai
of the Government of tihe day, just the same
as the Intercolonial railway or the Prince
Edward Island railway. Therefore I believe
it should be a live question with every
member of this hon. House as to what is to
be done in tihe immediate future about this
railway. The other day, when the matter
was being discussed, there was 8ome littie
difference amongst the inembers of this
House about the mileage of the road between Quebec and Cochrane. I took the
trouble to ascertain the correct mileage.
I find that the distance between the city of
Qtiebec and Cochrane is 567 miles. There
is, in that distance, a part of the road being
operated to-day-from Cochrane eastward
as far as the tawn of Amos. While we are
on the question of the distance between
Cochirane and the town of Amos, I may say
that the distance between the town of Amos,
which is on the Hurricane river-and a
prosperous place it is--and Quebec is. 427
miles. What the hon. gentleman from -Mille
les (Hon. Mr. David) wanted to place before this House particularly, was tlie liardship on the people living in Amos, and as
far as Bell river, and in that magnificent
country on either aide of the Transcontinental, in the province oi. Quebec. The
population'of Amos bas came Irom around
the city of Quebec. Their associations and
dealings are ail witih that part of the province,--not with Montreal but with Quebec.
and maostly the county of Champlain, now
represented in the House of Commons. hy
the Hon. P. E. Blondin, the Minister of
Inland Revenue. A man in Amos wishing
to go either ta his -home in tlhe county of
Champlain or ta Quebec on business, if the
road were in operatian would have ta travel
a distance of 427 miles. Now what la the
faet >1The only service is the train that
runs -westward from Amas ta Cochrane and
tAie service is not a frequent one. This man
bas ta start from Amas and go ta Cochrafle, 140 miles; then he has to take the
Timiskamîng and Northern Ontario and go
to North Bay. At North Bay he bas the
choice of either going down to Scotia
Junction, and taking the Grand Trunk
railway ta Quebec, or of taking the
Canadian Pacifie railway at North Bay.
Taking the shortest possile route-140

MARCE 11, 1915

toiles, Amos to Cochrane« 252 miles Coohrafle to North Bay, then 360 miles from
North Bay to Montreal, then 172 miles train
Montreal to Quebec by Canadian Pacifie
railway-and consequently that man 'would
have to travel some 922 miles instead of
going 427 mpiles. 11 that is not a hardehip
on tihose settiers, I would like to know
how anything could be anuch worse than
to have ta go that round-about way. If
you reduce this to mouey, going by the.
short route from Amos te Quebee, at three
cents a mile, would corne in round figures
to abdut $13; 'but if you go the round-about
way *922 miles at three cents, you -would
have to pay nearly twenty-eight dollara.
Then, again, if a man buys a return
ticket at 5 cents a mile one way, going
by the short distance would cost 1dm
about $21, while going the round-about
way-the way he bas to go at present
would cost him $46. Hon. gentlemen
-it
who have been connectcd withi colonizaition
know that these settlers have Io go to the
department in Quebec to settie about their
patents, and s0 onl. I dlaim it is a great
hardship that that part of the. road between
Amos and Quebec has not been opened up
arnd kept in operation. The line is actually
finished for that part of the road; it is fit
to be operated, and I do not suppose a
better road exists in Canada to-day. or
perhiaps elsewhere, than that very road.
Of course, wve are having a truce just now,
and one cannot find fault, but the question
has nothing to do with the war. I do not
think the present Governmnent bas ever
been sympathetic with the road. or have
ever encouraged it. On the other hand, ail
the interests of Mr. Cochrane, the Minister
of Railways, are in Ontario-in C.ochrane,
named after him; in Cobalt, and particularly in North Bay. Therefore. by making
Amos tributary to Cochrane, North Bay and
Cobalt, il brings that part of the business
to that portion of Ontario, depriving
Quebec of any benefit that mnight be
While on this
derived by that traffic.
question, and to dispose of this question of
distance at once-for il bas been discussed
several times in this House--by this Transcontinental railway, the total distance
between Chiamplain market, in Quebec, and
Water street, in Wirnnipeg, is only 1,350l
miles. 1 would like hon. gentlemen to mark
those figures and compare themi with the
distances on the road by whieh you have
to travel now. If you are leaving Winnipeg
now by the Canadian Pacific railway-the
only road that has a through service te

qfontreil-You have te go 1,412 miles te
Ifontreal alone. Besides that, you have te
,o 172 miles fromn Montreal te Quebec,
naking a grand total of 1,584 miles as
.
tgainst 1,350.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-Is the road cerndleted between Quebec and Winnipeg?
.Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Yes, it has been
completed for sme lime.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-The hon. gentleman
stated that this is a Government railway,
and is to be qperated by the Government.
1was under the impression that when it was
built il was te b. taken over and operated
by the Grand Trunk Pacific. Can the hon.
gentleman aay why that has not been done?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I was coming to
that a little lter, but I would just as soon
This road, as I said,
deal with it now.
It lias been
belongs te the Governinent.
leased for 50 years te the Grand Trunk
Pacifie, and that lease bias been guaranteed
and endorsed by the old Grand Trunk Railits
with
way Company of Canada,
$ 187.000,000 of assets. But the Grand Trunk
Pacifie have already taken over a part of
this road-the part from Winnipeg te
Superior Junction. That part is 258 miles
long, and was taken over more than 3 years
ago; and I suppose the company would for
that time be paying its proportion of interest
on that part of the road.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLThat is not part of the Grand Trunk
Winnipeg to
From
proper.
Pacifie
of
Superior Junetion, at the bead
Superior-that is the direct road from
Winnipeg te the head of lake Superior.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No,
Junction.

te

Superior

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I shall answer
that in a minute. The oompany has taken
over some three years ago, that portion of
the Transcontinental that neyer belonged
to the Grand Trunk Pacifie, frorn Winnipeg
to Superior Junction, a distance of 258
miles. The part from Winnipeg te Superior Junetion 'was part. and parcel o! the
Transcontinental, and belonged to the peopl. o! Canada. The other part, from Superior Junction to Port Arthur, bas been constructed by the Grand Trunk Pacifie themselves, and they are operating that. 0f the
through line, the eastern half, east o! Wmnnipeg belongs to the country and on this part
the company ought te pay three per cent

SENATE

78

as a rentai a! ter the first seven years;
the other part, west of Winnipeg, belongs
tei the Grand Trunk Pacific absolutely.
The lime from Superior Junction to
Port Arthur was largely subsidized by the
friends o! the hon. gentleman from Hastings (Sir Mackenzie Bowell). They gave,
if! I rememiber correetly, some $2,000 in
money per mile, and 6,000 acres of land per
mile, but if the land were -ta be taken
along the route between Port Arthur and
Superior Junction the land vould not ho
worth very mudh.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middleton)-Has the
Grand Trunk Pacifie taken over the road
from Superior Junction to Edmonton?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Canada had to
pay it.
Hou. Mr. CASGRAIN-No, I beg pardon.
Not a dollar.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We have paid it.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-As Canada vas
responsible. ihe Finance Minister thought
it'would 1>0 better for the Government
themselves to spoculate on those bonds,
than to have them put out to the pulie.
Hon. M r. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
is entirely mistaken. The judgnient of the
Privy Council held that the Dominion of
Canada was liable for the difference between
the market price of the bonds and par. Consequently, it vas immaterial to Canada
whether she took over the bonds or paid the
arnount. It cost the people of Canada ten
million dollars.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The hon. gentleman from Middleten (Hon. Mr. Ross) vas
neot in the House 'when this mnatter vas
diseussed. The Transcontinental ends at
Winnipeg, therefore the Grand Trunk PaoiHon. Mi. CASGRAIN-Was it not a fact
fie could not take ovor the road voat of that the iînplementing clause was that over
Winnipeg because it ends at that city. The and above the $ 13,000 originally guaranteed,
lino from Winnipeg to Prince Rupert bas seeing the proceeds of the bonds netted
boom built by the Grand Trunk Pacifie soniewhere about $11,500, there vas a deficit
themselves, and I .may say, for the hon. of about $ 1,5W0 for which additional bonds
gentlemain'a special information, that qLll would have to be issued; 18 that neot rIitP
through the Prairie section, a distance o!
9M miles, the road has been built-and I
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, that is not
challenge contradiction on that-vithout right.
costing tihe taxpayers o! t!his country one
Mon. Mr. CASGRIN-That vas My inidollar in subuidy in money or one acre of
formation.
land, fbarring the right of vay.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Which road is
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-If the additional
that p
bonds
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That is the Grand bonds were to be issued, and if those
of the marTrunk Pacifie between Winnipeg and the were issued in the recent state
brought very
Rocky mountains. It bas not cost Canada ket, they would not have
would have
one single dollar ei.ther in money or land. much, and stili the Government
been responsible.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon. genHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No; that was the
tleman has not been keeping track o! the
contention of the Governuient of Canada,
matter.
but the Prîvy Council held that Canada vas
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Yes.
not entitled te advance that contention; that
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Did Canada had to make good the difference beCanada flot guarantee the bonds? Of course, tween the proceeds of the bond and par.
vhen a man endorses ho dce mot necessarHion. Mr. CASGRAIN-If I have been
ily bave ta pay the note.
erring, 1 have been erring in good cornpany
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-According te the -in the company of the Minister of Justice
implemienting clause vo paid approximately of this Government.
ton millions in cash.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Oh, no.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That implomonting
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-You say that was
clause vas caused by the judgmcnt cd the
Supreme Court of Canada sustained by the the contention of Canada-the contention of
decision of the Privy Council in England : Canada on a legal question must be the
contention of the Minister of Justice.
afterwards.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

MARCH 11, 1915

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But, since the
judgment, the Minister of Justice does not
defend that.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I thought the
Government brought very good reasons to
show that I was right. 0f course. tl4e members of the Privy Council did not agree with
the Minister of Justice. However, thia waa
in answer more particularly to the hon.
member -from North Bay <Hon. Mr. Gordon). I ivas about to say that the distance
by the Canadian Pacifie railway to-day between Winnipeg and Quebec is 1,584 miles,
while the distance by thie Transcontinental
-the road owned by the people o! this country-is only 1,W5 miles.

pare favourably, as to fertil'ity, wit.h the
very best land on the banka of the Red
river or the Aasiniboine, or in 6askatchewan
on the banka of the Qu'Appelle river. The
land is the same kind of land, while the
clearing is most easy; as a lumberman, 1
know that the hon. member f rom North Bay
wiLI bear me out in that-the clearing therp
in much more easy than it in farther south
ini the province of Quebec;'
Hon. Mr.

DAVID.-West of Cochrane.

lion. Mfr. CASGRAIN.-West of Cochrane.
No w I corne east of Cochrane. One han to
travel about 70 miles coming east of Cochrane before one reaches the line divlding
Ontario and Quebec. That line runs on the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Yes. and it in e-losed. north aide of Lake Abitibi, the Quebec porHon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Therefore, making tion of the lake being smaller than that of
a difference in mileage of 234 miles. Now, Ontario. Lake Abitibi is a beautiful, a magI ask any lion. member of this House, il nificent sheet of water, much larger than
there was a decent train service from Winni- lake St. John, and the shores of lake Abitibi
peg to Quebec, the terminus of the palatial are absolutely level, and composed of the
Canadian Pacific railway steamers. and the most fertile soul. The lake itself is simply
larger steamers of the Allan line in Quebec. a depression in the prairie. I arn informed
would any one leaving Winnipeg on his way that the depth of the laite is very email
te the old country or te Europe ever think indeed; that one can go out for miles and
of travelling around by the Canadian Pacific miles on lake Abitibi before reaéhlng a
railway over a crooked road, over steep depth of 12 or 14 feet. The shores are
grades and sharp curves, and paymng $8 thickly wooded, -and the lumber, as in aU
additional fare. Would they not instead go northern latitudes. is not very large, but
by the beautiful highway, the equal of there is good serviceable lumber along the
which i. not in this country? Would any lake, and also along the streams that fal
sane man go that round-about way? No man into the laite, and along the Abitibi river,
would if there was a decent train service which is the outlet of lake Aibitibi. I allude
from Winnipeg-nay. flot only from Winni- to thi. because the hon. member took exceppeg but west of Winnipeg-Brandon, tion to the statement that pulpwood could_
Moosejaw, Calgary, Edmonton, Vancou- be taken from Amos or Bell river down
applies te towards Quebec. 0f course, the hon, gentleThis
and Victoria.
ver
Canada alone; but then the people man himself knows that at Iroquois Falls
is
comIng f rom the Orient-from Japan there is a large mill where pulpwood
ail that travel would being manufactured. 1 do not know but
and China-and
take the shorter route as between Win- that he wants all the pulp to go to bis mill;
nipeg and Quebec. When the hon. mem- but the hon. member will agree with me
ber from North Bay <Hon. Mr. Gordon) that pulpwood could very well be taken by
says that this year many hundreds and train for the short haul from Amos and Bell
thousands of dollars worth of rolling stock river, and eastward until you reach the
Pulpin the Canadian Pacifie railway were idle head waters of the St. Maurice river. well
wood. cordwood and logs could very
at their divisional points, I grant that; but
I believe tbat if this road were opened there be taken from Amos eastward for the short
would be a good deal more o! the Canadian haul along the Transcontinental railway
Pacific railway stock that would be idle. and then the loga could be dropped into the
Nobody knows better than the hon. mem- head waters of the St. Maurice river and
ber from North Bay what a magnificent those loge would corne down in the usual
country there is, both east and west of Coch- drive. Every one knows that there in no
rane. West o! Cochrane we have an extent cheaper way o! bringing lumber te a mill
of between 500 and 600 miles-500 anyway- than having it float down a stream and have
o! what we call the Ontario daey beit. a gang of men in the spring carry on the
The land in that part of Ontario will corn- drive.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. GORDON-The rcason .which
my hion. friend has given is the very
reason why yen could net bring the lorsi
froen Amos te the St. Maurice river. The
reasen that hie gave was that the 'legs
could be-fioated down the stream cheaper
than eny other way. Now hie asks us te
believe that logs could be transported on
the railway, brought over to the river and
then brought down some place as cheap
as legs that were on the St. Maurice stream.

Hon. Mr. GORDON-That is not the
point I want to get at. You« were trying
to prove that, if the Transcontinental road
were being operated, by Teason of it being
a -shorter distance from Quebec to Winnipeg by that line, passengers would naturally gor that way. Now, I want to know
-and I amn asking for information-would
the bulk of passengers from Winnipeg and
west of Winnipeg go 'to Quebec during the
winter P
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Certainly they
would go to Quebec, cross on the ferry, and
take the Intercolonial railway and go to
St. John or Halifax. 1 do not know that
they could go any other way.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-As a lumberman
my *hon. friend knows that to be truethat it is comrnonly done,-that where
there is ne navigable or floatable stream
tributary te the milîs, logs are hauled by
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is rîght; protrains te a river and then floated down the
balance of the way. Mr. J. A. Dubue had teet your national ports.
limita which were not on the streanis tribHon. Mr. GORDON-My own idea is that
utary Io his iijl, so lie hauled the loýgs by thie bulk of the passengers go te Montreal.
trains, put themn in the streain, an<l took
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Where do they go
thern te bis rnill.
froni thiere ?
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC- How far?
Hon. Mr. GORDON-Would they not have
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I do net know
to corne down by the Canadian Pacifie railthat it was very far. He put thern on the
way?
cars, and se on. That is why I was speaka short
ing of those logs being taken for
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-No, the passengers
haul, because as the water at Amos and in summer would take the steamers whichi
Bell river flows northward tewards James eall at Quebec in the sumrner months. In
bay. you would have to come pretty far winter rnonths, when these steamers cail at
east-to the head waters of the St. Maurice St. John or Halifax they would continue on
-before you would find any water fiowing their journey cither by the Iritercoloni -al
inte the St. Lawrence. Now, as I think I railway or the Grand Trunk Pacifie, passing
have shown, any one living ini Winnipeg ever the Quebec bridge. when it is builtwould take- the shorter route-I do not rneanwhile the present Government lias
think there could be very niuel doubt bought a ferry by which to cross. But the
about that-and corne over the Transcon- point I wish te make now is this: If the
tinental. There rnay'be another reason why Government is not operating the road-they
the Governrnent cannot to-day as'k the are net even asking the Grand Trunk PaciGrand Trunk Pacifie railway tofic to take over the road-it is because they
nie a ques- know fuil well that they have net fulfllled
Hon. Mr. GORDON-Permit
tion. During winter do the bulk of the their obligation to the city of Quebec, in
is
passenigers fren Winnipeg, west of Winni- regird to the terminus at Quebec. It
possible to run a train from Winnipeg
quite
peg, go to Quebec ?
te Quebec, but the terminus in Quebec, as
Hon. '-Ir. CASGRAIN-That is an easy called for by the contracts with the Grand
The lion, gentleman
question to ask.
Trunk Pacifie Company, is not conîpleted.
wants te know if the steamers corne frorn The uine is completed in an indifferent way
Quebec in winter time ? Is that it ?
frein the Quebec bridge te Champlain marHon. Mr. GORDON-No, I asked yen if ket, a station is being put up at Chaniplain
the passengers frein Winnipegmarket, but I do net knew if it is finished
The contract was given before the last
CASGRAIN-I said the passen- yet.
Hon. Mr.
away froin the
board general electien, it was taken
geTs 'would corne from Winnipeg te
contracter, then after hie had pulled down
the palatial ýsteamers of the Canadian
the old building-the old Champlain mnaiPacifie railway and the larger ones of the
a new
they ket-new tenders were asked and
Allan line, and I arn not aware that
kind of building was desig-ned and I believe
corne te Quebec in the -winteî time.
MON.

MRL

CASGRAIN.

MARCH il, 1915
the saime contractor got the contract again, ends and Quebec begins. At Amos we saw
thongh I arn not sure, and now they are an enterprising town with a tawn hall, a
building an indifferent sort af a station. good zlzed church, several hanses, a sawAiso, they engaged ta build workahops for niiil, large stores, andl a very -prosperous
the railway where repaira could be mýade, population.- That town is on the east bank
and instead of pntting the shopa where the of the HEurricana river, one of the most
railroad cornes in at Quebec, in the valley ùeautiflil rivera I have ever had the opporaf the St. Lawrence where the railroad is, tunity of seeing. 1 wauld compare it, perJohn,
those shopa were put in the valley oi the hapa, ta the Richelieu river above St. leaves
aiter it
Et. Charles river, nowhere near the railway or the Richelieu irnmediately are juat about
The shores
at all. I suppose some gaad friend had land lake Champlain. 13, 14 or perhaps 20 feet
the sarne height,
there that he did nat exactly know what to above the level of the river. We went up
do with-the town-lot business havîng waned in the steamboat from the railway, up that
in Quebec a elsewhere-and the land waa river expanding in sme places, and
bought ai a very good figure and the shopa breaking out in beautiful, lovely lakes,
put there. What was ta be done ta con- and on each aide settlers were clearneet the road and the shopa? They have ta ing lanid with the greateat facility. The
go up the St. Lawrence 15 miles so aa toi get clearing is moat easy in that part of the
a grade ta go down ta the shops. The last country, because the roots af the trees do
Poatmaster General, Han. L. P. Pelletier, not go deeply in the soul, but go just
designed a acheme; he was going ta find the through the humus af the ground; when
heart ai Quebec and was going ta mnake a these rots came ta the clay bottom they
tunnel, and this tunnel was ta jaîn the val- z-read into what the French cali "plaqué."
ley ai the St. Lawrence with the valley ai When a fire has passed thraugh, the roats
the St. Charles River. Needlesa ta say the are pretty well burned ont, and clearing is
tunnel was neyer started; therefore, I do mast easy. I was told by settiera there that
not know what use thase shops are ta be, they could clear four acres af land as easily
as they are erected ta-day, because they are as they could clear one acre -in the other
three or four or five miles away as the craw parts of the province of Quebec.
flie. fram the line. They will have ta be
Hon.-Mr. WATSON-That indicates poor
conneced by going fluteen miles up the
Bt. Lawrence. lIn order ta make cannection mail.
they bought the line of anotheF railway in
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I hear the vaice af
arder to have temparary access ta those Manitoba; they are j6alous because they
ahops.
envy the rnany thousanda and millions
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Lats ai graft.
ai acres of good land we have up there.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-When firat we dis- Naw that immense plateau, wîth a length
cuaaed this question in this Hause many af say 600 miles and an average width cf
were more or leas sceptical when I spoke ai 100 miles, is a tremendaus area; At would
that dlay belt-that wonderfully fertile make no leas than 1,700 townships. It may
from lake Seul- be interesting ta note that we have ta-day
extending
plateau
snrveyed and
extending west ai Cochrane 400 miles in the Northwest, actually
three provinces of Manitoba,
and east ai Cochrane about 200 miles. It laid ont, in theand Alberta, 8,000 townships.
was said there was nathing up there Sask4tchewan is six miles square, it may
As a township
but muskeg, mass, racks and 50 on. be stated that in no other country, nat even
Althoug-h I had been there before, I hiad Argentins or the Steppes af Russia, hasfiuch
thse advantage last June ai gaing aver that an extensive system of survey been carried
country in camipany with the premier ai on as in these territories I have just menthe province ai Quebec, Sir Lamer Gouin, tioned. If thase 8,000 townships were placed
and the Hon. Honore Mercier, Minister ai one after the other, they wvauld go twice
Colonization, Mines and Fisheries, and
around the earth at the Equator; that is,
some ai the officiaIs ai thse department.
there are 24,000 miles ta go around at the
We went ta Cochrarie-there was no equatar, and ià would take 4,4)0 townships
ai gaing, as thse road was flot
other way
ta go once around, and the other 4,000 tawnin aperation, and we had ta go a raundabout ships wonld make the ather belt around; or
way-and from Cochrane we travelled ta
a helt 12 miles wide gaing
Amas, passing thse interprovincial lins. it would make
Ail that area
the Prime Minister expressed fi once around the earth.
There
has been aurveyed and occupied, hence
desire ai having some distinctive mark.
extensive, but
sncb a%~ an arch, ta show where Ontario 1,700 townships la not so very
ai VIBED

EDMTON

SENATE

only about 15 per cent of the total. I re- is good, and across the Quinze River, iii
mnember years and years ago hearing in the Quebec, ail the land is perfectly good for
The further north you go and
other House Sir Charles Tupper describing settiement.
the possibilities of the Northwest, and when the smaller the timber is, the easier is the
hie said that s0 many acres would be culti- clearing; and when you get to this magnifivated, and that at s0 much per acre it would cent railway the Transcontinental-when
amount to so many bushels, people thought that railway is in operatîon-you will see a
hie was talking as a dreamer. However. his population there whicli will be very consipredîctions have been almost realized iow, derable ipideed li the near future. I believe
and they will be in the ne-ar future. 1 really it is the duty of this Government as soon as
believe you will see this immense plateau they possibly can to organize a service clean
Portions of
in the near future occupied, and occupied through and open that road.
from the province of the road are being operated-in eastern
largely by a population
Quebeo, as the French-Canadians of Quebec Quebec, from Quebec towards Moncton;
seem to be the. only ones in this country from Cochrane to Winnipeg west; froin
who are willing ta go and wrestle with the Cochrane east to Amos, and the only part
sturnp, clear the land, and develop it; you that is not operated is the 427 miles from
in operdo not see very much of that in Ontario. If Anmos to Quebec. If that part was service.
ation there would be a through.
you look along the Canadian Pacifie railway
a railroad running
you will find that with the opening of tlîat No one can expect primeval forest to pay
a country of
the French-Canadian wvent into Ontario through the first year, but a beginning must
road
its way
and in places like Sudbury, North Bay, the
be mnade, there have to be sacrifices at first.
Akgomas, Sault Ste. Marie, you w~ill see the.se It is unavoidable that sacrifices have to
places largely populated by the Freîîcli-Can- he miade sorne time or other. At this very
adianl who came along ns the road was being mioment that road has been used to take up
built, cleared the land, and establislied the aliens-Austrians and Germans-who
themselves there. It has been a good thing are kept in the concentration camps near
for Ontario, for had it not been for the in- Amos and are being used to clear the land,
flux of those 250,000 French-Canadians and it is saf e to say they cannot escape
Ontario would have mnade a very poor show- because they would have tQ pass the rail-ý
ing in the last census as far as nativity is way and go back towards Ontario; it is an
concerned; Ontario would be away behind excellent place for them. to be. Now, if
that pernicious place called France if it had there had been any facilities those aliens
not been for the help they got froîii the would have cut a lot of timber this year,
French-Canadian of northern Ontario.
but there wvere no facilities for transportthe
Several hon. GENTLEM'%EN-H-ear, hear. ation whiatever, and I do not know what
Goveriument is occupying these people at
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Now, that immense just now. I arn afraid their work is going
country will be peopied iii the near future to be lost. In conclusion I would invite
by a large contingent coing. from the pro- every hion. member of this House, as soon
vince of Quebec. Even to-day in the town as there are facilities, to go over that
of Cochrane the majority of the population territory for themselves, and they will see
Men that the sun does not shine on a nicer,
is composed of Frenchi-Canadiaiis.
who have had good farrns in eastern Que- better or more fertile piece of land than
bec left those farms with soine nioney, that along the Transcontinental and the
brought their sons, and rnanaged to dlay belt of Ontario and Quebec.
open the country, clear the land, and settle
Several hion. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
their sons on that land. The Governînient
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-When the hon.
gives tlie land free, and does not exact oîîe
dollar for 100 acres of land-axîd thlat is gentlemian fromn Mille Iles gave notice of
the very best land. The land up there is the motion now before us 1 thought that in
good flot only in Quebec but also in Ontario. proposing- it lie would give us more explanFrom New Liskeard to Cochrane, a distance ation than hie has given. I thoughit hie
of sonme 150 miles, has been settled. as w~e would, be in a position to give us evidence
,know, and the wheat grown at New Lis- that the operation of the road from Amos
keard took the first prize at the Exhibition down to Quebec would have been a comat Glasgow, Scotland-beating the Manitoba plete necessity since December last, for
wheat. I may tell the lion. gentleman fromn 1 understand that the operation of the road
last December. At
Portage la Prairie <Hon. Mr. Watson), that was stopped only sincehion. gentleman had
if the
side of Lake Timiskaming land the saine time,
on the east
Hon. Mr. ÇASGRAIN.

MNARCH il, 1915
the
taken informnation from correct quartera he land. They have no interest at ail in
would have discovered that. within a. very ports of St. John or Halifax.
They rnay use Mont;eal as a port in
few days the Goverament will have the
summer time, but they will neyer use the
onened aud oD)erated.
rond
ports of StL John or Halifax 'in winter time.
lion. Mr. DANDURAND-Hear, hear.
Why? Because their line of railway is
300 miles;
Hon. Mi BOLDUC--Moreover, I arn shorter to Portland by 200 or
that the Goverument will have to because. t.hey have a fine port which they
afraid
operate the road for many. years to come. h ave made themselves, on which they have
The hon. gentleman in trying ta prove that spent several million dollars; we will neyer
the Governmeat had làcked in not oper- see the Grand Trunk Pacifie using the
ating that part of the road between Amos Transcontinental from Superior Junction
and Quebec since December lest, gave as down to Quebec or Moncton. As I said a
evidence that that would have been a good littie while ago, the hon. gentleman froin
proposition, one of Mr. Authier's letters Mille les <Hon. Mr. David) failed to give us
saying that if the road haed been in oper- evidience that the road ought to have been
ation they would have been able ta ahip kept in operation from Amos down to Quesome 30 or 40 thousand loada of pulpwood bec since Deceniber last *I expected a genand a couple of millions of loe.
Lliman of the experience of the hon. member
The hon. gentlenman from Nipissing dii- fromi De Lanaudière (Hon. Mr. Casgrain)
posed of that qiuestion very readily. W~e would give us some further explanation and
know that the lion. gentleman is a man of sanie further evidence that the road needed
vast experience in the lumber trade and to be operated during the last winter. Howuuderstands it perfectly well. He is also ever, to my great disappointment the lion.
familiar with the transportation cf timher, gentleman neyer nientioned a word about
and pulp wood, floatin.- it on streams or that.
trausporting it by rail, and hie told us that
Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-Yes.
the transportation of 30,000 or 40,000 cords
of pulp wood would mean practically nothHon. Mr. BOLDUC-Re neyer said it was
ing, and the freight ta hae earned on the
the road.from Amos
cf 2,000,000 feet of loe would necessary to operate
transportation
down to Quebec. He said there might be
bring about $5,000. If ail the business doue
some difficulties-a few travellers who were
by the company was the transporting cf
or Champlain county
about ten or fifteen going down to Quebec
goods to the value of
might have to go by North Bay and then
thousaud dollars during the three or four
corne down to Montreal. He failed to tell
mouths, it would not be ver>' encouraging us liow many travellers ha expected'would
for the Goverument to operate the railway. want to travel that way since December
As I said a moment ag&o, the Government last. He also told us that the land is so
is bound te open the road ver>' soon and good on* each side of Cochrane, that we
keep it in operation, though if tlie Grand would in the next few years see large
Trunk Pacifie were agreeable to the ar- towns built, and the country settled hy
rangements which wvere made iii 1903, the
farmers in aood circurnstances. If in five,
compan>' %ould have te take hold cf t.he
or twenty years we sce
and operate it. But gentlemen who ten, fiteen, everybody would ha happy
road
verv that. which
were in this House in 1903 remeinher
te see. that the land is se good
well with what reluctance the Grand Trunk that ail the settlers will try te go there,
Pacific carne te the conclusion that they thun we are sure the road will be pro.peroU5.
m-ould have te agree to take the lase of that Even thou.-l in 15 or 20 years uiany settlers
road from Superior Junction down te Monc- ,will ha there and will have to ship their
ton. We heard iu the House and on the goods by rail, how would that hielp in the
street then that the Grand Trunk Pacific operating, of the road .from Decemnber laz-t?
Company vould net have worked and kept
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-If there iiiine road
in operation that part cf the road. Why?
Because the Grand Trunk Pacific Company, operating the road formn Denember lastP
%vhichis prhctically the Grand Trunk RailHon. Mr. BOLDUC-No,- but I have juat
way, has interests ini divertiug all its trade
said if the hon. gentleman from Mille Ile
te Portland, in the State cf Maine. That
Mr. David) had obtained correct incompany has already speut about $q25.000.000 <Hon.
formation, hie wvould have been infornied
in making and irnproving the port cf Port-

SENATE
Hon. Mr. DANDUBAND-Oh, yes. It is
that the road would soon be opened and most amusing to hear my hion. f riend attrioperated. In 1903, when the law incorporat- bute such a statement to the late Prime
ing the Transcontinental was passed, sevMinister.
eral members of this House stated that tise
Trunk Pacific Company wouid neyer
Grand
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-How is it the road
operate the road because it was against their
three times what
interests. I 'said go myseif; I could net las cost so much-about
that confor the Grand Trunk ,as proposed te be spent on the reason
find it possible
and oeperate it truction? 1 have stated that
Pacific ta lase thnt line
vas becausé of the estimates of men withwhen they had a short lino te Portland. eut any experience; and how have these
against thoir interoat. Before thé
It was.
tien acted in the construction of that rend?
law wau passed in 19W., Hon. Mr. Field- Ve wouid expect a private company to try
ing, Minister of Finance in the Govornmeflt,
many tenderurs for the construction
-have
gave figures of what the expected cost of th
.'-ilway. but, mnstead. of that, they
railway would
National Transconitinental
divided the whole length of the railroad
bo, seemng the. Grand Trunk Pacific had into about 21 sections, and they put such
agreed te pay interest at the rate of 3 pot stringent conditions in the clauses given by
cent on the whole cost of the lino, and then them for the tenderers that it was imposoperate it? What has been the result? sible for any one te tender without exposing
Amongst the
What did the governimont of business men, himself to complete ruin.
tho mon of the late Administration do? clauses mentioned were the following:
They appointed a commission of four tuenAnd we do hereby deckare and agree that in
bers, and they had te spend millions and
case or refusai or fallure ta execute the said
millions in the building of that railway. contract wlth thse commlrnssioners. and also to
Everybedy wouid be inclined to believe that furnluh the approved uecurity requlred, ta an
one third of
the firat duty of the Government in appoint- amount not exceeding thse contrmet the estlmated
for thse falthconsideration of
ing these men would bo to appoint mon oi total performance of thse .aid contract, withtn
full
railway construction and ten days atter acceptance of thi. tender. the
experience in
coinoperation. If they had appointed gentlemen said cheque as sailtbes forfetted ta tise satd reUiquidated damages for sucis
missboners
the experience of the hon. gentleman fusai or falure, and tisat ail comtret rigis
of
from de Lanaudière (Hon. Mr. Casgrain) acquired by the aceptance of tht. tender shall
do you believe we would have had the samne be forfeltedL
results? Far front it.
So that the tenderer who is not on good
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-They would have terms with the commissioner wns exposed
te the risk of losing everything hoe hnd.
beon worso.
The amount te be deposited was.not menHon. Mr. BOLDUC-But the late Govern- tioned. It wns stated in the directions that
ment thought that anybody was able to tits amount wns not te exceed one-third of
build a railway of that magnitude-a rond the whole contract. A man contracting for
having a longth of 1,800 milos-that a man eight or ton million dollars, was liable te
who liad nover seen railwny construction, ho cnlod on, in the eight dnys foliowing the
or had nover seèn a spike driven to attach nwnrding- of the contract, to give an amount
a rail to a tie, would be a fit man to expend equai to a third of the amount of bis
sorieo hundreda of millions of dollars. Con- tender. If hie could not hie would forfeit his
f ew
soquently the estimates of mon of net the deposit. Wo understand very woli how
in railway construc- mon were able te tender for the construction
slightest experienco
large
tion were tai<en, and what was the resuit? of that rnilway. But, happily for theton or
of costing about $33,0O0 a mile contractors, thoy ceuid mnake some
Instend
profit without
f romt Winnipeg te Moncton, whnt have we fifteen million dollars of and if it had
tic pay? We have about- one hundred nnd touching a shovel or spike,
contracters-nîl those
eighty millions to pay, about three times beon open to ail the te build the railwny
ini the House by Mr. who wero in a position
the amount stated
have cost at leat
Fielding. Right Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier -the road would million ioss than it
one botter. Ho thought thirteen mil- twenty-five or thîrty I have beon informed
went
actually did cost.
lions would build the whole lino.
that the railwny now has been nccopted by
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Ifl annual in- the Govornmont; there may be some of
thosýe smaîl difficulties still wîth regard te
terest.
sorte extras.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-He nover said Bo.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC.

MARCH 11, 1915

8

Hon. Mr. CÂSGRIN-Some momentum
grades.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Which always corne
against a company or a Government. But
the Goverument is in possession of the railroad now, and I amn aise inforxned that the
Government has notified the Grand Trunk
Pacifie that they are ready ta hand the road
over te them, but the Grand Trunk Pacifie
are net ready ta receive it.

province of Quebec, with their poor policy
of trying to prevent a settiement of Government lands as long as possible. This is
not a party question; ail the papers complain that the Liberal Government of Quebec instead of trying ta induce the settiers
to go on GovpBrnment lands, prevent their
settling on these lands as long as a single
sticek of good merchantable wood has flot
been removed.

Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-Not coming across?
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-It will take several
years. The hon. gentleman from De Lanaudiére <Hon. Mr. Caegrain)said the company
was operating of the portion from Superior
Junction ta Winnipeg. They mgy bave running rights on tbat part cf the road, but I
hope the Goverament wiii eee its way net ta
grant any more rights te the Grand Trunk
Pacifie before tbey have complied with.
their contract and agreement -they have
centracted te operate the road in its whole
lengtb. 1 hope they will net permit the
company te use the enly part of the road
which is ta their advantage. and ta leave
the other. 0f course, -if tbe Government
cannot induce the company ta take over
the road, they will have ta operate it themselves, at what cost I do net know. It will
be ten times worse than the Intercolonial
railway. but still they will have ta operate
it. I hope if tbe Governinent operates it,
they will operate the road frein Monctoni
te Winnipeg. In looking over Mr. Autier'E
letter, and in perusing tbat letter we could
discover a good partisan grip.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Does the hon.
gentleman know the Crown Lands Department bas sold over 1,500 lota already around
Ames, and that any quantity cf land today is at the disopsal of the settlers?
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC--Then ail the good
timber must be removed from that place,
because I know it is the policy cf the Gevernnîient at the present time to retain those
lands.
Hon. Mr GASGRAIN-It bas neyer been
lumibered over at ail.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Any settler wantîng
ta settie on Crown Lands in Quebec must
travel 50 or 100 miles ta see an agent, and
when hie gets there he finda the land is
withdrawn from sale ;it is in the reserved
portions of the township. He bas ta go
back and travel around for five or six
monthe before he succeeds in obtaining a
lot, and hie will neyer obtain it before the
lumber merchant bas cleared ail the good
timber froin tbe lot.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I would not like
th. hion. gentleman te place bîmseslf on
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-He is a Tory.
record with sucb a statement as that, because the part of the province under disHon. Mr. DAVID-Ie the recoinmendation
cussion bias never been under licenses at ail.
cf the Board of Trade cf Quebec worth
nothing?'
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Then there is no
timber on it. I qmust say that the motion
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-No, they siiply say ol my bion. friend from Mille les <Hon.
we should operate the road.
Mr. David) was not necessary. He should
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Çonmeon sense 'would have saved bis time and ail the trouble
he took to make hie motion. I may retell us that.
mark, en passant, that 'while he hias a
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-And he says in bis perfect right to do as hie pleases, lie is
letter that the fact that the road le not a great deal more anxious ta discover grievbeing operated lias prevented inany set- ances now than hie was bcfore 1911.
tiers from going te that Abitibi district.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I had net thought of
operated we would seand tbat if it w%%ere
numerous settlers going there. I believe lie sayýing anything on this question, but the
is mietaken. We frein the province of -3peech of the bon. gentleman frein Lauzon
Quebec know very well that it is net s <Hon. Mr. Bolduc) it seems to me, is inquestion of railwvay that prevents peoplc tonded as a sort of challeng.- te members
frein settiing on Governinent land; it le tbe wbo do net agree with him, te intervene
Departinent cf Lands and Foreste of tbe in the discussion. 1 thought the hion. gen-

SENATE
posed of engineers like the hion. gentleman
tleman had been long enough in the Senate rom De Lanaudière (Hon. Mr. Casgrainli
pretty f
to have shed his party .feelings
Iunderstand the hon. gentleman wvouid
effectiially.
iave been satisfied il the hon. gentlem in
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Can the hon. gentle- from De Lanaudière had been appointed.
man say he bas shed bis P
1 do not think, to begin wvith, that it is
aecessary that a commission intendod for
Hon. Mi. POWER-And I must say, purposes such as that commission was inhaving met him in different connections tended for, should be composed of engineers.
in the Sen-ate 1 saw no reason Vo thinkç On the contrary, I do not think we have
hie had not got rid of his party feelings; ever known any important work to be
but the speech ie hias now made shows transacted
you would
as to whlxih
that the dys had sunk in very deeply, and not find eminent engineers differing in
that hie is very considerably influenced by the
onte
fromn
way
radical
inost
the sentiments hc brought up from the another; what yon really need is a
other chamber. The bon. gentleman froin body of business like. sensible iiîc:î. wl,.'
Mille Iles (Hon. Mr. David), moved a reso- will employ engineers to give themi techlution deah-ng with the existing condition nical advice as to what they ought to do.
of thinigs, a resolution dealîng with the That waq the course the Transcontinental
business cf the present hour, and a reso- Cornnîissioners took, and that they were
lution that did noV involve any partisan justified and wvise in taking that line is
sentiment whatever. The lion, gentleman' s proved hv tlhe followving fact,ý, whilîi tHi
resolution was:
gentleman cannot deny: aler theNi't
His
That an humble address be presented topray- Tranzcontinental Commission had been got
]Royal Highneas the Governor General;
oi the present Government appointed
lng that Hia ]Royal FHighness shahl submlt te rid
Vo
this flouse copies of ail petitions to the Gov- a g-entleman named Leonard. who was
and of ail
ernment or any member of the sane. conneetion be the whole commission in himself. He
correepondence and documents in
eminent engineer, even more
wlth the discontinus.tlon of the trains of the was a mnst
Transcontinental between Abitibi and Hervey eminent than the lion. gentleman from De
Junection.
Lanaudière, but he had noV been in office
That was a perfect business-like, resson- many months when it was found that he
was really not doing any better than bis
able, and non-partisan request.
predecessors had done. He resigned. and
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-What about his the Minister of Railways is at the present
.speech P
time the Transcontinental Railway Commisthis road lias been sioner.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If
buiilt and the Government decidedl Votake
Hon. MIr. DANDURAND-And hie is not
it over, then the question, wvhether the an engfineer.
Government were going Io run. trains, or
Hon. Mr. POWER-But the complaint I
allow the rails to rust, is a practical and
question. As to the number of desire particularly to make is this: the
important
immigrants that may go in there, I leave present Governnment, perhaps judging others
that to t.he hon. member fromn Mille Dles by themzelves, and by thieir friends,
<Hon. Mr. David) and the lion. gentleman thoughlt this creat work could flot have
from De Lanaudière (Hon. Mr. Casg-rain). lieen opeiated for several years without
But the hon. gentleman from Lauzon (Hon. corruption and nmaîpractice occurring. They
Mr: Bolduc) was not satisfied to deal with appointed a commission of inquiry who
the present; he went back to the past, and vwere qualified enough Vo do the work; and
undertook te discuss thingas that hiad hap- the work the comnîissioners were expected
pened in the year 1903. and after that; and to do was Vo find that there had heen coranîong other things the hon. gentleman ruption, ignorance, and general maipractice
made an attack on the National Transcon- iii the construction cf the Transcontinental.
tinental Raîlway Commissioners. I do noV
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Anld they found it?
mean to say that he attacked their personal
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Not one dollar.
characters, but he attacked Vhein as not
being qualified for the work for which they
Hon. Mr. POWER-They did not; that is
The hon. gentleman
appointed.
were
just the point. That commission spent
seems Vo think that, instead of having a
several months making inquiries, they publawyer and two or three business men on
of a report, and
been corn- lished two or four volumes
the commission, it should have
Hon. Mr. POWErL

87

AxtCH il, 1915.

from the beg-inning of that report to the
end it clearly appears that they were unaole
ta substantiate a single charge of dishonest
or improper conduet on the part of the
National Transcontinental Railway Cornmis.sion. Although tbhat Commission of Inquiry cost a great deal of money, I think
the .money' was welI spent; because it
showed that one great publie -work at any
rate, had been constructed in Canada witheut any graft or 'ýmproper conduet. The
hbon. gentlemen should have stopped, ta
think a littie before lie made that attaek
on the National Transcontinental Railway
Commission. If the bon. gentleman cen
poin;t ta any undertaking-not one as great
as the National Transcontinental railwaybut any undertaking of that eharacter at
all, which. has been conducted under Conservative auspices, about whiehi a commission of inquiry could flot find soniething
impraper, then I amn quite prepared to
accept bis view.
Hon. Mr. GORDON-I was under the irnpression that the gentleman who represenes
tihe constituency with the unpronouncable
name, having taken over a week ta prepare bis speech on this subjeet, was going
to give us a reason why the railway from
Cochrane ta Quebec should have been
operated this seasan. That was the question I thought hae was going to answer to
day. He bas not given us any facts or
figures ta prove that the railway should
have been operated this winter, other than
to say «bat we have there a road whichb he
considers to 'be the best in the world, a
railway some 200 miles shorter bet-ween
Winnipeg and Quebc than the Canadian
Pacifie railway. For these twa reasons if
is a railway which could be operated by
a company to psy handsome dividends
even this winter, beeause if the facts arr
as lie s9tated then the railway in question
would take ail the trade which the Canadian
Pacifie railway lias obtaîned this winter
between the coast and Quebee. I venture
ta say- and I say it wîthaut fear of being
contradieted by any gentleman who knows
anything about railway operations iu this
House, or any gentleman f rom the West~that if that railroad were being operated1
ta-day it would nat pay for the coal which
it would use. Imagine -a train leaving WVilnipeg to-day and going down ta Quebcc, on
a line where there la not one single solitiary
feeder, except at Port Arthur over the
Superior .road-and even that would be a
branch fromn which they could not expeet

to receive any freight. It has but that one
feeder-and it should not be considered a
feeder-and the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario railway whîch also cannot
a feeder for anything
be considered
going east. I arn sure, if hon. gentlemen think over the situation, after the
explanation which my hon. friend has given
us. wîth regard ta the character of the
country through which the road runs, 'tbey
will agree with me. He informed us candidly, I think, that between Amnos and as
far as he went on the road-Bell river?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-BeIl river.
Hon. Mr. GORDON-There were only a
few hjundred settlers, and that being the
case it is easy for any person to see that
there would be practically no local trade
wlîatever. One of the things hie said with
regard ta the pulp wood, whieh lie thouglit
shiould have been transported this winter
by this railway, wvas this: that the railway
Î~"<
oul

ýVebefotdd

-rnpr

Uaurice, and thien if w'ouldbefotdon
that stream. I have too muchi respect for
my hon. friend as a business man ta think
he is sincere in putting that proposition
forward, because hie knows, even better
than I do, that there are millions of cords
of pulp wood on the St. Maurice yet, and
he knows, even better than I do, thst taday the only business which can stand up
is the business whièh ean be done at a
profit. Na persan is gaing ta buy that pulp
wood, no persan is gaing to try to take out
pulp* wood. out of which a living profit
cannot be made for the man who is taking
it out. Therefore that dissipates his -argiument with regard ta that.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Did the hon. senator
azn(o.M.Blu)ntsyi
o
speho.M.Blu)ntsyi
fratz
that the Government was
his gretsec
ta operate the road? How does the hon.
gentleman froni Nipissing (Hon. Mr. Gardon) reconcile what lie says with what the
hon. gentleman fromi Lauzon said?
Hon. Mr. GORDON-I heard whiat the
hon. gentleman said as Nvell as my hon.
friend heard iL, and that is aIl I know about
iL. I do nat knaw whether the Government
iutend ta operate iL or whether they do not,
but I would like ta ask nîy hon. friend this
question: if by operating this road -all the
trade eould be taken away from the Canadian Pacifie railway, and maney cauld be
made out of the operation of iL, why have
the Grand Trunk railway not taken over

SENATE

this road before to-day, which we are told
is completed? The Grand Trunk railway
men are business men. The receipts on
their Toad, as well as the receipts of .others,
have been climbing, alI winter, and I ami
sure they would have been only 'toc glad
to 'have operated it before now, if they could
have mnade money out of it.

Why do not the Grand Trunk Pacifie take
over this road, and be compelled to operate
At under the contract with the Government? Simply because the hion. gentlemnan's friends alter the change of Government, degraded the road ta such an extent
as to allow the Grand Trunk Pacific to
refuse to'comply with the conditions under
which they would take over that road.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The reason they
Several hion. GENTLEMEN-No.
are not operating it is. because things are
so bad since the hon. gentleman's friends
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Consequently the
came into power that there is no business Grand Trunk Pacific now are holding back
looking for better ternis than they made
to be done by anybody.
withi the late Government for taking over
Hon. Mr. GORDON-We will take that and operating that road. 1 say that it is
for the hon. gentleman's answer, I had a hardship, and the gentleman who brought
hDped the hon. gentleman would exhibit this matter before the Hous is entitled to
more intelligence in giving an answer, the sympathy of the people for whom hie is
because every one knows the depression speaking, because those people no doubt
that
settled in
under which we are sufferinga at the went in there and
present time would have existed no matter country on the expectation that because
what Government were in powey. Every that road was built they would have
railwav
and
accommodation
person knows that the only business which r-ailway
Mr. hon. friend gets
we can expect for that road, and for which communication.
we have now to sit down and wait, is that up now and says, "No, let the people
are people
which we may expect from the West next stay thiere; unless there
fail. If the crops are not any better than they sufficient to make it profitable to open that
were this year, and there is no increased road, they prefer that it should not be
acreage, 1 submit it is better for the coun- operated at ail." That is what 1 complain
try, -in the event of the Government having of. My hon. friend fromn Lauzon (Hon.
the late
te operate that road, to leave it as it is, Mr. Bolduc) criticised the action of
it is good business sense not te commission, but the hon. member from
because
throw good dollars àfter bad. If the road Halifax (Hon. Mr. Power) has sufficiently
appointcau only be operated at a loss, it is better answered that. A commission was
properly s0
to leave it until the time to operate it suc- ed by the present Goverument, a good job
I say, to investigate, and it is
cessfully arrives.
they did. For one thing, it is complimentHon. Mr. WATSON.-I have no intention ary to public life Lu Canada that after a
of taking Up the time of the House on this thorough investigation no fault was found
question, but because of some remarks that withi the Grand Trunk Pacific Commission.
fell this afternoon from lion. gentlemen on
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-You have neyer read
the other side of the House 1 could not sit the report, then?
still; I could not allow them to go without
some contradiction. The last hion. member
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I read the report,
who spoke said that if the road wvere not I listened to the investigation, and I found
going to pay, better let it stand idle, let the there was no charge in connection with that
ties rot-let the rails rot rather than operate commission. More than that, the Grand
it at a loss. When that road wvas built, Trunk Pacific vouched for every dollar that
when the people of Canada undertook to was expended by the commission on the
finance that road, and made a bargýain road, that was built under their own plans
with the Grand Trunk Pacific, it wvas neyer and under the supervision of their own
contended that there were net somne portions engineers; the contract was in such shape
of that road which could net be operated that had the Liberal Government remnained
except at a loss. The hon. gentleman iii power, and the commission completed
knowvs perfectly well that the Canadian the road the Grand Trunk Pacific would
Pacifie railway, a successful corporation, have been operating that road to-day, they
operates hundreds, yes thousands of miles would have had to do it under their conwhere the local freight do not pay the axle tract. I was rather surprised to hear the
grease, but they operate these portions in hon. gentleman expressing wonder at
$ 13,000,000 heing the amount spoken of for
connection with the whole systemn.
Hon, Mir. GORDON.

M-NARCH 11, 1915
.n saying, "You were not building that road
according to contraci."
Hon. Mr. GORDON-He says it is the
best in the world.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I have no doubt the
western portion of the road is the best in
the 'world. Previous to the change of grades
by this Government I have no hesitation in
say4ng it was the best piece of railway in the
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-What were the world.
figures given by Mr. Fielding in the other
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-Was there not a
House'
pasher grade on it, or at least two, of one
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The figures given per cent rise, I think down in New Brunsai that trne and talked of were ai a cost wick or in the eastern part of Quebec?
cf $13,000,000 te Canada for interest.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I want to say that
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Nb, hie said $57,- any grades that are over the four-tenths or
000,000.
six-tenths of one per cent agreed to while
the commission was constructing that road,
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Sir Wilfrid Laurier
Grand Trunk Pacifie,
said $ 13,000,000. Now 1 say if there are were agreed te by the with that contract,
make in connection with and cou]d not interfere
any refiections ta
my contention is
the Grand Trunk Pacific, and the' non- and if that is the case
should be in a
operation cf the road. it is the fact that right, that the Government
Pacifie
hon, gentlemen who now control the affairs position to compel the Grand Trunk accordwith the carry- to take over that road and operate it
of ibis country interfered
Chamberlin wrote
ing out of that contract and bedeviled the îng to contract. But Mr. degrading of that
whole thing by degrading the road se that protesting against the
Government that
the Grand Trunk Pacific to-day are net road and notifying the
over the Grand Trunk Pacifie would not take
coxnpelled under their contract to take
it had been degraded.
the road, the Government are practically over the road because
the Govadmitting they are net, because there is no What I arn complaining cf ià that
in
that they should take it over ernment put the Grand Trunk Pacific
necessity
such a position that they are not compelled
and operate it.
to take over and operate that road. We
Hon. Mr. GORDON-Wil1 the lion. gentle- pc.ople in the West want every outiet, every
man answer a question?
spout we can have, for carrying out our
grain. 1 know that road as far west as
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I will try to.
from Winnipeg to Edmonton, and there was
Hon. Mr. GORDON-My hion. friend from no better road in America. I think it is a
de Lanaudière (Hon. Mr. Casgrain) told us marvel, and railway people who rode over
tbat this road was the best graded road in it were surprised that a road of such recent
the world-hest ties, best rails and every- construction can be in such good condition
thing else.
as it is to-day.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-So they are.
Hon. Mr. GORDON- If the road were in
imuch freight do you
Hon. Mr. GORDON-Now, yeu say the operation now, how to send over it to-day?
been degraded; where is the dis- think you would have
road bas
crepancy?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-My hion. friend
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I ani not reflecting ought to know that, because it was supon the ties or on the rails, but I say the road posed that there would net be sufficient
for
bas been deg-raded because the grades liave freigaht to make it a paying proposition
sorne years, and therefore the Government
been chang-ed.
provided for seven years interest to allow
Hon. Mr. BOLDUG-Wheree
I have no
for the collection of freight.
contract wa s to doubt at ail that if that road was operated.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The
be a certain grade-four-tenths of one per instead of the few settiers to which my hion.
would be
cent going east, and six-tenths going west. friend made reference, there
Tbey have degraded the road and called thousands of settiers in addition to those
if the people are
these inferior grades "momentum grades." that are there to-day; but
going to be held up, and given no railway
The Grand Trunk Pacific have a just case

the building of the Transcontinental rail-i
way. He knows very well it was neyer
suggested that that section of the road
could be built for 13 millions. That was the
estimate cf cost for interest prepared by
the Chief Engineer, Mr. Schreiber, and sut)mitted to Parliament ai the trne that contract was let, and the proposition was submitted to the people cf Canada.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I amn not in the
communication, what is the use of settling- ecrets of the Government, and I know onlY
s
the country? Surely the road is built and
'bat has been published.
ought to be operated, even if it bas to be w.
a loss for a time; the Canadian
operated at
li-on. Mr. BOYER-This seems tW be a
Pacifie railway is operated for hundred-s of
uestioning match. I would ask my hon.
miles at a loss as f ar as local trade is con- qriend fromn Lauzon (Hon. Mr. Bolduc) who
Why not operate this road, and (iLas told us that that part of the road fromi
cerned.
thus divert trade down fromn Cochrane in the l1ochrane down te Quebec is practically
spending any
other direction?C
'J seless, whiat is the use of
was asked
BOWELL-1 n ~ore money on it? That question
MACKENZIE
Sir
Hon.
and
(Hon. Mr. ast wveek in the House of Commons Mr.
understand the hion. gentleman
nswered by the Minister of Railways.
Watson) tW say that the reason that the a 1
iraliam put the questions' about the TransGrand Trunk Pacific have not taken over(
Quebec terminais:
on accounit o! the changes ýontinental Railway
that road was
designates as
that were made, which he
NATIONAL TRANSCONTINNTAL RAILdegrading the road?

Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do
you speak authoritatively in that?
lion. -Nr. WVATSON-I think so, wlîen 1
quote Mir. Chianiberlin's letter to the
Governmient saying that lie refused to take
thue rond over because o! the deg-rading of
the road. Surely that is sufficient evidence.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tben
there in another reason, at ail events, why
the company would not take the road ocverbecause they would not assume the responsibility for the expenditure on the road; the
road had cost so much more than was contemplated that it would impose on the Grand

Trunk Pacific an annual expenditure so
great, over and above anything they could
earn, that they would nlot talle the road
o ver.
Hon. 2\r. W'ATSON-No, 1 take issue on
that point.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-M,%ird
you, 1 do xuot vouch for eitber of themn.
Hon. 'Mr. WATSON-I take issue on that;
such ground has neyer been t.uken and
could not be successfully taken, because the
Grand Trunk Pacific engineers vouched for
every dollar that was spent on the road
by the comission under tlue contract.*
More than that, the Grand Trunk Pacific
hiad the opportunity of contracting, and did
contract, for a large portion o! that road,
and did tlîe work.

WATY-QUEBEC TERMINALS.
Mr. GRAH.AM:
1. liais work been started on the proposed terTransminal In connection with the National city of
continental Railway terminais in the
Quebec?
2. If so, what amount has been expended on
this work Up to December 31, 1914?
Mr. COCHRANE:
1. Tes.
2. $372,514.86 expended by the commissioflers
Canadiasi
for lands, and $154,293.83 *by the and buildPacifie Railway Company on tracks
ings.
Mr. GRAHAM:
1. lian the Governinent purchased what la
known as the St. Malo Raflway Une, adjacent
to Quebec?
2. If no, what was the prices paid?'
3. Hian any contract been awarded for the
rebuildiflg or repairiflg of the road, or any
part of It?
4. If so, what la the estimated cost of such
repairs?
Mr. COCHRANE:
1. Tes.
2. $175,000.
3. Tes.

4. $11,000.

Hon. My. I3OYER-Now it is a known fact
that the old commission of the National
Transcontinental railway purchased, imme-

diately adjacent to the bridge at Quebec,
wjth thie consent of the Grand Trunk Pacifie
officials-without whose consent they could
not purchase any land or build any roadover 300 acres of land so as to build the necessary torminals immediately adjacent to
tHe Quebec bridge. It strikes mie that 300
acres is a pretty large plot of land. The
l)"ce paid was $350 an acre; but the prec;ent
Government, which. finds that this bit of
a rond is not worth exploiting, that it would
psy the axie grease, actually last sumHon. ',\r. GORDON-Is it possible tlîat not
of land at
and that you nier purchased. a thousnd acres
that grounid could be taken,
a place near Quebec called St. Malo, some
would not know sinything about it?
seven miles distant from the terminal bridge
Hon. Mr. WATSON-What ground?
at a cost of $1,000 an acre, so we are Wold,
and to connect this 'new land with the termiHon. Mr. GORDON-Thie ground of the inais and the bridge they had to purchase
road having cost too much?
Hon.

Mr. M'ATSON.

MARCH 11, 1915

f-

land along the railway extending over about
1,8W0 miles had been thickly settled with
a prosperous and a happy people, and that
quite suddenly, without the slightest intinmation, the operation of the road ceased
and this prosperous and numerous people
were at once plunged in the depths of
despair ànd adversity by reason of some
action on the part of the Government in
not operating the road. But, gentlemen,
this road wïs in the bands cf the contracter
until last autumn, until the beginning. of
winter, between Quebec and Cochrane. Immediately upon completion cf the road, that
is te say. upon the conipletion ci the work
to he done by the contractera, the Minister
of Railways-the proper official, in that behalf-proceeded te miake a personal inspectien cf the entire road, between the city cf
Quebec and Cochranie; «aîîd hie feund along
the read two conditions, one cf whiclî wvas
a fairly large settlenient in the vicinity cf
Ainos. prebably net more than a thousand
settiers. lie lit once vroceeded te iake
provision withiii reasoiîable bounds respectcountry withi a great future-instead of in- these settlers. My lion. friends in Quespending- that iinoney and throwiiug it into bec. including thé Quebec Board cf Trade,
private pockets, into pockets cf speculators, and aIl other intelligent bodies and indiwire pullers and politicians, it would have viduals, would surely net expect the Govbenefited the country much more, if that ernment cf Canada te open up the whole
înoney had been spent even lit a loss-the cf this system of railway and subject the
loss would net have been near $800,000-and country te the enormous expense which
the expenditure wculd have carried a great would be involved in operating somte 1,800
deal of relief te the unfertunate settlers ait nilles cf road in order te meet the requirements ef those who liad settled during conAbitibi.
lit, say, one particular peint along
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hion. friend struction
had the
David) bas that road. The centractors, who its confrein Mille les (Hon. Mr.
righit te operate the road during
placed on the Order Paper a motion reading
struction, found te thieir very great disadais follows:
vantage, notwithstanding the rights vrhich
Timat an humble address be presented te were given them te operate the road, that
His Royal Highness the Governer General, any eperation was. carried on ait a very
praying tiîmat His ]Royal Highness shali submit
Ioss te theinselves. The
te this House copies ef ail petitiona te the sericus expense and
Goernnîent, or any member ef the sanie, and Governînent ait once proceeded, when the
ef ail cerrespondence and documents in con- point was reached wlien they could internection with the discontinuation cf the trains vene. to investigate the conditions te which
ef the Transcontinental between Abitibi and
1 have referred and to give the necessary
Hervey Junction.
assistance to these settîcrs. Neov, what has
This discussion-1 do net know N,.hether that assistance ceat? *We inust net overlook
or net te caîl it n debate--seenis to have re- the fact that this read xvas net built te be
selved itself into a very vigorous attack operated by the Governrnent cf Canada.upon the Governinent of the day. for seme
lion. Mr. WATSON-Hear, hear.
reasen or other net quite apparent.
Hion Mr. LOUGHEED-This read was
Hion. Mr. WATSON-And the Raiiway built te be operated by the Grand Trunk
Commission.
Pacifie.
lion Mr. LOUGHEED-One would fancy
lion. 1Mr. WATSON-Hear, hear.
that this road had been in eperation for a
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED: The Government
considerable number cf years. One might
teck ail the necessary steps te induce the
imagine that duringf that lengthi ef turne thE

froin the Canadian Northern railway a littie
branch line seven miles long for $175,000 on
wliici thc estimiated repairs are $ 11,000.
Here is over $800,000 uselessly spent on
terininais cf a road that the hon. gentleman
aduaits is net worth exploiting, when the
Governiment actually possessed adjacent te
the Quebec bridge enough land for the next
40, 50 or 60 years te cerne, te build the necessary terminais. But, of course-we' are
net in the secrets of the goda-more land
was wanted te faveur certain factions in the
city of Quebec, and the difference cf grade
between the land purchased by niy hion.
friends opposite and the Quebec bridge is
exactly 120 feet, and the estiniated cost cf
haulingu a car frein the lower grade to the
upper grade is $S. Dees it net strfke hion.
gentlemen opposite that if this 'noney, instca<l ef being useiessly spent. iiad been
spent in the exploiting cf the railroad. liad
been sl>ent iciieving tîmose timat cry to-day
because tlmey 1went out in the foi-est te try
and uuake our country bigger, te try and
niake a part of timat country piosperous, a

SENATE

Grand Trunk Pacifie to operate the rc ad
upon its comýletion by the contractors. But
the Grand Trunk Pacifie have not respond.
ed; they have as yet reiused to operate the
road-and I shail corne in a moment to
why they refused, or as to the alleged
causes of their refusai. But the Government, in the face of the inconvenience suifered by those settiers, arnail in proportion
to the vast territory of country over which
they may be distrihuted, found that to,
operate even the 270 miles of road which
would bring thom in contact with the other
great systems of railway in Canada would
cost no less than $ 12,000 a month for a hinotwithweekly service. -Consequcntly,
standing the enormous expense ta which the
country is now subjected, for the purpose of
meet.ing the convenicenee of this small group
of settiers, we are paying no less thani $12,000 a month ta operate 270 miles of road wvith
a bi-weekly service in order that we rnay
give convenience to thase settiers. Yet my
hion. friend from 14ille Iles and gentlemen
on the opposite side of the House arc attaekiag the Governrnent because they are not
spending an infinitely greater amount to
operate not only that particular section, but
in fact -he whole length of the road, whieh 1
venture ta, say would cost millions af dol.
lars ta aperate.

made a personal investigation into the Other
portions of the road, and he found that in
addition ta the settiers to whom I have aiready referred there are a few industries
whjch have become ta a certain extent developed-industries capitalized at a fair
arnaunt, and evidencing signs of prosperity.
He made the proposition to, thase variaus
industries that the Goverument would be
only' toa glad to. place themn within
communication of the markets of Canada
provided they paid the cost thereof without
any profit whatever to the Goverument,
that is to say, the actual cost of operating
a train service for the purpose af meeting
their requirements. The Government was
quite prepared ta give ta them ail the advantages that they needed for the carryîng out
of whatever business they were in.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Do you know at
;htpit
vatpi?
Han. Mr. WATSON-What ie the revenue
now?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The revenue of
what?

Hon. Mr. WATSON.-You esaid $12.000.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.-There i. na
'evenue whatever. The contractars who are
frorn Hearst
Hon. Mr. CA8GRAIN-Where are the 270 inerating the bi-weekly service
'i) Amos rec-eive from the Goverrnîent of
2
that they are operating'
miles
anada $12.000- a month for that bi-weekly
are operat- -r'vice. and anything else they #an makc
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They
pointed ont
ing between Arnos and Cochrane, and Coch- out of it; and t.hey have already
tththreinaevu.
Between Cochrane andtateoenm
rane and Hearst.
hon. gentlernci:. ivill
Hearst the distance is 129 miles, and be- This, 1 submit to
that have been
tween Hearst and Amnos 141 miles; and this cover both theisconditions
well enough for lion. genIt
stters wh Iarn informed spoken of. point ont the great possibilities
wil plcethoe
scn tlemen to
Iosr
arel thae os setters,n hale
con of this road. 1 amn nat at this-particiilar
asettle enilod ta ein
th
siare
point gaing into a discussion at ail of this
ne
o
thae stted alnthat rifl
sideractin
th oter ystrneof ailaycontract, ai the National Transcontinental
conactwît
in Canada s0 that they may have access to railway. That subjeet may corne up in the
the variaus markets ai the Dominion. Now futur e, and if iA shauld came up in the
I ask lion. gentlemen seriously if the Gov- future it is very desirable that the Senate
ernmrent ai Canada wauld have beeli justi- af Canada shauld be in possession ai ail the
fied in entering upan sucli an expenditurç facts attending the discussion of such a snbas wauld be involved in operating- that ject. The Senate af Canada shauld nat enentire system? If 270 miles of road with ter lightly upan a discussion af so large and
settiers lacated along that length of important a transaction. involving sueh an
raad will cast the Governiment Of Can- enormous expenditure and invested with al
ada $12,000 a nionth for a bi-week]y the passibilities ai this particular underservice, liaw inuch, I ask, wauld it taking. Therefare it seerne ta me it would
cost ta operate its entire systeni the reflect very rnuch greater credit upon the
greater part ai whieh is not settled at Senate that we should reserve the discussion
ail? 1 qualiiy that last staternent in this oif such a subjeet until we are in a position
way, that the Minister of Railways hinîseli ta intelligently deal with the undertaking.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MARCH 11, 1915

My*hon. friend from Portage la Prairie, I
believe in the beet of good faith, has net
only refcrred te-day but on previeus occasions te the reason why the Grand .Trunk
Pacific has net taken over this systemn. My
hon. f riend is entirely incorrect in the conclusion at which h. bas arrived. I might
say that the alleged de-grading cf the road
has nothing whatever te do with the subject.
There are larger reasens than that.
Hon. Mfr. WATSON.-Excuse me, did Mr.
Chamberlin net say so?
Hon Mfr. LOUQHEED.-ThaL dees net for
a moment establieh the case; and I would
say te my bon. friendi that any representatiens which Mr. Chaýmberlmn or any. other
officiai cf Lb. Grand Trunk Paciflc may
make with reference te assuming the responsibility at the prissent moment cf taking
over the National Transcontinental railway
Mr.
need net b. taken tee seriously.
Chamberlin, very wisely, is net stating for
publication the more important consideratiens that influence the ccmpany.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON.-Ohi
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.-Âllow me te
,point eut te my hon. friend se that h. may
hereafter net agitate himself toc seriously
upon the subjeet, that the central cf the
grades cf the National Transcontinental railway is in the hande cf the Government. My
hon. friend wiil net flnd in the contract
anything te warrant the conclusion at
*which ne bas arrived-that this road
gradient
a
te
built
be
te
-is
et four-tentha going east ir six-tentha going
west, as my hon. friend from De Lanaudière
(Hon. Mfr. Casgrain) bas pointed out. The
control cf the grades is in the hands et the
Government; and while iL is alleged that
the representatives of the Grand Trunk
Paeific, whe are Lbe other parties te the
contract, may net have fully sgreed as tu
some of those grades with the Government,
yet, substantially speaking, the Grand
Trunk Pacifie have been parties to everyt.h4ng that bas been dene upon that line.

9

tien thereof, and I amn informed endorsed
whatever was done by the Government in
tbe matter.
Hoff. Mr. CASGBRAIN-For the work in
the shops the Grand Trunk Pacifie agreed
te the location of the shopa there?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, I arn informed that whatever location was determined
upon, the Grand Trunk Pacifie were parties
thereto. My hon. friend may net have as
accurate information upon the subject a-others. 1 aise would advise my hon. friend
from De Lanaudière not te take toc seriously
the representations of the street which
may be made for certain purposes from time
te Lime. If he will net accept toc seriously
these representatiens be will appreciate to
a very much more satisfactory extent than
he is doing the relations between the Gevernident cf Canada and the Grand Trunk
Pacific. As far as the grades are concerned,
assuming for the moment that there should
b. any disagreement between the Grand
1'runk Pacific and the Government. iL is an
easy matter te rectify any cf those differences. In reference te semne of those grades,
Lbe so-called pusher grade about which we
aave heard se much-Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Momentum grade.

Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-It is only agrade
et -65, which very closely approaches fourtenths; but even that grade was consented
Le by the Grand Trunk Pacific, the agreement with the late Mfr. Hays being that
in the event cf iLs being desirable te
reduce it at any time the Government
.qould b. prepared te consider the subject.
But iL must be manifest te hou. gentlemen
that large expenditures that nxight b. made
oy the Government in avoiding gra.lients or curvatures would be in turn
If
assumed by the Grand Trunk Pacifie.
economies could be carried eut in the read,
* hese econemies enured, in more manifest
advantage, te the Grand Trunk Pacifie than
te the Gevernrnent of Canada, and conseHon. Mfr. BOWELL-Hear, hear.
quently -any little differences et the kind
upen which hon. gentlemen have se elaborHon. Mfr. WATSON-U-p te date?
ated are*subject easily te being rexnedied by
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They exercised ii *additional expenditures.
joint supervision with Lbe Goverument ci
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Will the hon. gentleCanada in its entire construction. Thî
man allow me te ask him a questionP Is
very shops upon which my hon. friend froir
De Lanaudière <Hon. Mfr. Casgrain> speni Lhe et opinion with the hon. member from
be
se much time in elaborating upon, bad tlx Lauzon, who said that the railway would
operated by the Gevernment eventuallyP
Grand Trunk Pacifie as parties te tbe selec.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-- arn very glad
my hon. friend has spoken of that point; I
came near overlooking it. As already
pointed out, the Minister of Railways made
a personal investigation of the entire system in the late autumn. As 1 have said, we
are operating 270 miles of the road, namely,
from Hearst to Amos. Now, as to the operation o! the entire system, it will be necessary almost immediateiy for the Government of Canada to operate in a limited way
the entire system for the purpose of maintenance. Hon. gentlemen will readily understand that owing to climatic conditions
which. must necessarily play a very large
part in the road, for instance, such as
spring freshets and ail that kind of thing,
it will be necessary for the Government
almost at once to enter upon the entire
system with a view of keeping- it open; and
if any inconveniences have been suffered by
those living along the line up to the present
time, there is a possibility o! those dîfficulties hein-. overcome when the Gev ernment through force of circurnstances xvill
be called upon at a very early day to place
under operation the entire systemn for the
purpose o! maintenance and for the purpose o! preventing the decay into whjch the
road must necessarily fail except it beromes
a going-concern.Hon. Mr. DAVID-I have another question, you answered so well. When did the
Government arrive at that decision?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Govertiment
always foresaiv that that wvould have to be
done, and the necessary steps are now being
taken by the Department of Railways looking to the operation of the system se as te
place it in a position of activity, before the
spring fresiiets.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-By the Grand Trunk
Paèific, or by the Governoient?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-0Oh, no, by the
Government. 1 would furtherrnore say that
inmediately the contractors conipleted
tlîeir contracts between the points which I
have mentioned, namely, Quebec and Cochirane, the Government look the necessary
steps to notify the Grand Trunk Pacifie of
the completion o! the road and o! the necessity o! their carrying out or fulfilling the
obligations which fall upon themn under
the contract between the Crown and the
company.
I need not say te hon. gentlemen that the
cornpany has not responded with that alacrity wbich the Governinent would very
Hon. 1%r. DAVID.

muoh like to see. They have not Pointed
out wherein the road is incomplete in anY
partieular respect but they rely upon a general objection, which as my hon. friend
opposite knows is a very f avourite objection, in special pleading. What the reauit
o! this rnay be I cannot say. The probabilities are Vhat negotiations between the
Grand Trunk Pacifie and the Government
may be extended over some period of time,
but in the meantime the perpiexities whie'h
iu.st necessarily attend the handling of s0
important a matter will be thrown upon.
the shoulders o! the Grovernment. I hope
the explanation whidh I have given will
satisf y my hon. friend from Mille Dies,
and that 1the Government o! the day will
be acquitted o! any desire te embarrais in
the least thoýse 'who may have' settled along
the Uine of that road. I think hon. gentienien wvill agree with me, no matter to what
extent they may disag-ree with the politica!
colour o! the Government o! the day, that it
is highly desira-ble the Government ahould
exercise the greatest economy in the further handling o! this undertaking whièh has
alrçady cost the Government o! Canada a
sum enormously in excess of that whioh was
anticipated by the late Government.
Hon. Mr. CABGRAIN-The hon. gentieinan says there are only 270 miles out of
the 1,804 hetween Moncton and Winnipeg
in operation. I thought the section from
\Vinnîpeg- to Superior Junction, 458 miles
was in operation. Further, I thought that
froin Lévis to Moncton there 'was a biweekly service started a long time ago.
'Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn not discussing that. I arn simply discussing that
section of the railroad which bas to do
writh the discussion which arose to-day,
narneiy hetween Quebec and Cochrane. I
uiiderstood that mny hon. frieni frorn Mille
les (Hon. Mr. David) vas not interested
in the oth r sections of the road. O!
course, a temporary arrangement bas been
entered into for the operation of the secbetween Winnipeg and Superior
tion
1 miction.
Hon. 'Mr. CASGRAIN-The Government
seern to be paying a pretty good rent considering the fact that they are bard up$12,000 per month. Have you figured out
how rnuch that is per train mile P
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, but that is
the best we can do.

MARCH 12, 1915

Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-The Government
is not doing very well. .

GOVERNMENT VALUATION 0F AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS.

Hon. Mr. LEGRIS-I move that the debate he adjourned until Wednesday next.

INQUIR-Y.

The motion was agreed te, and the debate was adjourned until Wednesday next.

THIRD READINGS.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS inquired of the GovernHon. Mr. DAVID-Could the hon. leader ment.
of the House furnish the documents whieh
1. What valuation did the Governinent put
I have asked for, before the discussion is on 7 and S-foot McCormick Binders at Winnipeg, Càlgary. and Regina ln 1911, respectively.
ret:umed next week?
aiso on Deering and ail others of sarne dimenthe
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I thought the de- sions on said date, and what valuation did said
Government put on said binders in 1914 at
bate was closed and I rose to indicate to porte of entry?
0
my hon.. friend that we would bring down
2. What valuation qdid the Dominion Governnient place on farm wagons with and without
the papers.
box at port of entry in Wininipeg, Calgary and
Hon. Mr. DAVID-But I have a riglit Regina, -juiy and Âuguot, 1911, giving the
valuation in each case?
to reply.
3. What valuation was there placed on sanie
has class of wagons ln July and August, 1914, at
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The motion
saine port of entry?
nlot yet been carried.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-One answer will
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I know I amrn ft erititled to the papers if my hion. friend cover the three questions, and the answer is
as follows:
does not wish to give them.
The Department of Customs does not fix
have no desire
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I
the value for those articles. Inîported goods
to embarrass muy hon. friend discussing
are subject to valuation for duty purposes
this inatter.
accordîng to the f air market value as sold
Hon. Mr. DAVID-It is on account of for home consumption in the country o!
the remarks made hy the hon. gentleman expert.
from Lauzon that I feel I should have -Different. manufacturera seil situilar lines
access to the dlocuments. I think 1 could of articles at différent pricea, so that values
o~btain satisfactory. information from them. are not uniform.
Exportera are required to certify on inHon. Mr. BOLDUC-I. do not find any
fault with the motion (if the hon. gentle- voices for entry at Customs the fair market
man, but I do find fault with the reinarks value of the gooda as sold for home conwhieh he made when discussing bis motion. sumption in the country of expert.

Bill (4>, An Act respecting The Alberta
Central Railway Coinpany.-Hon. Mr. De
Veber.
Bill (5), An Act respecting- The Athabaska
and Grande Prairie Railway Company.Hon. Mr. Talbot.
Bill (6), An Act respecting The Brantford
and Hamilton Electric Railway Company.Bion. Mr. Ratz.
Bill (7), An Act respecting The British
Columbia and White River Railway Coinpany.-Hon. Mr. Casgrain.
Bill (9), An Act respecting The Essex Terminal Railway Company.-Hon. Mr. Taylor.
Bill (10), An Act respecting The Grand
THE SENATE.
*Trunk Railway Company of Canada.-Hon.
Mr. Thompson.
Ottawa, Friday, March l2th, 1915.
Bill (13), An Act respecting The Montreal
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three and Southern Counties Railway Company.
-Hon. Mr. Caagrain.
o'clock.
Bill (21), An Act reapecting The Canadian

BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill No. 43, An Act respecting the Huron
and Erie Loan and Savings Coinpany, and
to change its name to the Huron and Erie
Mr. DanMortgage Corporation.-Hon.
durand.
Bill No. 58, An Act respecting the
Casualty Company of Canada-Hon. Mr.
McHugh.
The Senate adjourned uintil three o'clock
to-Inorrow.

SENATE

Northein Ontario Railway CompanY.-HOn.
Sir Melvin Jones.
Bill (22>, An Act respecting The Canadian
bNorthern Quebec Railway Company.-Hon.
Mr. Mitchell.
Bill (23), An Act respecting The James
Bay and Eastern Railway Company.-Hon.
Mr. Mitchell.
Bill (24>, An Act respecting The Ottawa
<As
and New York Railway Company.
amended>-Hofl. Mr. Davis.
Bill <25), An Act re@pecting The South
Ontario Pacifie Railway Company.-Hon.
Mr. McHugh.
Bill (26), An Act respecting The Southern
Central Pacific Railway Company.-Hon.
Mr. Bostock.
Bill (D), An Act for the relief of Helene
Suzette Baxter Douglas.-Hon. Mr. Mitchell.
Bill <C), An Act for the relief of William
Ewart New.-HoXI. Mr. Talbot.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS:- Clause 12 is an amendment to the existing charter. The Company
is asking power to carry on business in al
its branches, wholesale and retail. That is
a matter for provincial legisiation.
Hon. Mr. POPE: The provisions of the Bill
can be djeait with by the Committee.
The Motion wýs agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
Hon. Mr. WATSON: I move that rules 30,
63 and 119 be suspended so f ar as they relate
to this Bill.
The Motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday next
at 8 o'clock in the evening.

THE SENATE.
SECOND READINGS.
Tusday, Maroh 16, 1915.
t.he Canadian
BiH <17), An A-e respecting
The SPEAKER took the Chair et Eight
Mr.
Company.-Hon.
.Pacifie Railway
o'clock.
'Young.
Pityers and routine proceedings.
Bill (20). An Act respecting thbe Van Buren
Company.-Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.
Bridge
BILLS -INTRODUCED.
-Bill (W3), An Act to incorporate Marcil
Bill (I), An Act- for the 'relief of
Trust Company.-Hon. Mr. Dandurand.
Bâl <f9), An Act respecting the Empire Thorndike.-Hon. Mr. Derbyshire. Arthur
Bill (JM, An Aot for the relief of
Lite Insurance Company.-Hon. Mr. Kerr.
respecting the Premier Ernest Birdsell.-Hon. Mr. Ratz.
Bih (ÇE), An Act
Trust Cornpany.-Hon. Mr. Belcouit.
FIRE GUARDIANS AIND FOREST
1Bill <F), An Act respecting The EdmonRANGERS.
Columbia Railton, Dunvegan and British
INQUIRY.
way Cornpany.-Hon. Mr. Talbot.
GRAIN GROWERS' GRAIN CO.-BILL.
SECOND READING,

Hon. Mr. DAV1B inquired:
and forest
1. How many fiue guardians
rangers were there employed by the Government in August and September, 1911, in ManiAnd what
toba. Saskatchewan and Alberta?
amount of money was there .paid out for urs
service for the year 1911?
2. What amount did the owners of berths
contribute for fire guardians In 1911 In the
sibove provinc«?
3. How many fire guardians and forest
rangers were there In the enwploy of the Gover-nment in the above provinces In 1914? Hlow
rnuch did owners of beiths contribute, and
what amounkt was there paid for this service
in th is year in said provinces?

MT. Pope moved the second Reading of Bill (HI) An Act respecting the Grain
Growers' Grain Co.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS: There seems to be sorne
new matter in tis nieasure, and I do not
think we should be asked to accept the principle of the Bill without some explanation.
Hon. Mr. POPE: Not being the promoter
of the Bill, I arn not in a position to give an
intelligent explanation, such as the hion.
Hon.. Mr. LOUGHEED-The çanswers are:
gentlemen desire. 1 have been asked, as
1. 136 fire guardians and forest rangers,
of
hon. members often are, te take charge
$90,626.
the Bill, without having any knowledge of
2. $7,221.
its provisions.
3. 294 fire guardians and forest rangers.
not yet paid
Mr. POWER: The explanation can $ 11,220. (Amount of assessment
Hon.
mn.) $177,971.
be given- in Cornmittee.
-Hon.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

M.AROH. 16. 1915
2, 3 and 4. Th.is information i, generally
considered confidentiel and at the present
time is ixit oonsadered advisable to Publiai
INQUIRY.
detaila re]eting to the. defenc. cf Canada.
5. For both-lat is, for harbour defeo
Hon. Mr. DAVIS inquired of the Govand for deep water.
ernment:
1..Uow many homestead inspectera were there
ion. Mr. McSWEENEY-Does the bon.
HOMESTEAD INSPECTORS IN ALBERTA,
SASKATCHEWAN AND MANITOBA.

employed ln ' Saskatchewan, Alberta and Manitoba ln 1911? How many Inspections dld they
make ln said year, and what was the total
cost of salaries, expenhea, -etc.?
2. What nwnber were enployed la 1914. how
mnany Inapections dld they mnake? What was
the total expenditure for zalaries and other
expensea?

gentleman say that the information aaked
fer by question Ne. 4 is eonfidential?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. CA8GRAIN-Is lb the. Government or Sir Richard MèBnide that beught
the sirbmarines?
Hon. Mir. LOUGHEED-The- answers are:
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--Oh, lhe Goveru-

1. 48 homestead inspectora. During the ment.
year 1911 tb. record of InspectioS was
kept in the various -land offices in the West COST 0F SERVICE ON THE NATIONAL
and we wiii bave to obtain the information
TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILWÂY.
from these offices. Cest, $101,969.22.
INQUIRY.
2. 69 homestead inspectors, 12,972 inspecHon. Mr. CASGRAIN inquired cf th.
tiens. Coat, $150,869.49.
The above answers are for the fiscal years Government:
1910-11 and 1913-14 respectively.
What la the Government ps.ylng Per train
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Do I understand lny
bon. fniend to say that hie bas no answer
to one part of my question, that part which
refera to ith. number of the inspeetors in
If il is possile to give the informa-1911?
tion for 1914, I do not see wuby hae ant
furnisii it for 1911?

mile for the service est and west of Cochrane
on the Transcontinental railwaY?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers
fuinished me by thei Cihief Engineer cf the.
Transcontinental 'Commission is that tii.
Isabouldie to retfy a micost is 5M3.

take I made the. other day in saying thet
there vas a bi-weekly service betw.en th.
servie.
* Hon. Mar. LOUGHEED-I have read th. points mentioned. IL is a weekly

Hon. Mr. CABGRAIN- That makes th.
coat very excessive.
Hon.. Mr. DAVIS-I do not see why the
hon. gentleman can.not give il for 1911?
SUBWAY ON THE INTEROOLONIAL
RAILWAY AT MONCTON.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I will make furINQTUIRY.
ther Inqu.iry.
jHon. Mr. McSWEENEY inquired cf the.
PURCHA13E 0F SUBMARINES ON THE
i Government:
PACIFIC COAST.
return that I havç received.

110w ma-ny, and who tendered for the subway
of the Intercolonial railway?
1. The amnount of each tender; the naines of
Hon. Mr. MclSWVEENEY inquired of the contractors?
2. The naine of the contracter?
Governnîient:
3. whose tender was accepted, and the
What la the cost of the two submnarines purtender?
by the British Columbia Governrnent, amount of said
chaaed
iHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers to
or by Sir Richard 2McBride?
1. What la tlieir displacement?
tlie hion. gentleman's questions are as fol2. Wîat is their miaximîum cruising radius? lows:
armed?
3. How are they
1. Tenders were rece.ived as follows:
4. What la thieir speed above water, and
INQUIIw.

F. W. Sumumer, Moncton, D. G. Kirke, Ant.igonisii, Williami Cooke, North Sydney,
$69,992; Smith, Merr.ithevw Go., FredenrieHenry J. Phéillips,
Mr. LOUGHEED-The Department ton. N.B., $68,832.50;
Hon.
cf the Naval Service furnishes the follow- R. E. Muteh and Archibald McLean, Charlottetown, P.E.I.. $66,501; E. B. Evans,
ing reply:
The Federal Governrnent purchased twe Montreal $65,593; E. L. Beone, St. John,
N.B., $55:353.60; Messrs. Sherwood and Shersubmaxvines 'at a cost of $1,150,000.
wood. Toronto, Ont., $49,834.70; Messrs.
1. 313 tons.
S-7
what la their speed submerged?
6. Are they for harbour defence or for deep
water?

BEVISED EDITION

SENATE

tien passes, that the subjee should b. presented ta the Printing <)ommittee, se that
they my take the. matter dnt. theïr consideration and perhaps suggest mome remedy.
It has already been praposed by the
hon. gentleman from De Lorimier, that a better metiiod would be t. send a catalogue of
ail the publications issued by the Giovernment annually and each member eould indicate each and ail tiie publications he desired ta 'have. I quit. apporove ci that
PUBLI- method. I think It is a good one, although
DISTRIBUTION 0F OFFICIAL
CATIONS TO MEMBERS.
1 am net propvsing îît now. If this resolutien passes, I shail move that the matter t.
relerred to the Printing Committee.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL moved:
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The hon. gentleman
1'hn L in the opinion of the Senate It is advlaabe that a d.fferent method of dlatributlng froni St. John deserves the thanks, net only
officai pubi cations to the members be adopted. of this flouse but of thus country, for bri.ngHe said: The present method of distri- in- this matter before the flouse. There
bu'ting officiai publ.ications is sueh as tu has been a great waste cf public .money In
eau-se a great deal cf embarrassment ta the publishing of blue-books. I receive
the. iembers themselves. They have to hundreds and hundreds of them; but nereceive so many different publications, and body wants them. If we send them out
such a variety of single copies cf them, to the people, they do not read them. Judgthat they cannot possibly preserve them ing hy the qirantity I get mysel!, there
and Vhey must b. earried away as junk. I must b. tans and tans o! blue-booke puibquit. recognize that there are some officiwl Iished every year which uobody thinks cf
publications which eaoh member wishes t. reading. Then, «gain, after the firet dishave, and -wbidi indeed ho could iiardly do tribution cf b>uetooks, tihe eanie docuwithout. W. have an instance of that. The. ments come iu bound form, ail of which
last one I noticed was a white bock -sent must have ost fAim country a great deal cf
around tu ail the mem'bers containing the money. I have been about twenty years in
officiai document. with regard ta the diplo- Parliament, between th.is Houée and tfhe
matie actions during the time preoeding other, -and 'I do not think I ever looked
the war -by the. French Government, and inside of one of those yellow bound bocks
there is a numiber cf documents of that yet. Most cf them are enly good for lightkind which of course we ail wîsh to Teceive, ing fires. The ouly biue-bocks I look into
but my abject in bringing this matter ta are t¶he Publie Accounts, the Trade and
the attention of the members of this House Commerce reports and the. Auditar Genis that, in addition ta these, there are a eral's Report; but after I have received the
great mnany publications ta 'which hon. first issue of the blue-boaks I do not want
gentlemen cannot give proper attention, the bcund copy. On. time I had -an accusue' as the ordinary blue-book, Vlhe depart- mulation -of them and tried ta give them
mental report, o! whic'h we get two or three to farniers, but they 'would not take theci.
copies. In addlition ta ail this, we have the I then tried libraries, but they would net
sessional papers .supplied us in bound form. receive them, and the only use I could
whicii amounts ta some 30 or 40 volumes make of thein -was for lighting thie furnace.
every yea.r. It is quite impossible ta keep If the muatter were brought ta tihe attention
housing those year after year, and it would o! the powers that be there would Ib. a
take a large museum for every member, to great saving in the public service frcm the
stare these officiai documents in. They are discontinuance of the printing of thoe
wel*i bound and tao valuable to be thrown books.
away, but there might be somneother method
Hou. Mr. CASGRAIN-Those -bocks have
arranged whereby hon. gentlemen could
have acce&s ta any of those documents Vhat to be printed any-way, aud thie extra exthey may require, and not b. over-burdened pense of the larger issues is only the. weight
by an excess cf publications for which of the paper. Soin. may think that the
they cannot pessibly fid rom. My cii- carniage of these books is very expeusdve,
ject is net ta give ta the. fouse any idea but they are carried Iby the. Post Office Dewhièh I may have as ta how this difficulty partment, which bas a contract with the.
might bc reniedied, but rather, if the me- railway companies, pay'ing only so much a
Charles Billy, and W. A. Hall, Pembroke,
$48,259.10; Kenneth McLaggan. St. Marys,
N.B., John T. McBean, Nashwaak Bridge,
E. A. Bell, Fredericton, N.B., $47,525>.90;
John W. MeManus, Co., Ltd., Memramcook.
N.B., $46,091; Messrs. Soper and McDougall,
Ottawa, $45,866.60.
2. Answered by No. 1.
3. Super and McDougall, Ottawa, for $45,866.60, being the. lowest..

Hon. lir. LOUGHEED.

MARCH 16, 1915
*mile, and tliey are practically carried for many cf those blixe-ibooka are duplieates, WoaIl intente and purposes, cf othher
nothing.
b1ue-bocoks whiieh are iseued in the. saine
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-What about the bind- year. For Instance, the Departmen't of
ingP
Trade and Commerce je practically dupli.Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-No it le not the. cating the work cf the Oustoina and I1nland
binding at ail. -Ever aince the Hon. Mr. Revenue Departments, and not only je there
Fielding ixtroduced the system, &il rail- a very considerable expense in.volved in
ways which receive s"uadies ef $3»20 a priliting thase documenta--but every menti'
mile, or $6,4W0 a mi-le if tLey earn the double each member receives twc copies cf a good
aubsidy, are obliged Wocarry and do ail aized volume cf the. unreviaed Table cf Exthe business for the Government at a rate porte and Importe durmng the previous,
thst will equal the interest on the subsidy. month-I think that il is quite un-whIch would b. much 'more tien 1he extra necesary, and tuhat a aummary such es is
expense to the. Government of sending out given iu the. Gazette, of the Bankmng Be-the books. I quite agree that mnany cf turne., would satisfy ail reaaonable people.
those books «are uselesa and are ratier an But there le the ether fect, tiat thbe Departinconvenience in one's office, and many ot ment cf Publie Printing ie oooupied lu
t'hem have Wo be thrown away, beceuse noc- preparing those unnecessery reporta while
body will take them. 0f course, ne one very necessary pepere, suli s our statutes,
-would 'b. entitled to get a copy under the are delayed for menths. The. laws liat w.
propcsed plan unleas he made application pass bocre goverd' tii. whole country froin
before the bocks *were printed, when it tie date cf prorogation, yet as a rule it le
might be rather difficuit ta know whether impossible Woget a oopy cof those elatutes
one wanted the bock or not. This question for about four monh after prorogation. 1
is flot new. It has been up in this Hous. presume that the reason 'whieh would be
and in the other House very often, but no- given is liaI the *wheels of the. Printing
body bias been able to devise eny plan te Bureau are locke4 by 'wlat I lobk upcu as
meet the difficulty si&ioe the iinception cf comparatively uselese- retuixis. Itlaj taixe
Confederation. The idea cf having a cata- Liet someflhing ham been said et different
logue so that members 'would not be clbâged times about thie questicn, but no 'hnet
Wo receive books, and aise Iimiting the bueineselike effort ba ever been made. tiat
one copy instead cf eendIng two I know of, to get lhe question setiiled on a
supply Wo
or tbree copies, is very good; but thcee sensible and busineselihe baas.
members of the House who have been newsHon. Mr. DANIEL-With the. consent cf
paper men and interested -in the printing the Houa.. seconded by the. Hon. Mr. Pose,
that ajter a -book bas
business will know
I should like Womove liaI this resolution
been printed, t>he added expense of a.larger b. referred to the Comnijttee cn Pri!nling
issue is only the weight of the extra paper who are membera cf thus Charnber to makre.
used-'so much a pound.
a report -which, if adopted, could be laken
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That must cost con- up with thbe jcint comittee of boh Hoixees
siderable, because an immense amount cf on 1printing. I'am sure if thia resolution le
paper is consumed. Then what about the oarried il will give an opportunity for those
binding?
senators who are members cf the Joint
bear any member
binding cf Printing Commiltee, ta
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The
cf this Cham-ber wlho wishes Woappear bethose sessional papers i.s a very expensive Icre themn and present bis viewa cf *wba
part cf the work, and if it were the widsh of might and should be done, and they may
tbis Houa. te have -it dispensed with, that be able to report a scheme whicb, if lie
expense would be saved. Like the bon. Senate approves of it, -can lbe referred
member from Alberta, I bave neyer looked through OUT membera cf the Joint Commitat those sessione.l papera in my 16 or 17 ses- tee Wothe joint committe. of bolli House.
sions in Parliament, and if the binding In that way w. should gel sme relief, and
oould be dispensed 'with I think we would a change wh.ich wiil be beneficial.
save a lot cf money. Bo far as I can me
. The motion was egreed to.
those books are net cf much lise.
Hon. Mr. POWER-There is just onî ORDERS IN COUNCIL UNDER DOMINpoint which the hon. member bas lefI oui
ION LANDS ACT.
of siglit. It is not merely, au lie represenbi
MOTION.
it, the additional coet cf printing a certain
L Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED moved the. followrhiumber cf copies and cf carrying them ir
the trains, but there is the fact that a greal bing resolutioxi:
S-71

SENATE

Reaolved, that the following Orders in Council made by Hia Royal Highness the Governor
General In Council under the provisions of
chapter 20, 7-8 Edward VII, «.The Dominion
Landa Act" on the dates hereinsifter mnent:oned, that la to Bay:
1. Order In Councli P.C. No. 3202, dsated 2Oth
December, 1913, amending the regulations governing the. granting of yearly licenses and permita to, cut timber on Dominion lande no au to
provide for the withdrawa4 from a timber
berth land required for water-power Ipurposes.
2. Order In Council P.C. No. 154, dated 19th
January, 1914, rescInding regulations governing the disposail of petrolnum and naturai gaz
righta and substituting other regulations
±herefor.
3. Order In Council P.C, No. 296, dated l6tb
Fe.bruary. 1914, rescinding the grazing regulationa eatablished, 1by Order in Couneil of the
27th ,JuIy, 1905, and .ubatituting other regulatIons ln lieu thereof.
4. Order In Couneff P.C. No. 412, dated 1Gth
Féebruary. 1914, rescinding clauses Nos. 14. 20,
41 and 42 et the regulations governing the
granting of yearly licenses and permits to eut
timber on Dominion lande. and -substituting
other clauses in lieu thereof.
5. Order In Cour.cil P.C. No. 712, dated 12th
March, 1914. e.uthorlzing that ail land. the
property of thie Crowm, contalning radium in
sufficient quantites for commercial extraction
be, for the present, withdrawn from disposal.
6. Order in Couzicil P.C. No. 762, dated 2Oth
March, 1914, establishing regulations governing the sale of land for Irrigation purpose.
7. Order In Counil P.C. No. 949. dated 7th
March. 1914. etabliaisng regulations governIng the issue of lea.ses of school. lande for
petroleum and naturid gas rights este.blished
by Order In Couneil of 14th May, 1913, and
submtituizing othe¶' regulations therefor.

Hfon. Mr. CÂSGRIN-Would my hon.
friend explain what this is?
Hon. MT. LOUJGHEED-It ie an entirely
The Dominion Lands Aot
formai matter.
provides that we shall lay upon the table
at eaeli ission of Parliament certain Orders
ini counoil, the orders 'being those mentioned ini the motion.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Where do we get the
information contained -in those Orders in
Council as to what lias been done witlî reference to changing the regulations?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They are on the
table.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Giving the old resoluition -and the new?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Orders in
Council are on the table, yes.
Hon. MT. BOSTOCK-I should like te ask
*my hon. friend- in regard te Order in
Counoil 296. In reading it over I notice
that the regulations in that Order -in Couiicil -are not made to apply te the rail-way
belt in British Columbia; they are made te
apply to the Peace River Tract in British
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

Columnbia, -but not te the railw.ay boit. Can
my .hon. friend give me any information as
te why tihat reservation was made?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, I cannot
give my hion. friend -any inf'ormation on
that subjeot. If my hon. friend desires iniformation~ I iâhall make inquiry and get it
first hand if he likes.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The regulations
made in the Order in Counoil ini regard ta
grazing are very valuable and would b. of
great benefit in the railway beit. la tffiee
any ieason why they should not be extended
teo the railway beit?
Hon. MTe. LOUGHEED-If my hon.
friend will give me & note as to hie views
on the subjoot I shail ge the information
directly deaiing witb that subject.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCX-Wifl the motion
stand unti] that information is received?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, because tihe
Order ini Council bas been passed, but I
shall get the information for my hon.
friend.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN--I suppose 4thie is
ail right:
8. Order In Councl P.C. No. 1094, dated 24th

April, 1914, providing for the. issue of leases for
coal mining locations withln the. limita of the
Monte Mille Forent Renerve, when one of the
boundaries of a tract bas been surveyed the7
ourvey may be approved by the Surveyor Generai. and tihe lands considered aurveyed lande
wlthin the. meaning of the regulations.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I shouid say ao,
from the way my hon. friend has read ItL
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-It appears'te me
th-at before that, for ail those locations,
surveyors h.ad to be calied in, and they
were required to put pickets et the four
corners of a dlaim. Here they are doing
away with even thet littie precaution. According ta that regulation because one dlaim
has ibeen surveyed -somewhere, near there,
the tract will be considered eurveyed when
it Is net surveyed.
The motion was agreed to.
ORDERS IN COUNCIL UNDER THE DOMINION FOREST RESERVES ACT.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED
lowing- resolution:

moved the fol-

Resolved, that the following Orders in Council made by Mis Royal Highness the Governor
General in Council, in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 10, 1-2 George V, "The
Domninion Forest Reserves and Parks Act," tliat
is to Bay:-

MARCH 16, 1915

1. Order in Council P.C. No. 948, dated 7tb
April, 1914, approving and confirming form of
Licenue of Occupation coverinîr thle surfaoa
rights for the PurPose 0f CoaI Xining operat-ions wit-hin the Dominion Park.
2. Order in Council P.C. No. 1097, dated 25th
April, 1914, establishing regulations for the 'einoval of garbage.in townsites within the Domtinion Park.
3. Order In Council P.C. No. 1331, dated 21at
May, 1914, establishing regulationu goveriiing
Grazing Privileges witbin the Dominion Parka.
4. Order in Council P.C. No. 1521, dat-ed 16tb
June, 1914, est-abliahing regulations governing
electrical Installations within Dominion Parka.
5. Order In Council P.C. No. 1635, dated 20th
,Tune, 1914, rezcinding t-be regulations for t-he
management and control ot the Dominion Governrnent
Wateiworks System Ia Dominion
Parka, and est-ablishing Other regulation. In
lieu thereof, and t-o declare auch regulaitions in
effet on t-be lot of Âpril, 1914.
6. Order In Council P.C. No. 1165. dat-ed 24tb
June, 1914, rescinding portion of t-le Order in
Council of t-be St-h June, 1911, sett-ing spart
certain tracts of land as Dominion Parka, and
substitut-ing other lands t-o lie known as Jaspar
Park and Waterton Lake Park.
Copies of eacb of wbich Order in Councli were
laid before t-bis Bouse on t-be l2th day or March,
1915. for t-be approval of this House under t-be

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I 'was going to ask snyhon. friend if lie could give me mny idea:
a-bout wbat the amend-ment vas in No. 1.
What change 'was made in that.
Hon. Mr.

LOUGHEED-I

cannot

tell

4,Éltt to my hon. friend, but lie will find it

on the table; 1 amrn ot familiar myseif with
the contents.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I wanted te place
before my lion. friend a case that camne up
in Britishi Columbia mn regard to *ihio question of the homeetead, -the time being extended while thc mani was on militaey service. A case was 4brought to -my not"c
.where a man who lied a homestead enli#ted-,
and previously to bis joining the regiment
he eold everyting that lie had on the place,
even thc windows out of the ehack, end to
ail intenta and purposes hie behaved as if hie
did not propose to corne back 10 the homestead again aller bis time was up, or If lie
came back fromn the war lie did not want
to retiurn 'te hie homestead. Sorne ether
men carne te me and wanted to know wheprovisions of section 19 0f "Tbe Dominion ther they could nat get the entry on that
Foret Reserves and Parks Act." are now n0 hornestead, but of course Uic officiai of the
approved.
deparîrnent eaid noc, il vas not possible
The motion was agreed to.
under Uic regulation that lied been mnade,
the bornestead entry would &tend u»Wi thc
DOMINION LANDS IN RAILWAY
man returned. frin t'ho var. I vs going
BELT. B.C.
to ask my bon. friend, if proper evidene
MOTION POSTPONED.
should be igiven that there vas ne mIention on thc part cf tbis homesteader to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED rnoved:
Copies of each of wbich. Order in Counicil were return, whelher anything could lie don. te
cil made by Hie Royal Hîghness the Governor allow anybody ele. to enter the hemestead.
General In Council, in aocordance with t-be
for t-be survey, administration,
regulations
disposai and management of Dominion lands
wit-bia the Raiîway Belt In t-be province of
Britisb Columbia, approved by Order in Council
of t-be lItb September, 1889, t-bat i. to say:1. Order In Council P.C. No. 720, dat-ed 14tb
Marcb, 1914, further amending-t-be regulations
by adding t-bereto' suli-section C to section 22
of t-be said regulations defiaing t-be terna «' Residence in t-be Viciait-y" of hi. horntrtead by an
entrant.
L, Order in Council P.C. No. 2597, dat-ed lîth
October, 1914, making the provisions of section
22 of t-be Dominion Lands Act applicable to
Dominion lands wit-bia t-be Railway Beit In t-be
province of British Columbia. wherEby t-be time
during wbich an entrant ie absent froni bie
boînestead while a member of a military force
earolled under t-be autbority of t-be 'Minister of
Milit-ia and eagaged in t-le defen-ce of t-be Britisb
Empire may be counted as resideiîce upon bis
bomestead.
Copies of eacb of wbicb OrdErs in Council
were lalq before this Bouse on t-le 12tb day of
Marcb, 191S, for t-be apProval of t-bis Bouse
under t-be provisions of sub-section D of section
38 of t-be regulations for t-be survey. administration, dlisposai and management of Dominion
lands wit-hia thbe fort-y-mile Railway Belt In t-be
province of British Columbia, and the said
Orders in Couricil are now so approved.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I could not tell;
I presume the difficulty would be to
get evidesice of the intention. I amn very
doubtfui &bout saltietactoey evidence being
given, except the evidence of tbe homesteader birnself. 0f course il we reoognize
the evidence of parties other liban the homesteader, it might Tesuit in. a great number
of fraude being pexpetrated. I have no
doubt that if thc bomnesteader indicated
hi. intention il would be trested es an
abandonrnent, so that cancellation might
folow.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-It seemed, to me
that in a case like that sorne notice -might
be seni to1 the man to -ask 'irn whether lie
intended to exercîse 'the riglit under Uic
Order -in Couneil or not, end if h. said
not, the hornestead .rnight b. thrown apen
10 entry.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Any partyde
siring to seeure the location oould cernmunicate with Ihim and secure in-formation
of that character.

QENATE

net liament at the session alter it ig passed,
and it is aimply in pursuance of the provisions of the Act of Parliament that these
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They would k1mev are laid on the table.
as well as the Govern-ment would know.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-But it would not nake
Hon. Mr. BOSTOGK-No, beeautte in tie any differenoe whether we approved of them
pattieular case, the -man enlisted, went to or net. They are atili operatiive.
Vancouver, and joined a regiment or some.Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-If 'they are not
thing. -I presurne the Militia Department approved, and good objection is shown, tlhe
know where te find him, but the opportun'ity will ibe given to amend tbem
would
man trying te get the homestead 'would
accordingly.
not -b. in a position te obtain the informaHon. Mr. KERR-T-here is a good deal to
tion.*
be said in faveur of the argument that
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Hon. gentlemen before we undertake to ratif y a thing we
will notice fIhit after aIl these Orders in shoruld know wha.t we are approving. No
Council, Nos. 2, 3, 4, etc., are recited, the one knows what action hbas been taken, eo
re9elutien says "<And the saule are now se that it really je asking us to, go it blind, so
approved." .What would be the effeet sup- to speak, and adopt 'whatever has been
posdng we dýid not approve of them? Would done. There .may be a -lot of Vhat done
they be niii and void?
which might be eust.om. I do not say there
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I should net say is. I know nothing about At. No one can
se. J ehould say they would be operative say, becau se we know notbing about it. The
hon. Minister himself does not seem to be
up to the present time.
able to explain what has been done.
HSe. Mr. CASGRAIN-I only seek inHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They embrace a
formation. I suppose theae questions have
lot of information.
been up ibefore, but my attention has been
drawn te - his and people say, " There is
Hlon. Mfr. KERR-Is-there any objection
ne use talking about it because the Orders te its standing over until to-morrow>
in Council have been passed, and the matHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, i't eau stand
ter is conoluded," but others say, "'No, over until my 'hon. friend satisfies himsell.
they are beimg approved now." They must
next.
be trought before us for a purpose, and vs Say Thurçday
here approving of themn vithout know- . The motion was allowed to stan-d until
are
'ing anything about them.
Thursday next.
DELAYED RETURNS.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I presume they
axe operative until something else is done.
Hon. Mr. BOYER-May I inquire of iny
Il tliey are net approved, and if 'hion. gen- hon. friend if he has any answers about the
tiemen wiil peint oùut any good reasons why correspondenos I asked for.
they should net be approved, I have no
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I regret toe ay I
doubt they would be amended caccordingly.
have not. I mnust confess I have forgotten
%
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I take it for granrted about it.
that the Groverument, ini passing these
Hýon. Mr. BOYERi-I 'thought the hon.
orders, have autherity by some Act cf Parliament te pes them. I suppose the Dom- gentleman would forget it, because it is a
in-ion Lands Act gives them authority -te do pretty fishy question.
certain th.ings sby Order in (Jouneil. I do
Hon. MT. LOUGHEED-I understand it is
net see why they want them approved. If a question my bhon. friend interests himself
it is necessary that they should be approved. in.
then the Gcvernment must have been exSCHOOL QUESceeding their power. If the Act gives them ONTARIO BI-LINGLIAL
TION.
power to pass an order te, amend regulaDEBÂTE RESUMED.
tione in Teference- te these tbings, I do net
see 'why we Éhould intervene, un-less they
The Order cf the Day (being called:
are doing something for which the law does
Resuniing the adjourned debate on thermotion
net proviide.
mnoved by the Hon. Mr. David, seconded by the
Hon. M.r. BOSTOCK-They
know where he was.

might

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The etatute provides that -the Order in Council shall be
laid -on the table of both Houses of ParHon. Mr. LOU('HEED.

Hon. Mr. McHugh:
This Bouse, without derogating from the
principle of Provincial autonomny, deerns it proper and within its powers and jurisdiction and in

MARCH 16, 1915

pursuance of the object for whicb It was estabIlUhed, to regret the divisilons which seemn to
emilit among the people of the Province of
Ontario In connection wlth the bilinguai achocq
question and believes that Il la In the interest
of the Dominion at lage that ait sucb questions should be consldered on fair a.nd patriotlc
Unes and settled In euch a way as to Preserve
peace and harynony between the dIfferent national and *religlous sections of this counfrY.
in accordance wlth the views of the Fathera of
Confederation, and with the spirit of out Cousttution.

Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-I sapproach th.
discussion o! this question with considerable diffidence by reason of te fact that it
is contidered by many a very controversiaI
question, and should not be discussed i
this chamber with a view of expressing
an opinion upon it, as has been suggested by the niover of the resolution.
It is a question, alter ail, wbich affecta
Canada in *many ways, and I muet congreatulate the hon. mover of thie resolution
and the hion. gentleman who seconded it,
for the very moderato way in which they
presen.ted their views. In ail public quescountry,
tions w'hicdh arise in this
delibérative -bodiee above ail othere
shouid deai with them in a moderato and
jpvdiciai wey, and if I should dfpart, from
thao course in the short speech I purposo
âaking, 1 simply 'will 'regret ift, becana Lt
will b. in total diseocord -with the vifwe
a'hich I entexitain. It may b. termed a
somnew1hat délicate question, and it la a
delicate question, becaufe it interes1ts Véry
materially and very especially a large poretion of the people of 1the Dominion of
Canada. By no nieans should it be made a
party question. If it were a party question,
then in my humble opinion it should not
be discussed in this Chamber, because 1
believe that, when gentlemen corne to this
Chamber, thev should act as judges dealing
with all questions that arise in a judicial
spirit , and not as partisans, and I will say
here frankly that if I believed for one monment that this motion wvas introduced
for party purposes, I certainly should
decline to discuss it. Under no consideration îvould I, while having a
seat -in the Senate, join in the discussion
of sny question 'whatsoever f-rm a party
etandpoinit. Upon this question very erronous idea-s indeed are expressed li the

country, because the. wor*ld outside

doea not,

know 'how this Ohamber particularly deals
w.ith questions. Many people in the country ibelieve that gentlemen here discuzz
every question from a partisan standpoint.
I deny absolutely an.y euch position, flot
only for myseli, but for the whole body of
this Chamiber. Gur journals unfortunately,

ho-wever, deal vith -subjects of this kind in
a partisan spirit, and -if 1 may Ïbe permitted to read a short éditorial f rom one of the
Toronto newepapers, it w4ll be seen 1that
outside of titis Chamber, et least, mort of
these questions are discussed -in thA mainer wh.ieh 1 have deecrilbed. The foliowing
is an editorial which a.ppeared ini the Toronto Evening Telegram:
Ontario Assalled by the Output of LaurierBossed Siander Mille.
Ontario ls maligned by the activity of those
two Laurier-bossed siandEr mills, the Legisiature
of Quebec and the Senate of Canada.
Laurier han power to, cati off bis puppets in
the Quebec Legisiature and the Canadian Senate. Ontario la sendlng ber Engiah-speaklng
sono by blrth or adoption to fight and die for
the rlghts of Roman Catholic BeIglum and the
national existence of Quebec's motheriandFrance. This province exerts ail her atrength
.o defend Roman Catholic nations in the rlht
againat the land of Luther in the wrong. Yet
to-day Ontario la being slandered and her People
maigned by Laurier's agents in the Legieiature
at Quebec and Laurier's puppets in the Senate
at Ottawa.
Laurlerism han for the allies of her warfare
upon Ontario such organa as the apostate Globe
and the recreant Star. Laurierlsm la heiped
by the apoatate and recreant Roweil opposition.
That opposition la qulte content to have'Ontario traduced by the Quebec Legisiature and
slandered by the Canadian Senate in the Proceas of wlnnlng French-Canadian votes for
L4aurier. When Sir Wilfrld Laurier goea out
of Ontario wlth ten federai seats or iess the
caiamitles of Laurlerlsm wfll flot be due to
Ontarlo's affection for Sir Robert Borden or
Ontarlo's admiration for Most of Sir Robert
Bordenla cabinet minustera from this province.
Ontario baa scores to aettie with Sir Robert
Borden and Sir Robert Borden's cabinet. Ontarlo's accounting wlth the Borden Government
can wait. Ontarlo's day of reckonlng with the
truce-breaklng Laurierisrn tliat atrikes at thîs
province through its agents ini the Quebec Legislature and its anti-dreadnought puppets in the
Senate cannot be postponed beyond the openIng
of the pola at the next generai election.

Iii reading this éditorial I want it distinctly understood 'that 1 do rnt désire to
stir Up any passion or feeling of any kind.
I only want to sho'w W'hat an i'nc,'rrect idea
exista as to this «Senate; I arn not here
to defend Sir Wilfrid Laurier or any particular party; but I can vouch for it, as a
inatter o! fact, that Sir Wilfrid Laurier knenothing about the resolution moved by my
hion. friend, heard nothing about it, and neyer
was consulted about it. I can vouch also
for the fact that he had no connection with
Premier Gouin of Quebec and knew not-hîng
of his speech until hie saw the reports of it
in the newspapers. 1 desire further to say
that the proprietor of t!he paper from which
1 have just read is one of the most kindhearted, considerate and charitable men in

SENATE

Canada, and I cannot believe for one moment that he is responsible for that article,
except li so far as he is responsible for
wbat appears in bis paper. I do not and
cannot believe that he would sanction it.
A man who devotes his time and very large
sums of money annually to the care of
cbldreil in Canada is not one who would be
guilty of writing sucb an article as that,
I further use the article to deplore the fact
that such correspondence should appear in
any newspaper with regard to the gentlemen who occupy seats in this House because
I think it is a slander on every member of
tbe Senate. Later o~n I shail read a speech
which was delivered by the Hon. Sir Lomer
Gouin in Quebec, whichI think will be
found to be perfectly inoffensive, and one
with which no person in thîs country can
find any fault whatever. It should be the
object of every man in Canada, be ha ih
or low, -great or small, to do everything ha
can to bring about a good understanding,
good-will and unanimity in every possible
respect among the various classes of
people who. compose the population of this
great and growing Dominion, and in nîy
opinion those wbo act differently are
enemies of this country. Every truc Canadian is one wbo believes that we should
bave no east or West, that we sbould have
no north or soutb. However, the far north
will neyer do us much harm, but our east
and west is important, and everyone who
desiTes tbë upbuilding of Canada will try
to harmonize the different interests tbrougbout the Dominion. The same with language. The maxi who sianders our French
population slanders a nation which has had
mucb to do witb the upbuilding of Canada,
a nationality who have amnong theni many
of our very best citîzens. Unfortunately
there are Englishmen who scandalize their
French fellow-citizens, and, unfortunately
among French Canadians there are those
who do likewise towards those of Englishi
origin. That is most unfortunate. The aim
of every true thinker in Canada should ha
to bring about harmony. 1 have no doiubt
there are gentlemen in this Chaniber who
will claim that this matter, being a con,
troversial and delicate question, should net
be introduced in this GChaniber. If it were
introduced as a subject to be dealt withi in
a legisiative manner, we might very pro.
perly be told that it is a subi ect which
is properly relegated to the various
provinces. But, while that is true, on
every social and every moral question,
having in view the wellbeing- of this
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS.

country, it cannot be contended that we
should be silent. This resolution is mild in
form, harmless and kindly put, and I cannot see that there is any harm whatever in
our expressing the hope that this vexed
question, which is very unfortunately disturbing a large portion of our population,
should be amicably disposed of. It would
be entirely out of place for me to deal with
the legal aspect of this question, and I shall
not do se. 0f course I arn famniliar with
the Act of Union and with the British North
America Act, and with what is referred te,
there as far as these matters are concerned.
It is absolutely plain-I think sny layman
can assume that iA is plain-that so far as
the Roman Catholic religion is concerned,
it is preserved to the Roman Catholic population, not only by the Treaty of Paris, but
the articles of Capitulation of Montreal and
Quebec. The question of language is perhaps not so clearly dealt with, but those
who have studied the question believe that
the French langauge also is preserved by
these provisions. That matter I leave entirely to the legal gentlemen to dispose of,
not only here, but in other places.
It
would be beyond me to attempt to deal
with it, but as a matter of fact I amn quite
familiar with the French Canadian, hia
habits, aims and ambitions, and all about
him. I was brought up in a portion of
Canada inhabited by Frencb Canadians,
where English people were in the minority.
All my life I have had large dealmngs with
French Canadians, and I can say that no
man familier with their habits and manners, brought up amongst tbem as I was,
would feel that there was any ground for
discussing the question in the manner in
which it was discussed by the Toronto
paper. It would seemn to me that a large
portion of olir people, not familiar with the
French langauge or the French people, is
desirous of obliterating the French language
in Canada.
There are those who believe
there will be no such thing as an actual
fusion of the races until the French language is obliterated. It seems to nme that
those who hold that opinion have a pretty
big task in hand, because Quebec is a large
and populous province, and it will be some
time before they abandon their language.
My opinion is that the barrier to the fusion
whichi many people desire is not one in
which the language is concerned sO much
as the religion. Intermrarriage would be the
only means by which the actual fusion
of races would be brought about, and
the moment a French Canadian becomes
a Protestant, intermarriage is more freIntermarriages are not frequent
quent.

NlARCH 16, 1915

among French Canadians and English
speaking people in Canada, simply because
of the barrier of religion, so that those gentlemen who desire to bring about a fusion
and pretend it can be done by obliterating
the language should reaily seek to convert
them ail to Protestantism if they wish to
accomplish -their purpose. That would be
a great task-an impossible task. I do not
think legislation can be enacted ta say that
you shall be a Protestant'and nlot a Roman
Catholic. Lt seems ta me the whole matter
is an absurdity. In the debatj which. took
place in the Commons in 1890, when I was
present, the whole -contention of those who
introduced the resolution at that time, was
thatithis country could not be British until
the French language disappeared. At that
time 1 thouglit as I do now--do not worry
about the French language. If voit want ta
accomplish the object you desire, you must
legislate to make them ail t2rotestants, and
I do not think any one wvill undertakze that
task. Dealing for a moment with the subject of the French language, 1 niay be pardoned, perhaps, if I make a few comments.
In my humble opinion, it would be desirable that every Canadian in Canada should
b. educated not only in English, but aIea
in French.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hear,
hear.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-That is niy opinion, and my hion. friend who has just said
"hear, hear," agrees thoroughly in that,
because hie sent his grandchildren down to
Quebec to be educated.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
My own too.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-He is a broader
minded man than some people think, and
if hie discusses this question, I think h.e
will approach it without animus and wvill
display the largeheartedness which characterizes him. In travelling abroad, liow convenient-it is to understand the French ianguage. A traveller can go to almiost any
part of the w-orld if hie can speak Frenchi.
Although I speak French-I ani very sorry
ta say imperfectly-I wvas thoroughly at
home when I travelled through France and
Italy. My wvife said I wvould be laughed at,
but not one Roman or Frenchman laughed
at me. They said I -spoke very good French
indeed. My view is that not only should
there be ne embargo on the use of the
French languge in aur sehools, but that it
should b. encouraged in every wav. I want
to make one contrast-and I do this in all

kindness-between Ontario and Quebec in
that respect. In a way the. sepa-rate sadhool
question is net involved in this discussion,
yet in the province of Quebec, w1hich is the
home o-f separate sebools, establiéhed for
a Protestant minority snd not for the
French, there is no question as ta wliat
language' they shall teach. They teach
what they please. They may teach English
entirely if they wish. Some gentlemen may
say, Yes, thu.t i. true, but that is on. province, and this is another province, and we
are ail British subjects and we shall have
but one language in tii country. Now I do
not think Vhat that is British. It dosea not
appeal ta me that that is the system of
Great Britain, because in Great Britain the
greatest liberty in that respect is given.
There is no question at ail about that. To
give you a few illustrations. In Switzerland, French, Italian and German are the
languages; in Belgiumn the Flemish and
French are the languages. Lt does not foliow as a consequence there is not a united
Beigium, and when you came ta Great
Britain, the mother of liberty in every res-pect, what do you find? There is the
Gaelic, the Erse, the Welsh, in-t4h. Iile of
Man, the.Manx, end in the Channel Islands
the French, and there is no restriction as
te the. teaching and use of these languages,
and it is notjretended for on. moment,
that Britain is not a united country. 0f
course it is, and those who think that in
order that this country shouid become peifectly 'harmonious in every Tespect the uniform language must be Englidb, cannot cal
themselves reai, true British subjecte. They
do not believe in Blritish institutions;. Great
Britain is the great colonizer eh. is, because she bas given te the various colonies
she possesses the greatest freedom in ail
respects, and it is because after the capitulation of Quebec, followed by the Treaty of
Paris and the. treatment w1hich Great Britain accorded te the French population
of Quebec, that ever since that time the
French-Canadian subjects in Quebec have
heen the true British subjects that they are.
There are some gentlemen wiio say, if you
are going ta encourage and promote the
teachtag of the French language in Canada.
why do you nlot aiso dlaim the same
rights for the. German and other nationalities which compose thîs country. Weli, if
there -are any groups of tlhem such as there
are in Quehec, and parts of Ontario, I certainly wouid have no objection whatever.
But is there a difference--Yes, or- No?

SENATE

106

SENATE
Yes, I think there is a vast difference. As how many will understand him? Very few; I
is well known by every one, the Province think you could count them on les8 than the
of Quebec was first settled by Frenchmen, fingers of one hand. But go down to the
who of course became French Oanadians. Legfisiature of Quebec and contrast the difAiter the capitulation how many Englieh ference; every single man will understand an
were there in Canada? There were just the English speech that is made there, and there
Scotchmen that were disbanded from a few are few if any men there who will flot speak
regiments and settled on the St. Lawrence. as fluently in English as in French; showWhat became ci themP They ail became ing clearly and conclusively that the French
converted te the RLoman-Catholic religion. Canadians do flot resist in any respect the
They inter-marrîed with the French and acquisition of the English -language.
beca.me Frenchmen with Scotch names and
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
yeu can find the Macs of ail kinds down
on the lower St. Lawrence, and the Ross'
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-The French peoand the Warrens, and in f act ail Scotch. pie are nmKst desircus of learning the Engnamnes are found there. That assimil- lish language. and what they do say ie,
ation arose when those people settled in " We desire to iearn the English lenguage
among the French Canadian population, but we desire to preserve for oureelvea the
took on their habits, their language and langauague of our forefathers.' And can you
their religion, and simply became French find fault with that? I for one do not.
Ganadians. Some niight ýsay in answer te Now I 'will give you another illustration
that, that the saine thing- will be applicable t'hat *miay surprise hon. gentlemen lhere.
to French Canadians because there is an I have been 45 years in the lumber busines
English majority in Canada. J do not think on my own account, inanufacturing lumber
that is possible. The province of Quebec on a esomewhat large scale. The bulk of
is a large and populous province and it is my Ganadian business bas always been
going te become a *much more populous wi'th the City cf Montreai. I said a while
province. The Frenich language predomîn- ago that the English language was the ianates, and I think will always predominate guage of commerce, and 1 am going to prove
there; and I do net think it possible that it now absclutely. I hbave jet to recve
it can be Anglicized. I amn not goinga the, first letter writtexi in the French iante say that I1 think it is desirable, because guage from one of my many customers in
I think perfect unity, perfect good feeling the city of Montreal.
and a perfect understanding between the
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
two great races which compose the nationHon. Mr. EDWARDS-And in aiâ fairalities of this country, will make it a.much
greater Dominion than if they were ail one. ness to the gentlemen cf that race I wish
An Englishman whd lives in a community here Io pay them a complibient. Ninethat is largely composed of Frenchmen is tenths of the business whiclh I h.ave, done
a man of broader views, o! more liberal in Montreal was with Fxene'h-Oanadians,
ideas than a man who is housed by him- but I neyer attended a meeting ef creditors
in the City of Montreal in my life, anid
self and knows nothing o! the outside.
neyer had -any difficulty whatever.
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hiear.
iSeveral hion. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-The Britishi ianHon. Mr. EDWARDS-Those gentlemen
guage is truly the language of commerce, not only do their corresponden-ce in Engbut the French language is the language of lish but they keep their books in English.
diplomacy and it is just as necessary to That spirit of resistance to the Englisfh
know the one as to know the other. In language dees not pertain in sny part of
Great Britain or Europe a man is net con- the Province of Quebeo. If you go to
sidered equipped uniess lie is failiar with Montreal or Quebec tomnorrow and enter
both languages, and the saine should apply any estore you like, or mingle with any
te Canadians. I want to give you a littie French-Can-adian you lilke, you will find
contrast, if I may, as applied Io this lion- that airnost universally they speak freely
ourable, Chamber and the Cominions. Let ani and fluently the English language. There
lion. gentleman make a French speech hiere, is ne resistance te Engi'ish, nothing of the
and how rnany hion. gentlemen wiil under- kind. They cultivate, and desire tbo culstand hum, apart frein the French Ganadian tivate the Eng-lish language. [t may be
Let the said, "Oh yes, that is truc but those peoinembers o! the Chaniber.
same thingu occur in the Commons and ple, whio have moved into the Province of
106

Hon. 1%r. EDW AR1DS

MARCH 16, 1915

Ontario should be different and should learn
largely the, English language, axd 'we ehould
give Viiex very little Frencih now. Well,
ordinary some years ago more French
was taught than is now taught. In my
humble opinion rule 17 makes the French
language prac4ical-ly impossible of being
t.aught, ini Ontario; thst ie my bellef.
Several hbon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-I de not believe
that the, gentlemen who framed that rule
badl that intention; I cannot believe it; it
is snob an injustice that I will not be able
to believe, and I 'do not believe it, and I
do think in ail justice that that inequality
should be removed. It is quite true that
every child should be taught English, and
French also, and those who desire it, as the
French-Canadians do. should bave greater
freedom, and a larger measure of it, than
lierhaps our English people would be willing
to think of. But in this country the English language eiiould be taught, 1 say, «s
weIl as the French language. Now if I may
be permitt-ed I should like to read what I
consider the, very harmiese speech lately
made by the hon. 8fr Lainer Goui at
Que. The, ides that it was dictating in iany
respect, or pretending to dictate to the
Province of Ontario ie, in my humble
opinion, and absurdity. He simply gave an
expression of goodwill and made a request,
nothing more -and nothing less than that.
It is as fallows:
At the very time when ln Europe, British and
French are wlth each other in fighting for the
triumph of justice, and whle, on the field of
battle British and French are generously shedding their biood to put an end to oppression ln
Europe, and to give an assurance 0f peace to
ail future generations, why Is lt that their
brothers' ln Ontario are divided as to the advisability of teaching the language of the
dlscoverers of this country to the chldren 0f a
mninority-a language which is aiso that of a
ilople for which the Empire is at this moment
ripking the fate of is fleets, of is armies, of
its colonies and of Its national life?
Par be It from me to thlnk of lntervenlng
between the government and the minority of
the neighbouring province. and God keep me
from saying a word which might widen the
dlivision which we deplore, but 1 cannot forget
tiiat it was the English-Canadians of Ontario,
and the French-Canadians of Quebec who tagether built Up Confederation, the powerful
Dominion of Canada.
Who wiil dlaim that If was flot in the minds
of the framers of aur constitution to give equal
rights in matters of language, of religion, of
property and equal personai rights ta both races
as avowed by Sir John A. MacdonaU in 1890,
and who wlll dlaim that the British North
Anierica Act was flot lnspired by similar sentimients?
Thanie God, we have always lived here ln
pcace and harmony without elther oppression

or oppressed, and I know the spirit of aur peo-

pie weli enaugh to be able ta, declare there neyer
wlill be. But If It should ever Occur that the
minarity have occasion ta, coinplain of Its treatment by the majority, wauid It astanlsh anybody if Ontario should raine its vales to, asc for
justice for those of its own race and falth?
Anlmated by this sentiment I desire Jefore
taklng my seat to make an appeal ln the name
of the entire population of Quebec, of EngliahCanadians, Scotch and Irish, as Weil as of
Prench-Canadlans, ta, the government and ta,
the maJority of the province of Ontario. In the
name of -the Justice and of the generoslty of
which Britain han given so miany proofs. and
which cannot fal ta animate every truly British
citizen, as well as ln the namne of the struggies
whlch aur farefathers sustained ln openlng ta
civilisation thé rich domains whlch are aur
common patrimony, I asc that justice be given
ta the French minorlty of Ontario, and that If
necessary they be not only Justly, but even
generausiy, deait with.
In the name of the expresion it has given
ta human thaught, I asc that the French ianguage be taught to the achool chlldren of Ontario who wish ta iearn and to sPeak It. Let
me in addition send to the mlnorlty of Ontario
a message of active sympathy, for we owe il ta
them.

Now, that speech je complained af as being
an interference with the affaire of Ontario,
I dlaim.that it is not; that it is notrhing
mare than a message of good will. I say
again that every true Canadian ehould cultivate in every respect good will between
the, varlous portions of the population of
this country. Through discord and animasity nothing but harm can be done; by good
will and united.action let thoee who desire
epeak -Whatever language they please, and
certainly let aur large body of French-Canadiane in thue country educate their children
as they please. I think that je what will
best promote the very beet in'terests and
advancement of this country. To-day in
Under
Great Britain what have we got'
the banner- of Great Britain we have the
Indiens of India, tihe population of South
Africa, of Australia, of New Zealand and
Canada, ail fighting under the, one banner;
fighting for what? For liberty and justice.
In aur smaller wsy in Canada let us who
compose the majority give fair play ta the
minority in eyeiy reasonable way. Now, ta
show that there ie liberality of opinion
among our beet thin-kers I want ta read one
more letter ta you if I he permitted. I may
eay that this letter is penned oy a son cf
a north of Ireland Protestant, who is himself a Protestant. He is a large-minded
man of broad views, and a very able
thinker. Ae you will see *by hie letter he
dlaims that these questions are not understood in Canada, that the vast majority of

SENATE

the people are flot aware of the causes of
friction or the contention of the FrenchCanadian in so fair as their rights are concerned and do flot understand this question,
and he thinks some-means should be inaugurated whereby the questions should be
made, clear and perfectly understood. What
he suggests may or may flot be practicable,
but 1 read the letter simply to show the
view, which. I arn sure is the view of a Vast
number of large. broad-minded ithinkers
such as he is. The letter -reads as follows:
March 11, 1915.
Dear Senator Edwards,
I see by the rnorning paper that Senator
David brouglit forward in the Benate yester-

day, wbhat I sulppose might b. termed Ontario'.
bi-lingual question, and I noticed that you r
to continue the debate.
May 1 be permltted ta, lay before you sonie
views I entertain concerning this, as well as
other sectionai differences. I fear that rnany
af us in this country do flot fuliy appreciate
the faot that races of people, like individuale,
have their peculiarities and that it is casier to
harmonize thie differences of thie Individuals of
a race than those of different races.
Therefore I hold I amrn ot justilled in iooking
at mny feiiow man and xneasuring him according
to rny own views. especially If he be of a
differmnt race. That principie I regard as the
tille utarting point In nationaizing this country
with Its -people principally drawn from two
great races. In other words it Is ncceasary to
adopt the attitude of the man In the atreet, In
which he Cives and takes ground In passiflg
through the oeowd-the only practioeble way
by which the business of the street becornes
possible.
Recently Sir Lomer Gouin, Premier of Quebýe, imade an sWcail to thls Province of Ontario
for consideration on behalf- of ttiose speaking
the French language within the Province, evidently based on the belief that the Frenchspeaking British subject In Ontario is beîng
unfairly treated. That evidently le the view
Ilkewise af Senator David.
Sir Laomer Gouin ia the mouthpiece of the
Province of Quebec and h. would flot have
spoken If he was flot expressing the views of
a large number or people in his Province.
We ail know that the school question In
Canada bas been the cause of a great deal of
friction and we are ail agreed that differenceB
of race and religion are dangerous ta the.
State and Interfere wlth that homogenity so,
absolutely essential in a young country. Whcn
my feliow min takes a certain attitude and
says it la a question of conscience with hlm,
1 feel I muet give grave conslderation to Il
views.
Whiie no public man in Ontario bas corneout
into the open as Sir Lomer Gouin lias donc,
still wc know that there is a feeling arnong a
considerable class ini Ontario that all is not weli
In Quebec.
Now what are these queetions that are causing friction? The leading ones rnight be enumerated as for Instance In Ontario: Language
in schools; Religion in schools; and in Quebec,
the marriage question as it affects civil law,
Efticiency of schools.
lion. Mr. EDEWAR1)S,

It la questianable Indeed if ten per cent af
thc people of bath provinces reaiîy under.tand
the truc situation In ao far au these questions
affect the public. Âny way they aboula flot
be allowed ta drift. The Bound POliCY for
thc country in these questIons affecting
conscience is that pursued by us ail Ini

the street-in flot attempting ta mun down
the other fellow. 1 fest that there ia a vast
ainount af microbes mlxed up In these matters
and the only meodicine for the. microbe la to
drag it into the sunlight In other words let us
get at the bottam of these questions. How?
Suppose the Chief Justices et Ontario and Quebec had the authority t a cd nominate three

fair-minded mnen drawn from, different shades

of thauglit in thc two provinces, and have the
six rnen act as a CommIttee ta Investigate these

questions of differenccs-ttsese questions that

produce friction betwcen sections of aur people.
We do flot want a lefa4 enquiry--'we mcrcly
want facts as ta, what thec conditions are. Give
suoh a Conimittee two ycars ta Cet at Uic
le dane.
facts. If thcy dan't agree no harn
They can in that event at least clearly set out
the two aides. 1 can sec the possibility of suggestions crnanating from such a graup of men

that would be a blesng to this country in
opening the way towards harmonlzing to sme
extent differences that muet naturally retard
that cohesion so essential to the weifare of this
country. Give the public a clear statement of
aIl the facts and the public wili reacli reasonably fair conclusions.

Hon. Mr. CA8GRAIN-Whom is that letter byP
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I got the permission of the gentleman ta read the letter, but
I
he asked me not to mention his name.
have no objection to ask him to allow me to
gîve the name. As tai bis method, I do not
know whether bis suggestion is a good anc
or bad one, but he certainly voices my own
sentiments. On a question of this kind, no
matter how strongly 1 may feel as to the
character of schools we should have in this
country, it is rny duty to have regard to the
opinion of others. 'It is my duty also to
have regard to the prejudices of others; and
on this subject which is disturbing the population of this country, I, as a Canadian who
have nothing but good wilI towards ail,
desire that if should be settled in a fair and
equitable manner, and that fair play should
be extended the minority that coîne from the
Province of Quebec to inhabit the Province
of Ontario. If the reverse takes place what
do you have? You have the tendency of
having that nationality in the Province of
Quebec instead of dissemninating throuffh
the various parts of the Dominion. I sav,
and I say it adviscdly, that nothing could
be better in the interests of Canada than
the dissemnination of that heroic and grand
people among the English inhabitants of
the various parts of Canada.

MARCH 17, 1915
BILLS INTBODUCED.
Several Hon. GENTLEMEN: Hear, hear
Bill (L), An Act for tii. relief cd Adeim
Éon. Mr. DANDURAND moved the ad-_
Clarke Ânderaon.-Hon. Mr. Taylor.
journment of the debate.
BitH (M), An Act for the relief of Thomas
The motion was agreed to.
Jefferson Moore.-Hon. Mr. Watson.
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (43)i An Act respecting the Huron
and Erie Loan and Savings Co. and te
change its name to the Huron and Erie
Mortgage Oorporation.-non. Mr. Kerr.
Bill (58), An Act respecting the Casuality
Company of Canada.-Hon. Mr. McHugh.
Bill (G), An Act respecting the patent of
the National Wood Distilling Oo.-Hon. Mr.
Bostook.
FIRST AN'D SECOND IREADINGS.
Bill (8), An Act respecting the Edmonton,
Dunvegan and B.C. Ry. Co-Hon. Mr. Tal.
bot.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (20), An Act respecting the C.N. Ry.
Co.-Sir Lymuan Melvin Jones.
Bill (49), An Act respecting the Calgary
and Fernie Ry. Co.-Hon. Mr. DeVeber.
Bill (50), An Act respecting the Canadian
Western Ry. Co.-Hon. Mr. Watson.
Bill (52), An Aot respecting the Montreai,
Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal Company.
-Hon. Mr. Casgrain.
Bill (54), An Act respecting the Toronto
Terminais Railway Company.-Hon. Mr.
Kerr.

Bill (60). An Act to incorporate the Entwhistle and Alberta Southern Railway Cernpany.-Hon. Mr. Pope.
Bill (61), An Act respecting the Sîmcoe,
Grey and Bruce Railway Conîpany.-Hon.
Mr. Taylor.
Bill (62.), An Act respecting the Bank of
Alberta.-Hon. Mr. Talbot.
Bill (65), An Act respectîng the Toronito
and Hamilton Railway Company.-Hon.
Mr. Taylor.
Bill (K), An Act respecting Patent of
John Miller & Son, Ltd..-Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.
The Senatle adjourned until to-mnorrow at
three o'clock.

DOMINION LANDS IN RAIL-WAY BELT.
BRITISH COLUMBIA.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved:
Resolved, that the following Orders ln Coun-

cil made by Hia Royal Highness the Governor
General ln Council. ln acoordance with the
regulations for the aurvey, administration, disposai and management of Dominion ladu
withln the Railway Belt ln the province of
British Columbia, approved by Order ln Council of the 17th September, 1889, that in to Bay:
1. Order ln Council P.C. No. 720, dated 14th
Mardi, 1914, further amendlng the regulations
by addlng thereto subsection C to section 22
of the said regulations defining the term.
IResidence in the Vicinity " of his homestead
by an entrant
2. Order ln Council P.C. No. 2597, dated 17th
October, 1914, making the provisions of section 22 of the Dominion Lands Act applicable
ta Dominion lands within the Railway. Beit ln
the province of British Columbia wherebY
the time during which an entrent la absentfrom hie homtstead while a member of a mliitary force ,nrolled under the authority of the
Minister of MilitlA and engaged ln the. defenCe
of the British Empire may be counted as re@idence upon hie boniestead.
Copie. of each of which Orders ln Council
were laid before this 1-bu;e on (lie l2th day
of Mardi. 1915, for the approval of this House
under the provisions of subsection D of section
38 of the regulations for the survey, admiai4tration, disposai and management of Dominion
lands within the forty-mile Railway Belt Anthe
province of British Coqumble, and the uaid
Orders in Council are now eo approved.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Is the hon. gentleman able to give me an answer to ,tha
question I asked yesterday -as to the bomneeteade?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No. because the
question my hon. friend puts is a hypothetical one. He refers to the case of a man
who may want to abandon his homestenil.
a
If 'the homesteader wilI forward
notice of abandonment, or if it is sewured
froni hitu, or if there is any indication that
be Idoles not intend to return to the homestead, then the minister would deal with it
on the evidenee before hum, but my hon.
SENATE.
THE
friend will readily see that it is impossible
Wednesday, March 17, 1915.
to niake provision for a hypotheticel case
The SPEAKER tock -the Chair ut Three of 'that kind by an Order in COouneil. The
lo'clock.
minister would be glad to deal with the
case if the facts were put before Iimi.
Prayers and vroutine proceedings.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-As I understand,
the case *mig.ht kbe Gubmitted to the minister. The question was put te 'the agent
and he eaid, no, that under the Order -in
Council nothing could be done.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Of course the
agents hands would be tied entiroly by the.
Order in Counicil, but if it came before the.
minister a 'wide.r discretion migh be exercised.
ONTARIO BILINGUAL SOHOOL
QUESTION.
DEBATIE RSUMED.

The Order cd the Day bemng called:
R«uwning thc adjournhd debate on the motion by the Honourabie Mfr. David, seconded

of the chief inspecter, it may aise be used as
the language of Instruction and communicatien ln the case of pupils beyond forma 1 who
are made to speak and understand the English
language.
(2) In the case of French-spEaking pupils
who are unable to speak and umderstand the
English language well enough for the purpose
of Instruction and communication, the following provision la hereby made:
(a) As néon as the pupil enters the achool
he .shall begin the etudy and the une of the
English language.
(b) As soon as the pupil has acquired sufficient facility ln the une of the English language he shall take Up ln that language the
course of study as prescribed for the public
and separate schoolà.
4. In schools where the French bai bitherto-

I emphasize 'fuie word ««hitherto."

4. In schoola where French bau bitherto been
a subject of study the public or the separate
school board, as the case inay be, rnay provide, under the following conditions, for Instruction ln French rmailing, grammar, and composition ln forme 1 to IV (sec aise provision
for form V ln public school regulation 14 (5)
ln addition to the subjects prescribed for the
public and seprirate Scheele,
(1) Such instruction ln French may be taken
oflly by pupils whose parents or guardians direct
that they shall do no, and may notwithstanding
Se.c. 1. above, be given ln the French language.
the educationalists whomn 1 have cnnsulted
(2) Sucb Instruction ln French shal flot
Inteçfere with the adcquacy of the Instruction
ln English and tbe provision for such Instruction ln F'rench ln the time table of the school
to the approval and direction
.Hon. Mr. DAND)URAND-In order that shall be subject
of the chie! Inspecter, and shaîl flot ln any day
eadh mem-ber of thie Hous -may be able te exceed one hour ln each cisss-room, except
time ls
read and analyse the Regulation No. 17, where tbe insnpector. Increascd upon the order of
the chie!
by the Honourabie Mr. Mcugh:
This House, without derogating fromn thc
principle of provincial autonomy, deemus it proper and within the limite of its powers ana
juriediction and ln pursuance of the object far
which It was established, to regret the divisi ins
which seem te exiat among the people ol the
province of Ontario ln connection with the
bi-lingual school question and believes that it ls
in the interest of the Dominion at large that
ail suoh questions should be considered on
fair and patriotic Unes and settled In such a
way ai to preserve peace and harmony between the different national and religions sections o! this country, ln accordance, with the
views of tie fatbers of Confederation, and witb
the spirit of our constitution.

made by the Department of Education cf
Ontario wbich govern the English-French
public and separate schools I will read the
parts of this circular, dated August, 1913,
which bear on tuis discussion.
This ciTeular first declares 'that the
schodls where French is taught wiIl be
called, for convenience ocd
reference, EnglishFrench schools, and after providing for the
application cf the general regulations prescribed for public sohools, it proceeds to
apply special rules te the English-French
rules, as follows:
Subject, in
direction and
the following
in the course
rate schools:

the case of each school to the
approval of the chief inspecter,
modifications shail eiso be made
of study of the public and sepa-

As 'hon. gentlemen will see, the whole of
the clause that I read is subject te the
direction and approval of the Chie! Inspecter. The circular continues:
(1) Where necessary, in the case of Frenchspeaking pupils, French may be used as a language of instruction and communication; but
such, use of French shaîl not be continued
beyond forin 1, excepting that, on the approval
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

I take for granted that 'this discussion
has for its prime object te reach the men
of good will, who-luckily for Canada-are
the vast majorify. The extreme people 'who
feed upon hatred, born of ignorance, and
who cherish their prejudices, are more important by the loudne-ss of their denunciations than by their number. I 'will admit
that they exert a larger influence in the
commuiîity than they are entitled to because
their passions lead them to activities -w'hih
create the faise impression 'that they represent a large constituency. I readily
confess that no province has a monopoiy
of the sectarian for of the demagogue.
What are the conditions which we find today ini Ontario and Quehec? They are
those created by the British North America
Act which recognizes and sanctions the
separate or di-ssentient school eystem. Denominational sehools are in existence in
both provinces by virtue of our constitution. They are Protestant or Gatholic. In
Quebec the Protestant min<>rity is given
the full control of its schools. Through the

MARCH 17, 1915

Protestant Council o~f Education. created
by the Legielature. they detexrmine the ourriculum t%>be followed and they select
their own text books. In Ontario the Governmeait remains elothed wi'th full author.ity
over ail sehools, publie and separate. The
Department of Education bas the sole contirol i the administration of the aehools.
Up ta August 1913, the regulatian wlhich
touched upon the teadhing of French in
the sc'hools read as fol'lows:
*Regulation 15.

"In school sections when the French and
German language prevail, the trustees xnay,
In addition ta the course of the study prescribed
for publie .chools, require Instruction ta be
given in reading, graxnmar and composition to
such pupils as are directed by their parents
or guardians ta study either of theme languages
and In ail such cases the authorized text books
In French or German shall be uned."

This enactment vas but the confirmation
cg the use of French i the education cf
the French-speaking children in Ontario
schoels prier to Confederation. This regulatien was repi-aced by Regulation 17, dated
August 1913, which has for its sole purpoe the regulatioti of the tehing cf
Frenc'h in 'certain schools called EnglishFrenchi seffhools. It le therei provided that
Frenchi cbildren may learn. their own language besides the Engliali language.
Before prceoding ta examine the conditions whi<dh, in virtue cd this regulation,
win, govern the teaching of Frenchi i On1tarie, 1 want first ta ffnd out if ive are agreed
'upon the sanie purpeise. If we are net persuing the sa-me end, if we hbave net the
same.object in view, any further discussion
is useless. What does the French Canadian
his
la.ther wantP. He want «a child ta learu
his inôther tangue and the Englis-h language
as 'well. What dees the Ontario Government want? Whiat is ils policy? I %ake it
to be expressod in the terme cf its rogulatiens, as follews:

The controversy dees net begin ber.
Gevernment .further says that French may
ai1se b. taught ta the chidren of parents
whe desire il.
If Regulation 17 was sulent as ta the conditions under which this Frenchi teaching
was ta be gaven it would be clear ta any
erdinary- beig that the teaching of Frenchi
was ineant ta lie effective. À teaching which
does nct teaeh is a mienemer. Once I arn
al'lowed. ta learn. French, that toaching
muet be adequate, elee It is a gham.
In effect, the. Ontiario Government's edict
is thet overy éhild sbati learn English and
may learn Frenchi as wefll This i e s it
should be. The .ohild uwho speaks twc
languagos is better equipped thon il lie oely
spoke one. Thia order is natural-ly construed by the French Canadien population
in Ontarie in rnuch strioter terme and they
take iL 10 mean, in their own case, thiat
every chuld shall learn the French and
They are perfectly
English languages.
agreeable toansd desirous cf their cbuldren
acquiring a knowledgo of the inajority -in
addition ta tb.eir own mother tangue.
If the Frenchi speaking mincrity is in
completo accord with tiie Ontario Government upon the. essentiel ceenent or rmtter
cf the poiicy, wbere lies the. difficulty or
disagreement which w. hear ne mucli
about?
It guoces te read but eursoriily that Regulatien 17 te reacli the conclusion t'hat its
rigorous application wculd deprive the
French spoaking child od any fair knowledge cf his own language. That chi¶d May
oniy ho taught -in his own tangue during
the first form, that is during the first twe
years e! scheoling, if iA is deemed nocessary by lhe cbief inispecter anud, lhereaftee,
in the other forms, 'lie may have French
tuition for a fraction af an heur each day.
If, after the first formi, hlis knowledge cf
Enlish ià still insufficient, the language cf
communication may be the. F 'rench during
an hour or rather a fraction cf an heur at

to ail the chilseparate ochools. the discretion of the chief inspecter..
taught to the
This means that the child wiil be taught
desire it, under French -and English through the medium of
the Frenchi language when it le deemed
It dees net enter inta rny mind te ques- that he would -b. unablo ta understand the
tion the sincerity of the Ontario Geveru- lessen if given in English. The. chief in-

lut Englluh shall be taught
dren frequenting the publie and
2nd French may also bo
children of such parents who
certain conditions.

ment. Since it frames rulos for the teaching cd EngliËh and French, I must conclude that its purpoise is toa si.ow adequate
means te aittain that object. The Gevernment 'wants, first, air ohildren ta learn the
EngLish, Language. I Lake it for granted that
ail Frenchi parents in Ontario are-agreed
upc<n that peint.

specter wîll, arbitrariiy docide upon. that
point.
Regulation 17 assumes that the French
chid will have learnt during the firat tiwo
years sufficient Enghsh te understaud the
teae'her, and that thereafter lie will have
enougli cf a fractien cf an lheur cf Frenc~h
tuition each day ta learu his own language.

SENATE

These two assumptions are held by all
the educationisba wbom I have ccnsulted
to be absclutely erroneous and I may add
that my own experience leade me te ýthî,
eame conclusion.
The French grammar is much more difficult than the English, and a French child
will need as much time, if net more, tù
learn the rules gevernirig his own language.
in his own tengue, as he will need in mastering the relatively simple rules cf the English grammar.
If the clase heurs were equally dîvided
between Frendch and English, when English
would be exclusively spoken for half cf the
time and French during the other half, it
is my opinion that English would have the
best cf this apporbionment because of the
greater difficulties cf thc French gramînar.
Yet ne one, I am sure, would ebjecb te euch
a division, except for the first twc years
when -bhc best results, according te Dr.
Merchant himeel!, are ebtained threugh the
use cf the mother tongue.
It is manifest te ail men who have learnt
concurrenbly French snd English in bi-lingual acheols that ne French child will master, in a fair manner, bis mother tengue
with an hour only cf tuitien. And yct Regulation 17 will net even give him that one
heur. In the udngraded echoole, where al
classes are confided te the care cf one
leacher. the study cf French shall not in
any day exceed one heur in each classroom. The teacher would thue be prevented from giving more than a small
fraction cf an heur te each class under his
Àmre, from ten te flfteen minutes at most.
T his je perhaps the proper moment te inberject a huniorous note into this dry subject in citing the regulation w'hich adds:
ISuch Instruction in Fren.ch shall net Interfere wlth the adequacy cf the Instruction in
Er.giish Il!

Is there any one connected with the Department of Educatien cf Ontarie whe can
be feund te affirui that under the systeni of
conmpulsery laws with which, they are
arrned it is difficult te ordain a programme
of study for the hi-li-ngual sdhools, which
will give satisfactory results?
Can it seriously be cantended that a
child cannet hi' properly instructed in Engalisli and French in seven or eight years?

A visit te any of eur bi-lingual scheels ini
Montreal weuid seen dispel such an impression. I rnay voeli fer this further experience: Many young French Canadians
force of circurnetances,
who, throughl
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

abandon echool alter their fourth or fifth
year will often prefer to write their correspondence in English.- This was cerroborated by my right hion. friend from Rockland (Hion. Mr. Edwards) last evenîng
when he stated that during the whole of his
career, in his dealings with his customers
from the province of Quebec, the correspondenice has always been received in English.
They have acquired, in a short time, a sufficient knowledg-e of English but they could
not, during the same time, master the greater difficulties of their own mother tongue.
I will admit that they generally increased
their knowledge of English by contact with
English people and by practiee. Without
pracetice tbey would have soon torgotten al
that they had learned. I meet every day,
even In thie Oha.mber, mnen who have had
a university training, who state that they
learned French at school and college but
that t/be lack of practice bas obliterated al
that they ever knew of French. They cannot even read it.
This brings -me to the censideration of
the oft repeated affirmation t/bat Ontario
must be kept Engliah. I suppose that this
means that Englieh muet be thbe sole language cf thbe wbole population. A gentlemani presiding et a public meeting last
week, in Ontario, atated thaI this could only
be donc by havlng the Englieh language.
and il a.lone, taught in the publie and separate schools cf the province. He favoured
that policy.
1 am afraid thlat this gentleman will
meet with disappoiintmcnt if hie does not
sdd to his programme. I wwon him, in a
friendiy spirit, that 'he muest sec te it that
the French child, whom lie will teach in
English only, gets the necessary environment te continue, alter echool heurs, his
practàce cd English for if he returns to thbe
village and meets but French boys and
girls and if, in hie own home, he hears
nothing but French, the imposition cf English tuition exdlusîvely with the view cf
angioizing him is doomed to utter failure.
Hle should have a la-w passed obliging the
Ontario Government to expropriate or confiscate the larme owned by people who do
flot use exclusively the Englieli language
and te deport them. I confess that thie
undertaking would be cf some magnitude,
since it would involve st the same time the
transferriug olM the hbi-lingual Federal
Parliament and the capital over the
Ottawa river and inbo t'ho bf-lingua:l province
o! Quebee. Seriously speaking, is lb net
time that the sober-minded mnen cerne to-

-NARCH 17, 1915

gether eo as ta put an end ta suoh unhealthy
agitations? W1l1 it not eeem te a11 of them
toc late ini the day ta try and exact th4t
ail the people of a province shall speak but
one IanguageP
When Ontaric was carved out of tlhe proince of Quebeo, tihe first Ontario Legisiature
was enimated by a different spirit. In its
faitherly ccncem lcr the welf are and cententient of its people of French orngin it
enacted leiseGion providing for the summona cf the King ta be wnitten in French
wlxen served upon fts Frèneh subjeets, for
fiheir appearance befons a court cf justice.
The whole population of Ontario was very
email1, end âmall indeed was the Frenoh
mincnity ini 1791. They are to-dey 250.000.
it is a figure te be reekoned viflh. Oudhi a
group cani resist any unjust treatment. If
depxtved of the sehool hause which they
built wiflh tlieir owu maney. if despailed cf
their school rates they can put up independent sehools and bleed themselves anew
in orden ta properly teach their children
their mather tangue. A ceercive policy in
the matter cf language has failed o! its
purpose wherever applied, because it attacks the essence of one's personality, f4
touches the seul end it cails into action the
instinct of sehif-preservation. The Frenchi
minor.ity of Ontario is net isolated. It has
the right te Tely upen the active sympathy
-of the province of Quebec. What la oui
justification for raising our voice, we 01
Quebec, in f avour cf the Ontario minority?
It is ta be found in the contract entered
inta 'bebween OnitaTio and Quebeo in 1867.
We were then partaiens under the Act o!
Union; we had put everything in comiman ta
be administered -by one legisiature, when
we -were united in 1841. The one Panhiament made l1aws for Upper and Lower Canada. When we decided. ta federate the
provinces of Nortlh America and te set up
local legisiatures whicli, inter alia, would
regulate educational iatters, the English
province of Ontario confided ta the cane o!
the French province o! Quebee the English
minority in that province, and likewise
d'id the French na.jority o! Quebec canfide
the French minonity e! Ontario ta the Eng-iish inajenity of 'téhat province. It is the
English minonity o!. Quebec which insisted
upon its night, ta separate -sehools being inscnibed in -the British Nonth Ameiiica Act.
As they rwere ail of the Protestant faith,
they made tihe dividing lie as between
Protestants and Catholios.
Once aosu-red of -a sy9tern of sepanate
echeols the Protestants o! Quebec took for
gvranted that they would be =-asters in

S_8

their own 'schocis end that they would
contrai absolutely the eduoation of thein
ohiidren. Thaot was what they had ini mind
and that ia what they obtained.
The right te teach Uihecihildren their
mother tangue was se obv.ious that it did
not enter their mmd ta 'stipulate it. The
principal mouth-piece for the province cf
Québec vas G.eorges Etienne Gaitien.
When he .agreed, in tihe noms of French
Quebec, te tbis clause, whieh was te eppiy
equally te -bath mincrities dn the two
provinces, cani it be contended that hae did
net expeet reciprocity of -treatment for bis
cwn people ?
Are not boflh provinces in-terested in
the prepen interpretation and application
of the -terni of ithis centnact te whioh they
were the principal partiesP
If the province of Quebec ever oppressed
the English xninority by an illîberal constéructien of t.he Federal compact, I would
naturally expeot their Ontaio bnethren ta
rasent such un action and to do thieir
urtmost in its behalf.
I want te belirve that this Regulation 17
has not been drafted by it.e Ministen o!
Education imrseif, as instruction in French
is oni? provided for qsohoals wliere French
has -hitherte been -a aubject of atudy. This
restrictive forni prevents the opening cf
another adcool through tha expansion of
the population in a achool district which
happens te be French-speaking, as French
teaching would ba absolutely debarred
therein. I wili simply ask rny Englishspeaking celleagues what would be their
feelings if the English and Protestanit
separate seheols cf Quabac were surroundad
by serne such limitations P
In affect. the French Canadians aimply
ask the effloacions teaching of the French
and English dur.ing- the whole pniniary
course in the schools or classes attended
by their children.
Ail thet is .needed to atiVain that object
-whioh is a laudable oe-is for the Gevernment te furnigh conipatenit teachers.
This task -is certainly net beyo'nd the
power of the-Ontario Goverunenit.
Where schools have mare than one
teacher it is easy to meet the neads cf
the English and Firench ch.ildren by dividing them into separate classes.
In thosa sohools where French and Englieh childran have but one teacher, I amn
told thet an undestanding can aasily be
arrived at se as ta satisf y -the wishes of
.the English-speaking Catholics whe do net
ask for any French teaching.
We cannot close our eyes te thie fact that

REVISSO EDITION

SENATE

a aentiment exista in some quaïrtere
throughout tihis country, which. would
favour 'unifo>rmity of language, of iaws, of
habits, and of thought. Most of those who
hoid such view-s corne f roan the British
Isles, where live distinct races a.nd
languages have heid sway and still maintain their special characteristics. French
is an officiai language -in the Channel la.
lands.
Each race contributes ta -the nation as
a whole its qualities -and special aptitudes.
How niuoh 'would humanity lose if
Europe were al1 French, or English, or
German, if diversiity -and contrasts were
Tepl-aced by a monotonous 'unformity! Is
1.4 in the interest of North America that
snob a etate of ibhings be created P
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-In the month
of August, 1913, when ithis very regulation
was passed, the International Geological
Congress wa-s heid in the city of Toronto.
It was attended by 600 delegaites froxu perhaps ail the nations of the world, and the
only language which every one could
understand, end which. was their officiai
language, wa3 French, which held sway
for quite a number of days exciusively.
The knowledge of French is toc, valuable
an asset to be breated. with disdain. No
European deems him-eif fitted for public
life who does flot possess that language.
With ail the peopies who dwell in the
Mediterranean ses, French is the Ianguage of comnunication between thera. In
Egypt where tien races meet, French holds
the first place. It is spoken by them ail.
The prooeedings and discussions in ail international imeetinge and congressesm are
car-pied on in the French language.
Our Tesistance to assimilation or absorption shouid rather draw -commendation
from euxe English.speaking compatriots. Is
it an evidence of the quality of our raceP
An inferioe -nateriai gives way while
granite endures.
We belong to, the Frencli race, whose
civilization bas dominated the çworld for
centuries, whose exuberant genius lias, to
this day, furnished the world witli ideas
and ideals. We are naturally proud of aur
Our forefathers discovered and
liheage.
founded this Canada of ours. We spurn the
We dlaimn full
idea of an inferior status.
partnership, with equal rights and responsibilities, in the upbuilding of our common
country.
We are, in Canada, two millions of CanaWe govern the
dians of French descent.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

second largest province cf this Dominion.
We have shown in that province the greatest
respect for the rights of the mmnority. We
expect froxu the majority of our sister
province of Ontario a treatment compatible
with our own dignity.
I have not discussed the constîtutional
aspect of the question, because the Ontario
Government recognizes ýthe right cf the
French minority to a French education.
It, at ahl events, admits the use of French%ý
My sole aîm has been to show that the
regulations governing the teaching of French
are so restrictive that a French child will
not have a fair chance of learning his
mother tongue in those English-French
by
schools recognized and supported
the Government. The Minister of Education can easily revise those regulations in a manner that wili restore
peace and harmony, not only in his own
province, but in my own province as well,
which is justly moved and disturbed by the
appeal whieh the French minority is
making in this matter.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-I have been
asked to, say a few words upon this question and they wiUl be brief. In New
Brunswick we had scho troubles for some
time, and after seven years an agreement
was reached, not by Law, but by mutual
forbearance, and mutual arrangemeDt. In
the city of Moncton, from which 1 corne,
we have separate achools, or rather Cathoiic
schoois and they rent these buildings to
the trustees for a nominal surn. The taxpayera save a great deal cf money, because
We have a
the rentai is very small.
large number of French children there, as
well as Irish Catholic children, -and there
is an agreement between the trustees and
Cathoic authorities to allow them to teach
the first and second forms in French, and
after that English is taught. Besides, after
school hours they can give religious instruction for hall an hour. That is not
sanctioned by law; it is by an agreement
with the trustees, but it works out harmoniously.
Everybody is satisfied and
there is no difficulty. 0f course, the whole
thing is in the hands of the provinces, and
I do not understand why they cannot
change that Regulation 17-any regulations
for that matter. What the French people
want here in Ontario is as foliow:
1. The respect of their rlghts In the education of their children in schools that are maintained with their money.
2. An efficient teaching of the two, officiai
languages of the Dominion, during ail the
primary course in schoois or classes frequentea
by their children.

MARCH 17, 1915

3. That their children be taught througn tne
naturai medium; the maternai tangue.
4. That the children whose parents are wantIng them to learn the two official languages of
this Dominion be grouped .by schools or classes.
5. Schoolmasters capable of teaching the two
officiai languages of Canada to take charge of
the schools or classes frequented by the chiidren whose parents want themn to learn English
and French.
6. Their share of the subsidies i.nnualIV
voted by the LegislativeAssemby.
7. A sole Inspection. Catholic and FrenchEngl4sh. of the separate uchoole trequented by
their chlldren.
8. A soie Inspection, French-Eflglish, of the
public uchools frequentel by their chiidren.
9. The granting of diplomas to the bi-lingual.
teachers of both sexes who bave suo0cessfully
passedl the examrination required by the Department of Public Education

1 do not see why these things cannot be
arranged amicably in Ontario. We spent
some years in turmoil and trouble in New
Brunswick and now everybody seems to be
satisfied, both English and French.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If lion. gentlemen
wiil bear with me for a few minutes I wiii
say a few words on the motion of my
esteemed friend the hon. senator for Mille
les.
There must be some misapprehension, at
least in the province of Ontario, as to the
statua of the French language in this
Dominion, and I would like to make that
point clear in as few words as possible..
WVhen the Britis!h North America Act was
passed, as the enacting of laws in relation
to, education was left to each province it
wvas deemed necessary te provide safeguards
with regard to denaminatianal schools.
Hence section 93 of the Act, which r.eads
as follows:.
Il93. In and for each province the Legislature may exciusively make iaws in relation
ta education. subJect and according ta the foiiowing provisions:
<1) Nothing In any such Iaw shall prejudicially affect any right or priviiege with
respect -ta denominatianai sehools which any
ciass of persans have by law in the province
at the Union:
'2) Ali the powers. privileges, and duties at
the Union by Ia.w conferred and imposed in
ULpper Canada on the separate schoals and
school trustees of the Queen's Roman Cathaic
sutijects shall be and the sanie are hereby extended ta the dissentient schois of the Queen's
Protestant and Roman Cathoiic subjeets in Quecec:

f3) WVbere ini any province a system of,
separate or dissentient achools existe by iaw
at the Union or la tbereafter established by
thei Legielaturp. of the province an appeal shall
lie ta the Governor General In Counci from
any Act or deision of any provincial authority
affecting any right or priviiege of the Protestant

S-81

or Roman Cathoic minoritY of the QueenWs subjecta in relation to education:(4) In case any uuch provincial law ais from
to tizne seemae to the Governor General In
tie
Council requisite for the due execution of thé.
provisions of this section le not made, or In
case any decision of the Governor General In
Council on any appeai under this section la not
duly executed by the proper provincial authority
In that behaif. then and In every such case,
ndas far only as the clrcurnatances of each
case require, the Parliament of Canada may
make remedIai. iaws for the due execution of
the provisions of this section and of any decision of the Governor Generai In Council under
this section.

It in contended that under this section,
each legisiature may legisfiate aà At pleasea
ini ail matters of education, subject only to
respecting the rights and privileges of t~he
zninority, whether Protestant or Cat.holic,
in regard to denominational or separate
schoois; in other words, that from the
werding of section 93 as well as from its
context,the rights and priviieges which were
intended ta be protected were rights and
privileges in regard ta religiaus education
oniy.
It is claiined, on the other hand, that if
ne reference was made te the English or to,
the French language in section 93, it was
because the statua of the two languages in
the Dominion was deait with ini section 133
of the Act; and that as this section declares
the Engiish and French languages officiai,
and in some respects obligatory, throughout Canada, it le not within the *pewer of
any cf the provinces ta suppress the teaching et either of them.
Whatever may be the merits cf these
contentions, which 1 do not propose to
diseuse here, there la, 1 submait confidently,
one point on 'which there can be ne room
for disagreement; it is that the Frenoh
language stands in the whole Dominion
constittionaliy on the same footing as the
English language.
Members ef this House are familiar with
section 133 saying that:

IlEither the English or the French language
may be used by any persan In the debates of
the lieuses of the Pariament of Canada and
of the Houses of the Legisiature of Quebec, and
both those languages shail b. used In the rerqective Records and Journals of the House."
Mark the words: Either of the twe ianguages -may be used" in this House and ln
the House cf Commons and in bath Houses
of the Quebec Legisiature, and both languages "shall be used- in the records and
journals. It seems eiementary ta me at
ieast, that the making cf the use of the

SENATE

English and of the French languages thus
obligatory, implies that in the spirit, if
not in the wording, of the Constitution the
teaching of both. was intended te be leit
f ree and untranimelled.
The Englieh speaking members of this
House and the French speaking members
of the Quebec Legisiature may find it sometTies unnecessary te thur, have ail records
and journals printed in both English and
French, -yet you may be sure that the Engliah minority in Quebec is as jealous as we
are here of the privilege.
Section 133 Bays further: " and either ot
those languages (English and French) may
be used by any person or in any ffleading
or process in or issuing f-rom any court ef
Canada established under this Act and in
or from ail or any of the courts of Quebec."
You are aware that under section 101 of
the British North Amierica Act, power is
given to the Parliament of Canada- te provide from time to tinie for the constitution,
maintenance and operation o! a general
Court et Appeal for Canada, and for the
establishmnent of any additional courts for
the better administration cf the laws of
Canada.
So far twe courts only have been established by this Parliarnent, the Supreme
Court of Canada, having an appellate civil
and criminal jurisdiction within and
throughout Canada, and the Exchequer
Court et Canada having original jurisdictien ail over Canada in many matters cf
very great importance.
Other courts may be estalilislied with
like jurisdiction throughout Canada, such
as an Admiralty Court-(under chapter 141
o! the Revised Statutes cf Canada. Admiralty jurisdiction is given te the Exchequer
Court) -commercial courts. bankruptcy and
insolvency courts, etc.
In ail these courts cf law, whether sitting
in the province of Ontario or in any other
province, it is and it shall reniain the
constitutional right and privilege of any
person te cause processes cf law te be
issued in the French or in the Eniglisli
language, at his own aiscretion, and te
use either cf these languages in addressing
the courts.
Extraordinary as these privileges imay
appear to-day te certain persens, when
granted, at the turne of the Confederation,
they did net give rise te any discussion.
Everybody seemed te be agreed that
as a matter of natuTai and plain jusHon.

Mir. BEIQUE.

tice te the twe, races concerned and in the
best interest of Canada the perpetuatien of
boih languagea should be gnaranteed.
Beth French and English did great things
for this part et the North American continent. The French were its firat pioneers
throughout the length and breadth of the
land. They introduced here Christianity
and civilization, and after passing under
the English Crown, they heiped in defending, maintaining and developing British
inÉtitutions. You Englis'h-sp.aking people
brought in here these British institutions
of which we _are ail equaily jealous and
proud. With the religious and moral sense
whieh characterizes your -race, you created
and maîntained that great modemn power,
public opinion, which is se invaluable for
the peace, good government and progreas
of any country.
It is ne wonder that at the time of Confederation, when the foundation cf a great
Canadian natien was laid, it was deemed
fair and proper te guarantee te the descendants of both races, the fTee use of
their respective language.
As te the grounds ef complaint, it will
be sufficient for me te refer te the unanimeus report et the six inspectors, three
English and three French, appoînted by
the Department of Education of the province et Ontario to carry eut Regul"! n 17:
The

Inspectera

agree

that

regulation

XVII

nas net been effective for the fflowing reasons:
"it was taken to mean that French ceuld net
be used as a ianguage of instruction and communication. It was regarded as an attempt te
gradually eltininate the French language from

the EngIlsh-Frelch schools.
1inspecters furthermere agree that the limi-

tation te one hour of the teachers time for
French as a subject of study does net adequately meet the conditions."
I have before me an elequent appeal
made on the question by our late esteemed
celleague, Sir Richard W. Scett, net long
before lis death. It was embedied in a
let.ter dated the 8th of Odtober, 1912, and
published in the Toronto Globe et the 15VUh
et the saine menth. In his letter he toek
very streng ground against Regulatien 17
as seriously intertering with the application
et the law in cennectien with separate
schools. The whole letter is weil worth
quoting. It is as follows:
'The main object ef the Separate School Act
of 1863 wa.s te give the Catheiic parent the
right te educate bis chiid accerdlng to his own
views and te combine religieus with secular
It had no reference to nationaiity,
education.
and even at that time there were French schools

MÂRCH 17, 1915

in Ottawa, a large portion of my constituents
being of that nationaiity. So, for over fiftY
years, the French Catheics have enjoyed the
1right or privilege", of educating their children through the mnediumn of their own language.
Before Cent ederation the ochools of Upper
Canada were under the juriadiction of a Superintendent of Education. The Rev. Dr. Ryereon,
a Metbodist clergyman, was the head of the
departrnent,- and ft was he wbo estabished the
public school sys.tem, copying Its principles
froyn those prevaliing In the United States.
Ilaving Inaungurated that aystemt, he was naturaily desirous of preeerving it Intact, and
when In 1860 mny Bill was first introduced It
hui hi. opposition; but ai years passed on
and the eubject waa freely dlscussed by the
press and at political meetings public opinion
favoured the concession- te the rnionrity, ana
Dr. Ryerson w1tiidrew hlm. objection and uiported the passingr of the Act of 1863. Lent,
however. any superintendent of éducation mlght
inaie objectionabie regulations affecting separate schoeis the Act contained an appeai by the
trustees te the Governor General In Council.
whose award "shall be final In ail cases."

At this point in his letter Sir Richard
Scott quoted section 93 of the Brqitish Nortih
Arnerica Act.
Taking a practical view of present conditions,
a rnajorlty of the boys and girls do acquire a
knewledge of Engiish before ieaving scheoi. In
Ottawa I arn confident that 95 per cent of the
pupils In bi-linguai acheels upeak Engiish perfectly before reaching fourteen years of age,
and they realize that a icnowledgc of the two
languages la a great s.dvantage. But. te force
French children te learn Engiish In their firat
year at school. wounds their naturai pride, ana
they naturaily resent the attempt.
The sme feeling prevails In ether countries.
For over a hundred years Poiand han bad the
sympatby of the world in its refusai to adopt
the Russian language, Germany cannet force
'ite language on Alsace and Lorraine. Surely
Ontario is net going te f 0110w the exampie of
Russia in Its treatment of citizens who do flot
conferm te the language of the majority.
The Parental Rights.
The chiid belongs te the parent, net te the
state, and the parent sheuid certainiy have a
veice in the education of his own child. But
under the recent edicts the French parent In
Ontario has ne veice ever the education of hi.
Any one deubting that staternent
children.
shouid read the officiai circular of instructions
for the .year 1912-1913. It enibraces twentyfive 'sections and subsections, ail cf'ippling the
possible educatior. cf the French chiid throughi
the mediumn of his native language. The circular entireiy ignores the board of separate
srhooi trustees and places arbitrary power In
supervising Inspectera who, In the three rases
quoted in the press, are admittcd te be Protestants. thus necessariiy creating friction between parents and trustees. (cf. Rule 17.)
Keeping In view the adrnitted fact that the
present appointees are Protestants, it in clear
that mrembers of the Orange Order are eligible
ter the position of supervising Inspecter, ana
rnay be selected te dictate the course of etudies
te be foliowed by French Catholie cilîdren. Is
the Cathoiic parent te have no voice In the
education of hi. chiid?

The teachers In French acheols. unies. qualilied te teach the public scheoi course In the
Engish language, can-ne longer be grantedl a
certiificate. (Section 13, Rule 17.)
Now comp~are these arbitrary and barsh
ruies wlth the sympathetic and Chrietian poiicy
meted eut te English Protestant children In
Quebec. Tbey are placed under the paternal
centrol of the Protestant ceimnittce ef the
Board et ldducation. The Quebec Goverinent
dees nlot interfere with the administration of
th~e schools. In addition te a pro rata share in
the general education fund, Protestant high
achoois in Montréal and Quebec receive annual
subsidies. F'iity acadcsniee a.nd medel achools
In cities*and towns receive grants. MoGiIl receives $3,000 fer the education of Protestant
teachers. The Protestant committee, In addition te other grants, receives $3,000 te educate
Lait session thc Legisiabi-lingual teachers
turc voted $15,000 te aid education In poor
Protestant diatricti. AJi tbat and much more
ln granted in aId of Pretestant education; whlle
the Cathoic rnlnority of Ontario receives ne
such contribution and get ne sbire of the
taxes of corperate bodies, though they contribute te thc weaith of these corporations.
If Sir Lorner Guin were te feilow the example ef the Ontario Premier andi appoint
French Cathelic supervisery Inspectera te
supersede the Protestant Board of Educatien,
giving thern the powers conferred on the Ontarie Inspectera, would net 'such action be deneunced over Ontario as intolerable tyranny?
Yet that ie the Valley meted eut te the French
Cathoiic parent and chiid who bave crossed
the border and .eught a home in-a abuter provInce. If the language no bittcrly proecribed
werc a fereign tangue, one ceuld undcritand
thc reason for crusing It out But considering that French le one of the officiai ianguages
of Canada, spoken b>' 2,000,000 of ou.' feiiowsubjects and by over 100,000.000 outalde Uic
Dorninion, that it ia the ambition of cultured
men and wornen in ail countries, next s.tter'
Uicir native dialect, te be able te ipeak Prench;
and considcring thit the literature of France is
of the highcst and miost refined standard, the
study ef the language should flot be discouraged. In ahi international conventions French
la thc usual mediumn of commnunication. Even
whcn about forty delegates from ferty countries
rnet In June lait In London te diseuse the
wireless telegraphy and frarne regulations for
its use, French was the language for the interchange of ideas, and Canada was fertunate
In having a representat-ive who was net onl>' a
fluent speaker In French, but wa aise an expert in the subject under discussion. Yet that
language ia te be interdicted In the French
schoo's of Ontario! Fortunateiy the constitution provîdes for an appeai te a higher power.
(Sgd.)
R W. Scott,

Ottawa, Oct. S, 1912.
The letter was that cf a man of great
experience and a true patriot. Every word
of it rnay be comrnended to the sound judgment of every member of this Heuse.
We de net ask tlhat ail children in
Ontario be net cornpelled te learn English,
or even te become preficient in that ianguage. We are ail anxious, whether in

SENATE
the building ai a true Canadian nationality?
History shows the diversity 0f races or
languages ia ratiher a cause cd emulation.
between them and a source of progresa. In
France ta, this day there are old provinces
where French is hardly spoken. For instance, in Britanny, the Breton, a Celtic
language, iu used by most of the people and
1. The respect of their rights for the educa- is. taught in the schoola. Iu la Provence
tion of their children in echools supported witb and in what is called le pays Basques, the
their money.
2. The efficacious teaching of the two officiai Provencal or tbe Basque is spoken. Agai.n,
languages of Canada during the whole primary take Belgium, a country which for its
course In the sohools or classes attended by patriotismn and its heroism iu ta-day adthelr children.
over; it is divided, as you
3. The teaching of their children through the mired the world
know, into Flemish, ai German origin, and
mother tongue.
natural vehîcle-. the
4. The grouping by achools or classes of the Walloons, of Freich extraction.. Their lanchlldren to whom their parents wish ta have guage la as diflerent as English and French.
the two officiai langus.geu taught
and adnir5., Competent teachers capable of teachlng Again you 'have the progressive
the twa officiai languages of Canada to take the able small nation Swîtzerland, dîvided inta
mnanagement of schools or clauses attended by German, French, Italian and Rhetian.
the children whose parents require teaching of' They ail speak their respective language;
French and Englisb.
6. Their -part of school grants voted eacb and it in no way, interferes with their unity
or national character.
year by the Legislative ÂSSCIfly.
7. One Inspection, Catholic and Franco-EngHon. members have already referred ta
schools attended by their
Ilsh, of separate
the British Isles where difierent languages
children.
S. One Inspection, Franco-English, of publie are commonly spoken and i reely taught in
schools attended by their chlldren.
schools. India could also, be referred ta ini
9. The granting of certificates ta hi-lingual that respect.
the exteachers who have successfully pased
A number of other instances could be
arninations requlred by the Department of
given... In the Eastern States ai the AmeriEducation.
can republie, a population oi French CanaAgain horowing the wording used by the dians exceeding one million is ta be found
samns association, French-Canadians in On- tarming the majarity in several cities and
tario do nat want (1) schools exclusively towns and speaking their owu language. As
French; (2) they do not want ta, force Eng- the laws ai their own state permit, they get
lish-speaking children or others to study naturalized, and they are as proud as any
the French language; (3) they do not ask Arnerican boru ai their American citizenfor the introduction of a -third s-ooî sye- ship. Some ai them are Governors ai their
tem in the province.
own state, elected and re-elected by EngWhat objection can there be ta education lish as well as by French-speaking electars.
being gîven in the twa languages'in Ontario This condition ai things is due, yau may be
as it is given in Quebec, at least ta those sure, ta the iact that they live contented,
who desire ta, acquire the knowledge of unmalested, and allowed ta ireely conserve
Are we in the province ai Quebec, what is moat dear ta them, their mother's
boh
who have been tauight French and English language.
in aur schools. really inferior in Parliament,
French Canadians are much 'mare attached
in the liberal professions, in science, in arts, ta Canada than is generally believed.
If
who
or in any other sphere of lufe, ta those
any English-speaking Canadians leave this
knaw Eng-lish only? Is there any lion. country for a visit ta England, Scotland or
gentleman in this House possessed only 0f Ireland. hie invariably says: 1 arn going
the English language wlio would flot decm home. We French Canadians, when leaving
it a great advantage ta possess French as for France, say uothing ai the kind. Canada,
well' For niy part, deficient as 1 arn in Canada only, is aud shall remain aur home.
English, no rnonetary consideration could There may be, uniortunately, in this country
induce me ta forega, were it possible, such people who believe that means should be
knowledge as I ihave, of the English lan- taken ta cause the absorption as soon as
possible ai the French minority by the
guege.
Is there any ground for apprehiension that English majority. To those who may labour
that
the perpetuation ai the twvo languages may under this misconception, let me say best
been the
interfere with the uniity aof the nation or uniair treatmeut has always

Ontario or in Quebec, for oppartunities to
learn it. Ail that we ask is that the
inhabitants of French origin be not deprived
af learning their own language as well.
To put it in the words of the French
Canadian Association of Ontario, FrenchCanadians are asking:

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

MARCH 17, 1915

invigorating element cf minorities, whether
religious or racial. For niy part, if I did
not value as much as I do harmony between
all races ini the intereet cf this country,
I weuld rejoice at ail causes of complaint
given te the French or te the Catholic
minorities. I would be sure that it would
be the best guarantee* of their contmnued
strength. and healthy condition.
Thank heaven it is in human nature that
the same persistence ana tenacity be employed in resisting and repelling what one
believes te be an injustice, and this applies
especially in social and religious mattera.
Ireland and Poland are living proofs of the
truth cf my contentien..
Lord Elgin, while Goverzier cf Canadtin
1847 or 1848, wrete te the Secretary cf Colonies as fcIilows:
I arn very anxioua to hear that you have
taken steps for the repeal of no much of the
Act of Union as imposes restrictions on t-be use
of the French language. The delay which has
taken place in giving effect to the promise
made, 1 think by Gladstone, on this subject, la
one of the points of which Papineau la avalling
himself for purposes of agitation. I must,
mereover, confeau, that I for one arn deeply
convinced cf t-be impolicy ef ail such at-tempti
te denatlonalize the French. Generally apeaking they preduce the opposite effect from that
Intended, cm.using the flame of national pre-indice and animosity te burn more fiercely.
But suppose tbema to be succeastul, what would
be t-be resuit? Yeu may perbaps ."Arericanize,"
but, depend upon It, by met-hode of t-bis description you wlIl neyer 'Angliclze' the French
Inhabitanta of t-he province. Let t-hem feel, on
the ether hand, that their religion, their habits,
their prepeusesalons, their prejudices If you
will, are more considered and respected here
than ln other portions ef this vant continent
wbo yull venture t-o Bay that the last hand
wbich waves the British flag on American
ground may net be that of P. French Canadian?
"Lord Elgin.

He was a great Governor who knew and
aeuciated the aspirationis of the French
Canadians and was always ready te deal
fairly with them.
Let me nov read a letter from Sir George
W. Ross:
Are we acting wisely In our treatment of
bi-lingual education? I freely admit the importance of an Engliah education te every citizen of Canada. Engliah la t-be chief business
and prefessional language ef Canada, and the
vaut of It is doubtiesu a handicap umon every
person vho has to earn a livellhood in competition with his fellow-Canadians. In another
menue, the want of It in as great a loua. In
every province except Quebec a knowledge of
Canadian affaira of the growtb and çrogreua
of Canada, of its public =nen and is public Interese ai t-o be obtaiued chiefly through the
English press.
For these reauons It la desirable that every
Canadlan should at least be able te read. and

write -intelllgetlY In the Engliah language. To
encourage a deaire for this knewiedige mbeuld

not be cenaldered a refiection upon the mother

tongue et a.ny nationality.
The aurvival of the French kanguagre in Canada, notwitbutaxiing the censtlt-utional changea
et one hundred and fifty year and the large
growth of t-be English-speaking population. ia
a factor te bu censi'dered in dealing vithbhilingual uchools. It ehowa a love fer a disact-lys teature of racial enigin seldom exhibited.
by any ot-her people under elmilar cirSutancea.
Te the French-Canadian hie tongue la bis
deareat huritage, net because he bas any
longifga for the reatoration ef French aupremacy In Canada, but because be considers It a
badge ef hie individuatIty and necumaary for the
preeervation of hie religion In a country t-bat
waa once him own and in wbtch he reigned
aupreme. If, then, the love ot the French
.Canadian for hlm mother tongue in sacroeanct,
If It means t-o hlm, al that he need kuow of
speech, and, In nme case, al he cares te
knew, the advantagrea of another language muat
be preseuted in a forni that appeals te bis peraenalI ntereut as a man and a citizen.
The aurvival of t-ha Trench language In Canada haa aise lt-s himtorlcal aide. By the Quebuc
Act of 1774, Roman Cathoics were guaranteed
t-be free exercise ef their religion, and their
ancient cuatoma as t-o property and civil righta.
French was the language of the courts to which
No et-ber language
t-bey .looked for Justice.

obuainesa or devaa required for' purposaet
votion.

Wben Lover Canada vas constltuted

a separate province ln 1791 French bucama

the language et governrnent and legimlation,
and t-hus Trench bocame lnturwoven vith t-ha
vary texture of t-hein religions, poUtical and
social lives.
when Lover Canada becama unitel vith
'Upper Canada In 1841 the Trench race. and fer
t-bat matter the Saxon aise, vas obliged t-o taku
a vide outlook et public lite.
The aquality et both languagea In debate
and -in evenyt-bing that pert-ained t-o t-be dutiem
and procedure of PanMlarent wau aft-erwards
reaffirmed. by t-ha Britimh North Amenica Act
of 1887.
Nov vbat bas been the effuct et the une
the French language In Parliament on terme
of equality vith Engllsh?
Forty years ago vhen I vas firat a member
ef tbe House et Cemmona, ve bad five Frenchspeaking membera for every eue ve bave new.
Net t-bat the French membera have lest t-hein
love for t-be French language, but because
<greatly te their credit) Trench membera ef
Parliament au a rule. hava become goed English as weIl as French scholars. and se can
express themuaeivea as vellIin Engliub, tbough
perbaps net me fluently, as ,iu t-hein mot-ber
tongue,- as witness Sir Wilfrid Laurier, Lemieux, Monk, Blourassa, Lavergne, au vaîl as
Dandurand,
ex-Speaker
Landry,
Speaker
B6ique, David, Belcourt, and others et t-be
Senate. Witbout being unduly critical, I ventura t-o say t-bat net a few Engliab-speakiug
members would suifer by comparison with their
Frenck compatriote In t-be use of dlear. concise
and expressive English. The earmark et t-be
French speaker lu bis accent, net bis want of
vocabulary.
Nov wbat dees t-bis biat-orical sketch signify?
Clearly t-bat t-be Trench language bas a statua

SENATE

in the very constitution which entittea it to
consideration. Ite use le sainctioned by the
Parliarnent of the Mother Country, the fathers
of Confederation, and the Parliament of Canada, and this in no mean distinction, flot hastiiy
determined.
Now, it la contended that this equality of
statue In Parilament signifie. or la Intended to
signify an eqdlality of Ita status In the curriculum of the sehoola of Canada.
The dlaim of the French language to a place
on the school curriculum la a question of public policy- question of what la liest for those
who know no other language and what la beat
for their future citizenship. and It la only from
this standpoint that the question shouid -be
considered by the French-speaking population,
to wliom it la of primary Importance, as well
as by those responsIble for our school system.
The lasaona to be learned from the parliamentary sanction of the French language may.
then, be summed up as follows:
(1) By vermitting the use of the Frenchi
language In Parliament the suspicion or apprehension that the majority was Influenced by
prejudice against their Frenchi compatriots was
greatly modifled. la there flot a similar suspicion with regard to the use of French in bilingual schools?
(2) The use of the French language in ParDasment quallfied French members to discharge
their duties more efficiently by enabling them to
declare intelligently thelr minds In ail matters
Why, then. should not the
of legislation.
teacher of a bi-lingual eclicol b. allowed the
free use of the. language, which bis pupIls understand? Who ever looksa for an objeet In the
dark with an extlnguished lamp'
<8) The. inablity to use the English language In Parliamentary debate was the result
o! environment for which the. member was flot
Why ehouid hia usefulness be
responsible.
marred by the accident of birth or race? Why
abould lie be prohlbited as by a decree of fate
from using the only language by which lie
could diseharge hie duties efficiently as a memnber of Parliament? In it flot so with the child
at scliool? It la no fault of hie that lie was bon
of Frenchi parents. It la no fault of bis that
lie speaks French. You cannot reachlitbs mind
by a language lie cannot understand. By giving
equivalent terme In Engllsh you make bis knowledge of Frenchi a stepping-stone to a knowledge of English.

This character of our schools sliould be maintained at ail bazards, and If it meanu anytliing
it means that the public achool1 sliould open
its doors a0 wide that every child, lrrespective of Its origin, shouid share in its privileges
on a common liasis.
In my next article I propose offerlng some
suggestions as to how this end can best b. at-

talned.

Sir Geo. W.

oa.

Tihis was a letter written by a man of
large experience in educational matters and
who, as you know, was minister of Education in Onatrio for severai years.
For French Canadians the usne of their
language concerns not only the perpetuation
of the race, At is "a badge of their own
indiv'iduality. and necessary for the preservation of their religion."
Believe me,honourable gentlemen, not oniy
for the sake of fair play and harmony, but
in the true interest ô! the future of this
Dominion, let each of the two races have
its f ree expansion on this continent. Each
language has been immortalized by a long
The
series of great and briUliant writers.
civilization of the one, as that o! the other,
which are "the flowers o! the ages- and
amongst the main jewels o! the world, je
as necessary on this continent as on the
The obliteration o!
European continent.
either of them would be nothing short o!
a human catastrophe.
I have only one word more to add, it je
the hope that this honourable House wili be
unanimous in regretting, as is s0 well expressed in the, motion, the divisioni' which
seem to exist among the people o! the
province of Ontario in connection with the
bi-lingual school question, and in expressing
its belief that it is in the interest o! the
Dominion at large that ail such questions
should be considered on fair and patriotic
lines, and settled in such a way as to preserve peace and harmony between the di!(4) The free and unrestrained use of the
Parliament has led to ferent national and religious sections of
Frenchi language in
greater efllciency In the use of the Bnglish lan- this country, in accordance with the views
guage. If both languages were taught In a of the Fathers of Confederation and with
bi-lingual school would not a similar result the spirit of our Constitution.
follow? «You only accentuate, a preference or
The application of a wide, liberal and
a prejudice by dtscrlmlnating against it. There
is no lingual chlice between conditions under generous spirit to the settiement of this
wbich they are to lie used. The conditions In question will be in keeping with the wise
Quebec favour French; In Ontario, Engiish and generous policy o! the British Governfavour botb. Restraînt only tends to perpetuate
ment in dealing 'with such questions
wbat greater liberty would secure.
But i la said that Ontario la an Engllsh- throughout the Empire, and with the present
speaktng province, and therefore French should and I sincerely hope the enduring and
By similar
flot be taught in our uchools.
everlasting entente cordiale between the
reasoning it might be sald that Quebec la a
nations, England and France,
French-speaking province, English should not two great
This la whose gigantic common and concerted efforts
lie taughit In the schools o! Quebec.
a painfully narrow view to take o! the object of blood and resources o! ail kinds are at
of edumation.
Education is a means to an énd 1 present engaged at saving the civilization
and should lie adapted to the needs of the
of the world.
whole people.
Hon. Mr. BE)IQUE.

MARCH 17, 1915
L'honorable M. POIRIER: Honorables poursuivi une politique, pour dire le moins,
messieurs, je désire en commençant faire malhabile. Il n'est pas dans la nature
bien comprendre à mes amis de la province française de provoquer les antipathies ande Québec ainsi qu'à ceux de la province glaises. L'on est cependant arrivé à ce réd'Ontario, que je suis de cœur et d'âme avec sultat-là à l'heure qu'il est. Appelons les
eux dans la lutte qu'ils poursuivent pour choses par leur nom: "A spade a spade";
le maintien de l'enseignement de notre au lieu de n'avoir contre nous que les oranlangue nationale dans l'Ontario. Je dirai gistes....
d'abord, il faut remarquer
plus.: Toute personne ici au Canada qui ne que nous n'avons jamais eu contre nous les
s'est pas laissée préjuger et prévenir est orangistes. Nous avons eu un petit groupe
avec eux de cour et d'esprit. C'est la de ces messieurs qui ne nous aimaient pas,
minorité qui est opposée à l'enseignement mais le plus grand nombre d'entre eux
du français. Ceci étant compris, je dois compte parmi les hommes les plus honoramaintenant dire que mes vues ne seront bles et les plus honorés qu'ait produit le
peut-être pas, ne seront probablement pas Canada. Sir John Macdonald en était un.
celles de tout le monde, de tous ceux qui Je cite aussi mon honorable collègue,
comme moi sont français et catholiques. à ma gauche (air Mackenzie Bowell) qui
Je demande que l'on m'accorde tout le est allé à une défaite certaine pour la revenbénéfice du doute, et que l'on veuille croire dication d'écoles publiques séparées auxque si je diffère d'opinion sur quelques quelles il ne croyait pas. Cet homme-là est
points même importants avec mes amis, un homme d'honneur tel qu'on en trouve rac'est parce que les remèdes que je crois rement. M. Emmerson qui vient de mourir,
bons et efficaces ne sont pas ceux qu'ils et qui représentait mon comté occupait une
croient de leur côté les meilleurs. J'ad- haute situation parmi les loges. Eh bien!
mets leur sincérité; je les prie de croire à nous-autres Acadiens qui ne voulons jamais
la mienne.
trouvions pas de
La situation, messieus, et inauvaise soulever ces questions, ne
M. Emmerson. Le groupe
dans l'Ontario; sérieusement mauvaise; et meilleur ami que
des chefs semce qui est plus grave, menace d'empirer. orangiste, messieurs, qui a
blables ne peut pas être aussi noir qu'on le
Or, pourquoi cela? Je suis, je puis dire,
citoyen d'Ontario depuis 42 ans. J'ai représente; ce parti veut qu'on le respecte
demeuré ici en permanence, depuis le et qu'on ne condamne pas tous les orangispremier parlement qui a suivi la Confédé- tes sans un peu étudier les détails.
Messieurs, les causes qui ont amené le
ration. Ce qui vent dire que je dois être-à
moins d'être aveugle et sourd-un peu au malheureux état où nous sommes ne sont
courant de ce qui s'est passé, ou au moins pas dues exclusivement aux orangistes;
de l'état d'âme des Anglais et des Fran- peut-être n'y ont-ils pas plus que 60 pour
çais de l'Ontario.
cent de part. Nous avons notre part inJe dois dire ici à la louange de nos amis consciente ou consciente; mais, comme je
de l'Ontario qui ne pratiquent pas la reli- l'ai dit, il n'est pas prudent ni avantageux
gion catholique, protestans ou organistes, d'entrer dans aucune précision. La cause
qu'ils n'ont pas jusqu'ici fait d'obstacles la plus éloignée de dissension, c'est la
sérieux que je connaisse, jusqu'à ces der- bataille de la Boyne. Qu'avons-nous à
nières années, à l'enseignement du culte faire d'être là. Pourquoi ces dix milles solreligieux dans les écoles et à l'enseigne- dats réguliere de Louis XIV était-ils là.
ment du français. Or, pourquoi une bonne Louis XIV en s'immisçant là où il n'avait pas
situation est-elle devenu mauvaise? Il y a droit de se remémorer défavorablement la
quelque chose qui n'est pas naturel dans Boyne, ce seraient messieurs les orangistout cela. Des personnes bien disposées tes. Nous étions dix milles Français conivis-à-vis de nous ne deviennent pas, je ne battant contre eux, qui n'avions aucune afdis pas du jour au lendemain, mais d'une faire d'être là.
Pourquoi ces dix milles
année à une autre, un peu hostile, joliment soldats réguliers de Louis XIV étaient-ils
hostile et finalement hostile tout à fait.
là. Louis XIV en s'immisçant là où il n'avait
C'est une erreur, messieurs, de croire que pas d'affaire nous fait porter -la responsabitout le tort est dn côté d'Ontario. Dans une
auxquels nos ancêtres
dispute, le tort n'est presque jamais tout hé d'événements pas consenti; le peuple
Si d'un côté et de l'autre on vou- mêmes n'avaient
d'un côté.
Alors qu'a donc à
lait raisonner, surtout étudier froidement n'était pas libre alors.
Laissons
les causes de friction, on arriverait à les faire ici la bataille de la Boyne.
puisqu'ils s'y rplaisent régàer cette qpeetion
connaître et la paix serait vite rétablie.
Je ne crois pas prudent d'appuyer sur le entre messieurs l>s ITrlapdais catholiques et
côté où je crois que nos amis d'Ontario ont les protestants; ils sont capables de dispu•Tout

SENATE
ter sans que nous nous en mêlions et que qui souffrent de ces abus, de demander aux
journaux castors, à cette certaine catégorie
nous allions y mettre les doigts.
La cause, messieurs, dont je peux parler de journaux qui vit d'attaques haineuses,
sans blesser les susceptibilités, la - cause tout en croyant probablement, comme dit
du mauvais accord qui existe aujourd'hui, l'Evangile, servir Dieu, de cesser pendant
c'est la presse intolérante, composée de douze mois tout attaque directe contre les
journaux que je nommerai pas, qui par be- orangistes. Que les orangistes de leur côté
soin d'habitudes, pour montrer qu'ils ont prennent ce qu'ils trouveront de bon parmi
quelque raison d'être, périodiquement ont lea catholiques, qu'ils montrent les catholiun article offensif contre les catholiques. ques sous une face autre que celle qu'ils ont
Certains journaux de la province de Québec, fait jusqu'ici; que nous, catholiques dont
que
peu nombreux, mais non moins intolé- c'est le devoir peut-être plus impérieux
prenant pour ces messieurs d'exercer la charité,
rants, ripostent du tac au tac,
mais aussi
ce qu'on devrait laisser traîner sans le non pas seulement en paroles
journaux d'Onrelever, faisant quelque chose de cela et d'exemple, prenions dans ces
de bon à
représentant nos amis les orangistes, repré- tario tout ce' que nous trouverons
l'adresse des catholiques, cela pendant douze
sentant toute la secte comme hostile, lorsdouze mois de ces
qu'il n'y avait que la queue traînante qui mois. Je crois qu'après
bons procédés la question bilingue sera réfaisait du bruit; qui faisait un bruit appaesprit aura été créé. On
remment hostile. Qu'arrive-t-il? Echange glée, qu'un nouvel
aura appris chez ces messieurs d'Ontario
On a commencé
de mauvais procédés.
presque à aimer les Français,
graduellement. Un mauvais article de la à respecter,
et ceux d'entre nous qui sommes préjugés
province d'Ontario en a provoqué une plus vis-à-vis d'eux, comme ils le sont vis-à-vis
mauvais chez la presse castor; on s'injurie
noush aurons compris, estimé et
au nom des loges, d'un côté, au nom de de nous
aimé des hommes aimables et estimables.
Dieu, de l'autre, et d'indifférents qu'on était
Je parle avec connaissance de cause, vu
on a fini par devenir des adversaires, sinon
que pendant des saisons toutes entières j'ai
des ennemis.
de protesEh bien! Messieurs c'est cette coutume vécu dans des milieux composés
et apparemment orangistes, puisque le
de prendre de choisir ce qu'il y a de mau- tants
juillet, ils sortaient en très grand nombre;
vais d'un côté, et seulement ce qu'il y a 12
eh bien, je -n'ai jamais rencontré parmi les
de mauvais et d'éliminer ce qu'il y a de
plus d'honneur,
bon, et cela réciproquement, qui nous a miens plus d'honnetété, me suis jamais
et je ne
là où nous sommes. Mon idée plus de droiture
conduits
plus fidèles et plus francs.
pour le règlement de cette question serait formé d'amis
Et vous me croirez messieurs, si je vous
de faire une trêve de douze mois; une
mais par fierte
trêve entre les organes anti-français de la dis, non pas par bravade n'allais pas crier
anti-oran- religieuse et nationale,-je
province d'Ontario et les organes
j'étais Français, je ne me
gistes de la province de Québec de lan- sur les toits que les clôtures ou les maisons
mettais pas sur
gue française.
le signe de la croix,-mais je
Et pourquoi ne le ferions-nous pas. Cette pour faire
pratiquais devant eux ma religion et ne
guerre universelle amène bien en Russie
ma nationalité.
l'abolition du "Vudka" et de l'absinthe rougissais pas de
Pratiquons pendant douze mois le consuisse en France. Je sais que les préjugés
ce qui se fait, et vous verrez le
nationaux et religieux sont plus malaisés à traire demerveilleux. J'irai plus loin; que
résultat
déraciner, que l'ivrognerie, mais enfin pourjournalistes ne veulent pas faire
quoi ne ferions-nous pas nous aussi notre si les
trève, je demanderai aux abonnés de renpart de sacrince; pourquoi ne nous impoannonceurs de retirer
serions-nous pas quelque chose nous aussi voyer le journal, aux
à une dien vue de la paix universelle qui s'annonce leurs annonces, afin de les forcer je m'enrection meilleure. Pour ma part,
pour tout l'univers; nous serait-il imposgage aujourd'hui-je suis abonné à plusible de faire un Canada uni?
renJe proposerai ceci: que les journalistes sieurs journaux anglais et français-de
et les jour- voyer impitoyablement ces journaux cathod'Ontario de nuance orangiste
senalistes de Québec de nuance castor fassent liques qui publieront des articles qui ne
trêve pendant douze mois; c'est-à-dire ne ront pas raisonnables ou déclameront conrelèvent rien qui soit 'hostile aux catholi- tre les protestants ou les orangistes. Je
qus d'un côté ou aux protestants de l'autre. demanderais à ces messieurs de l'autre côté
Je suis presque autorisé à demander ceci, de faire la même chose. Vous verrez que
parce que nous sommes, en Acadie, de ceux ces moyens seront plus efficaces pour la
Hon. Mr. POIRIER

MARCH 17. 1915
véritable bonne entente, pour la véritable ront passer de décrets sera d'un tour de
union que d'aller devant les cours de jus- main annulé par le bureau d'éducation de
Toronto, s'ils le veulent, et ils le voudront;
tice.
Il paraît que l'on veut régler la question parce qu'alors on aura monté l'opinion puavec des décrets de cour. Laissez-moi vous blique.
Et si nous perdons, qu'arrivera-t-il? Au
dire, que, d'après mon humble opinion, j'ai
quelque expérience là-dedans, vous ne la lieu d'aller à Toronto avec des prétentions
règlerez jamais, nous ne la règlerons ja- de droits ou de quasi-droits, d'arguments
mais de cette façon-là. La cour devant la- tels que ceux que nous entendons, il fauquelle nous devons gagner notre cause au- dra aller en hiùmbles suppliants ou bien
jourd'hui est celle de la bonne et saine abandonner la cause; nos gens se découopinion publique qui commence à se tour- rageront. On se jettera le blame les uns
ner contre nous. Ce sont les commissions sur les autres; il n'y aura plus que le chaos
d'écoles catholiques et le ministère d'Edu- dans Ontario; il n'y aura plus de direction
cation d'Ontario qui doivent régler -la ques- -pour la poursuite de cette guerre de lation. Ceux d'Ottawa qui à tort ou à raison quelle je suis partisan pourvu qu'elle se
représentent tout Ontario, qui parlent pour fasse non pas comme une guerre violente
tout Ontario n'ont qu'à aller devant le cabi- mais comme une revendication entre gens
net de cette province, conservateur ou libé- susceptibles de se comprendre.
. Ainsi, pour moi, le recours légal, les inral, non pas comme de suppléants mais avec
les pétitions ou les raissons alléguées par les jures, l'intolérance, tout cela, ce sont des
différents orateurs qui ont parlé avant moi; moyens également mauvais, des moyens
ils devront aller trouver ces messieurs et leur avec lesquels nous n'arriverons à rien qu'à
dire comment nous voulons la paix, mais aggraver une situation déjà trop mauvaise.
Que faire? Le contraire de ce qui s'est
une paix compatible avec nos droits, nos
aspirations; et vous verrez que l'on prêtera fait, ou à peu près. Voyons, il y a quaL'Ontario anglo- rante ans, nous, au Nouveau-Brunswick,
une oreille favorable.
saxonne a honte d'être la seule province du avons commencé précisément par où vous
Dominion et peut-être du monde où l'on allez finir: la guerre civile. Ici, il 'faut
proscrive la plus belle, la plus harmonieuse que je sois compris à demi mot. La
des langues qui soit aujourd'hui parlée situation était telle. . . . on avait soulevé
nos pauvres Acadiens contre les employés
parmi les hommes.
Je vous diu que le recours aux tribunaux, du gouvernement. On ne se contentait pas
le recours au Conseil privé pour moi est comme dans Ontario de faire sortir les enfatal. Voyons on recrute de l'argent dans fants des écoles, mais on nous avait fait
tout le Dominion; on est rendu au Nou- nous armer, et nous avions tué un officier
veau-Brunswick; on recueille l'argent pour du gouvernement. Les miliciens sont veles écoles de l'Ontario, mais non pour nus, ils ont tué des nôtres. Quel a été le
aller paraître devant les cours. Laissez-moi résultat: Nous avons été quatre ans sans
vous dire que la plupart de nos hom- pouvoir envoyer nos enfants à l'école pumes publics sont opposés à l'idée d'amener blique sous défense ecclésiastique et autre.
cette question devant le Conseil du Roi. Presque toute une génération d'Acadiens
Vous
Ou vous gagnerez ou vous ne gagnerez pas. est sortie de là absolument illettrée. pour
Québec, n'auriez pas fait flancher un Anglais
Monsieur le sénateur d'Ottawa, à
pays
soit.
dans une séance à laquelle j'assistais, a nous accorder quoi que ce faites Le une
pas
un exposé légal, clair de la question, était monté; vous ne vous laid de voir
fait
c'est
il nous a dit dans un plaidoyer magni- idée de cela, comme
contre les aufique que nous n'aurions pas grande chan- des citoyens s'armer les uns
religieuses ou de
ce de succès en Angleterre. Supposons tres pour des questions
que nous gagnions notre cause devant le nationalité.
Nous étions l'infime minorité. Nous avons
Conseil privé d'Angleterre, que va-t-il arsans envoyer
river? Une aggravation de la situation été quatre ans, comme résultat,
dont vous ne vous faites pas d'idée. Là nos enfants à l'école.
Aujourd'hui, la situation au Nouveauoù nous avons encore une grande partie
Brunswick, mon ami de Moncton vous l'a
d'Ontario pour nous, Ontario tout entier se
Mon ami
soulèvera contre l'idée de voir la province dit, est bonne, presque excellente. qu'à la
tout sera attribué de la Nouvelle-Ecosse vous dira
de Québec (parce que
meilleure; et nous
à la province de Québec) forcer chez eux Nouvelle-Ecosse elle est
anti-religieuses qui ont
un enseignement qui leur paraîtra odieux; avons les mêmes loiset qui subsistent encore
:1871
et tout ce que les cours d'Angleterre pour- été passées en

124

SENATE

124

SENATE

à la lettre. La commotion d'alors a été telle- ront recommencer, nous le craignons. Il ne
ment forte qu'aujourd'hui nous n'oserions le faut pas; il faut que la paix, la bonne
pas, nous ne voudrions pas dans l'intérêt entente universelles existent au Canada; il
de la paix soulever ce mauvais levain dont faut que les sacrifices qui se font ailleurs
se fassent un peu ici.
nous avons eu tant à souffrir.
Eh bien ! mesieurs, avec une mauvaise loi,
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
nous sommes arrivés, mon ami de Moncton
vous l'a dit, nous sommes arrivés à enrôHon. Mr. POIRIER-Mine has been a
1er avec nous les deux journaux de Mone- plea for peace and good understanding beton; et lorsque nous demandons deux heures tween men who should understand one and'enseignement exclusif du français, je me other, and who are deserving of all respect,
rappelle avoir vu un journal en offrir who simply misunderstand one another
quatre s'il le fallait.
because some Quebec papers republish exCeux qui menaient la question avec bruit, aggerated attacks in Ontario papers againet
pour le panage, ont complètement échoué. the French or Catholic population, and repOn nous a laissé nous-autres laïques pren- resenting thhose attacks as the embodidre la direction des affaires. Voici comment ment of the views of those people towards
nous sommes arrivés à la paix. Nous avons us and the Ontario papers taking from
commencé par montrer notre parfaite droi- our Castor press certain speedhes and artture et sincérité; nous sommes allés gra- icles in response, and creating the impresduellement devant nos amis protestants sion that the French are hostile to the
et orangistes leur faire comprendre notre English. That must not and cannot be; it
cause, qu'ils n'ont pas comprise d'abord. is not natural in this age of enlig'htment. I
Nous avons introduit sans rien dire le fran- have been asking our people to cease their
çais dans les écoles. Ils ont laissé faire. agitation and some of the notorious journals
Le français s'enseigne aujourd'hui dans to make a truce for one year, because in
toutes les écoles à côté de l'anglais. Les consequence of this war we should make a
inspecteurs ne sont pas plus tapageurs qu'ils sacrifice to promote good feeling. The Rusne l'étaient dans Ontario il y a dix ans. sians have abolished vodka and the French
Plus que cela, nous voulions avoir une éco- are doing away with absinthe; let us for
le normale; l'erseignement du français one year do what is more diffloult-eradin'est pas reconnu dans les écoles normales; cate, as mudh as we can, the ill-deeling
nous aurions voulu demander au bureau des engendered by those papers, and ask the
écoles de-nous l'octroyer; nous ne l'osons extreme journalists on my side, if I may
pas. Les journaux anglais reproduisaient so say (though they are not on my side,
les mauvais discours de la province de thank God), to make a solemn engagement
Québec contre les orangistes et contre les not to print for twelve months an article or
protestants. Nous sommes tous solidaires. an item against Orangeism, Orangemen,
Pourquoi tout ce bruit intempestif pour Protestants, and so on. I would make the
faire de petits héros locaux, de petits saints same request of thé Orange press, since
avec des niches particulières; pourquoi tout Orangeism is the tête de Turc to the French,
ce bruit qui recule vôtre cause et recule la for one year; I would ask both to select,
nôtre. Prenons plutôt les moyens que je not articles which'are offensive, but those
vous dis; avoir recours à la bonne volonté which are complimentary. There are splenà l'estime de nos amis les Anglais. Nous did traits among all of our people, and we
n'avons pas même chez nous l'article 17, know it. Anything pleasant, charitable,
mais nous avons le français quand même, fraternal, and friendly that they can detect
et nous avons l'estime de nos amis les An- in those French papers, the Orange papers
effect
glais qui ont la nôtre. Pour ce qui est de should publish, and we would see the
nos délibérations, jamais vous n'entendez of it after trying it a year. I am satisfied
un mot contre un Anglais ou un protestant; that there would be no need to resort to
nous ne le tolèrerions pas. Malheureuse- coercion for the settlement of our difficultment une certaine presse "castor" qui fait ies. The bulk of us are all right, and that
merveille, qui bat monnaie dans la pro- portion of our population, both in Ontario
vince de Québec, commence à s'introduire and Quebec, that live upon dissensionschez nous, s'infiltre. On est impuissant although many of them are acting in good
contre certaines puissances. Si elle arrive faith-will have their eyes opened and
à prendre le dessus malgré nos efforts, eh find that the French are not bad, and
bien T avec ce qui se passe ici, que Dieu nous that the Orangemen are most excellent
en préserve, mais les anciens troubles pour- people, as I myself have found out. When
Hon. Mr. POIRIER

MARCH 17, 1915

those journalists will not do that of
themselves, I have appealed to the subscribers to drop their papers. Speaking
for myself, I pledge myself ta eend back
any Catholic paper-even though it be
printed in Rome-that may eontain a single
attack upon our -friends the Orangemen. I
will refuse it, though. il be printed in
Shediae, or by iny best friend. It is piace
we vaut, and ta secure it 'we bhave to resort
ta means ta bring it about. Ignorance is
the -oaukse of the bitternens thaL existe; it ls
because we do not corne in contact one wfth
,another, beead'se we do not show one mnother the best part of ourselves, when we
corne in contact with %rnr people frani On.
tario, or they 'with oui French <rom Quebee or New Bruns wick. 'When tlhey understand us they find us .most excellent persons, with xio hostile itent, and flot as ini
-Vhe Middle Ages, walves seeking oci-asion to
devour one another. Just one instance, ta
show how easy it is to change a situation.
Some 'ten years or more ago I was travelling in the province of Quebe -with my
hion. friend the present Minister cd Militia,
General Hughes. %Ve vwers passing .Joliette,
a counity where there are not ten Engli»h
elec'tors. It vwas on the eve cof a general
The people kuew that Sam
eêleetion.
Hughes, as they called hlm then and oeil
him now-possibly history ta the niait remate future will cail hiÉx Samn Hug'heswas coming, and gathered there. The train
stopped. Mr. Hughes knew there was a
gathering. He knew they were expecting a speech fromn him, and lie prepared hinîsef for the occasion; lie was
graciously received; hie made a speech,
tdld theni things; hie was witty; lie le
always 'witty, but he was ve.ry îvitty that
~time; amang other things i told them
that he had sanie French blood in hïm,
that the best blood he had ini him -%as that
portion 'which was French. That tickled
thein, and they cheered hini. Fîîîally, one
of thern proposed that the local canuÂdate
should resign and that they should have
Mr. Hughes as their candidate for Joliette,
otliers responded and thiere w~as a claniour
for Sami Hughes ta corne and accept the
candidature for Joliette. Mr. Hughes tald
thein that hoe regretted very mnuch that hie
had already consented to run for another
constituency, and the train moved on. But
lie confided to nie that lie was iinclined ta
accept it, and that hoe thoughit lie could
handle singlehanded the county of Joliette.
He niiighit have. Hon. Gentlemen, that
intercourse for only haîf an hour seemned

ta change thre whole complexion of thiifgs.
What would be thre result if we were to
corne together more often in thint fine
spirit of fraternity, of camaraderie, and
instead of trying ta show up thre dark
sides of one another, we sbnnld sîmply
show whaL magniflcent elements exiat in
min of .all nstiionalities, and especial-ly tAre,
people of Canada. If we could orrîtivate
that spirit, tAre bi-lingual question would
soan 'be settled. I am sorry that almca a
stigma resta upon Ontario, of being thei
only country in the world where French s
prohibited.
That is a condition of thinga tArat does not
do honour ta Ontario as a province and
should be done away with for good. Englisir speaking people muet know that it je
impossible ta abolish Freucri, an.d that it is
most important that they should learn thre
language. That fact is very apparent to-day
in Europe, ta ahl those who have travelled
thre world over, and ail acholars and
students of history. I will give ànotirer instance: England to-day speaks Englisir, but
do not f orget that for 400 or 500 years
English was not thre official. language of
England, and that if William the Conqueror
and bis followers had followed thre course
that the Romans pursued with conquered
nations, the likelihood is that ta-day
England would b. a French-speaking country. For hundreda of years thre teaching of
Englisir was fornîally forbidden-in England
under thre most severe penalty. That prohibition aroused thre people. There is energy,
there is hanour, and there are higir, strong
sentiments iu thre Anglo-Saxon nation, snd
instead of Frenchr continuing ta be officially
the language of England, as thre Roman
language contitued ta be thre language of
Italy, o! Spain and of France, it was supplanted by Englisir. It was tirrougir trying
ta force, by brutal methods and means, the
FTench language upon sucir min as Robin
Hood, and the Anglo-Saxon race, that thqe
whole thing fell through and English preI would say ta my f riends froni
vailed.
Ontario that if they vaut Frenchr ta gain
ground in Ontario then ta continually persecute; history shows that their efforts will
fail. But if you do so you will cease ta be
Brntons or true ta British traditions.
Hon. Mr. COSTIGAN-I cannat farget
that when I was elected in the county of
Victoria, and vent ta New Brunswick, I
found the late Hon. Francis MaPhalen,
P.O., there from the county o! Kent, and I
kncw that he was supported by tire

SENATE

AiterFrench Catholics in that county.
wards Mr. Sutton was elected and came in,
and he got the French vote in Northumberland county fromn which he came. I think
afterwards the Hon. Mr. Adams, who was
this Cham-ber,
of
a member
ls.ter
succeeded ,him as Surveyor General. I
know that a very prominent Liberal, the
late Mr. Anglin, was elected in St. John
with King Corum, at the time a leading
Orangeman, but he neyer could be eleced
there agiain, and where did he go? He
went to Gloucester, on. of the largest
French counities in the maritime provinces,
and was received there with open arms, and
elected by a large majority. I have through
ail my life tried te promote the interesta of
the French people, and I would b. ungratefui if I did not reciprocate their kindness
on accont of the support they have given
me so long, having kept me in public life. I
neyer knew' an Irishmrran on either side
of politics in our province te succeed
in politics who had ijot the support of
the French electors behind 1dm, and thereforeý I miust vote for the motion of rny
hon. friend and endorse the remarks of the
hon. member from Russell (Hon. Mr. Edwards), who paid such a compliment te the
mover and seconder of the motion for thieir
moderation in speaking to the motion. 0f
course the. friction is not between the
Ontario Government and the French people
s0 much as àt is between my countrymen
and the French people, and that is what I
regret s0 much, because I hold-and I hope
to die under that conviction-that if the
French Catholics and the Irish Catholics
were united and worked together, no
Government would bu powerful enough to
put them down or te refuse any" reasonable
request they made. The great trouble I have
found appears to be as to the extent to which
the French language should b. taught.
I could not follow the mover in bis address,
nor could I follow my hon. friend from
Shediac, who has last spoken, on account
of my imperfect hearing, but the great
trouble aniong- English-speaking Catholics
(and I have heard complaints frorn them),
is that the French demand that their ianguage should be taught daily in the. schools.
I recognize the propriety of teaching the
English language to the French children
in jheir mother tongue. I think they can
learn better that way than in any other.
I also recognize that English Children
should be taught in their mother tongue,
and if I cati do anything at ail to brin,
about harmony between these two races,
Hon. 1Mr. COSTIGAN.

I wiil do it. The motion is a reasonable
one, and I wvould be most ungratef ni if
I did not support it. We had the same
difficulty in New Brunswick some time ago,
and I can say now, without fear of contradiction, that it grew out of the non-appointment of. an Acadian priest in our- province
After Bishop Leblanc, an
as Bishop.
Acadian priest, was appointed Bishop for
the diocese of St. John, and I can say that
Bishop Leblanc is as popular and respected
and esteemed by the Irish Catholics of
St.'John to-day as by the Frenchmen themselves in any portion of bis diocege, ail
that friction disappeared, and if a similar
policy is pursued here, I hope yet to fiee
this unfortunate difficulty which exista today in Ontario amicably adjusted.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I move the
adjournment of the debate.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned until to-morrow at
three o'clock.

TM~ SENATE.
Thursday, March 18, 1915.
The SPEAKER tock the Chair at Three
o'cIoecf.
Prayers a.nd -routine proceedinge.

ONTARIO BI-LINGUAL QUE1STION.
A

QUESTION

OF PRIVILI.GE.

Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-During My Temarks Tuesday night I vas asked by an
hon. gentleman to give the name of the
writer of the last letter *which I resd. I
stated tbat I would ask permission of the
gentleman to use bis name, and I give the
name now. It was Mr. M. C. McGrath,
Chairman of the International Waterways
Commission.
IMPORTATION 0F AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS.
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS i-nquired of the Government:
1. What was the total importation of 7- and
binders from the United States in the
year 1911, at the port of Winnipeg, giving the
number separately of each size?
2. What was the total amount of duty collected on same?
3. What was the total importation of 7- and
S-foot binders from the United States in 1914,
giving the anriount separately of each, and

S-foot

MARCH 18, 1915

1. A return showing the resulta ver grade
af ail grain ln mach of the terminal elevators
at Fort William and Port Arthur at thm annual weigh-u> for mach of the years 1912,
1913 and 1914.
2. A return *howtng the balances whether
overages or shortagma ln mach grade in mach
on saie?
5. What was the total Impértaton of tarin elevator for mach of the .aid ymars.
3. A return ehowing the net result of thm
wagons with their out box, giving number in
each case, tram the United States In 1914. and threm years operations of mach of .aid elevawhat *was the total amount of duty collectedl tors in ovmragms or chortagmu ln mach, grade.
on sme?
The motion was agreed ta.
what was the total amount of duty collmcted on
sme?
4. What was the total Imiportation of tarin
wagons with their out box, giving nuinher ln
each case fram the United States ln 1911, and
what was the total amount of duty cofllcted

Hon. -Mr. LOUGHEED-T-he Departrnt
RESCISSION 0F VOTES 0F THE
of Oustomns has suggested that my hon.
SENATE.
friend should convert this into a motion for
returns, as àt le nacessary ta meke a reMOTION.
compilation of the information that my 'baon.
Hon. Mr. POWER moved:
fx'iend seeka. If we let it stand as a motion
That the Comniittm on StandingOrders
for a return. I dhall endeavour ta obtain
have power to prepare a rule or standing
the in'formation.
order dealing wlth the subet of thm remciamion
tam Senate, and aloo such other
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-My hion. friend knows of votes of ta the existing rulma and standing
axnendmnents
that the close o! the session ie in sight- orders as may be demnid deairable; such coinat least we aIl think so, .and if I let this mittee ta repart ta, this EHouse at thmir marileat
inquiTy dTi! t inta a motion for a return, I convenience.
shall not obtain any information about it.
He said: There ie nothing very urgent
I have asked the question in tbree differ- ini this motion but it je sonewhat importent ways, and I cannot get any information. ant. As it is now, a remolution may be
Suxely it would tbe easy enough lor the passed by this House when the House is
Customs Department to tell mie how many full, and two days afterwards, if the House
binders were entered in the Winnipeg Cusa- happons ta be very noarly enpty. that resotains House. They must -bave that informalution mnay be rescinded. That is not a detion, and if they 'have any kind of! book-.
I sirable condition of things. and it je a conkeeping the figures could be furaished.
esked a siinilar question the other day but dition that doms not provail in most other
could got no information. They tald me places. I do not propose ta trouble the
they did not fi any valuation. I want ta House with any lengthened observations on
find out how rnuâh the average farmer.hes the mubject but I 'wish to say that ny abject
ta pay on a eeven or eighL foot binder et je ta have a standing order dealing with
the present tins. The inquiry is quite sim- this question of rescinding vqtes sinilar
ple and they can answer it Il they wish. I-f ta the standing order which they have in
the Senate of Australie. For the informathey do nat 'wimh to answer it, ail right.
tion of hou, gentlemien I shail read -the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not put it standing orders they have there dealing
in that way uet aIl. The Departrnent of Cus- with this question:
d.
toms states that a fresh compilation *will
Standing
1 or amendbave ta be made in order ta cabtain this ment shall Order 126. No questiontam .sarne ln
be praiased which ls
information. It neeesarily will take sme substance as an>' question or arnendmmnt which,
timo, and I think 'the proparation of a re- during the marne session, has been resalvmd ln
turn should not take any longer than the the affirmative or negative unlesa the order,
furnishing o'! the information. One is prao- resolution. or vote an such questions or amendrmsoinded.
tically the marne as the other. However, I ment has been
Now, we have a provision thet no Bill
shall make further inquiries.
substantially the sarne as a Bill which
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Lot it stand aud soc if bas already been dealt with shaîl be intrathey can eupply the information.
duced, but we have no provision as ta any
questions or arnendnents. Then their ruhe
The notice was allowed to stand.
127 readm as follows:
OPERATION 0F TERMINAI
Rule 127. An arder, resalutian or othmr vote
ELEVATORS.
MOTION FOR RETUEN.

Hon. Mr. TALBOT rnoved that on Order
ci the Senate do issue for:

af the Senate may be rescinded, but no such
arder, resalution or other vote ina> be rescinded
during the sme session unîess seven days'
notice be given anda t leat one-haif of the
whole number of senatars vote in favaur of Its

SENATE

rescissian, pravided that ta carrect lrreg-ularitics ar mistakes anc day's notice anly shall be
sufficient.
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will my hon.
friend be good enough te point out te us

the distinction between the last mile he
read and the first one?
Hon. Mr. POWER-The substance of the
firat mule which I read is that the same
question is net te be again praposed during the session unless the previeus resolu.
tien bas been rescinded. Then the second
standing order that I read shows how the
vote may be rescinded, and opens the way
fer a furtlier consideratieru of the'question.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Before the motion
is carried I should like a littie information
on that point. Are net aur present rules
and regulations suffloient for the pumposes
of this Parliament?
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-No.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I think they are.
They have been sufficient up te the present
day, and I do net see any necessity for a
change. We eught te be very elhary in
remodelling our Tules, gomng down te the
Antipodes for examples. We did remodel
tlier in the past under certain compulsion,
wlien 'the power of the House was taken
out of the bands of the senaters, in regard
te criticiemi or in regard te points of order.
and plaoed i the hands of oe man whomn
vs have as Speaker. While that vas net
strangie at tihe time, it las net worked eut
in the 'best interest of debate. This. House
lias tihe peouliar honour of having no
Speaker te call it te order except on tbe
order of the Houpe. and any speaker
in this Senate should only be called to
order by the House itsell and net by any
*one-official of ïts staff.
7àon. Mm. DANDURAND-That was the
old mule.
Hon. Mm. ÇLORAN-That was the old
mule, and it vas the proper mule, and it was
ehanged ta meet certain conditions. I happen te be one of those wha forced the conditions on the cansideratian of the House
at that time. Now, of course, 1 ca.n evade
these new egulations just as weli a.s I kept
the old onies, se I fail te see the necesaity
of changing our old estiablished rules and
regulations that» have worked se weli up
te, the present time. This motion, te mny
mi, leads te what -is called choking off
debate. As I understand it, ne questian
ean be put a second turne in this House of
Parliament unless oonsented te by a mnaHan. Mr. POM'ER.

jority of the House--not of those in attendance, but of the House. To my mind
thst would be tantamount to .dhoking off
debate and putting the ligb-L out ler ever.
If a question bias been put at the early
stage of the session and lia been eitiher
.faiTly or unfairly anuwered, or inoxpletely
deait with, that sliould be no reason, and
cannot ibe a reason te intellectual people,
-for aaying that at -the snidd4le or end dl the
session tihe same question could not be put
ags>in, and that further light, new liglit
could not be tbrown upon. ït. The Senate
should net be asked te do this tbing any
more than what it should have dons four
or five years ago-put t.he power of the
House in the basnds cd one ol the staff of
the Hous. That was seif-denial ini its extreme form. Under the circumastancea 1
would ask hon. senatora tdi cansider this
matter befere casting votes 'without knolwing what they are doing.
The motion was carried <in division.
DOMINION

GOVERNMEÉT
IN ALBERTA.

OFFICIALS

MOTIONS.

Hon. Mr. DE VEBER moved, that an
Order of the Senate do issue for:
polntimets ta the
1. A return ehawing ail
custorms in that area, contalned in the çresent
constltuencies of bÇedlcine Hat and Macleod.
giving narnez, date or awintraent, how appointed and salaries, frem the year 1896 ta
the present date.
2. Aima, ail vacancies by death, resignation or
dismissal, giving namne, date, length of service and cause of dismissal In the marne area,
and durlng the marne perlod.

The motion was agreed te.
Mr. DE VEBER imoved that an Order
of the Senate do issue for:
1. A return showing ail appointmaents ta the
Civil Service, Department of the Interlor, in
that area, contained in the present constituendies of Medicine Rat and Macleod, glving
naines, date ot appointmaent. how appolnted and
salaries tram the year 1896 ta the prement date.
2. Also, ail vacancies by dcath, resignation ar
dismnissal giving namne, date, length of service
and cause et dismnissal in the marne area. and
during the eamne pcrlod.

The motion was agreed teo.
Hon. Mr. DE VEBER moved that an
Order -of the Senate do issue for:
1. A return showlng ail appolntments ta the
Civil Service, Pastal Departinent in that ares,
contained in the present constituencies of Medidine Hat and Macleod, giving namnes, date of
appolntinent, how a.ppolnted., and salaries fram
the year 1896 ta the present date.
2. Also, ail vacancles by death, resignatian or

MARCH 18, 1915

dismissal, givlng naine, date, length of service
and cause of dismniasal in the sme area and
during the sarne period.

The SPEAKER-I was not present *at
the turne. I was attending the funeral of
the late Lieutenant-Governor o! Quebec.

Tbe motion was agreed 10.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-His Hon. the Speaker is responsible for -the actions of the
HOMESTEAD INSPECTIONS.
cormîittee.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I shoiild '11k. to call
T1he SPEAKER: I am' nôt ready to ansattention 10 an answer given by the hon.
leader 10 a question I put 10 hum as 10 the Nver; I will study out the question.
number of bomestead. inspections that were
THIRD REÂDINGS.
made from 1911 10 1914. The answer gives
me the number of inspections made in
Bill No. 2, An Act t amend the Inde1914, bust does not give tbe inspections
of Foresters Consolidated
1911. The answer says that the pendent Order Corby.
made in
varlous land offioes Act.-Hon. Mr.
returns are kept ini the
Bill No. 16, An Act respecting The Titie
in the West during 1911, and are liherefori
Trust Company, and to change its
not available at the present time. I desire and
Chartered Trust and Executor
attention 10 the f set that when a naine to
ta draw
application 10 have Company.-Hon. Mr. Edwards.
bomesteader makes an
Bill No. 42, An Act respecting the Canada
an inspection of bis homestead, the inspec- Preferred Insurance Company.-Hon. Mr.
tor makes that inspection, and reports on Bostock.
it. That report is transmitled to Ottawa 10
Bill No. 45, An Act respecting The Vanthe office of the agency in which he is
couver Life Insurance Company.-Hon.
working, so that there are no inspections
Bostock.
made of whîch a record is not kept in these Mr.
Bill No. 52, An Act to incorporate Marcil
offices. There cannol be, because after
Mr. Dandurand.
the inspection is made and the report cornes Trust Company.-Hon.
BillNo. 59, An Act repecting the Empire
in, the Goverument decides whether the
Company of Canada. <As
homesteader has performed the duties ne- Life Insurance
Mr. Kerr.
cessary in order 10 gel a patent. If hie bas amended).-Hon. respecting the Edmonton,
Bill (F), An Act
then b. obtains a
performed those duties,
British Columbia Railway
patent, and if not the report goes back and Dunvegan and
b.e is told what 10 do. I cannaI understand Company.-Hon. Mr. Talbot.
B3ill <8). An Act respecting the Edmonton,
bow it cornes they have not the record o!
made in 1911, and I ask Ddnvegan and British Columbia Railway
the inspections
my hion. friend 10 draw attention la the fact Conpany.-Hon. Mr. Talbot.
that there must b. an oversigbt in drafting
SECOND READINGS.
Ihat repiy. They probably forgot it.
shahl be glad
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I
Bill (I), An Act for the relief ai Lottie
to do so.
Thorndike.-Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.
Bill (J), An Act for the relief of Arthur
THE SEAT 0F SENATOR ROBERTSON.
Ernest Birdsell.-Hon. Mr. Ratz.
Hon. Mr. CLORAIN-I should like to ask
Bill (K), An Act r6specting a patent of
Ris Hon. the Speaker what bias become of John Milien and Son, Limited.-Hon. Mr.
the report of! toh. general committee of the Derbyshire.
House whîoh st nome. 'three or four weeks
Bill No. 20, An Act respecting The Canago in Tegard 10 the seat of Dr. Robertson adian Northern Railway Company.-Hon.
cf Prince Edward Island. I bave not seen it Sir Melvîn Jones.
-before the House. I ask Hie Hon. thxe
Bill No. 49, An Act respectirig The CalSpeaker becau *se he is the only one in the gary and Fernie Railway Company.-Hofl.
Senate who is supposed bo know. Il is Mr. De Veber.
not a Governinent or an Opposition
Bill No. 50, An Act respecting The Canmalter.
adian Western Railway Company.-Hon.
The SPEAKER-If the bon. gentleman Mr. WatLson.
Bill No. 52, An Act respecting The
wants 10 avail bimseif of bis riglit I suppose be wiii shlow me twenty-four hours Montreal, Ottaw-a and Georgian Bay Canal
Company.-HoIi. M<r. Casgrain.
before givmng an answer.
Bill No. 54, An Act respe<,ting The
If the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Cerlainhy.
Railway Company.the coniniee bas gene astray Toronto Terminais
report o!
Hon. Mr. Ker.r.
find il.
His Hon. the Speaker must
REVISED

EDITION

SENATE

Bill No. 60, An Act to, incorporate
Entwistle and Alberta Southern Railway
Coinpany.-Hon. Mr. Pope.
Bill No. 61, An Act respeoting The
Simcoe, Grey and Bruce Railway Company.
-Hon. Mr. Taylor.
Bill No. 62, An Act respecting The Bank
of Alberta.-Hon. M.r. Talbot.
Bill No. 65, An Act respecting The
Toronto, Hamilton end Buffalo Railway
Company.-Hon. Mr. Taylor.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (N), An Act respecting the Caiiadikvi
Northern Provident Insurance CompaînyH-on. Mtr. Watson.
UNEM.%PLOYMENT IN CANADIAN
CITIES.
DEBÂTE RESUMED.

The Order of the Day being callcd:
Resurning the adjourned debate on the motion of the Honourable Mr. Bostock:
That he will cali attention to the condition
of ernloyrneflt at presenit existing in several
citiEs throughout Canada, and will inquire if
the Government are taking any steps with a
view to dealing wlth the situation.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS said: In discussing this
subject which haas been brought before
the House and -the country by the hion.
leader of the Opposition in this Hou se, I
think this is one of the most important
propositions that bas been brought before
us, not only this session, but for a great
many years. We know, as a matter of
fact, that ail the laTge centres froin the
Atlantic to the Pacific, are overcrowded
with people looking for einployment. Not
oniy does that apply to the very large cities,
but it applies also tc, good-sized towns.
Hon. gentlemen will say, how does it corne,
in a country with sufficient resources to
support a population of 60 or 70 millions
o! people, in which we have only some
seven million people, that there -should be
such a large amounit o! unemployed walking the streets o! the cities, et the present
time. We niust come to the conclusion
that sornething iS 'radically wrong. We
must ask ourselves is it a fact that al
branches o! industry, including agricultural, ahl over the country, are overcrowded as far as labour is concerned .
We must corne to -the conclusion they are
not. The over-crowding of the cihies bas
been going on for a long time. Men havé
b-een brougbýt in here from the older counttries, from ail over Europe, artisans and
others, and (have been allowed to drift
Hon. Mr. KERR.

into tiie country, -without any knowledge of whether there is sufficient labour
in the cities at that time or not, or
whether there is any employment for them.
They has neyer been any intelligent move
made, or any intelligent organization undertaken, for the purpose of looking into
that matter, and seeîng thait these people
are sent to places where they are required,
and not sent to, over-crowded. places where
they are not required. T-here is a tendency
to over-crowd -the cities, and we know tha.t.
as a matter of fact, for years the young
men, and in *many cases the young wornen,
of our country, dTift to the white lights
of the city, as a .moth is attracted to the
candie, and as the moth's wings are very
often burned, so it is with ma-ny young
people who drift into the cities fromn the
agri-cultural districts. Farm work at one
tirne was very laiborious, *and did not appcal to young men; but of late years that
has ail been chiangeil, because with the inmnodern
of
introduction
vention and
machinery of ail kinds on the f arm, 'the
introduction of telephiones, electric cars,
and in very many cases of automobiles,
and other modemn inventions, farmîng today is not what it was thiTty or forty
years ago.
It should be as attractive as life in the
cîty, and it holds out greater possibilities to
1he young of the country than any other
4
occupation. Nevertheless, the fact still
remains that they continue drifting to the
cities. Let me point out first that tiis
drift has been going on in our own land,
f.Ton the country districts into the cities,
tbat is stream No. 1. The other s'treami bas
been.flowing from the immigrant ships. The
influx of to-day is not what it was forty
years ago, and its movement is into the
cities. Thus there are two streams flowing
in and there is no outiet. If you run two
strearns into a lake without an outlet, the
lake will soon overflow, and it is just the
same with labour; the labouring element
bhas been rtunning in froni both sides, and
there has been no intelligent control or
effort to direct it in a right manner and to
fill the vacancies in the agricultural districts. Many hion. gentlemen besides myself
have gone through some of the large cities
and observed the civic works carried on
Uhere, where many men are employed by
city corporations digging and shovelling,
and Vhey keep on digging and digging and
naver get ahead. Those men, if attracted to
the rural districts and placed on land as

MARCH 18, 1915

labour exchange iii England which has
agricultural labourers, would be thrifty.
>een very successful, and 1 understand they
would save their wages, and ini a few years bI
-would go on land of their own and become 1îave similar systems in France, Germany,
valuabie producers. As they left their It lie Argentine Republic, Spain and niany
emnployers to occupy land of their own, theïr oither countries. From the reports of the
places should be suppiied by the same class Uited States Cominiissioners 1 observe it
o! labour. Up to the present, fhowever, ýili not be very long until they will have
there bas been no intelligent way of band- t lie saine systeni in the neighbouring counling tbis labour. It bas been happy-go- t .ry. Let me read briefly the report of the
lucky; pedple get off the immigrant ship 'ommissioner General of the United States
and go wbere they please.. Very often they( )n this very point. Talking abouit einploygo ta the big cities and eeek ejnploySuent et, inent agencies, hie says:
thbe employment agency. Tbe empioyment
The Division of Information believes that
agent is iooking for money; bie gets bis fée every private ernployment agency, every agent
and sends theni away' some place wbere for a corporation, and every other person
across State
farmers want ta employ ivorkers on their irecting men to employmnent supervision of
should
farms. It miakes cno difference ta the labour 1nes,division. be subject to the
:his
agent wbetber the inan is -suitable for tarin
That is, the labour division aver in the
work or net, lie is sent out ta the country
not accepted. Then hie Immnigration Departinent. He continues:
and probabiy is
drifts into the city, or if bie stays on the
A Federal Weather Bureau, receiving lis infarm, it takes two or three o! such men ta formation from n1any sources throughout the
replace cne experienced mnan, or perbaps world, ia enabled to informn the inhabitants or
the United States of coming storms and other
the larmer's ton, who 'bas driftoed into the changes in the weather. The work of the
Weather Bureau was flot deemed necessary at
city. If wve had a proper iimmiigrant systei
ail over this country from the Atlantic ta flrst and nlotInappreciated untilis long after that
just as imporoperation. It
bureau was
-the Pacific where farmers couid go and tant to ail the people of the United States, and
and at the saine more especlally the working people, tiiat
make their wants knawn,
changes In
turne where people coming in could apply changes or comnIng and s.ocuratelyIndustrial lite
recorded.
be speedily
for work, the Goverament selecting them should division wishes to commend the New
. The
te dif- 'York branch for the effective and practical
and having thein ready ta send out
ferent points, tbe agencies being in the manner in which net only admitted aliens and
opportunities
are directed
hands o! Government officiais, we would other residentsbut alse for tothe assistance for
It
employment,
find a great change. We wouid not have thus renders employer. of agriculturai and
the crowds af unemployed that ive,have at, common labourera in obtainIng necessary aareport goes to
present. There is no use bringing in car- ditional help. Before thisthe division will press
have
the New 'York branch of
penters and bricklayers wbere already there moved to quarter. In the new 'United States
Barge Office. Battery Park, near South Ferry,
are more carpenters and bricklayers and
New York city, and it la believed that the faciartisans o! ail kinds tban are required.« lities afforded by the new location will Increase
Wben there is no work that they can get, the usefuineas and efficiency of that Office.
There should be a branch of the Division of
they simpir have ta join the great army of
information In every industrial centre in the
uneînpioyed. Efforts have been made in this United States. Through co-opEration with the
country for saine time ta have this inatter Post Office Department this can be sucessfullY
taken up and deait with by tbe Gavernment done and without great exPense. at the preThe Division of Information can
as a national proposition by opening sme sent time, through the assistance renderd by
the labour
kind o! a national bureau with branches in the Post Office Departmnent, state the United
farinera of
of
over the requirementasystemthe postal-card inquiry, Inall the large centres distributed
of
States. A
cauntry wliere tbey would be in touch with augurated nome years ago, enables the division
Pnd
every interest, agriculturai. înanufacturing. ta keep In touch wlth agrtculturists.knOwfl deto
tala o* thIr vants may bý m'uie
and every ather. Such an institution, with applicants -for positions on farms.
corning
the praper selection- a! immigrants
Vint goes ta show that they have already
inta this country, wouid masure the* right
adopted practically that system of a
parties being sent ta the proper places, and national bureau in the United States. At
we would feel the benefits of it at once. I least they have taken it up in connection
do not know wby the Governinent bas done with their labour system there, and the imnothing up ta the present turne ta introduce migration division sees that immigrants are
such a systein into the country. They have selected and sent out to different parts of
S-9%

SENATE

the country where help is required by farmers and others outside of the large centres.
1 have the Board of Trade Gazette here frorn
the old country. It shows the amount of
registration for a year, the number of juveniles and aduits, etc., and gives the grand
total of the people the bureau has looked
after in difierent parts of the country; also
the number who have applied for work, and
it shows that a vast amount of good has been
done by this bureau in England in getting
work for the unemployed. 0f course, it je
a different proposition in this country.
England ie a small island, which could be
lost ini some parts of this Dominion, while
it has a population of nearly fifty millions;
hence their labour problern is entirely different from ours. We have long distances
between east and viest, and ail our immigration is coming in on the eastern sea-board.
In the West, we know what we need, but
we have not means of coin.municating our
wants and having thern supplied, because
there is no organization to do it, and up to
the present time the Government has not
seen fit to take the matter up. New Zealand
ie away ahead of us on this question; they
seem to have gone into this matter, and
their report says:
The year Just passed may best be described
There han flot been
as being a normal one
any undue fluctuation in trade, and, generally
apeaklng. ail branches of industry have been
eteadily busy. Skilled tradesmien have been wel
employed, and the ironworkers who suffered a
slack season in 1910, had a rather better year,
although thls trade still eeems to lack bouyanoy. Cabinetmakers and Borne of those conwith the building trades-notably
nected
plurabers, painters, bricklayers and plasterershad a fairly full yearls employment, and there
has been less complaint frorn carpenters on the
score of lac of work during 1911-12 than durIng the previous year. Unskilled labour, too,
has had a falrly good year, and it was noticeable that the winter months passed away
without any congestion of unemplcyed being
reported In any part of the Dominion.

Mark that.
The total number of men assisted by the
department shows a considerahie decrease over
1910-11 ; In that year 7,102 were sent or assisted to employment. as against 5,735 in 19110f this number 1,407
12, a decrease of 1,367.
were married and 4,328 were single men and
widowers.

It goes on a.nd gives the nuinher of people
who sought positions, the number for whom
they provided positions, and the parts of the
country where they were sent, giving the
particulars o! occupations and evIerything.
That is the intelligent way to deal with this
question. New Zealand has it and Great
Hon.

Mr. DAVIS.

Britain has it. In Great Britain the system
is working very smoothly and very nicely.
I have here the report of the Labour Exchanges showing the operations of the Board
o! Trade for 1912, the plan of insurance and
so on. It gives the list o! people who have
applied - to tihe bureau -for positions, the
number of both sexes for whom they have
been able to get employment, and it is a
indeed.
Now,
very satisfactory record
coming to the question as to why we have
no such system here, the explanation is
very simple. I have the English Act here,
the ,Labour Exchanges Act of 1909. That
was passed six or seven years ago; we have
had time to study this question and find out
whether it would be a good thing for us to
have such a systemn here, but up to the
present time nothing has been done. This
measure is descrihed as - An Act to establish Labour Exchanges and other works incidental thereto." Similar legislation could
he passed here very easily, and in its operation would be found to be very beneficial.
Now, why have we not had such a systern
here? Have the people asked for it or have
they not? To my knowledge petition after
petition has been handed into this House
fromn organized bodies aIl over the country,
people who should know whereo! they speak,
asking for the establishment of a labour
bureau. In one case somebody said that
one o! the labour unions in the city of Halifax had twice pronounced in favour of this
but had a!terwards gone back on that position. 1 want to say that that is a mistake;
they did not go back on it; they merely
witlîheld judgment as to whether it would
be better -to-have a national labour bureau
or a system worked by municipalities, or the
provincial government. In a country like
Canada, a labour bureau such as we require
must be a national one in connection with
the Immigration Department. For the purpose o! economy it could be operated
through postmasters or officers of the Immigration Department. There is not a town
out West where the Inmmigration Deùýartment
has not a man looking after the iminigrants
and those intending to come in, and it
would be very easy to work this bureau in
that way without a great amount of expense; or they could do it, as it is done in
other countries, through the Post Office
Department; but this Government bas taken
no action, and 1 do not know why. They
do not appear to wish to take action in the
matter, although there are petitions enough
calling for action. I will give you a list o! a
few petitions that have been presented to
Parliament:

MARCH 18, 1915

Montreal-Mayor and aldermen, Trades
and Labour Council, Civie Improvement
League, the Bishop of Montreal, Dr. George
Adami and other leading citizens. Signatures secu.red by secretary Builders' Exchange.
Toronto-Bishop of Toronto, Dr. Chown.
head of Methodist Church in Canada; secretary Social Service Council and representatives of about 30 bodies. Arrangements for
signatures in hands of bishop.
Guelph-Provincial M.P., Trades and
Council and other citizens. Signa'Labour
tures secured through Provincial M.P.
Winnipeg-Winnipeg City Council, Winnipeg Board of Trade, Trades and Labour
Council. Signatures secured by secretary
Builders' Exchange.
Regina-,000 signatures .representing al
classes. Arrangements made by Professor
Andrews and the Bishop of Saskatchewan.
Prince Albert-The Mayor, Board of
Tradc, Bishop of Saskatchewan. Arrangemients through the Bishop of Saskatchewan.
Edmonton--Ministerial Association. Arrangements tbrough Mr. Davidson, Civic
Welf are League.
Ottawa-Mayor and corporation, presidents of the Board of Trade, Builders' Exchange, Canadian Club, Canadian Federatien of Labour, St. Jean Baptiste Society,
Sons of England, Ministerial Association,
the Archdeacon of Ottawa, Secretary Canadian Lumbermen's Association, etc., etc.
Those are petitions that have been presented either te the other House or this
House. No answer has been made to.them,
that I know of-no intelligent answer at
least. No reason has been given why the
Government have not gone on with it. 1
have a list here which I need not read, giving the bodies that have asked the Government to have this done. I have the report
of some of the labour organizations and
others bere also. Here is a report of the
New Zealand Department of Labour, which
says:
One of the chief reasons for the departrnent's

establishment was to cope with the 1'unemployed" which, when the department was first
instituted, were very numerous, especially in
the chief towns of the coiony. On persons presmnting thexnseive8 for engagement their liames
are entered in a register, together with partioulars as to age, number of dependent,
family, time out of work, occupation, etc. In
addition to the bureaux in the four chief centres agencies were established in every tuwn
and village, and for economical reabonh the
officers were selected from those already in the
Government service, prlncipaiiy sergeants and
police constables, as these officera are thoroughiy acquainted with the needs and capabilities of the population surroundlng them.

That is in lîne with what I said we should
do or establish here. Coming back te the
question of those who have asked for this,
1 have the proceedings of the Sixth Annual
Convention of the Canadian Federation of
Labour, held in Toronto', September, 1914.
They say:
In view of the prevailing unempîcyment
with Increasingly acute conditions threatening
during the winter, also, the iack of reliable
machinery for dist*ributing work; be It resolved, that we ask the Federal Government to
pasa the promised iree Labour Bureau Bill the
beginning of next session. Including In Its
clauses the provision for advisory committees
representing municipal authorities, emploYer.
and workers attached to each labour bureau
centre.

I have here also the Associated Boards of
Trade for Eastern British Columbia, representing ail the commercial interests of the
whole province of British Columbia, as I
understand it. They took up the question
of the establishmient of a public labour
bureau, and this is their report on it:
This la a resolution petitioning the Dominion
Governnient to establish a Government systemn
of public labour bureau, similar to those In
vogue in mnany countries. This la a worthy obWet and one to my mmnd, that should be
strongly supported. it might be the.ineane of
bringing the employers in touch wlth each
other, eerving as a conimon meeting ground.
It would bring about more or lesa, the classification of the. workers so the sober and-industrious man can b. eaily obtained instead. of a
drunken, ahiftless, time-serving a.ppllcant.

Just along the line that I have rnentioned.
It is a long report, which I need not read.
but I have given enough te show that the
Eastern Boards of Trade in British Columbia approve of this legislation.
I have here a list of persons and organizatiens endorsing the establishment of a
Federal labour bureau system for Canada
as follows:
Pirovincial Premiers.
Alberta Legisiature in committee.
Ontario Cabinet.
Agricultural and Colon-ization Committee
of Commons.
Assocîated boards of trade for Manitoba,
Saskatchewan and Alberta.
Associated boards of trade-for Okanagan
Valley.
Affiliated boards of trade for British
Columbia (E.)
Canadian Lumbernien's Association.
Mountain Lumber Merchants Association.
Union of Alberta municipalities.
Union of Ontario municipalities.
Social Service Congress.
Retail Clerks' Association.
Canadian Federation of Labour.

SENATE
Just corne in:
Domninion Trades and Labour Congress,
Telegram fromn Canadian Club, Victoria,
president.
B.C., asking legisiation this session.
Guelph civic authorities.
Petition fromn Winnipeg Board of Trade.
Guelph Trades and Labour Council, per
1 have a copy of petition here, addressed,
petition.
I think, to the Senate and the House of
Montreal Builders Exclian.e.
Commons, signed by representatives of the
Montreal Civic Improvenient League.
inayor and altermien, per leading towns of the Doininion, asking the
Montreal
support of both parties for passing a Labour
petition.
Montreal Trades and Labour Council, per Bureau Bill. It will be sent to both Houses
It is a circular askîng that
this week.
petition.
of trade for Ontario, somne consideration be given to this measure,
Associâted boards
and reads as follows:
two endorsements.
Ontario Provincial Builders Exchange.
1. At the International Congress for Combatting UneTnployment held In Belgium in
Prince Rupert Board of Trade.
municipalities.
twenty-three
1913, at ,whicb
Victoria Builders Exchange.
labour. philanthropic and sociaiistic bodies were
Vancouver Builders Exchange.
week's debate, it was
represented, after two
Revelstoke Trades and Labour Counicil unanimously accepted that national government
labour burcaus are an indisinnsabie faýctor In
and other labour bodies.
State administration.
Calg-arv Board of Trade.
2. At the close of the Spanish Anierican war.
Calgary Builders Exehiange.
the United States of America Government were
Excliange.
Medicine Hat Builders
forced to keeln ail their returned troops for over
four rnonths ini idleness, owing to lack of
Lethibridge civic authorities.
machinery for putting them in touch with suitSaskatoon civic authorities.
able employmeflt.
to petitioli.
Regina, 1,000 signatures
3. The Secretary of Labour wrîtes from
Brandon board of trade.
Washîington under date of the 3rd ultimo that
the Department of Labour has established
Minnedosa civic authorities.
zones throughout the United States of America
Winnipeg Builders Exclhange.
for bringlng together thase ln sea.rch of ernWinnipeg City Counicil, per petition.
ployment and those In quefit of helP, and that
Winnipeg Trades aîîd Labour Couacil, per the Departmnents of the Post Office. Agriculture
and Immigration are co-operating with the Depetition.
partment of Labour In this work.
Haileybury Board of Trade..
4. The Canadian Fedleration of Labour passed
Hamilton Trades and Labour Council.
a resolution asklng the establishmenit of the
Trade.
Toronto Board of
system at this meeting In September. 1914.
The Dominion Trades and Labour Congress
Toronto Builders Excliange.
res3olution calling
a
Toronto Social Service Council, president of 1914 passed in unanimous
Immigration
the present
reforma
for
and secretary, and nlany othier organizationa nietliods, these evils can only be eradicated
the
by
provided
per petition.
machinery
the
through
Labour Bureaus.
Moncton Board of Trade.
taken on the subject by the
5. Evidence
Hlifax Mechanieal Coiistructional Trades S',nate Labour was
Committee and Agriculture and
Exchange.
Colonization Committee of the Commtons, both
Ottawa civic autiiorities, two endorse- bodies approving the reform.
Mr. W. D. Beveridge, general manager of the
mients.
Brîtisli Labour Exehanges, referring to labour
Ottawa Board of Trade.
bureau systems In bis work on empioyment.
Ottawa Builders Excimange.
writes as foliows:
Sons of En.gland.
'They are an instrument in the process of
hein,- perfected. rather than one in full use,
St. Jean Baptiste Society.
yet no one can doubt they have corne to siay
St. George's Sociely.
andl to grow as the many services they may
Oran"exmen.
render come to be more fully recognized, ... It
is very generally realized that to put on the
Y..CA.
individual workman the whole burden of fanding
Devonian Club.
and follow'ng the ever shiftiflg mnarket for ais
labour is to leave to isolated action a matter
Old Countryrinenis Club.
that cries out for organization, and that In reOverseas Club.
to every other commodity Ia the world
The presi<lents of Toronto and MicGil gard cbtaiaed full measure o! orgariizatioa.
lias
universities.
Everything else that is bought and sold lbas lts
still
alone
After taking coniprehiensive evidence on known miarts, labour door andle towa teblindly
town.
hawked from door te
the subject, the Labour Committee of the The isolated fearch for work, it is argued is
Senate recomrnended that 3,000 copies of it demjralizing to the individual as well es
Industrial crises
be printed, Nvhich wvas approved by the *'coiomcally wasteful. emergency measures can-unnot be safely met by
Sienate during the session of 1914.
~esthe State is provided witb an accurate and
H-on.

Mr. DA'V IS.

.NARCH 18, 1915
automatie Indication of the beginning, existence would be gone into -and legislation would
and ending of these crises."
be passed which would bring the bureau into
The lista enclosed of countries where labour existence. I think the departmnent of Laoutset of the war carried through far-reachifla bour should take it up. They surely have the
with those of Versons and organizations In the
Dominion endorsing the establishmient of a na- Governuient béhind them. It is a ineasure
tional sYstein, are sufficient reasons for asking whih should have been passed -long ago.
your vigorous efforts In securing the passing of They imust know they Phave no proper systhe Bill this.session.
coming into
The British and French Governmeflts at thse tem oi ielecting immigrants
the war carried through far-reachlng this country. They are acountable, to a
outset of
financial and other practical measures to certain extent, for, the overcrowdmng into
counteract unesupicyment and avertible suifer- the cities cf people who Whould not be
lng throughout thse community.
there. You find men working in the cities
N. J. Garland,
who should be on the ,farm, and nmen on
Ottawa Board of Trade.
tihe farme W'ho should be in the cities. With
C. G. Pepper.
Canadian Federation of Labour.
any intelligent systeni of ditributing the
J. S. Adammon,
immigrants coming into the country tJhis
Ottawa Buildere Exchange.
'would mot -be the case. You would have
Auguste Lemieux,
people who are adiapted. te farmi lle placed
C. W. Bulocic,
E. St. John Wileman.
on the farm, and people who are not use! ul
on the tarirns retained in the cities. Such
If we go into this matter, and find the is net the ca-se now. A labour bureau would
of bodies. who should know what
number
be 'a protection too these people because e'mthey are talking about. trades and labour picymient agents 'would net be allowed. te
people and sa on. asking for certain things. rab them and send Vhem to jobs ifor 'whidh
we corne te the conclusion there mnust be
mot fitted. If you had a Governsomnething in it. The people have asked for they were
fariner, are iii ment bureau an, unsuitable nian 'would net
a Labour Bureau. The
Everybody who be sent out, he would be sent where he 'would
faveur of this bureau.
be suitable. I think the Government alsould
has been interviewed in reference te the
would net take
anything about the euh- reconsider this inatter. It
matter, who knowc
long ta put legisiation through. The bureau'
ject, has been in favour o! the establishconnection witli the Imment of this bureau, land even the minister, could be run in
DepartMr. Crothers, in charge of the Labour migration Departinent, the Lanid
withGovernment, was in ment, or the Post Office Departiment.
Department of the
out any great expense. The Post Office Defavour o! it. He actually went over te partinent would be thse better way, beêause
the Old Country, spent sorne tinse there
in ail the Tural disinvectigating and looking into the work of there are post offices
Britain, that tricts. It coslld be msnaged thicugli their
the labour bureau in Great
any other way. The
he might cee what hie could do on hic post office better than you goimg te do witJh
is what ure
return in reference te getting one started questionw1ho have ne mnoney ta get eut to
here. lie gave an interview ta the Journal, people
They are here on yeuT
in which he outlines wbat he was going te seek employment'
dlaim that the establishdo. However, lie changed hie mind. When bands.cf Ia do not bureau would-find work
labour
asked what he was geing te do about it, he nient
lie was not going ta do any- where there was no work, but it would put
teld the people
Il thle
thing. I have a statenient here o! the 'mnm- the right men in the right places.and thse
ber o! tinies he hac been interviewed. I do Government toek hold cf tthis,
knew that
net understand why he hac not gone on with people in 'the rural districts
appeared te be strongly in they were dealing with thse Governnent, aud
it when he
favour of introducing the systern here. He getting what they wanted i tihe shape of
hac been interviewed by large dele- labour, they would have no hesitation in
gations. and, whien lie was away, the advancing the lfares. They -would have conlion. M.Dolierty, Minicter o! justice, fidence that the bureau would net send
'who was -acting Minuster of Labour, was t'hemi nien who would be useless. There,
interviewed several times by bodies of peo- would be no trouble in finanoing thse propie interested in this subject, and promieed jeck. I do net kno'w of any one 'Who. la
ta give it bis beest consideration. He spoke against this projet except the Minister o!
in a -manner which would lead the parties *Labour, and I do not kno-w why he is aninterviewing him ta believe that hie was in tagonistic.
sympathy with them, sud 'would do bis
think the remarks
best to have the matter brougbit ta thse at- * Hon. Mr. DAVID-I
detention ef the Goverument, and thst il *of the hon. senator frein Prince Albert

SENATE

-whi-dh Emust
and suffering
istress
rece-ssarily floYw fromn thbe unemploythrown upon
ruent that would be
them during the var. Those responses
cme fro'rn the pmovinoes of Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, Alberta, -and from eome of
the Maritime Provinces, and froin that
time down to the prsent tihe provinces of
the Dominion 'have 'been exereising ail reaHon. Mr. LOUGREED-It is only right sonable efforts, I think, to meet the peculiar
that I sbould mnake a few remarks upon situation with 'which they were faced.
the subject wbfch 'bas 'been brouglit to the Now to meet thIs question is not an eas3y
attention of the House by my hon. friend matter. My hon. friend f rom Prince Arbert,
the leader of the Opposition. The discus- with the 'mid of -an idealist, can readily
sion of tis subjet has divided itse'if into point out what âhould be done, but w<heri
two divisions, one being the question o! un- we are facing a criais of, not ýour own alemployment, and the o'ther the question of faîrs, 'but of international affairs throughlabour bureaus. One would imagine fro<n out the whole world, the greatest th-at has
what my bon. friend froin Mille Iles bas ever 'been precipitated upon civilization,
just said, that tihe attention o! the Gov- -and by which the financial -woTI4 -bas been
ernrent !had neyer been directed to the dislocated, we can understand the almost
question o! unemployment and the other impossible task t.hat faces eitiher a provinthe question of labour bureaus. 1 cari as- cial or Dominion Governmnt, or even
sure my hon. friend that -no -more serious a inunicipality, -in dealing with quesattention has been given by the Goverutions o! this *kind. For instance, in the.
ment te any question during- the last six Dominion o! Canada -we have 'been a borinonths than the question o! unemployment rowing people. We have s1'ways relied as
with 'which they have been con! ronted. In a Dominion, upon borrowing froin the Engdealing 'with the question o! unempiloyment
lish money market ail the money requiTed
we are dealing with economic conditions,
out the public works of Canthst face the Government, and s»ciety, in for carrying
the Dominion Governof prospejrity as well as times of ad- ada. Not only did market, 'but the provtimes
Gov- ment rely upon that
versity. Whien war vas de-clared. the
miunicipalities, and 'the private
ernment vas iznpressed wifli the fact tihat inces, the
el thbe Dominion, from tihe Atthe question of unemployment, which was corporations Pacifie, relied upon tihe money
depres- lantic to the
then accentuated by the financial
of London for the purpose of carrysiion upon which. we had entered, vould be market
The war was
one cf the most distressing questions with îng out their undertakings.
eut
which we would be called upon te deal1. thrust upon us, and suddenly we were
off from ail the financial assistance wbich,
The Governiment at once 'piaced its machinup;n
ery in motion to grapple wit-h the subject, up te the present turne, we have reliedpublie
approached the varioû»s provinces cf for the carrying out of the great
and
comthe Do'minion as te the assumption by works of the Dominion as weli as tlie was
those provinces of 'that portion of the obliga- mercial undertakings of Canada. This
tion whieh they should assume. The prov- bound te preeipitate unemployinent to an
We are
inces of the Dominion do not deny Uheir re- ex-tent neyer before experienced.
,sponsilbility to deal with the question o! not con fronted 'by this question any more
unempîcyment. It is mot one peculiar, or seriously than they are in the United States
at ail germane te the authority or the pcv- -and in many of the counitries of Europe.
ers exercisable by thie Dominion Govern- So far as the Dominion Govemrnment is
obnient. It is peculiarly a subject corning con1cerned, being relieved of the direct
different prov- ligation cf making provision for unemploy-aithin the authority o! the
The Governinent
inces. Upon the declaration o! vaîr beinig nient, 'what did we do?
its other measures
made, the Minister of Labour at once got brought down, amongst
it was
into communication with the different prov- last August, 'war measures, by .wh.ic~h
tihe
inces of the Dominion, and received most not only possible, but feasible, for
munisatisfactory responses from thein as te tiheir Provincial Governinents and for tihe
willingness te enter upon the obligation cipalities -of the Dominion te obtin Dominwhidh properly appertains te thein. We re- ion notes, to obtain loans o! reasonable
purceived assurances that they would endeav- amount throughi their banks, for the
possible way te alleviate the pose <YIcasing- up the situation snd of facour in every

serve the attention oc! the Governinent. I
have studied this question te a certai n
extent, and I am sure if the Governinent
thought proper to take action in the line
indicated by the hon. gentleman f rom
Prince Albert, they could do nothing tihat,
would be more i the interest of tihe country.

Hon. '-%r. DAVID.

MARCH 18, 1915

ing the dilemma in which, the whole of
Canada was thrown. That, I tuhink, in<icated a -measure of sagacious statemanship that has flot been exceeded li the.
history of tbis Dominion, particularly during such a crisns -as that through whicii we
are passing. Consequently, it was mnade
poskible for every province, for every municipaiity in -bhe Dominion to obtain a certain
s.mount of assistance thro-ugh the medium
of our legislation and by which they might
face this question of unempicymnent and
proceed, to soene extent at leant, with the
carrying out ofthfeir public vorks. Large
obligations had been thrown upon the.
Dominion Government at this particular
time. It would tbe unreasonable to suppose that the Dominion Government dhouid
b. called upon to stand alone and face ail
the difficulties which. have been precipiWhat is the
tated by the war crisis.
Dominion Government doing to-day in addition te the legisIation to -whidh I have
referred, nmaking it possible for the provinces and municipalities to secure a certain amount of ready xnoney ta meet inmediate requirements? We were f urther
confronted by a lamentable ci'op failure li
the Northwest, and during the present session of ParliamenV we are ma2king provision for advancing soinewhere over ten millién dollars to aileviate the distress occasioned thereby. W. have not been waiting
for Parliament ta take this action, but tiie
GoveTnment had ta assume, and did assumne the responsibility of aileviating irnat
distresa saine months ago, and t-ram the
last harvest down ta the present turne bas
been exercising its energies ta ameliorate
the distress resuiting from the failure of
Then this -brings us
crops i the West.
down ta the question that there must b. a
distribution of obligations and duties at
l>his -very critical time, and the provinces
must exercise their rigihts and duties in
the matter. They must face the obligations
which faîl upon thern ai .well as the municipalities, and this I think they are doing.
Hon. gentlemen can very weil appreciate
the fact, once they give a xnoment's consàderation ta the question, that unempioyment is a local inatter and must b. deait
wi*th wherever it coeurs within, the variq)us
local areas. Uneniployment, partieularly
on a large scale, 'must arise in ail civic
centres. As I have said, in times of prosperity we have the question of e.mployment,
like the poor, aiways wîth us, and of couTse
in times of adversity it becomes very xnuoh
more accentuated. That brîngs us do'wn
to the question of the solution of the diffi-

137

culty pointed out by my bon. friend, the
leader cf the Opposition, and reterred ta
by the. hon. gentleman tramn Prince Albert,
namely, the. esta'blishment of labour bureaus. If the establishmnent of labour bureaus would scîve this particul-ar question,
it -would b. a very easy -solution of a very
serious trouble, because we *wouid have
labour bureaua at once established and tlh.
whole question: would b. solved, but a motnent'sâ consideration wiii impreas upon the
minida of my hon. firends, fhhat a time cf
financial depreselon is the Iast moment
when laîbour .bureaus ehould be established.
The question that la agitating us nov is
not the question of placing men in exnployment; the question is the maldng cf arnpicyment. Il we vere prosperous, il labour
was inviting the. workingmen to participate
in all -its advantages, and h. cauid not b.
satisfac'torly placed, then would be the
time ta establisx labour 'bureau s, -but as I
say the turne is inopportune for their esta-blish-ment. Then we came ta the oonstitutional side cyf it. Hon. gentlemen -must remesuber that there has been an apportionment between the. Dominion and the provinces cf duties and obligations ýwhich partain ta each, and the estabiibinent cf
labour 'bureaus ia not within. the. juziadictien cf the. Dominion Gioverninent so far as
all labour proper is concerned. Thie matter has received serious attention at the.
handa cf the. Govrnment, and the constjitutionai question -bas 'been very caïefully
looked into. We have satisfied oureelves
t1hat so far as immigration is concerned,
<being a subject witlh which the Dominion
Goverriiment has ta do), that we can regulate labour by labour Ihureaus within the
scope oi immigration. This 'we have al-ready
done, more, I think, than couid 'b. reasonably expected 'by the Govern-ment in soilving the question so far as organization is
concerned.
lI connection with the administration cf
the Immigration Act agents have been appointed on commission ta assist in the
placing of farrn labour and domestic seavante. There were at the end cf 1914 over
160 such -agents, situated mcstiy dui the
provinces of Ontaria and Quebec, aine ini
t2ilese provùInces -morecontinuai agricultura]
empioyment la offered than elsewliere in
Canada.
The. number cf immigrants pl-aoed by
t<heir agents for the years 1912-13 is as follovas:
1912, men, 2,158; in 1913 Viiere were 2,743;
in 1912, there were 1,718 ivonuen piaced, and
2,937 men.

SENATE

In addition te these empioy'ment agents vastiy different to our own. The labour
the Immigration Branch employa aboya organizations in Engiand as -a 'whole do
thirty saiaried officars, who, wâtth other not look favourably upon labour bureaus,
duties, do consideraJble werk -in the distri-i but as hon. gentlemen can vek-y well undeorbution cf labour, and who are stationed et stand, a labour bureau adÉministered by tihe
the fllowiug points: Victoria, Vancouver, Goverument of Great Brit.ain in London is
Calgary, Edmonton, Lethbridge, Medicie in imnmediate touch with evecry part cf
Hat, Prince Albert, Licydminster, Battie- Great Britain, snd -through telephonic and
ford, Port Arthur, Fort William, London, telegrapbdc communication within an heour
Hamilton, Toronte, Montreal, Queébec. St. can reach any part of tihe United Kingdc«n;
John, Woodstoo'k, N.B., Fredericton, Hall- couaequently we can underatand how fiti
fax, Sydney, North Sydney, Truro and Char- that lin Great Britain a system cf ibis kind
lottetown. Returns frein twenty o'nly of can bhe euccessfully carried out. Tc assure
these agents show that in the year 1913 hon. gentlemen of! tihe tact ihat this matter is not .being overlooked, I mnay mention
they piaced about 20,000 immigrants.
that we have, in addition te the provincial
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Couid the bon. gentle- organivationts, municipal organizations in
man tell us the nurnher o! those placed on ai] the large centres of Canada, aire adrninthe farinsP
istered by the muicipslities. We -have the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, I couid net Young Menis' Christian Association in every
tell you. The information received, f rom City in Canada, and the Saivation Arany,
the Immigration Branch slhows that ovar ail of which are very important media in
I
ten thousand men were piaced during 1914, working out this question of labour.
besides 204 rnarried couples and 573 domes- think, Viherefore, under those circuanstances,
tics, whi'le the agencies at Moutreal, 0f- that my lion. fniend who bas direeted our
tawa, Toronto, Hamnilton and London plaoed attention te this niatter inay be assured
that the Government cf Canada is net
approximately 4,500 person6.
So that it wili thus -be seen that very overlooking- the importance cf this quesconsiderable is being done by teie Domin- tion. The enly criticiam which I can
ion Govermuei in endeavouring te solve mnake appiies to the remarks of xny hon.
the question cf uneinployment, and in le- Iriend !rom Prince Al!bert, who, seema te
,cating immigrants wherever empîcymeut assume that we have been a'bso'lutely silent
cani be seeured. A word as te the prov- and quiescent upon the queston. I yeninces. The provýinces cf the Dominion have ture te say that il he had ibestowed the
assumed the rig.ht te estabiish labour bur- saine attention te 'iuquiring what vuas being
esus in con'tradistinction te the general right dons in bis own country, to tbat he has
of the Derninion Goverament. In Ontario given te what is being doue in Great Britin 1907 labour bureaus and labour exchanges ain, and the various over-seas donifmions
were established. In 1I10 the Quebec as 'well as in the United States, he would
Legisiature took the matter up and passed ,have expre-ssed himself with less anxiiety
legisiation makdng provision for the estab- as te the outeome cf tihis question. Under
lishint of sisuilar institutions, and fromn the circu'mstances, on behaif of the Govthat time te the preseut these provinces ernment, I ffnay say that we are unaware
have beau exercis-ing- their constitution and as te how we can substaultially do anything
powers in conducting their labour bureaus, more than we have already donc.
and sorne of the other provinces of the
Hon. Mr. GORDON-I have every symDominion, partieularly some, of the western
-provinces, are following in the maike cf On- patlhy with the motive 'wihidb bas prompted
1
tarie and Quebec. The Dominion Grovern- my hion. friand froro Prince Al bert (Hon.
view te exercising its powers Mr. Davis) in making the remarks ha has
ment, with a
as far as ils possible, has legislated te the made on thls occasion. His motives are
extant of iicensiug and inspec-ting ail local good, but it seems te me that, at the preagencias which have te do with the location sent time, it wouid be absolutely absurd te
oyfimmigrants. To th-at extent the Domin- astablish a bureau such as he suggests. If
ion Governimant is able to exercise its con- suob a bureau would not cost auytlhing,
stitutional powers, but te, ne further extent. and if it would be the means cf employing
The question of 'labour bureaus bas net one additional man, I -would be the st te
aI'ways been regarded favouzably .by labeur say anythiug against àt, but te-day we have
organdzatioris in Canada or aven iu Eng- a icondition of affairs of whdvh every one
land, where the situation is entirely la well a-ware. It must be quite plain te aevery
different. Tlieir constitutional systein is one that ne person has got te go fair to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MARCH 18, 1915
T-here is nothing about tihe Scoteh' and
seek for people who are lookIig for work;
Docs not that show vcry
that !being the case, I do not see what use Irish in tis.
registration offices would ïbe. 1 can well bad taste, and, an utter want cf common
un.derstand that, at a time wilien tihe coun- sen-se? No Irish need apply. And that
try is prosperous a.nd labour in great de- cernes frein my own town.
mand, a bureau of thisB description would
lbe a good thing, more parbiicularly, and ONTARIO Bi1LINGUAL SCHOOL QUESperihaps only for tihe immigrant people comTION.
ing in-to this country. When trnes are
were previous te the
prosperous, as they
DEBÂTE RESUMED.
least year or two, people had not to go far
The Order of the Day being called:
in this country to find work, and the only
Resuming the further adJourned debate on the
people for who'm we !had to provide work
were the immigrants. To-day we have ne motion moved by the Honeurable Mr. David,
by the 'Honourable Mr. Mcflugh:
inmmigrants coening into Canada * and very seconded flouse, witheut derogatlng from. the
This
few ave going eisewhere, tIhat I knoew of; principle of provincial autonomy, deems It proconsequently I do not see what there would ,er and withln the limita cf Its power andi
be to gain in any shape or form:by opening jurisdiction and In pursuance of the abject for
estabiished, te regret the divisions
a labour -bureau at the present tiine. My which it was te exist among the people of the
which seemn
lion. friend froni Prince Albert seems te be province of Ontario In connection wlth the biunder tJhe impression, whiidh I tiink is a lingual achool question and believes that it is
that ail
iitake, that persons looking for -labour in the intcrest of the Dominion at large on fair
questions should be ccnsidered
would. siniply have to apply to jihese labour such patriotic lines and settled in such a way as
and
bureaus, and they would be sent ex-actly te preserve peace and harmony between the difthe kind of wvorkmen that was being looked ferent national and religieus sections of this
for, and that these people who wanted this country, in accordance witli the views of the
class of labour ivould -le only too ready fathers of Confederation, and with the spirit of
and willing to pay for the transportation. our constitution.
I am sorry to say flhet conditions are such
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.-Whei the 1-on.
at present that no persoit las to send away Member for Russell (Hon. Mr. Edwards)
from his immed.iate 4ocality for, liabour. If took the floot the other day, hie said. lie
tflhat, is the case, and il I -arn riglit, I do appreached the question with considerable
net see why one addiitional dollasr should. diffidence, by reason cf the tact that it ýwas
be spent by the Goverument of tihis coun- a controversial question. I must say that
try, for wbat I claini to be a useless pur- whcn I dccided Worake a few remarks on
pose, particularly in view of the tact that this most important and vital question, it
at tihe present time the Governiment cf the was aise with the greatest diffidence, but I
coun.try should in every -way se" to -make thought it was miy duty te say a fcw words;
ail the possaible retrenolsnient in order Wo and in erder that I may place before the
inet tihe -war expenditures. The Govern- Hue exictly what 1 intend te say
ment has been .blamed fImm certain quar- in this question, se that my remarks may
ters for being extravagant, andc for spend- net be taken in a pelitical, racial or
ing too much -money; as this, is a uselesa religieus way, I decin it preper te put thcm
expenditure, we 8hould not be asked Iby in writing. I leave te iny lion. friends
inembears of this House to miake it.
ini this House, whlo are thinkers, jurists,
historians, etc., the care of laying beIMMIGRATION ADVERTISING.
fore yen arguments drawn frein reason,
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-I would like te natural law. constitutional ia,%v and f roin
direct attention to an item which appeared history. Suchi arguments exist, as yeu
in the Montreal Gazette a few days ago are aware, and you have already heard
in regard to Mr. Sumnner, wfho lias been the brilliant and striking exposition of thein.
appoiinted Agent General -by the Provincial 1 disavew any appeal te racial or religieus
Government. It reads as folliowa:
antagonism and I condemn any person who
Mr. Sumnner, agent for New Brunswick in weuld be dispesed Woiake capital with the
London, hopes that atter the war many Eng- help of these incendiary pretexts.
Iish fariners may be lnduced te settie In his
My sole object is te afford you the opporprovince and in Nova Scotia as well. At any
Wothe voice of a French
rate, the provinces in question are to do ex- tunity cf listening
tensive advertjsing in the Old Country. If the Canadian, a voice appealing te the senticampalgn is successful it should be a good ments cf tolerance, magnanimity and rething for the maritime Provltices. They have membrance, which 1 feel sure exist in the
much lana and few çieople to develop It.

SENATE

hearts of my welI-thinking English speaking fellow citizens.
I have heard the grievance uttered by
my compatriots ànd found eut that they
eimply ask for the peaceful enjoyment of a
Should that
rnost important privilege.
privilege be denîed te- them, I confess I
would feel a profound and lasting aversion
towards rnany respectable and honest people with whom I have been working for a
long time with a view to the greatness and
prosperity of our beloved country, and with
whorn I would like te remain, as long as I
arn a member of this Chamber, in perfect
accord in sentiment and ideas.
Net very long ago, without even going as
far back as the Mowat and ]Rose periods,
Ontario and Quebec had pleasant political
intercourse and generous mutual ambitions.
I do not dlaim that in every centre of the
.province of the Great Lakes pro-French
sympathies were very ardent, but it would
not be very correct to state that such did
net exist. There were, undeubtedly, degrees
in the warmth of these sentiments.
Circumetances, intellectual culture, aibitions, professions, modifies the expression
of this feeling, but I repeat this warmth,
although somewhat cooled down, certainly
existed among several groupe.
Muet we look upozý the recent attitude of
the citizens cf the province cf Ontario as
an atavic survival of the old Tory spirit?
qualification of
Must we look upon -the
Liberal as but the- meaning cf a logical disposition, cf a happy tendency not to trouble
any body by arbitrary laws or tyrannical
authority.
This state cf mind, this happy tendency
which faveurs accord, and entente .cordiale,
we possess them, I amn p.roud to state, we,
of the province cf Quebec. It is born within
it forme part of our social temperament.
-us,
That is the reason why we have such an
attachment te ail things connected with our
past, and why we se highly treasure old
charters, old papers signed by these nmen,
your countrymen, to whomn the whinms of
fortune have compelled our subdued ances-

tors, say conquered, if yen like, te place
in their hands in 1760, the fate cf their
persons and their possessions.
Do net say that these old*writings are
obsolete and of no Ineaning. The preservation cf our laws, cf our customs, and
of our privileges is guaranteed by hundreds cf documents. le not the privilege
cf the mether tongue one cf the firet and
principal social privîleges cf individ-uals
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.

-

as well as of people P It is essential te
the working of the national and social
machine. It is as neeessary for its working as oxygen is to the lungs te v.ivify the
blood of our organism.
Will you say thet they are but scraps
of paper P If se, they have truly an inestimable value.
I appe al to your cousins -beyond the seas,
to tbose valorous Tommies 'who, for the
last six months have been fighting in
France and Be]gium for their country and
civilization. I do not want toestop and
consider what are the material intereets
which. *may have incited England to be a
party to this struggle of giants. I do flot
want to fathom the mind of the illustrious
statesman whio to-day presides over the
glorjous destinies of the British Empire;
one thing is certain, I acknowledge it unhesitatingly, that the determining motive
of England's participation apart frem the
question of her own interest, the reason
which set the gigantic war *ehanismn of
Albion in motion, was the weight of a
mere scrap of paper; a scrap of paper
which bea-rs the signature of England and
Which a Kajeerian aberration bas caused
to be thrown into the waste basket. By
the invasion of Belgium, we have ail been
shocked, in ou? love of justice and our
worship of honour.
I do no't hesitate te declare that net a
single French-Can-adian can be found from
Halifax to Victoria to approve of the ImNowhere in
perial German perjury.
Canada was there an attempt to plead extenuating circumstances in -support of thîs
assertion; 'have we not 'the generous blood
which, at this very moment, le being- shed
by our compatriote of ail origine.
But, say yeu, what is the reason of these
clamours ? What is the question, after ail
-a slight alteration of the educational programme, or a relative curtailment of the
use of the French language ? I hear you,
and reply that these refleetions are unwoTthy of men who are net only educated,
but fair and just.
Indeed, we fully ýrealize what wve shall
lese if our dlaims are no't entertained, but
what distresses me is that you Englishspeaking -men do not seein to realize what
you shall loe thereby. You shahl lose that
French culture, the importance and superiority of which has been felt for
centuries by the intellectual elite of every
Englishmen, Germans, Swedes,
nation.
Italians, Russians, and even. Turks, al
speak French, or at least understand it.
Not a singale man eecupying a position in

MARCHI 18, 1915

any university or étate staff would confess, we can only be ashamed.- Is it not humilwithout confusion, tha't 'ie does net possess iating for us to see the beautiful French
the language of diplomacy, the language language disfigured in a stupid jargon that
cf international congresses, the universal a disgraceful cupidity dares to print in the
language, in a Irord. I'ndeed, I arn ac- enlightened city of Toronto.
What can the French people of France
quainted with the Ontario educatioiial
universities, think of the French in Canada when they
lier
admire
I
system.
in- Iread productions sucli as these:
scliool-s and
hier 150
1 envy
I
tuition,
grade
high
cf
sti'tutes
Les besoins des emprunteurs reçoivent attenwas hiappy to hear that- in my province a tive considération monnaie est avancée aux
Iriend of eLducation, Mr. Sauvé, M.L.Â., ha. feurmes responsables sur leurs propres notes.
est donnée
proposed te the Quebec legislature te estab- Accomodatlon de commerce sur securlte approdécompté.
vée. et papier
a boeuse of high grade
lish in each county
Si votre -métier soit ce de fermier ou de martuition similar te your own. But what I chand-vendeur de bestiaux ou manufacturier
cannot refrain frern noticing and denouncing _il sera queiquechose pour vous d'être ssovous
la Union
is that an essential item is lacking in your clé avec prefitier de ]Bank of Canada. Si facilitous ses numereuse
voudrez
programme o! liberal educatien. 1 mean tdés vous pourrez faire crottre et étendre vos
that the teaching of Frenchi does net ferm affaires.
part of it, or, if it is part of it, it remains
And to think this production is thrust
a dead letter, as we may judge by our daily upon the public by a great financial instirelations in this very Chamber.
tution, such as the Union Bank.
On the other hand, English is taught
But 1 read wîth pleasure, a few days ago,
our programme in a Montreal paper, the following note in
among us. It forms part of
of tuition. In our colleges and convents, connection therewith:
Englishi is taught, and efficiently tauglit. If
pupil, coming
The
we'do flot all speak it with the perfection known niserab1eschool, who has fromn an uncrossedl the
public
of an Oxford graduate, we understand it French language with the Iroquois language,
perfectly well, and we know how te use it and has thus obtalned this namnelesa hybrid, bas
in our social relations, in this Chamber and swindled the batik of the whole amount received
such a translation. He obtained
from
elsewhere. Hew many o! our Frenchi Can- money it for false pretenses, by telling the 'bank
under
adian celleagues herée, or in the other Cham- he possesses French. when he does not know
ber, have had ne other English instruction a single word of Il
than that which they have received in our
On the other hanl lh. exposed the bank to
rural colleges. We are fond o! the Engliali extrexne ridicule. J 'miglit cite Eeveral other
language, we like it, net only because' it similar lucubrations which ignorant people
enables us te have daily communication describe as Parisian French. What is stili
with you, but also from a higlier motive, graver, the samne ignorance reveals itself in
because its propagation enlarges the British solemn circumstances where the honour of
Empire, and what enlarges the Empire lias the whôle of Canada is interested. A very
its effect on us o! the Canadian Dominion', few years age, in 1913, an international
on us Frenchmen o! Quebec; we want it geological congreas was held in Toronto. It
in Boerland, wve want it in Malta, we want had been decided that the Frenchi language
it in India, in a word, at every point wliere would be the official. language, as is custhe British. flag is waving, but we do not tomary, you know, in international assemwant it te exist te the exclusion of all other blies. There was quite a solemn opening
languages in prohibiting the use o! the by the representative of Canada (Sir Charles
mother tongue of people under the pro- Fitzpatrick), then acting as Governor Gentection of the said fia.&, and who have a eral, who gloried, and 1 congratulate him
right te remember their enigin and tlieir therefor, in showîng his perfect mastery of
both English and French.
nationality.
The president of the congress (Mr. Adams,
We therefore ask and demand that the
French farnilies issued frem the founders of McGill University, MÔntreal) followed,
cf this country-of this Dominion be net and also spoke in French. The two men. I
!orcibly conipelled te forget their language. arn proud te say it here, belonged to the
We protest against anything that miglit .province of Quedbeo. But wtat was thie
language, used by the representative of the
have this unfortunate resuit.
I may add that we insist on your pos- Ontario Government (the Hon. Mr. Hearst,
sessing a Frenchi educatien, an adequate now Prime Minister>, and by the rector cf
Frenchi education, so that yen may avoid Toronto University (Mr. Falconer), and Mr.
mistakes committed by you, and of which Churcli <representing the mayor of Toronto)?P

SENATE

-the English language. Why could they
flot express themselves in French? The
answer is upon your lips. Does not that
ignorance of the French language, in men
occupying such prominent positions, humiliate them, and humiliate you, English citizens of the Dominion?
English, Austrian, Russian and Swedish
delegates spoke in French. Alone, witb the
exception af the deiegates fromn my province,
the Americans, above and below the 45th
paraliel, were unable to speak the French
officiai language. Do you not consîder this
belittling the importance. of Canada which
was founded by the French?
WiIl you aliege, as an excuse, that you
cannot leara, in Canada, the French of
France, that we do nat speak the Parisian
French? I will tell you that the Parisian
French is not the best French. The good
French, the real French is cuitivated in
France on the shores of the Loire, in the
home of great casties, which several of you
have vîsited or wili some day visit. Question the people you irieet there and you wii]
find out for yourseif that aur own language
does not materialiy differ from theirs.
There is, however, I admit, a difference:
our accent bas perhaps not the musical one
of Paris, but this fauit, it appears, is due ta
our climate and is cbmmon to ail American
languages. An Englishman from England
will also tell you that your accent bas a
nasal twang.
A traveller told me that one day ha
visited, 'with an English friend, Westminster Abbey, where an American guide was
enumerating aloud the great haauties and
souvenirs of this celebrated structure ta a
group of bis compatriots. He caught sighIt
of a young- man behind a pillar who waq
Iistening wîtb marked attention ta the
guide's reniarks. Do you know what that
young man is doing, inquired my friend?
" Well,- said he, -"tbis young man is an
actar holding a leading role in an American
play, which bas been advertised for a week;
he is endeavouring ta speak with an Amenican accent, and he is now studying- that
accent, go and hear hlm, and you wili observe the laughter he provokes in the
audience."
1 do not relate this incident ta deprecate
your language. Such a thought is far from
my mind. I merely wish to point eut that
if we subject ourselves ta a mnutual examinatian, we shahl discover many faults, many
imperfections of mînor importance which
the care of aur common interests inclines
us ta, veil. What is more important, what
imposes îtself upon us, is the preservation
Hon Mr. CHOQEETTE.

of peace, accord and mutual confidence. It
is in your power ta grant us these precious
glifts, or at ieast te help us te preserve them,
or ta reconquer tbem. We shall attain this
happy resuit if, in the solution of tbis difficuity, you are animated by the same sentiments as 1 am. I attach great importance
ta it, for I look upon it as the confirmation
of the Faderai tie wbicb unites us. I see
in it the growing power af aur country by
means of peace; I see in it a warmer devotion ta the British flag and ta this immense
Empire over wbich the sun neyer sets.
My chiidren are the great grand-children
ot Sir Etienne Pascal Taché. You are not
unacquainted 'with the f act that the latter
declared that the hast gun for the defence af
the British fiag in Canada, would be fired
by a French-Canadian. I trust that my
sons, unleas tbey are compelled ta do other%vise, may neyer forget, eîther the letter or
the spirit of this declaration of their ancestor.

Hon. Mr. BOLDUC moved that the debata 'be adjourned untîl Wednesday next.
The motion was agreed tao.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bili1 No. 69, An Act te incorperate the
Colonial Bank of Canada.-Hon. Mr. Caegrain.
Bull No. 70, An Act te inicorporata the Alberta Permanent Trust Company.-Hon.
Mr. Talbot.
The Senate adjourned until tibrea e'cleck
ta-morraw.

THE SENATE.
Friday, March 19, 1915.
The SPEAKER taok tihe Chair at Tbree
o'ciock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THE SECOND SESSION 0F 1914.
NOTICE 0F MOTION.

Tbe Notices ef Motion being caiied:
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I amn prepared ta
give a notice ef moetion, 'but I want the
lght turned on. What le tihe mnatter witb
the Government powers in tihe Senate? There
is no light.
The qSPEAKER-In the olden days the
Lord said, -Let tihere be light; and theire
was light," -but at the present day we must

MARÇH

18,

1915

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Very often when a
give the Sergeant-at-Arms ti-me to turn on
senator introduces a measure he is cailed
the light.
upon to expiain it.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I desire to place beThe SPEAKER-There is no measuwe in
fore the hon. House a notice of motion
which is neitiher a perfu'netory nor a use- that notice.
less one.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is the biggest
he SP£AKER-If the hon. gentleman measure before the House. It affects the
desires to be in order, be muet read his constitution. I invite the attention of senators to this matter. It is a omaLter whicb
notice and not disoes it.
concerna the existence of the Senate.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I can introduce rny
ONTARIO BILINGUAL SCHOOL
motion witlh a few rernarks 'without 'being
QUESTION
called to order.
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.

The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman cànnot discuss it.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I wish te read
an extract from the Ottawa Citizen of yesHon. Mr. CLORAN-I know I cannot terday :morning, w.hich has heen reproduoed
discuss it. 1 give noticethat on Wednes- ini a great -rnany papers, in Montreal and
day next I shall move the adoption of the elsewhere. It is tihe report cf remarks made
following resolution:
hy H. B. Morphy, K.O., M.P., and reads
Resolved that the Senate of Canada can here- as follows:
by declare that the meeting of the Parliament
of Canada In the month of August. 1914, for

If

the French in Quebec

hope

to

put

the

French they
speciai and unusual purposes of Government beastly, horrible say brothers it speak, into this
province, then I
does flot and cannot be construed as a regular incentive to us to rise up Iin is certainly an
ail
and usual session of the Parliament of Canada, and Indignation and protest against our wrath
as contemp!lated and provided for by the Brit- terrible tbing being brought &bout. any such
lah North America Act, for the purpose of disThe
the Grand Orange
qualifylng inembera of the Senate of Canada British toast ta was also responded ta.Lodge of
America
on account of non-attendance at that meeting
of Parlament.
1 have ncthing te do .with the Orange
Further be it resolved that hereafter any Lodge, but I arn surprised at a man in Mr.
meeting-

Morphy's position making such statements
I do not cail iAa session, 1 cail it a meet- before a meeting where public men of importance and respectability were in attendingance without any protestation, and I wîsh
Âny meeting of the Parliament of Canada
for special. unusual or extraordinary purposea f0 say that a nieinber of Parlianient or any.
0f Government shall not constitute or be body e2se who mnakes such a statemient is
deemed to be a regular and usual session of only a beastiy crank, and ignorant.
contemplated
Parliament, as provided for and
by the British North America Act for the purpose and end of disqualifying members of the
Senate of Canada on account of non-attendance at such meeting of Parliament.

THIRD READINGS.

Bill No. 27, An Act respecting the St.
Lawrence and Adirondack Railway Coinplain. I arn introducing pany.-Hon. Mr. Davis.
That idi very
t'his resolution from no party 'point of view
Bill No. 28, An Act respecting the Toronto
at ail.
Eastern Railway Coiupany.-Hon. Mr. McThe SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman Hugh.
Bill No. 31, An Act respecting the Blri.tish
cannot speak to his notice.
Columbia Southern Raiiway Company.Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Have I not a right Hon. Mr. Bostock.
Bill No. 32, An Act te incorporate the
to explain'
Brulé, Grand Prairie and Peace River RailThhe SPEAKER-No.
way Company.-Hon. Mr. Pope.
Bill No. 34, An Act respecting the ManiHon. Mr. CLORAN-That is the decision
toba and North Western Rail-way Company
I want. Wait a secondof Canada.-Hon. Mr. Watson.
Bill No. 36, An Aot respecting the North
The 6PEAKER-When the -motion cornes
before the House the hon. gentleman can Pacifie and British Columnbia Ra.ilway Comdiscuss it.
pany. (As amended).-Hon. Mr. Bostock.

SENATE

Bill No. 37,, An Act respecting the Pacifie,
Peace River and Athabaska Raiilway Conipany.-Hon. Mr. Pope.
Bill No. 38, An Act respecting the Vancouver, Victoria and Eastern Railway and
Navigation Conipany.-Hon. M.ix Bostock.
Bill No. 41, An Act respecting the Athabaka Northern Railway Company.-Hon.
Mr. De Veber.
Bill No. 46, An Act respeeting the Western Dominion Bailway Company.-Hon. Mr.
Talbot.
Bill No. 17, An Act reepecting the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.-Hon. Mr.
Young.
Bill (I), An Adt for the relief o! Lottie
Thornd4ke.-Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.
Bill (J), An Act for the relief of Arthur
Ernest Birdsell.-Mon. Mr. Ratz.
Bill (G), An Act respecting a patent of
the National Wood Distilling Company.Hon. Mr. Belcourt.
Bill (H), An Act respecting the Grain
Growvers' Grain Company, Linîited.-Hon.
Mr. Pope.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (O). An Act respecting the Northwest
Life Insuranoe Conipany.-Hon. Mr. De
Veber.
Bill (P). An Act for the relief of Austàn
MePhail Both'well.-Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.
Bill (Q), An Act for the relief o! Agries
Gravelle.-Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.
Bill (R), An Act for the relief of Clara
Elizabeth Darnell.-Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.

asked for information with respect to whether any Federal aid Ïhad been given. I
have spoken with the hon. gentlemuan and he
said Mr. Chrysier, who represented the
company had called and given him an
explanation with respect to that and removed bis objection. The Bill passed with
an amendment to the second section of the
Bill, suggested by t.he Clerk. The Bill was
reported to the House by the Chairman;
the House adopted the report in respect to
the amendment, and fixed the thir-d reading
for to-day.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middleton)-Hon. gentlemen wdll find ini the second clause the
iollowing words:
The undertaklng and property of the company acqulred or constructed in Canada. is
declared to be a valld and binding lien or
charge upon the sald property and on the parties thereto.
That must be a niistake.
lion. Mr. THOMPSON-I do not know
whether that is the exact 'wording of the
amendment suggested by the Law Clerk,
and adopted by the House or not, but that
ainendment was thought Vo be advisable as
rather improving the legisiation in regard
Vo the seeurity the bondholders would have
upon the construction of the bridge. If the
amendirnent does itot fit into the proposition, it is a matter for the legal lights of
the House Vo determine. I move that the
Order oc!thbe Day be discharged andi plaoed
on the Orders o! the Day for Tuesday
neirt.

6ECOND READING6.
The -motion was agreed Vo, and the Order
Bill (L), An Act for the relie4 of Adam of the Day discharged.
Clarke Anderson.-Hon. Mr. Taylor.
The House adjourned until Tuesday next
Bill (M), An Act for t¶he relief of Thomas
Jefferson Moore.-Hon. Mr. Ross, (Moose- at eight o'cloek.

jaw.)

VAN BUREN BRII>GE COMPANY BILL.
THIRD

TEE SENATE.

READING POSTPONED.

Tuesday, March 23, 1915.
The Order of the Day 'being called:
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eight
Bill No. 29, An2 Act respecting the Van o'clock.
Buren Bridge Company.-Hon. Mr. DerbyPrayers and routine proceedings.
shire.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (MIddleton)-I
understanti that the second clause
Bill 'was reported, and I shoulti
have it read.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Thiat Bill
pasa in comtte

do not IMPORTS AND EXPORTS 0F COIN AND
of the
BULLION.
like to
INQUIRY.

did not

Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY inquired o! the
Governanent:
1. What is the amnount of coin and buillon

Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Yes, andi was re- Imported into Canada for the eleven nonthâ
porteti. The hon. gentleman froin Porth ending February 28, 1915?
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-

MARCH 23, 1915

THIRD READINGS.
Bill No. 29, An Act respecting the Van
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answérs are: Buren Bridge Company.-Hon. Mr. Thomp1. $131,546,197.
son.
2. $7,572,887.
Bill (L), An Act for the relief of Adam
Clarke Anderson.-Hon. Mr. Taylor.
FENIAN RAID VOLUNTEER BOUNTIES.
Bill (M), An Act for the relief of Thomas
Jefferson Moore.-Hon. Mr. Rose (Moose-

2. Also. thé amount exportéd for thé same
timé?

MOTION.

jaw.)

Hon. Mr. FARRELL moved ithat an Order
of the Benate do issue for:

SECOND READINGS.

1. A réturfi of the naines of ail versons in
Queens county, Nova 'Sootia, who applied for
grants under the provisions of thé Fenian Raid
Volunteer Bounty Act, and who were paid saId
grant, also thé naines of thé coinrades and
commanding officer ln each case.
2. Also, thé names of thé Versons in sald
county. who apphied for said grant, together
with thé namés of coinrades and commanding
officer, and who have flot been paid said grant.

Bill (N), An Act respecting the Canadian
Provident Insurance Company.-Hon. Mr.
Watson.
Bih-i No. 69, An Act to incorporate the
Colonial Bank (Canada.-Hon. Mr. Casgrain.
Bill No. 70, An Act ta incorporate the
Alberta Permanent Trust Company.-Hon.
Mr. Tal'bot.
T1he motion was agreed ta.
Bill (0), An Act respeeting the Northwest
Life Insurance Company.-Hon. Mr. TalADVANCES Tq THE CANADIAN NORTH- bot.
ERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
STANDING ORDERS 0F THE SENATE.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Is the hon. leader
on the table
o! the Ho-use prepared ta lay
MOTION.
the Orders in Counecil reférring ta the adHon. Mr. TESSIER snoved the adoption
vanices made by the Governinent under the
Do'minion Notea Act? I think they have of the eleventh report of the Standing Cosaaiready béen brought down in the ofJher mittee on Standing Orders.
He said: This report deals with a question
Hause.
which has already beén declded by thé
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does the hon. Senate. The report meade as follows:
gentleman mnean the advances made ta the
25a. No question or axnendment shall be probancsp
posed which -la the same ln substance s any
question or amendment which, during the same

Hou. Mr. BOSTOCK-With regard ta ad- session, has been resolved in the affirmative or
vances ta the Canadian Northern Railway. negative, unless the order, resolution or vote on
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I etated te my
lion. friend from Moncton (Hon. Mr. -MeSweenéy) on an inquiry the amount whieh
had beén advanced ta the Canadian Northern Railway, and also to the Grand Trunk
Pacifie. I gave also, particulars of the
sécurity which had béen takén. If my hon.
friend will look up the Debates he wili
ascertain the particulars.

such question jor amendment has been réscinded.
25b. An order, resolution or other vote of the
Senate may be .rescinded; but no such order.
résolution or other vote may be rescinded uniess seven days' notice be givén and at leait
two-thirds of the senatorp présent vote in
favour of is rescision: provided that, ta correct irregularittes or mistakes, one day's notice
oniy shall be sufficient.

Thtis gives more aecurity in 'referénce ta
any question which bhas been airéady decided.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Are ail the particulars givén ini the Debates?

The SPEAKER-I suppose any doubts
about this question are aIl removed, in the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, ail thé par- opinion of this House.
ticulars tihat can bé given.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN: I stili have doubts.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
The SPEAKER-I doubt if we eau amend
Bil (S), An Act ta amenmd t)he Canada our rulee or Standing Ordérs ln this way.
There ie a rulé which ind-icates what should
Grain Act.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
Bill No. 67, An Act to ainend the Yukon be done w'hen we desîre ta amend a standing order.
Placer Mining Act.-Hon. Mr. Lougheéd.
s-10
REVISEO EDITION

SENATE

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I do not think
the House understood exactly 'what the
hon. gentleman -said when ho was explaining tbis report. I take it the ruIes of the
House are to, beo hanged. and that it wi-l
require more than a Ibare majority, or
even a tie, to resoind eomething which bas
*been passed by the Senate. At present I
presthme that by a haro majority of the
Sonate we can review, in the same session,
w.hat we have already jpassed upon. If I
umderstand the report rigbtly, it is a recommendation t.hat in tuture if an -hou. gentleman desires to bave eome motion resoinded
Iby the Sonate ho mudt give eix daye' notice,
and *when the znatter cornes before the
House it will require a two-thirds inajority
to change what bas been done by this
House. le that rigbt?
Hon. Mr. TESSIER-Yes.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I desire to say a wýord
as to proceduro to wihich His Honour tihe
Speaker has referred. It is not lntended
that the standing order recommended in
thtis report s!hould become a rule of the
House. It will be necessary to give two
days' notice and have thi members suminoned beforo it can bo adopted -as a standing order, and I siubiit that ithen will1 be
the proper time to dîscuss the details and
merits of the question.
The 6PEAKER-As I underatand t~he hon.
gentleman,.the motion made now is siinply
te adopt t~he report of the committee, and
foIlowing tihat the other procedure will follow.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes, it will be-necessary to give two days' notice to-morrow.
Hon.. Mr. CLORAN-I think the best time
to, deal witb a inatter o! this kind, invollving froc -speech, is new, and not atter the
report has been accepted 'by the House
and cornes back for considoration, Now is
the timo to reg-ister a -solid objection to any
rueasure o! this kind. A two-thirds majority
doos not appeal to, a democrat. That majority appeals to autcrats, and -wo want
noue of that in Canada. Wo have onough
of it in the Senato at presont without introducing any more. On principle I arn
opposed even to the st.ggeestion o! this ides
in the report. This Parliamont bhas got
along well enougch since Confederation with
a majority vote on alI questions involving
the dignity o! the etato, the sa'fety o! the
&t.ate. the administration, Qionour and
dignity of the Sonate, and why, at this
late hour of a rnoribund session, should we
The SPEAKER.

.bo called upon to change a rule 'which lies
at the basis o! freedom o! speech? The
report is so couched. and it was plaoed before the House in such a way tbhat nobody
could understand it. Even the hou. gentleman from De Lanaudière had to ask -for
an explanation, and he is a 'bright genius.
,With his .eyes and ears open. It does not
take me long to smeil autocracy in rules
of this kmnd. and on the last occasion wihen
we were discussing this matter I told hon.
gentlemen what the House did, ini spite of
its 'better judgment. On the spur of the
moment, and in heat o>f debate, they passed
a most unreasonable rule againet the dignity of this House and- the -maintenance o!
its powers. Now we are called upon to
adopt this incoberent report, which, has to
he concurred in now and submitted for
further consideration some other day. To
my mmnd tihere ie no sense in that procedure. If hon. gentlemen would take into
consideration their rights, privileges, and
powers, they would deciine, to deal in an
off-band mariner with a report o! some
committee with a quorum o! three or five,
without the matter -being fully examined
and considered. I quite agree with His Honour the Speaker, who bus bis ears and eyez
open in such matters, that rushing matters
o! this kind is not in the best interests t>!
the Senate. I place, my protest Ibefore the
House.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I think we slhould
hear from the Chairman o! Vthe Standing
Committee as to the reasons to be urged ini
support o! this -recommendation. For my
part, I do net feel sufficiently enlightened
to, pass upon it. It seoins to me that now
i.s the time to diseuse the question, because if we approvie o! the report it goes
without saying that the members of this
hon. Hlouse, especially if it should be carried unanimously, would be committed logically to pass it a!ter the proper notice bas
been given. The first paragraph of the report reads as follows:
25a. No question or ameridment shali be proposed which Is the sa¶ne tIn substance as any
question or amendment which, during the same
session, bas been resolved tIn the affirmative or
negative, unless the order, resolution or vote on
such question or ameridment has been rescinded.

I should think it might be difficuit to apply this rule if it should be adopted. We
bave a practice of Parliament that is established, not only in this country, but in
tlhe Mother Country, on a question of that
kind, and At would ho much wiser to rest
on that practice, whic'h bas been !ollowed

MARCH 23, 1915

for a century or more, than ta adopt a
new rul, 'whicb may b. susceptible ta dif-ferent inlerpretation and Iwhat may 'be
applied ane day in an. sense and anoliher
day in another eense accarding ta tbe temper a! lh. Hanse.
Hon. Mr.. CLORAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-As ta th. second
paragraph:25b. An arder. resolution or other vote of
the Senate may be rescinded; but no such order, resolution or other vote may b. resclnded
unlea. seven dayme notice be given and at lest
two-thlrds of the senators present vote Iu
favour of Its rescision: provided that, to correct irregularittes or mistaires, one day's notice
only shall b. sufficient.

For my part, I would not be disPosed, ta
object ta the princîple of this second paragraphý except that a delay of seven days
seeme ta be too long. A couple of days
would b. ample as a notice for the purpose
o! asking for the recision of a decision of
the Senate. Putting il seven daYs might
at the end o! the session make it impossible, .and I laul ta see any reasan wihy sucb
a long delay should b. required 'When w.
have iA that we can adopt a standing TUl.
or change any rule by giving two days'
notice.
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-Yes, hait a minute'
notice.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I think two
days w'ould .b. too short. Take an erample:
w. adjourn on Friday, and suppose a resolution is passed on Friday and we corne
back on Tuesday night, there are four days.
It ought ta be at lest five daye.
Hon. Mr. CA.9GBAIN-Two sitting days.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-If you aay tien
sitting days, that -would be rig(ht, but now
it is too short. I would ual object ta five
days, -but I do object la the lwo-t/hirds vote.
Some bon. GENTLEMEN-Har, hear.
Hon. Mr. ÇHOQUETTE-I should like
ta know froin th. chairman of th. committee, or from the bon. gentleman wbo
brought this question belore the committee, what reason was gîven, or what example or causes can b. cited where injustice
has been committed under the ald rul.
Hon. Mfr. CLORAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I should like ta
kno-w why these changes have been asked
and by whom.
Hon. Mr. TESSIER-The motion has
;been referred by the committce ta the

s-loi

House. The 4uestion was raised by the
hon. gentleman from Halifax <Han. Mr.
Power), and notice was given in the Houa..
and the cammittee was directed ta take
this malter in'ta cansideration and report
upyon it. Our report bas been mnade in
obeduience ta the order of Vhis hon. Hanse.
We studied the question in the best manner possible, and we are open ta conviction. If the Hanse le net satisfied with
th-is report, the members can vote againet
it; il they are satiefied with il they can
adept it. We were atruck with the <oct thal
when the Hiuse decides a question we
aught ta take ail kinds of precaution if the
House ehould h.e aeked the next day la
reverse its decisian. If atter a question ia
deoided the parties interested in that question leave the Senate thinking it je settled,
and without special natice ta thase parties,
it cau 'be reconsidered and the decisian r.versed, great injustice might be don. tia
the parties. We cannot take tac muc'h precaution in notifying those parties that a
question that has been decided in the affirmative will came back again and perhaps
tbe decided in the negative. That je why
we thought il important ta give a long
notice e thal ail parties interested would*
b. advised that we were geing tuo reconsider
and might change our mInds on a question
flhat had been alread.y decided.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-WiI1 the hon. chairman of the committee allew me ta put a
questionP
Hon. Mr. TESSIEB-I can assure the
hon. gentleman who la& juet risen that
there ie no deaire an the part o! the cernmittee ta attack in any way the freedom of
speech or the liberty o! the British, su-bjeot.
Hlon. Mr. CLORAN-That je what I was
going ta ask. I accept the hon. gentleman's
explanation as regards notice a! rescinding
a motion, but 24 hourli or 12 hours ie not
enough. -while seven days ie too long. There
ie a medium term proposed by the bon.
gentleman from Grandville, and I want toa
ask the chairman o! the committee why
h. acoeded ta that principle of the autccratic majority of two-third-s o! this House.
Will h. explain that as well as the other?
If h. cannot the report s'hould flot be concurred in; he cannot explaîn; there je ne
reason.
Hon. Mr. TESSIER-The reason is that
wheji the 6eate bas ta reconsider a motion
that bas already came before it, the committee thought it necessary t/bat there
should b., some very etrang reasons given

SENATE
Hon. Mr. POWER-I would ask my hon.
-would 11e more saiety if there was friend 'what he would consider a praper
that there
committee?
a t'wo-thirds vote required.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The Comrnittee of
Hon. Mr.- DERBYSHIIRE-Hear, hear.
the Whole House on a matter of that kind
do it ,where free speech is. threatened; that is th1e
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-They do not
in England; they do not do il in any civ- proper committee, and th1e only one.
iized country. If we adopt that report we
stultify ourselves.
The SPEAKER-I arn asked ta, read the
rule once more:
The 8PEAKER-I do not think I should
No motion for making a standing rule or
put this motion before callhng th1e attention
irregularity of aur pro- orderof th1e House to th1e
,cedure. Rule 29 reads thus:
That is 'what ve are trying to do.

ta -change the opinion o! the House. and

No motion for making a standing ruis or
order can b. adopted unless two daYs' notice
in writing bas been given thereof. and the senators in attendance on the session have been
surnmoned to consider the saine.
My bon. friend from Halifax sys, " Let

us ado.pt the report and 10-marra-w we will
follow the other part of our procedure."
But how can we do it? You cannot in a
coznmittee reverse th1e deoision of the House.
They are ail tied fby the decision of the
House. I think the best way. ilmy hon.
friend -wi11 accept My suggestion, would
he o1 withdraw the report, and ssk for that
committee; that comamittee will study the
rules or make a report an the rules, and
then -we might adopt.it here, because w'hen
we adopt it here we -would then be !ollowing
th1e procedure indicated by our own rules.
That is the suggestion I take upon mysel!
ta make 10 my hon. friend.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Instead af withdra.wing the report I would -move tUhat tbe
report stand, and thon when the proper
prooeeding is taken, offeot 'would be given
to the report.
not propo&se le
Hon: Mr. CLORAN-I dIo
allow th1e report 10 stand. I will allow the
motion cf the ýhon. senator f rom Halifax
to, stand and have it referred ta, a proper
committoo, the Committee o! the Whole
House. I wiIl net vote for th1e standing
of this report; it would -b.an indirect way
of endorsing it. Let the motion af the hon.
senator from Halifax stand, and then have
it referred, as His Honour the Speaker has
pointed out so well and truly and ini the
interest cf this House, to a proper committee.
Mr. DERBYSHIRE-Why not discharge
the order?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Thero is no ordor.
Let the original motion of the hon. gentlemani from Halifax' bo referrod to a proper
committee with two days' notice.
Hon.

Mr. TESSIER.

-can be adopted unless two days' notice ln
writing han been given thereof, and the senators in attendance on the session have been
summoned to consider the sme.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is it; that'is a
Çommittee of the Whole.
Hon. Mr. POWER-As I have -already
said to, His Honour the Speaker, the procedure which we propose to follow is to,
give notice to-morro«w of this standing order,
which tias, in a certain way, been approved
by the House now; but the idea that we
were lied up, or that a Conxmittee of the
11
Whole -was tied up y the adoption of the
report did not occur ta us. There h.as been
some curiosity expressed as to, ho-w this
reference came ta be made. I amn going to
read only a few words from Dr. Bourinot:
It ls an ancient rule of Parliament that **no
question or motion can reguiariy be offered
if it Is substantiaiiy the same wlth one on
which the judgment of the House has already
been expressed during the current session3'
The oid rule of Parliament reads: "That a
question being once made, and carried in the
affirmative or negative. cannot -be questionea
again, but must stand as a judgrnent of the
House."

And then Bourinot goes on:
Unlees such a rule were in existence, the
turne of the House would be constantiy frtttered
away in the discussion of motions of the same
nature, and the most contradlctory decisions
wouid be sonietimes arrived at in the course
of the same session. consequentiy, if a question or Bill is rejected in the Senate or Commons it cannot be regularly revîved in the
Cirsame House during the current session.
cumstances, however. may arise to render it
necessary that the House should reconsider its
previous judgment on a question, -and in that
case there are ineans afforded by the practice
of Parliarnent of again considering the matOrders of the House are frequentiy dister.
charged and resolutions resclnded. The latter
part of the thirteenth rule of the House of
Commons provides: "No meinher may refiect
upon any vote oft he House, except for the
purpose of rnoving thut such vote be rescinded."

MARCH 23, 1915

149

The SPEAKER-Order. If the hon, genNow I ask the attention of tLhe hon.
gentlemen ta what cornes alLer, as showing tleman puts in the mouth of my hon.
friend some expression that he did not
what the present practice is:
use and that he denies, I suppose the first
In such a case, the motion wiII firat be made
ta read the entry In the journals or the reeo- hon. gentleman will accept the denial.
lution; and when that bas been dane by the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I did not put any
clerk,ý the next motion will be that the uald
roolution be resclnded <b), or anather resalu- language ini the hon. gentleman's mouth;
tion expressng a different opinion may be Ail I -aaid was that the hon, gentleman
agreed ta (c).
seemed ta think that the Committee on

Now, hon. gentlemen, -you can see that
we miglit, as the hon. gentleman froin
Grandville said, adopt a resolution here
to-day in a full House by a decided majority, and when we met the next day, or
next Friday, or when -about haif the members had gane ta their homes, t<his matter
might be brought up again, the journale
might be read, and then same hon. gentleman who did flot approve of the resolution. could, without any further notice
whatoever, mave that that resolution be
rescinded. I have seen the thing tried
here myseif; and I dare say other hon.
gentlemen wi]1 remember a case when an
attempt was made te do that. Hon. gentlemen talk about democracy, and about
the will of the people, and about suppressing freedom of speech. To my mind that
iu the most childieh sort of talk. The
Oommon*ealth of Australia is about as
democratic a countfy as you will find taday, and the rule that was sent te that
commute. was copied word for word from
the Australian rule. The hon. gentleman
frein Middleton rose a while ago, but unfortunately did mot have an apportunity
of saying what he propased ta eay; but I
think the Committee an Standing Orders is
a respectable committee, though the hon.
gentleman froin Victoria division spoke as
if that committee were a disireputable and
incapable body.

Standing Orders was -an inferior and disreputable committee.
Hon. Mxz. CLORAN-I did not say anything of the kind, nor do I think it, and
you have no Tight ite use that language.

Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon. gentleman
,wished ta have the inatter referred ta
same proper committee, some committee
of good standing. 'Now, as I say, the
reference ta the Gommittee on Standing
Orders was a reference of rules worded in
the identical language af the Australian
mile. When the committee met they did
not hurry, but they devoted some time
and attention 4o this measure, and on
motion of one hon. gentleman it was suggested that, instead ai saying that the
majority ai the whole number of senstr
should conour aiter -a notice ot seven daf,ys
we had better make it two-tbfrde of thoe
present, because as a mule we do not have
much more than a majarity of th&.members
ai this Hanse present at any one time; and
at the instance af the member who made
this suggestion, the cammittee agreed te
substitute a twa-thirds vote oi the members
present for a vote af the majority af ail the
members. It occumred te me that it would
be better te have this matter discussed when
the Standing Order cames up in the regular
way, when we start into make the new
Standing Order; no one will feel that he is
adoption af this report.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Order, order. Mr. bound by the
I will not .allow that word from
Mr. GORDON-I am absolutely opSpeaker,
Hon.
the hon. member from Halifax te be put posed te this motion, simply because the
in my mouth. He has no riglit ta use only reason which appears te be advanced
such expressions in iregard te my speaking for such a change of the rules is that it al
in this House. I neyer said anything af hinges an the attendance af hon. members
the kind, and I want Your Honour te in this House.
have him withdraw that word.
Han. Mr. POWER-Not ail; that is just
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have noone point.
Honà. Mr. GORDON-If the members
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-He has na right ta
use thoSe words, and 1 ask Your Honour are here always, then according te my han.
te protect free speech in this country.
friend froin Halifax it would make no difference; but this is a proviso for members
The SPEAKER-Order, order.
who do not attend. Naw, this Hanse does
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-What right have not meet sa often nar s0 long that the memnbers should not be here and in their places,
you got ta use that word P

SENATE
Weil, if that suggestion were accepted. we
could put in our miles any motion whatever.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Hear, hear.
The SPEAKER-Our ruies say that no
new order couid be adopted in this House
without foliowing the procedure indicated
in this 29th mule.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That je what the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-To overcome the
amendment ie.
objection of Hie Honour- the Speaker as We
the apparent irreguiarity of the report, 1
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That je what ie
would make a suggestion. The report as it suggested.
stands reade:
The SPEAKER-I understand. that it ie
Tour comxnlttee would mecornmend that the an amendment adding to the miles.
followlng be added to the mulea.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, the arnendThat wouid seer W supemeede rule 29 cf ment je proposed Webe made tW the report.
our Standing Orders, and it should have
The SPEAKER-How will it readP
read:
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The report wiii
Tour conimittee recornmend that the f ollowread:
lng be added to the i-oies as provlded by

and I have no regard for any motion which
je put forward with that end in view. This
je a mile which shouid not be applied; the
miles that we have now are eatiefactory and
shouid be left alone.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Withdraw the report;
the rule je eut cf order.

Standing Order 29.

Tour comrnittee recommend that the folowto the rules a.s provided In
Standing Order Rule 29.

If that be doue, the report wvould then be ing be added
quite in order.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The hon. leader has
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-That amende it
put a question on crutches that wiil not
ail ight.
stand.
-Hou. Mr. -POWER-Move that way, and
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It should be amended
we wili do it.
either by changing it or add.ing We it. You
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-You have tW move are adding tW it.
We amend the report.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
wiil see that.before any cf those miles can
*Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED: As pmovided by be amended there muet be a motion tW
mile 29.
amend the mule in accordance with the prokeep visions of rule 29. The report cf the coinHon. Mm. CLORAN-Don't do that;
mittee je nothing more than a motion that
your hande free.
wili be coneidered according tW rule 29, to
Hon. Mr. POWER-Will you please amend the mulee.
meve it?
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON: That is .right.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I move that the
Hon. Mr. POWER-That je right.
report be amended by adding after "mirues "
by mile 29.- Then
the words " as provided
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE--May be I do net
mile 29 will corne jute operation, which reade apprehend the point, but it seeme tW me
as follows:
that what is suggested je that: "'Your combe
No motion for maklng a standing mule or mittee recommend that the foiiowing
order can corne into operation unless two days' added te rule 29;" that je the suggestion.
notice In writlng has been given themeof, and
Severai hon. GENTLEMEN-No, no.
the senators in attendance on the sesion have
been sumnioned to consider the saine.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middleton>-Added to
Hon. Mr. POWER-That je what we in- the mules, eubject to rule 29 being complied
tended.
with.
think that wouid be
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I wonder why
The SPEAKER-I
we are doing that. What je required tW
evading the mile. The mile says that:
mules of the
No motion for making a standing mule or bring this motion uxider the
order can b. adopted. unleas two days' notice Bouse? Two thinge: ûTt that two dsyes'
in wrlting has been given thereef, and the notice in wmiting be given thereof; and
senatomi in attendance on the session bave second, that the senators in attendance on
been summoned to consider the saine.
Hon. Mr. GORDON.

MARCH 23, 1915

againat our rules. I notified the hon. leader
of the Goverument sotte voce te keep his
hands out cf it and not te deal with a
matter of this kmnd, but it 'would have been
He
better if he had acted accordingiy.
can see*the objections raised by his ameudment. I call upon the Speaker te give a
Hon. Mr. POWER-They 'will be aura- decision, on my point of order that the
moned; that ia the intention, to summon reference te the committee and the reports
them.
of the committee are out of order and
cf the House.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-My hon. friend againat the rules
from Halifax says they will be summoned,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I suggest that the
but if the motion made, as amended by my cousideration cf this report be postpoued
hou. friend the leader of the (iovernment. until Friday. and that the eenstors cf this
is adopted, it simply means that we will *hon. House be summoned pursuant te the
pass twice on this matter, 'whereas if it is rules.
simply adjourned to the'date when those
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That is what I
two conditions wili have been fulfilied, then
proposed- at first.
we will take up the matter and discuse it
without passing upon it, as we would be
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They wilI have
doing now.
to be summoned te consider a specific
.Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, because my motion.
hon. friend overiooks the fact that an order
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The specific motion
of the House has aiready been made re- will be the consideration of the report.
committee to
ferring this question to the
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middleten)-No, it wiIi
report te this House.
The committee has reported te the House, have to b. a motion te adopt mule 25a and
and they have reported what is equivalent 25b in this report.
te a motion, that certain amendments he
The SPEAKER-I uuderstaud, after the
made te the ruies, but the language of the
report is somewhat ambiguons, and the discussion which has taken place, that the
question has arisen that, if we adopt the motion is te adopt the report cf that cernreport as drafted, then we seek te super- mittee, and by adoptmng the report cf that
cede the standing order and adopt the rule colnmittee we adopt the two additioual
st once. That is not the intention of the rules that are te ho embodied in our mules.
committee. The intention of the committee
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middleton)-No, the
is simply that the recommendation te the suggestion now la te allow the report te
House, subject to rule 29, be taken into stand over until Friday next, and in the
consideration.
meantime we wîll makc a motion that
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-How wouid it be clauses i5a snd 25b be adopted.
to word it in this way: that the committee
Hon. Mfr. POWER-It seems te me, with
recommend that the Senate take the proper
means, according te the ruies, te give effect ail deference te His Honour the Speaker,
that he misapprehends the position. The
te this report?
hon. leader o! the House has moved ah
Hon. Mr. POWER-That is just what has amendînent te this report. The hbon, chairbeen doue.
man cf the committee moved that the
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-In regard te this report be adopted, aud the hon. leader cf
matter I amn quite in accord with *the the House moves in amendment te insert
Speaker, who takes the clearer view of the after the word "25a" these words "as proentire situation than any one in this House, vided by mule 29.spart froma myeelf. The qproper procedure
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Standing'erder
in this matter was to send this recommend- 29.
ation of the hon. gentleman from Halifax
Hon. Mr. POWER-To make it clear that
te the proper committee, and that comwas te be summoned in due course cf rule 29 will appiy te the proposed amendmittee
time with two days' notice. That has not ment. That is the businesslike and reasonbeen dons, and ail the work performed by able way te do. Perhaps the language was
that -committee up te the present moment net as clear as it might have been, but that
has been irregular, unconstitutional and was the intention.
a session have been summoned to consider
the same; wiil, in short, fi this motion to
be considered within the necessary delay,
say Thursday or Friday. and the senators
be notified, summoned according to rule 29,
to consider such a motion Friday next.

SENATE

The SPEAKER-The motion is that the by the haw is that I shouid make a proposiorder of the day be discharged and taken tion te this House, and that this House
into consîderation on Friday next.
accepts the proposition or refuses it.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Or refers it to that
committee.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
The SPEAKER-No, that is a liberty
Bill <T), An Act for the relief of Alexander taken, but I amn speaking of the iaw, alMcIntyre.-Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.
though I do not want te prevent any such
Bill (U), An Act for the relief of Violet liberty. This is a matter of urgency. The
Burnett Delmege-Hon. Mr. Pope.
man who has tendered his resignation has
Bill (V), An Act for the relief,-.of Alice het work accumulate, and I was obiiged, in
Beekett.-Hon. Mr. Ratz.
the press of work, te get this other man to
commence immediateiy. We are just nearFIRST AND SECOND READINGS.
ing the close of the session. when we have
Bill (51). An Act respecting the Kettie ail the accumulation of work in these departments. 80 .that it is a pressing aif air. I
Valley Raiiway Co.-Hon. Mr. Bostock.
House, and the House
Bill (55), An Act to incorporate the Fraser recommend it to the
Valley Terminal Raiiway Co.-Hon. Mr. is at liberty to accept or refuse it.
Bostock.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-There are at present
about fifteen niembers in this House. They
SUPERANNUATION 0F FRENCH
are taken by surprise with the recommendTRANSLATOR.
ation to appoint a chief translator.
The Speaker presented to the House a reThe SPEAKER-No, the recommendation
port recommending the superannuation of is te let it stand until to-morrew.
the French translator, Mr. Trudel, and the
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-As a member of
temporary appointment of Mr. De Monthat committee, I ehould like te add a word
tiigny.
te what ha. aiready been sa-id. It seem.Q
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I move that this te me inadvisabie that this appointmnent
report be taken intà consideration to-mor- should now be made. Much as I defer -to
row.
His Honour the Speaker with regard to
Hon. Mr. WATSON-These reports are appointments of this kind, yet the Internai
aiways referred to the Committee on In- Economy Committee has ahready in an
ternai Economy and Contingent Accounts. informai way discuased this subject. It thas
few
Hon. Mr. DAVID-The recommendations been ascertamned that within the hast
of the Speaker are very good and canli-ot be years the cost of translation has increased
for
objected to. I think we ought to give effect enermaously. The question has come up
consideration 'by the sub-committee with a
te the report of the Speaker.
view cf making a recommendation te His
,Hon. Mr. WATSON-The Internai Econ- Honour the Speaker that something shouid
ony Coninittee appoint a suhb-committee to be done for the purpose of eilectinig a
inquire into the working of the whohe staff retrenchment in the expenditure heing made
with the idea of econemizing, and that sub- in the Senate, and partîcularhy in this
committee wili report te the Internai branch of its work. The Senate has not
Economy Committee to-morrow. They have had perhaps te the extent that bas been
been considering the matter. of the cherical desirabie, the services of the Chief Transwork of the office, and surehy a report of this later, who bas resigned. It was pointed eut,
description ought te go before that comn- with a view cf mentiening it te His Honeur
mittee, to be considered aiong with the work the Speaker, by the sub-committee that
they have been doing, and in the past I there would be ne necessity for the appointthink every recommendation of the Speaker ment cf an additional translater until at
has been referred te that committee. I
therefore move that this report be referred ieast next session.
te that committee for consideration. There
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-This is net an
will be no delay because there is a meeting additionai appointment.
at 2.15 to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It will be an
The SPEAKER: I would point out te the appointment which, in the judgment cf the
hon. gentleman that the procedure indîcated sub-committee should net now he made.
lien. Mr. POWER.

MARCH 23, 1915

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-It
additionai one.

is flot an

Hon. 1fr. LOUGHEED-It wili not be
necessary te make an appointment until
next session; that is to say, the country viii
b. at the expense of paying a translator a
substantial, amount per montii for a duty
which. need net be discharged. The Debates
for the present session vili be a very amali
volume indeed, and *uere viii ho ne translation of Bils, and I say from my ovn
knowiedge that I believe the translation
staff is sufflcientiy numerous te performi al
the vork that is te 'be donc until the next
session cf Parliament.

Bill (69), An Act to incorporate the
Colonial Bank of Canada.-Hon. Mr. Casgrain.
Bill (70), An Act to incorporate the
Alberta Permanent Trust Company.-Hon.
Mr. Talbot.
Bill (0), An Act repecting the.Northwest
Li-le Insurance Company.-Hon. Mfr. Bose
(Moos.jaw.)
IMPORTATION 0F AGRICULTURÂL
LMPLEMENTS.
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mfr. DAVIS inquired of the Government:

1. What was the total importation of 7- and
8-foot binderu frorn the United Statea ln the
year 1911, at the Port of Winnipeg. gling the
number eparately of each aise?
2. What waa the total amount of duty collected on sarne?
3. What vas the total importation of 7- and
8-foot bînders from the UJnited States iii 1914?
Giving the amount separately of each, and what
vs.s the total amount of duty collected on marne?
4. What vas the total importation or farm
wagons with their out box. giving number lni
each case from the United States ln 1911, and
Hon. Mfr. BAIRD- I second the motion. what vas the total amount of duty collected on
marne?
6. What vaa the total importation of farmn
Hon. Mfr. BELCOURT-I vithdrav my
wagonm wlth their out box, giving number ln
motion.
each caae, from the United Statem in 1914, and
The SPEAKER-Then the. question is on what waa the total amount of duty collected on

Hon. Mfr. DAVID-It was net the translation of Debates aitogether.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But there are not
many Bis, most cf them having already
been translated.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I move that the
report be transferred to the Conimittee on
Internai Economy and Contingent Accounts.

the. motion that the report be referred to
the Committee on Internai Economy and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The an«wers are:
Contingent Accounts.
1. Numiber harveaters, seif-binding, al
ies, entered through port cf Winnipeg,
The. motion vas agreed to.
1911, 206. Total vaiue. $22,5U8. AverThe. Senate adjourned until three o'clock year value, $ 108.40 each. In the total numage
to-morrow.
ber above etated, are probably ineluded
barvesters smaller than 7- and 8-foot, but
the nunrber of ecd cannot be given from
THE SENATE.
the records in the Customs Department, as
invoices are retain-ed in the department for
Wednesday, Mareh 24, 1915.
only tihree years.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Thiree
2. Total arnount of duty collected on sald
o'clock.
binders, $3,947.65. Average, $18.98 eaeh.
3. Seven and eight-foot harvesters enPrayers and routine proceedinge.
tered for consiumption through the port of
Winnipeg in the year 94, -total number, 193.
THIR») REÀDINGS.
'%lue $19,462 (inoluding the value of the.
Bill (E), An Atct respeeting the Premier bundie carrier). Average value as entered,
Trust Company.-Hon. Mr. Beleourt.
$100.84 eaeh. Tôtai duty coliected thereon,
Bill (43), An Act respecting the Huron $2,516.07. Average, $13.04 each.
Savings Company, and
and Erie Loan and
4. "Farma wagons"- entered for consumpte change its name to the Huron and Erie
tien from United States in 1911. 3,336,
Mortgage Corporation.-Hon. Mfr. Kerr.
$27,
Bill (58), An Act respecting the Caen- valued at $111,190; du'ty coUlected,
Mfr. Me- 797.50.
alty Comnpany of Canada.-Hon.
5. ««Farm wagons " entered for consumpHugh.
Bill (62), An Act respecting the Bank tien from 'United Btates in 1914, 1,092, vaiued
at $25,213, duty eollected, $6,303.25.
of Aberta-Hon. Mfr. Talbot.

SENATE

SITTINGS 0F THE SENATE AND
COMMITTEES.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved:
That commencing 'on Saturday ne&t until
differently ordered, there shall be two. distinct
sittinga of the Senate every day, the first sitting
to commence at i o'ciock, a.m., until 1 Wclockc,
p.m., and the second sltttng to commence at 3
o'ciock, p.n., alzo that the Senate ait on Saturday next and that ail Standing and Select Committees of the Sonate be permitted to ait while
the Sonate in In session notwlthstanding anything contrary In Rule 86.

He said: This is in anticipation of tihe
posaibility* of prorogation taking place at
the beginnihg of neit week. At the presont moment there is not such a pressure of
work as to necessitate our passing tbis
motion. The morning sittings do not commence until Saturday neirt, and if on Friday w. find there is flot suifficient 'work for
Saturday, then there will bo no necessîty
for sitting.
The motion rwas agreed te.
SUSPENSION 0F RULES.
MOTION POSTPONED.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved:
That from and Inclusive of to-day, and until
the end of the ssson, rules 23f. 24 a. b, d, e
and b, 63, 119, 129 and 130 be auapended In so
far as they relate to Public and Private Billa.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The -bon. leader of
the Goverinent rnight7 possibly be able te
.give us some information as te what Bills
are coming down before we adopt this
motion; we should bave some idea o!
whether il would be Pbetter to put this
motion into effect, now, or let it stand1 ovor
until Saturday. This is tIhe usual mnotion
made tewards the close o! the session, but
we do not know at present when the end
le going to be. I find on looking at the records that eometimes this motion bas been
made ten days before the close o! the session, and sometimea two daye, and I Ilope
my hon. friend rwiIl b. able te éive us mome
information and possibly agree te let it
stand until Saturday.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Let it stand unfil Friday. We niay not sit Saturday.
The motion was allowed te stand until
Friday neit.
SESSION 0F 1914.
MOTION POSTPONED.

The Notice o! Motion being called:
By the Honourable Mfr. Cioran:
]eosolved, that the Senate of Canada hereby
declaros that the meeting of the Parliamnent of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

Canada, in the month of Âugust, In the year
1914, cailed for sipecial and unusual purPOses Of
Government, doe not and cannot constitute a
regular and usual session of the Parliament of
Canada as iprovided for and contemplated by
the British North merica. Act, for the purpose
of discjualifytflg mnembers of the Senate of Canada, on account of their non-attendance at snob
speciai, unusual and extraordinary meeting of
Parliaxneft of Canada.
2. Resolved, that herealter any meeting of
the Parliament of Canada for epeciai. unusual.
or extraordinary purposes of Government shail
flot constitute or be deemed to be a regular and
usual session of Parliainent, as provided for and
contemplated by the British North Amnerica
Act. for the purpose or end of disqualifyillg
members of the Senate of Canada on account of
non-attendance at such meeting of Parliament

Hon. Mr. CLOREN-In view of the i.mportant matters now being debated before
the Senate, 1 ask that the motion be permitted to stand. I do not wish to postpone
it until after the death of the present Parliament, but it might stand until Tuesday
next in order to enable the Senate to conclude the important debates which are now
in progress. I do flot say that the subjeet
of my motion is not interesting and important, bowever, and I arn prepared to proceed with the debate now, but I was approached a few minutes ago in regard to
the matter, and requested to postpone it. I
therefore move that the Order of the Day
be discharged and that it be placed on the
Orders of the Day for Tuesday riert.
Hon. Mr. LOU<GHEED--So as not to taie
the bon. gentleman by surprise, I would
ask hlm to consider in the meantime whether his motion is not out of order, inasmuch as the Senate bas no authority whatever to decide questions such as are involved in the motion. They are questions
of law, particulariy the latter portion of the
motion proposes te amend t~he British North
America Act. On reconsideration I think
my hon. friend will observe that lt is not
possible for us te do that.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-I fully appreciata
the observations just made by the bon.
leader of the Government in regard te t)his
matter. I would point out te him, however, that what this House does is no concern of tlhe Govern*ment. The Government
may indicate its opinion, but can. go no
tarther. The Senate within itself is absolutely. supreme, -and ini regard to Senate
vacancies, it dees not devolve upon the Government tohave6enate seats deolared vacant.
Any member of this House can, when occasion arises, caU the attention of the
Speaker te the f act that sucli a senator bas
been lax in regard to the constîtutional
provisions for bis holding his seat. It doea

MARCH 24, 1915

net devçlve upon the Goverumeut te do se;
it is net a ministerial measure; it is net a
political or a pa-rty measure; it is simply a
question ef the Sonate holding its llfe lu
its own hands.
The .SPEAKER-If it is net intended te
bring up -the motion te-day there is ne use
discussing it.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I kuew that. I have
asked the permission cf the House te have
this motion in my name te stand over until
Tuesday uext. New the Ieadeý cf the Geverumeut rises and asks me if it weuid net
he weil te consider whether or net this
motion is constitutional.
The SPEAKER-If the hon. gentleman
wants te enter inte a discussion lot him
put the question and discusa it; if net, let
him accept the suggestion which has been
offered, or, as he says, lot that question
stand until Tuesday. We can net lose ahl
the afternoon discussing that.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No, we will net lose
an afternoon; I arn simply asking a question.
The SPEAKER-It stands.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Ailew me, Mr.
SpeakerThe SPEAKER-There la'uotbing befere
the Chair.
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-Why'didn't yeu call
the leader of the Government te order?

Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Honourable gentlemen: in the exercice of the undoubted
right which eaeh member of this henourable body has to submit to its deliberations
any question of public intereat, my esteemed
celleague, the hon. senator for Mille les
(Hon. Mr. David) has deemed it proper to
propose to this House the adoption of the
foflowing motion:
This Heuse. without derogating from. the prindipi. of provincial autenomy, deema It proper
ad wlthln its powers andt Jurladiction and In
pursuance of the object for whlch it was established, te regret the divisions whlch zeem te

exist among the people of the province of Ontario in connection with the bi-lingual acheel
question. ad belleve. that It la In the Intereste
of the Deinion Lt large that ail uuch questiens .hould be consldered on fair and patriotlc
Unes ad settled in such a way au te preserve
peace and harrnony between the different
national and religlous sections ef this country,
In accordance wlth the views et the Fathers ot
Confederation, and with the spirit of our constitution.

This motion is worded in the most moderate terms, and reflects a patriotic desire to
obtain from this House an expression of
opinion which, epreading ail over the
country, would appeal te the seber thought
of its people and contribute te restere peace
and harmony amengat the good hearted sons
of Canada. We ail agree that questions of
language, ef race and religion are very delicate te he deait with and that oui country
is inhabited by a. population cf different
creeds and 'races. But in the pust such
difficu.lties have been overceme by men entruated with the duty of being fair and juat
is nothing before te aIl, in the patha of conciliation and
The SPEAKER-There
harmony. We cannet forget that Confederthe Chair. Orders cf the Day.
ation was given te us and accepted by us
ONTARIO BI-LINqUAL SCHOOL
ai as a remedy for the evils of the pant
QUESTION.
and as a premifle te the faveurs of the fut-.
DEBÂTE EZSMRD.
ure. We ail accepted it in that spirit. Confederation is nething else than the union cf
The Order cf the Day bei.ng ca.led:
diflerent provinces, having each cf them
Resumaing the further adjourned debate on populations 6f divers creeds and divers
the motion moved by the Honourable Mr. nationalities, and there are ne reasens why
David, seconded by the Henourable Mr. these diflerent creeds aud nationalities
McHugh:
should, net live in peace and harmeny.
This House, wlthout deregatlng from the
I cannot admit, honourable gentlemen,
principle of provincial autenerny deema it proper and wihln the limita of its pewers and thaL French Canadians i this oountry
juriediction and In pursuance of the object for should be regarded in the same way as
whlch It was establlshed, te regret the divisions strangers who corne te settie on oui shores.
whlch seein te exist among the people of the The Frenchi were the disceverers ef this
province of Ontario in cennection wlth the biby their
lingual achool question and beUleves that it la country and its flrst settlers, and,
in the Interest of the. Dominion at large that &il missionaries, have been the firzt te exerdise
such questions should b. conaldered on fair ad influence on the Indians, and f acilitate the
patrlotlc Uines and settled ln such a way au te epening cf oui beloved Canada, and never
preserve peace and harmeny between the difadferont national and religieus sections of thus hesitated te shed their blood for the
couatry, in accordance w1th the vlews of the vaucement of ChristianitY snd civilization.
Fathers of Confederatien, and wlth the spirit
Several centuries ago, majorities thouglit
of our constitution.

SENATE

to force children of French enigin to be taught in
advantage
it was to their
minorities to adopt the language oi the their mother tongue in the publie or separmai ority, but experience bas always proved ate schools.
The experience of the past teaches us that
that the more you try te force a minority
to abandon- its lauguage, the more that a people loving its mother tongue will neyer
mmeority will reaist. We have the experi- abandon it, and I believe that every one of
ence of what bas been done iu Europe: I us realizes the impartauce of the English
do flot believe that there is one solitary language and tries to learn It.
In the
couutry where some regrets have not been province cf Quebec the Englisit language is
expressed that too much latitude bas been taugbt in almost ail our schools, tbe excepgiven to, its inhabitants to use the language tion being only.wben it is impossible -to
they choose, but iu England, lu Scotland have a teacher knowig that language. The
and Ireland the people have the greatest desire to learn English bas been increasing
liberty to use the lauguage they love.
rapidly during the last fifteen years, and
In Sweden tbrée languages are spoken. we remark that the desire, instead of deIn Belgium, where they have two official creasing, is more and more accentuated. It
languages, we have the greatest evidence of may be said that learniug two languages
the patriotism of the people: it bas not pre- will place the pupils lu the position cf being
vented that heroic nation doing its duty unable te master any one; that the French
and proving to the whole world that they we learn in the province cf Quebec is only
are one for the defence of their country a patois. It has been my privilege to meet
and the defence of treaty rights and many very bighly eduoated Frencbmen who
obligations.
corne te visit our country, and every one cf
I h'ave always admired the motto of that them has expressed bis surprise that the
brave nation, whose heroism has been French spoken in Canada is so good and
written with their blood on the downs of pure.
Mtre. Labeni, oue cf the best
Flanders, on the ruins of their destroyed educated Frencbmen who visited Canada
cities, and engraved for ever in the hearts
bis report cf what he saw in
of their citizen soldiers-"-ýL'Umion fait la lately. says in
force." Let that be our motto, sud let us America:
neyer forget, if we want to be a strong
"The contemptuous way In which Engiahnation, if we waut te bring our country to mon and Amerlcanh treat French speech la
the climax of its prosperity and its real rather amusing. The French language In Canprovincial
rather
greatness, that we must- always be a united ada ta noted for Ita netther pronouncedNormandy,
that of
which la
people. United we stand; divided we fail. accent Pioerdy, nor of Poitou, 51er of Chamfor or
It is the expression of this sentiment that pagne, but haa traite pecullar to each Of thoso
bas prevailed lu the discussion of the pre- countries. But nothing la se authentlca.1ly
French as this asavoury language, reverently
sent motion.
by the sens or the first settlers. UnWithout reserve, 1 laud the moderato presorved a few modern expressions, tranadoubtedly,
language used by the honourable mover of lated troam the Eingllah, some peculiarities ef
this motion, and of my colleague who spoke pronunciation, may ho soenewhat dlsparaging;
after him on this interesting question. Up but the general effect la charmlng and full of
senne,
to this hour, we have presented te ourselves grace, especially for a Frenchinan. In aarchalc
the French language in Canada, with Ita
to, the public of this Dominion the and aomewhat ruatic character, ceming, witheut
and
spectacle of a calm and most dispassionate any apparent alteration, trem the aneestors, la
discussion of one of the most irritating perhaps more veritably French than even the
questions that may be thrust on a deliberate language of the boulevards of Paris.
But a number of Englishmen, decelved by
body. But that is not sufficient. We have, appearancea, and who fal te appreclato this
every one feels, another duty to performn charm of speech, se touching te us, are miidly
for the sake of harmony and for the good sarcastlc about it
me
one ef
of the country. I trust that if we eliminate barbareus themn toldwhich on the steamer, In a
he thought was eleFrench,
and ignore the elements of disturbance that gant: ,You wll see; French la very poorly
we find in ail creeds and nationalities- spoken In Canada. When I am In Quebec, I am
whicb are always in small numbers-the mistaken fer a Parislan.-"
This amiable gentlemen who, otherwlae, waa
numerous people who are always in favour
no fool, bad no ldea hew hia candid observation
of justice belug done to all, we can safely was comical.
rest assured that any real injustice which
I realized how ridiculoua ho was thon, havlng
mnay have been done will be remedied with- hardly landed In Quebec, and speaking te the
harbour employees, te cabmen, te customa 051iout delay.
cors, I was able te suppose mYseîf in the very
Some difficulties have arisen in different heart of France, in Poitiers, Rouen, Tours and
parts of titis couutry as to the right of Besançon."
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC.

MARCH 24, 1915

I may add that the French Acadeniy has
crowned the works of Chapman, Routhier,
Frechette and seve 'ral others, which I think
is a good certificate as to the purity of the
language as spoken by our people in this
country.
The harmony we are seeking -from the
community in general we must have
aînongst ourselves, and there is, I think, a
way to oôbtain it. In advising peace and
harmony I think we have to give a good
example and show by a unanimous vote that
the idea of the Senate and their siricere
desire is te see that every diffculty which
may-.arise in the different provinces of our
broad Dominion may be settled in the interest of the whole community in order te
further the progress and happiness of the
whole people.
We have no remedy to suggesi and we will
not attempt te suggest one. We refrain
equally from discussing the question of the
French language from a legal point of view.
It is not our intention to make out a case,
either legal, racial or political. Clauses 93
and 133 of the British North Amerîca Act
may be invoked by lawyers before the courts
of justice, but as we are not sitting here
ini a legal capacity there is no need of
arguing the legal point before us, and consequently introducing in this lh.amber questions that we have no authority to decide.
The motion of .my hon. colleague is not
a condemnation of what may have'been
done in the past, but is merely a declaration that peace and harmony should
reign in the different provinces of this
Dominion.
There may be douIMs among certain of
my hion. colleagues as te the opportunenes
of this motion at the present time without
its being asked for, and 1 have heard it said
that in the absence of a petition from a
minority complaining of the treatment they
receive from the majority, it would be much
better to mnake a motion o! this kind- general and rnerely an expression of opinion
as to 'what should be done iu case of difficulties arising in any part o! this Dominion.
This is what has induced me to offer the
amendment which I shall read in a few
minutes.
In his motion, the hon. gentleman wants
us te express regret that divisions seem te
exist in the province of Ontario. I think
it would be f ar better not te mention any
province in particular, and that we should
completely erase from the motion any
The
allusion to a particular province.
amendment I intend to offer is designed te

remove what may be found by some of us
te be an ob~stacle te our unanimous expression of opinion in the present instance.
My amendment also does away with the
affirmation that we are acting within the
limits of our powers and jurisdiction and in
pursuanc 'e of the object for which this,
Senate was established. It is useless te
say go, and, moreover, it may be questioned
if the Senate bas been established for the
sole purpose mentioned in that affirmation.
For those two reasons, I move in amendment te the main motion:
That ail the words after "that" be struck
out and the following be Inserted In lieu
thereof :
*"That this House, without derogating from
the principle of provincial autonomy, deeme It
proper to regret the existence In any province
of Canada of divisions In connection with the
bi-Uingual school or other national or religiaus
questions. and believes that it ia In the Interest of the Dominion at large that ail such
questions sbould always be considered on fair
and patriotic lines and settled In such a way
as to preserve peace and harxnony between the
different national r1eligious sections of this
Y untry. In accordance wIth the views of the

ftthers of Confederation and In the spirit of
our constitution.

,Now, for the sake of peace and harmony,
and in order te obtain a unanimous vote o!
this House in the expression o! an opinion,
which cannot be said te be aimed at a particular province, but which appeal te the
goodwill of the whole country, I address
myseif te the patriotiom of the lion. gentleman for Mille les and ask .him te aecept
the amendmnent, which I am now proposing
and to vote for it.
In doing so he will set a noble example
whîch, 1 amn sure, will be followed by those
bon. gentlemen of this House who have
objected te the main motion for the reasons
1 have given above, but who, now that
these objections have been removed. will
not hesitate a single moment to give to
their country a similar and no legs noble
example, in adhering without a single dissentient voice to the declaration demanded
from this Senate.
Our House is composed of men whose age
and experience should be beneficial te the
people, and in giving an exainple of unity
I feel satisfied that we are working for
peac e and harmony, and for the better progress and happiness of the whole Canadian
peuple.
Hon. -Mr. POPE-In rising te second the
motion whioh bas just fbeen inade by my
hon. friend froru Lauzon (Hon. Mr. Bolduc)
in reference to this question, whîch is consid-

SENATE

ered by ail the speakers a delicate one ta be
raised in a community of mixed population
and difference ini religiaus views, I do not
regret, as far as 1 arn concerned, the discussion sa far as it bas proceeded. I looked
to-day for the termination of tbe debate,
and I had hoped that the hon. maver ai
the resolution would carne ta the conclusion ta witbdraw bis motion. In that event,
of course, the amendmefit would be
Questions ai this character
withdrawn.
are inflammable in Canada, and it is not
difficult ta raise issues entirely beyond
the. contraI ai the hon. gentlemen ai
this Senate. I should nat like to,feel th-at
thtis hon. body had become a clearinig hause
ta any political body or organization, ôl for
any religiaus body, wbatever that body migbt
be. We are bere for other dutiee. Our constitution provides other subjects for aur
consideration, and limits also the questions
that we right]y should discuss. All seecm
ta -have adrnitted that we have not, within
the four corners of the constitution that
bas created this bon. body, the -power ta interfere in this matter practically. We can
only pass resolutions, or express vilewG
as ta which there -will be a very great diiference o! opinion, no matter how carefully we may frame any resolution th-at we
may pass. We will not do any partieulaxý
good, and 'w. nay do a great deal ai hiarm.
W. are discusing a question over whicb
we have no contrai. The constitution is
settled, as bas been albly explained by
able lawyers, like the hon. gentleman frore
Otta-wa <Han. Mr. Belcourt). In a well
prepared French speech before the French
Cangress held in Quebeo in 1912, be broadly
and flrmly stated-and brought ail the arguments and quotations irorn the constitution
and f rom the varions laws ta prove conclusively, that the French language by constitution and legitimate right was limited
ta -the province ai Quebec. the Parliament
ai Canada, -and the Federal courts thereof;
tbat we have no more place on tbis eide ai
'the Ottawa river-that we bave certain
rights on tbe north side o! the Ottawa
river, -but no rights on the south side. Those
were bis words. Under these circumstances
we rnay accept h-im as an autbority, because on tbat occasion, in the great conference beld at Que'bec, 'he had been specially requested to prepare a memorandum
for those people who were interested, the
dignitaries of the church, the men fervent
in the matter of religion, language and
nationaity-a magnificent assernbly af people-and with bis great ability and knowledge of canstitutional law, ha could not
Han.

Mr. POPE.

possibly have made any mistake in the
preparation ai the document that he placed
befare that hon. assembly at that time.
Taking bis word, -we havè no power to deal
with this matter. Then we corne do'wn ta
natural rights, ta speeial privileges, ta indirect interpretations of treaties, frorn the
Treaty of Paris down ta Confederation, and
now we discover that perhaps the Fathers
ai Confederation were not far-sighted
enaugh to foresee everything that might happen in this country. I arn in perfect &oin accord, and have always been
cord 'with those -who favour a generous
policy. There is no greater admirer of the
French Canadian habitant than I amn. I
'have lived among them ail rny lii e. 1 have
them as my neighibaurs, I know their honesty oi purpase, their hospitality and generosity. No man ever had better neighbours than the French Canadian habitant,
bnt I wish decidedly to draw a strong line
of demareation between that great body
of .honest.people in the province of Quebec
and the demagogues and the agfitators
amongSt US. Under those circumstances I
second, with the greatest pleasure, the
amendment that bas been proposed by my
hon. f.riend from Lauzon. , At the 'ime of
Confederation, in 1867, it hbas been truly
said that Sir George Cartier and those who
surrounded Ibin, and were safeguarding the
languages and privi31eges whicb were near
and dear ta the French Canadian people,
had provided for ail those things in the
provinoe of! Quebec. But they did not anticipate the overflow of that race ta the adjoining province af Ontario. They were no
more ta blame for not foreseeing what was
ta bappen than Sir Alexander Gaît, 'who
w.as then the representative of the Proteet
ant mrinority in the province of Qiiebec.
At that time corporations were practically
limited ta r*ailroads, banks and insiirance
companies. It was practically an unknawn
thing ta do ordinary commercial business
by limited lîability companies. Business
was conducted by private parties and private partnersbips and there was no provision mnade in that constitution 'for an
equitable distribution ai the taxes collected
from. shareholders of corporations according ta their nationality or religiaus -belief.
It was divided in proportion ta the number o! cbildren in the municipalities, 'with
tbe resuit to-day that in the province a!
Quebeo there is taken '!rom what 'would
naturally be the Protestant educatian fund
a very large sum every year as it is taken
frorn those corporations based upon the ar1rangements sanctioned at the tirne af Con-

MARCH 24, 1915

federation, or whieh grew up under the
constitution. Sarnebody has assumed, I do
not know whether it ie true or net, that the
Protestant schools of the province of Quebeo
lose by this arrangement a million dollars
a year. 1 arn not here ta say whether that
etatement ie str.ictly accurate or mnacourate, but it is approxirnately correct.
I arn mot hore ta complain either with regard ta that. It is under the constitution
that we, the English spe.aking Protestant
element oof the province of Qudbec, live. It
ils under the provisions that vere made for
us in 1867. W. stand by those provisions,
and I say here, without fear or f avour, the
lime 4haa fot yet arrived when ire need ask
concesions froin our French Canadian
friends. True, the overfiow of the Ferench
Canadians ,from the valley of the St. La'wrence into the Eastern Townships, in which
I happen ta live, bas driven out-not driven
'but purchased out, because I abject ta
thiat phrase -"driven out "ý-the Englishspeaking Protestants. When a French Canadian cornes into our part of the cauntry,
and buys a farrn and pays the full prie
that the aiier asks for it, there is no driving out; it is a fair 1bargain.
Soame hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, bier.
Han. Mr. CHOQUETTE-The sanie in
Ontario.
Han. Mr. POPE-I neyer yet &air an Englishman who gave up bis property for nothing. The recuit of this change o! population is that aur schoal system has been
broken up. The French Canadians coime
in; they are rnostly Roman Catholics af
course, and have their school system, and
every Lime a Protestant resident selle his
farm, the assessment on that particular
farm is diverted from the dissentient ta the
Roman Catholic sobools. W. have met
that situation -by establishing central
schools and earrying aur children soine
,distances ta them. I really think it bas
been greatly ta aur advantage, 'because ire
have better schoals than îvhen ire lied sa
many little school houses witb very cheap
teachers in theni. The centralization of
those scholars I think has redounded ta aur
advantage. Personally, I have absolute
confidence in the ha.bitant-I do naL niean
the dernagogue, the man who advertises
thiniseli ta the great disadvantage of the
French Canadians throughout Canada 'by
his speeches and by his newý&paper articles
-lot that gentleman at ail. I arn speaking
of the honest fellow who is and who intends ta remain a citizen af Canada and of

the province of Quebec--the man whorn I
cai.l the farmer or the habitant. If the Lime
should ever corne when we would 'want
soine apecial consideration, if I should *be
alive and stand up ta ask -for it, I shall fot
appeal ta Lh. province a! Ontario and ask
rny English compatriote, in that province
ta corne ta my.relief, but I wiU go etraight
ta Lbe rnunieipality, ta those who are in
contrai. the habitants who are my neighbours. and tell Lhern that there is a £air
way cf dealing with me on the spot, and I
expeet to get -fair pilay frarn the haibitant
as I knaw him.
Severial hon. 'GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Han. Mr. CHOQUETTE-You
received.

il

-b. wefl

Hon. Mr. POPE-I wil not only b. welI
reeîved. -but I will -be well treated. The
bon. gentleman who spoke the other day
took the liberty ta raise a littie question
here in regard ta Mr. Morphy, I thin-k, who
had been addressing an Orange lodge. Well,
Sir, I neyer attended an Orange lodge; it
would nat be a proper place for a Pope ta
attend-not that I doubt I could do them
some good. but it would b. a sidbjet cf
criticiern if I should go there. I know Mr.
Morphy very weli. He bas taken the
trouble ta learn the French languege, ta
read it and ta 'write iL, and hoe simply eaid
whet many people have se4d, thet the
French Canadian people do not speak their
language well, do not speak it with a Parisian accent, or that peculiar curl on the
end ai hbie tangue that makes an "r" sound
three or four Limes as big as it ie. That may
be true.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbat is Gocekney French.
Hon. Mr. POPE-Cockney French-perhepc thet je true; but my hon. frîend, the
senator from Ottawa, said at that Congrese
hie could
suggestion
only
that the
make was that they should perhaps
meant by
speak -iL bettor. What hie
that I do not know, but when a
French Canadian and a highly educated
gentlemen like the hon. senator frorn Ottawa (Hon. Mr. Belcourt), offers that criticism, 1 do not think it is very much of a
sin if Brother Morphy, in came place or
other, under the inspiration af the Grand
Orange Ladge, et a banquet where Lhey
had a profusion ai good things that make
the tangue gli'b, indulged-in a similar criticien'. and 1 do not think iL is f air to bring
that inDident up in this Houe. I do not

SENATE

think that it is worthy of the occasion to
do that. We znay, if rwe choose, read aIl
those papers that are being puIblished. As
soon as this question was asked in this
House you would find sufficien't reasons for
divergence of opinion if you take up the
daily press. Some papers in Quebec end
some in Ontario write and re-write et each
other. I think the hon. maver of this resolution, when we take ail these thinga into
conaideration, will perhaps agree wit'h me
that after the discussion to-day it would -be
a aplendid thing to withdraw this resolution.
Borne hon. OEIqTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. POPE-Now, ini Sa f ar as I cen
discover, the great difflculty in the province
of Ontario lies between the Irish Roman
Catholie element and the French Canadian
eleinent; it is not between them and the
Protestant element.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. POPE-In relerence ta that permit me ta read te this House an authority
on that siubjet-the French Canadian Congrees et Quebec aocepted him as an authority-that is, the lion. senator for Ottawa.
He said:
It must continue ta urge the Roman authorities ta get recognition and approval of the
Freh
Canadian rlghts and ta have blshops
and pieste speaking the French language In
places where the French predominate: because
we must admit it, the most redoubtable enemy
of the French language In Canada and the
United States. the enemy to be most feared be.
cause his means of operation are constant and
easily put into, execution. is the Catholie clergy
speaking the Engiish language and which on
this continent isunbrldledl desire to have disappesa- from the church and the sehool ail ianguage but its own and In this the clergy supports
Its contentions. faise as they are, by saylng that
the cause of Cathollcism requires It. The use
of the F'rench language and the teaching of the
saine in the province of Ontario Is flot sanctioned by the constitution ef Canada nor by
the Ontario laws; they are mereiy tolerated,
whiist It ls hoped they may disappear If It can
be brought about. This le proved very cleariy
to be the case by the recent decisions in the
province of Ontario.

Then we have also a letter fromn a clergyman, Father Whelan, in this city, a gentleman who, 1 understand, devotes a great deal
oi time end a great deal of money ta, educational iatters and ta the improvement
of the young associated with his achool and
his church. 'Writing te His Eminence,
Cardinal Bégin, of Quebee, and Sir Lamer
Gouin, in regard ta recent utterances on
the hi-lingual question in connectian with
Ontario separate schools, he says:
Hon. Mr. POPE.

Your Erninence. the one great need of the
Catholic Church In Ontario for ber peace ls
more autonomy-a biesslng tisat wll corne ta
her when the civil baundaries of the province
shall be declared. the exact limits of her own
Then, and aniy then.
jurisdlctlon as weii.
the church will be in ber own normal position
he-e in Ontario, and she wili be no longer confounded with her accidents, or susPected or reJected -for what she la nat.

Therefore, I would not like ta ses this
hon. Chamber made a clearing house_ for
any religious body whatever. We have
nothing to, do, as a Senate, 'with the disagreement or the division 'between the
French Canadien end of the Roman Catholic
Church and the Irish end of the Roman
Cathalic Chureh. That is for thc cburch
authorities ta settle among themnselvee. 1
do nat think we are justified in taking a
hand in the dispute. It is entirely and
a-way :beyond what we shau]d consider. The
Roman Catholie Church, without a question of daubt, -is one of the great organizations of the world. Like ail erganizations
of that character, At is trying ta do goad.
but it is not for us ta, take into consideratian the mianagement-of its affairs. Sa far
as I know-and 1 have ivatched and followed closely-the, Roman Cathalic Chureh,
as an organîization, 'bas been quite able to
take care of its members durîng the time
that I have been an this globe and have
'been cf reasaning age, 1and I anticipate it
will continue te do so. Not having any constitutional contral over this matter, nat
having any right te interfere 4n these re
liîgieus disputes 'between the two ends of
the Roman Cathoîxe C0hurch, I again say,
let us end this discussion as we desire the
peace, harmony and good will of the people
of Canada, and the advaneement cf the
French Canadian bimself, 'with whomn 1 amn
an the mast friendly terins. As I travel
across this continent, going probably twiee
a year, hall of my time is taken up lua trying te present a fair case for the French
Canadian te the English-speaking man who
lives one or two thousand miles frain here
and does not know him, and who is judg'ing
him .by thxe words and speeches of demagogues.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear,
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Whom
blame.

hear.
we ail

ýHon. Mr. POPE-We might say this la
brought up by a prejudiced witness, because it has been introduced by a strong
friend and admirer of the ex-Prime Minister. I do net 6ay that. The hon. gentlemani has assured us on his word of honour

MARCH 24,.1915
Hon. Mr. -CHOQUETTE-He vas even'
that it was nobt -bis intention to arouse racial
isled te go inte the Goverument; h. vas
prejudices. I scep ail that. We could -E
say, judging by-the prepared essaya that e~ven offered a portfolio.
have been de)ivered lier, thai iliere lias
lion. Mr. POPE-Oh no.
beena consistent effort en the part of sens
one single mn, or com'bination of men.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE--Oh.yes, by Mr.
to give this a certain preseniation. I do Monk.
not say that.
Hon. Mr. POPE-You are atill living in
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Hear, hear.
a political aimosphere, my dear man-. Go
Hon. Mr. POPE-When var vas declared ?»d take the hot batha at-Arkansas. relieve
iie an
lu Europe, the people of the great ciy o! the ayftern. corne back: here normal;
of Ciada,
Quebec were waiting by thie thousandis to ordinary meinher of the Senate
know if England would corne te the aucoour* wit'ho.ut any political affections.
of 'France. It was a memorable evening
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I "knov thes.
in the old city of Quebec. Finally the cashie facis do not please you. but they are Jacia
told the tale, that England was to crosi all the saine, and true.
the channel and efpouse the cause of
France, and there was aorne speech-rnaking.
Hon. Mr. POPE-The trutli bas not yet
A gentleman was there -who used to be a been proven.
Colonel, I ,believe--Col. Lavergne I think
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-¶1t has been
was his name in times of peace. I have
seen him parade here -in his uniform, red proven; it was neyer denied.
and blazing, with cocked hat and s.vord.
Hon. Mr. POPE--One other rernark and
To-day *he is under the barn some plae I ain through. It has -been etated that tbis
because war is on. This man does not is a good trne te settle this question. te
command much respect from me. On that 'hold out the olive brandi 'because ve have
occasion hie attempted te say te the French war.
Canadians in the street-but they would
Hon. Mn. CHOQUETTE,-7Hear, hear..
not permit hii te finish his words--that vo
te the. Moilier
ehould not aend any help
Hon. Mr,. POPE-! Hear, hear - says the.
Land until Ontario sei'tled this bi-lingual politician. I say tiai it is the Very vrong
question. When ve se. men assoeiated al time.
on one aide of politics, standing behind
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
thia movement it la an unfortunate circumstance. Now, I do not think Mr. LavergneHon. Mr. POPE-lIt is th. Urne vien no
agitation should take place in this counHon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Will you'allow
me? Mr. Lavergne was the best fhelp te try.
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
the party nov in'power in Ottaiwa and
he)ped te defeat Laurier at the last elecHon. Mr. POPE--Do yeu think ibis is a
tion. You must knov that.
graver issue than the Irisli question, vhich
Hon. Mr. POPE-0f course I amn charit- vas put te oue aide in half an houx because
ably disposed towards rny bon. friend b.- the Empire vas te b. attackedP If I have
cause we ver. in the Houa. of Commona any judgment at aIl in tiese matiers, itlai
for a long time, and I know, how deeply a time w.hen we siould stand together, and
mben ail thèése amali difficulties, homo afdyed in politîcal matters .he is.
faira, should *be set to one aide and ve
Hon. Mn. CHOQUETTE-I used to be.
should be united.
Hon. Mr. DERBY63HIRE-Hear, bear.
Mr. POPE-And I know how hard
Hon.
it is for hini te separate bimself fromn bis
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Not the Irishi quespast.
tion.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Not ai ail.
Hon. Mr. POPE-I say lie Irish question
Mr. POPE-I do not know 'whether vas set aside temporarily.
Hon.
Hon. .Mr. CLORAN-Oli, teraporarily.
Bro. Lavergne or Lt.-Col. Lavergne under
the barn, aided. or a9sisted the Conservative
Hon. Mr. POPE,-Now, I amn ory 1
party. Iu my humble opinion lie did not. waked up.the hon. gentleman froxn Victoria.
'he tried te, and if
In my hum1ble opinion
Hon. gentlemen of the Senate. I.offer you
he did not it is net his fault.
S-11
REVXSED EDMTON

SENATE

my most sincere apologies for having awalkened the hon. gentleman. It was net my
intention.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I amn generaliy
awake for what is wrcng.
Hon. Mr. POPE-There must be a lot cf'
wrong th-inge in this Senate.
Hon. Mn. CLORAN-Yes, there are.
non. Mr. POPE-I have much pleasure.
bien, gentlemen, in seconding the motion.
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS-After the eloquent
,and very able address we Oiave heard on
this burning question one can say that it
is now exhausted. Thenefone Ido notriete
make a epeech. I wish te offer a few nemarks, net frein a legal or a constitutional
point cf view, as I arn net a la,%wyer, but
juet te say how surprised I arn te realize
lihat during this turne o'f truce in Great
Britain and Ireland, on account cf t.he meet
terrible war the world lias ever seen, fought
hand in hand by England and France on
behaîf cf freedom, liberty and civilizatien,
one van flnd in this great country cf ours
men unwilling te agree that it is at least a
geod thîng 'fer anybody te know both the
English and French languages. le it necessary te furnish reasons and proof s belcre
this Senate and each of yeu bon. gentlemen, te badk rny contention? This bas aiready been done 'by the lhon. gentlemen who
preceded me. You are ail aware that the
uecessity cf knowing the French language
is acknewledged. by the most erninent men
in the whole wonld, and meet prexninently
in England 'where a man cannot be considered 'well equipped if he dccc net know
French, which Is the diplornatic language
dif Europe and which was aise the language
used by the International Geological Congrecs held in.the city of Toronto in August
1913, 'whene about 600 delegates frorn ail
nations o! the -world attended. My hon.
friend frorn De Lorimier very properly
stated this important Lact iast week. We
ail knew that the erninent men sent here
by the British Governinent te discharge
the high duties of Governor cf Canada, as
well as their faiilies, are quite conversant
*with 'both English and French. These reasons have .already been elequently pointed
out *by the hon. moyen cf this resolution,
but I van do ne hanm ini repeating theni.
ail
WýVe knew thet Franco is one cf the leading- nations cf the world, in every particuarts, scienïce, literature, commerce,
Iian
agriculture and industries cf ail kinds. Her
people are -aise most thrifty; that great naHon. Mr. POPE.

tion being second to none in Vhat respect.
For God's aake what objection can any one
have, whatever he his nationality or creed,
to knowing and apeaking its language, and
especially i!f he is a .free British subject,
kno'wing as we do that in Englaud the
French language is 1highly appreciated, as
it deserves to be.
Recently ve have seen in the press that
our boys who are fighting the joint cause of
the Emnpire and of France, have asked to
be 8upplied in the trenches with FrenchEnglish dictionaries. They realize the neoessity, or it least the advantage and- pleasure they wuld enjoy by having a knowledge of the language cf their French coi-rades, comrades with 'whoen they are ready
to give their life aide Iby aide for the sanie
cause of England, France and Relgium.
Possibiy the boys cf French and English
descent, born in the province cf Ontario,
in yea.rs te corne, wili be in the very sanie
position as their eider brothers are to-day.
And in view of ail that, te rny mind it is
inconceivable that the Frenceh people in
Ontario are to be deprived of the right cf
being educated in their fine language, second te none in the a'hole world, whieh dc so
often necessary, etili more orften, useful,
always agreeable and, at the sanie time
being their mother's tongue. I arn at a
loas te umderstand why tihere should be
anywhere on earth, and particularly ïn
the great province of Ontario, a desire te
hurt to sucob a degree their fello'-citizens
of French enigin.
I prefer te believe that it ie nothing else
than the resuit cf a misunderstanding provoked hy the extrernists on both aides, or
the fanaticisin cf a certain class cf people,
independently of their religious or social
associations, for I have ne hesitation in
believing that the large majority cf the
Englishi-speaking people of Ontario desire
te be f air towards their neighbeurs cf
French enigin. At the sanie tume, I knowv
that their systern of public schools in that
great province is most comniendable and
Therefore, if I amn net misprog-ressive.
taken, under such circurnstancec it must
be possible to find a practical way te restore
harniony in the schools with regard te the
teaching cf the French language te the
French pupils. 1 hope that the words cf
peace uttered in 'the Senate in the course
cf thbis debate will be heard, net only
throughout the province cf Ontario, but
frorn one end cf the country te the other.
1 arn quite sure that the leading men of
Ontario have ne desire te be unfair or
unjust towards the French population of

MARCH 24, 1915
their province, for they are good people, justified in agreeing .te the expression ci
contributing their share te the progress opinion set forth in the resolution of Mny,
and advancement cf their province and hon. f riend for Mille Dles. One, perhaps
their country. On the other hand, one cari- the most important, of the functions of the
not charge the French people with dis- Senate being to proteet minorities in this
loyalty; ne suspicion exista as te that. confederation, I say that I consider it the
Neither can they b. charged with refusing duty cf this hon. House te vote for that
te learn English, for they are ail auxious resolution which is merely -an expression
te. do se. They know it is their duty, that of opinion in accord with the spirit and the
it is in their interest te know it, and, at views cf the great statesmen who framed
the samne time, they like to know it, as we our Canadian Confederation a.nd those who
do in the province cf Quebec.
Zollowed them as leaders of public. opinion
The knowledge cf two languages pos- in this country, and cf whom Canada bas
sessed by the French population cf the the right te be proud; it is our duty te
province cf Ontario, or the conservation cf follow their advice on questions such as
their French language, cannet hurt any cf this.
their fellow English-speaking citizens cf
Nevertheless, if the amendment just
that province or elsewhere.
<Hon.
hope moved by my hon. friend for Lauzon
By hurting their feelings one cannot
Mr. Bolduc) whieh I have net had tima te
te make them better citizens. They are as
hon.
good, as peaceful and as loyal as any other consider, seems more acceptable te
Canadians. That cannet be the object of members cf this Heuse. I sbould aise accept
their epponents in tryrng te oppress in theïr it. 1 leave the question in the handa cf my
scheols chuldren of French descent, for they friend for Mille les (Hon. Mr. David).
are equal te ethiers in every particular.
Hon. Mr. DONNELLY-In my opinion
Would it net be more glerieus for the the motion, as it appears on the Order
great province of Ontario te have within Paper to-day, is net sunob -a motion as
her population a geod number cf lier .should receive
the approval of this
citizens conversant with both English and honourable 'body. >While the supporters cf
French, as is the case in England?
this motion. may be within iLheir rights in
Fer my part, I think se. I aise think expressing their regrets in regard te
that at tis time of truce in thii' great divisions which seem te exist in Ontario,
Empire, the political men cf both parties in their suggestions that aIl such questions
Ontario should devise and find eut a way should be settled along fair end patrictic
te restere peace and harmony between the lines implies that the question has net been,
citizens cf good-will in their province, by or will net be deait with by the Governgiving te ail the greatest freedom and ment of the province cf Ontario along fair
liberty, ne matter what their creed and and patriotic lines, and is an unicalled for
nationalities are, as we do in the province refleetion on the Government cf Ontario.
That course will, ne doubt,
cf Quebec.
Whiie the agitation in regard te bicontribute to make the sister province stil] lingual schools bas been goi.ng on for some
deserving te be mentiened in the years, it bas heen very greatly increased
greater,
,whole werld, coupled with her sister prov- during the past few months. A short time
'ince cf Quebec, as a glorieus exarnple of age the Legisiature cf the province cf
that freedom and harmony I have already Quebec saw fit te pass a resolution very
alluded te.
similar te the on. before the Senate to-day.
Fer these reasons 1 hope that a happy Why this increased interest in the quesunderstanding will be arrived at befere tien at the present time P The parties
To attain that resuit se ardently responsible for 'the agitation must have
leng.
d-esired by every citizen of geed will, in my some ebject in view. Now, whiat is the
humble opinion, the English majerity must object? 1have ne doubt that some of
P
be, net euuly fair, but generous in behiaif the parties who -are se active in this matof the Frenchi minerîty in Ontario; but on ter are honeat in the belief that they are
thie oCher hand, the mincrity ought net te endeavouring te assist that part cf the
f.erget that sometinies circumstances may population cf Ontario who are of French
place them in a pesition such as te lead origin in their desire te perpetuate their
them te believe that they do net enjey the language, but I aise believe that a great
full possession cf their riglits when it would number think that when a general elecbe difficuit for the Government snd the tien cornes on this -question can be made
te do service as a Liberal campaign cry
xnajority te grant their Tequest.
In my opinion, the Senate is perfectly aniong- the French Canadian electors.
8-111

SENATE

Questions of a racial nature are always tions they may improve their knowir-dgu
difficuit for a Government to deal with, and of the French language the Ontario Govùncalled for iriterference of the Legis- ernmýent ha*e, -by Order in Couincil, passed
-the
lature of Quebec, and the proposed inter- certain regulations in -regard to Englihference ef the Senate with the administra- French. schools, commonly referred to as
tion of the Educational Department of the Rule 17.
province of Ontario, can have no other
Clause .3 of aaid regulation is as folio va:
effect 'than to make it difficuit for the On3. Subjeet, in the case of each ucheol. to tu.e
tario Government to deal as generously
direction and approval of the chief inspecter,
with their French Canadian citizens in the -the following modifications shali also be made
province ssthe Government might wi*sh to Ini the course of study of the public and separdo. It is only natural to suppose that the ate scheols:
(1) Where necessar y in thé' case of FrenchEng1ish-epeaking portion of the population
will resent such interference and insist speaking pupils, Freh may be used as the
language of instruction anal communicatiuil;
that, the» School Act be strictly enforced.* but such une of French shahl not be continued
obtained from a school beyond Form 1, excepting that, on the approval
The resuit to be
la1w, or from -any other 1m-w, does not de- of the chief inspecter, it mey also be used as
of Instruction and communication
pend se much on the framning of the law, the language or pupils beyond Ferrn 1 who are
is im- in the case speak and understand the English
as on the administering of it. It
unable to
possible to frame a law that will suit al language.
cases, but I have -sufficient confidence in
(2) In the case ef French-.spaking pupils
the ýGovernmnent of the province of Ontario who are unable to speak and understand the
the purposes
to believe that, if they-were free from out Engllsh language wel enough for the foilowing
of instruction and communication,
aide interference, they would administer provision la hereby made:
the law in such a way as to secure the
(a) As soon as the pupil entera the school
he shalh begin the studY and the use of the
bort resuits.
Apparently the parties who are pushing Engiish Ie.nguage.
the pupil
(b) Assoon
this question for political purposes are cdent faciiity Inas the use of has acquired suffithe English lanwilling to make the position of the French guage he shall take UP in that language the
Canadien population in Ontario more diffi- course of study as prescribed for the Public
cuit than it is, in- order that they may and separate achOOIS.
make smre politicai capital eut of the
This elause does not require *much exEncouraged by their success planation.
question.
Its object is to ensure that.
with the 6chool question ini 1896 they hope French-sp3aking pupils shall acquire surth
to regain power by the use ef another a knowledge of the English language as
What is the, situation the dJepartm 1ent consider al] pupils Who
school question.
in the province of Ontario? The members pass the primary schools should acquire.
who support this motion appear to believe Clause 4 reads:
Englishthat the -Government and the
4. In achools where French has hitherto been
speaking portion of the provinc.e have a
great dislike for the French language. a subject of study. the public or the separate
may provide,
We achool board, as the case may be, Instruction in
Such is not by any means the case.
under following conditions, for
language occupi3s Prench reading, grammar and composition In
realize that the French
a very high place among the languages Forme I te IV (sec aise provision for Form V
of the worlâ, and consider it a valuabli In Public School Regulation 14 (5) In addipublic
te the
accomplishment to have a good command tion separate aubjects prescribed for the
echools:
and
of the French language; but, we aleo
(1) Such Instruction In French may be taken
consider that the English language holds only by pupls whose parents or guardians
at least an equally great place among the direct that they shali do so. and may, notin the
wlthstanding 3
languages of the world, and as thý Eng- French language. (1) above be gîven
lish language la the language of comnFrench shall net in(2) Such instruction in
merce and also the language of the courts terfere with the adequacy of the instruction in
Engiish and the provision of such Instruction
and the legisiature of the province of Onof
tario, it is the duty of thi province to see in French In the time-table and the school ofshall
the
direction
be mubject te the approval
that every child who goe through the chief inspector and shal flot In any day exof Ontario acquires a fair ceed one heur In each class-room, except whiere,
prim.ary schools
the time la increased upon the erder ef the
knowledge of the English language.
In order to provide that children speak- chief inspecter.a.s perniitted abeve, French la a
(S) Whcre,
ing the French language may acquire such subject of study In a public or separate school,
a command of the English language ani the text-books mn use during the school year of
also to provide that under c2rtain conili- 1911-1912, in French reading, grammar, and
Hon Mr. DONNEI.LY.

MAR.CH 24, 1915

composition remain authorlzed for une during
the achool yeaz of 1913-1914.

Borne objection bas been taken to the time
limait of one hour for the teachmng of French,
but when you consider that the pupils already are able to speak the French language
and that the achool. day is only of about five
hours' duration, the f act that they are allowéd one-fifth of the time for instruction
in French reading, grammar and composition appears to me to be reasonable.
In erder to show that the Department of
Education of the_ province of Ontario was
flot mnspired by any narrow motives in pasaing this regulation, I desire to call your atteition to clause 15. .
.16. On due application froin the achool board
and on the report of ail the Inapectora approved
by the chlef. inspector. an Engliah-French
school which in unabie ta provide the salarY
neceasary ta secure a teacher with the a.foreaaid qualfications shali recelve a apecial grant
In order to esslst It in doing no.

This clause shows the department was
willing to deal generously with their French
Canadian friends, -and where the schooi
board was unable to pay the necessary
salary, to secure a teacher qualified te teach
ini both the French and English languages,
tbe department were willing to corne to their
assistance by making a special grant.
The provisions juat quoted are sufficient>'
broad to admit of the scbool iaw being so
a to satisfy any reasonable
adi ere
fellow citizens.
In reading the debates last week I was
somewbat surprised to find that the hon.
member for De 6alaberry <Hon. Mr. Beique)
mada the following statement:
Whatever may be the merlin of thea. contentione, which I do not propose to Giactss heme.
there la... - submit confidently, one point on
which there can be ne roomn for disagreemnent;
It la thst the F'rench language stands In Tue
whole Dominion constltutionlhty on the urne
footing as the English language.

He bases bis contention on section 133 of
the British Nortb America Act, wbich reads
as follows:'Either the English or the French language

may be uzed by any- person In the. debates of
the Houses ef the Parliament of canada and
of the Housea of the LegisiaturO Of Quebec. and
both those languages shalh be uned In the respective Records and Journals of the Eouaaa."

If the intention of the framers of this
clause was to place the French and English
languages on the same basis i ail parts of
the Dom~inion as contended by- the hon.
meinber for De 13alaberry, why was tbe
province: of Quebec specially mentioned in

the clause? Clearly the clause was inc
tended to place tbe French and English
languages on the same footing in thbe Legislature of the province o! Quebec and also
in the Federai Parliament in order that the
Quebec representatives migbt have the opportunity of using the French language ini
the Parlignment of Canada. The f act that
the province of Quebec is the oni>' province
mentioned in the clause is tbe complete
answer te the hon. member's dlaim that the
two languages are on tbe same footing in
ail parts of tbe Dominion..
This -motion makes some reference to religiaus sections. This is in ne sense a question of religion, it is solely a quetion of
language. Tbe hon.. member who seconded
the motion now sees the errer in drawing
religion into discussion; perhaps after some
more mature deliberation be will also see
the error of introducing tbis subject here.
The mover of the motion is, like myself, a
Roman Catbolic, but if he believes that a
knowiedge of the French language is a
necessar>' qualification for a good Catbolic,
I must dissent from sucb a view, for I believe that it is the spirit in which a prayer
is offered and not the language in wbicb it
may be offered, which will receive most consideration. The view of the English-speaking Catheicas ini regard to intioducing religion into this discussion has, beeu well
expiessed in a letter which recently appeared in the press from.the pen cf Bey.
Father Wbelan of tbis city. i which he
strongi>' protesta against the dragging in of
religion int this discussion.
Let those from outside tbe province oease
their uncalied for interference; let those
witbin the province wbo bold divergent
views on tbis subject present their views
witb Moderation and in'a spirit of good
will; let our French-Canadians. give rule 17
a fair trial, and I believe tbe good seuse of
ail concerned will in tume find a satisfactery
solution for this difficult question.
The present is the most inopportune time
to adrd fuel to any ill will tbat may exist
over this question. British soldiers are
to-day fighting side by side with tbeir
French allies in tbe trenches in Europe,
and I have net seen anything in the despatches whicb would indicate that they are
allowing tbis question of language te interfere witb tbem.
Il is fair te assume that the present alliance between the British and the French
will foster a feeling of respect and good will
whicb will last for generations. May w.
not also assume that il will have a i,

SENATE

eifect upon the descendants of those races to-day the Acadia race is streuger than ever,
who go te make up the great majority of because it was fertified by persecutien aud
the population of the Dominion of Canada. exile. The only desire that existed amougst
these men that vere scattered te the four
Hon. Mr. BOYER-Why should we not, corners cf the globe was te get back té their
while debating this question, taire the courntry, te reconquer it, te repractise the
solemn resolve of setting the Dominion a religion they were brotight up inbJut above
good example. I arn to-day compelled to ail to take the language of their forefathera,
talk in a language wbich is not my own. which they hav e retained te this day. That
Why should rny English. coileagues not vas the precieus example that vas set us
pledge themielves with us that in answering by the bon. member for Antigonish.
I
me or any one of my race they should speak ask my colleagues net speakiug my language
French and we should speak English. We te give us the oppertunity te discuss the
ânould ail 'enefit by the interchange of affairs of the couutry in both languages. If
Ideas in different languages, and I arn sure we did we would be richer by far, and I
vo would, set the country at large a very may add en passant that if .uy bon. friend
precious example in the vay of independ- the leader cf the Government, wbo very
once in the free use of both languages. One eften has te skate on very thin ice, auswered
point ini the speech of my hon. friend from us in French, he would valk on the surface
Compton <Hon. Mr. Pope) to which I took of the vater.
exception was in mentioning certain remarks
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There woulId be a
cf a m smber of Parliament who said that the
French spoken in Quebec was not Parisian precedent for it.
French. I should like te ask Mr. Morphy
lion. Mr. BOYER: Mention bas been
what he knowa cf French to judge the ian- made cf an incident' in 1913 at the Interguage by. I inake ne pretence cf isaying that national Geological Congres, vhere it
the English which is spoken in Canada is as was found that seme cf the greatest Canpure as the Engligh which is spoken in Eng- adians there present -were unable te say a
land. I would not have the -impudence te single wcrd in French. May 1 eaII the
say se, although I might believe it. But to attention cf my bon. friend te an institution
say the French we ipeak i Quebec is net that vas created i Rorne in 1905 by the
Parisian French is not correct. Parisian King cf Italy.
An Anerican gentleman
French is Parisian French, and Canadian from tihe State of Califernia teck it inte bis
French is Canadian French. It is as pure head that agriculture should be syndicated;
as when it was imported inte this country that ail the great industries cf the world
from Normandy, and thank God we have had a centre, and that agriculture alone vas
kept cur language just the same as we have lef t te its own resources. With that ides in
received it from our ancestors, without a view he tried bis own ceuntry; he was reflaw and without flinching. The hon. sen- fused. He tried England, France, Germany
ator frorn Antigonish <Hon. Mr. Girroir) on and Russia, and at last lauded in. Rome,
the 9th cf this month, when he rose te second where he had an interview vith the King cf
the reply te the speech from the Throne, ltaly, and vas granted vhat he asked. -The
addressed the Heuse in the languaga of his King cf Italy wrete a personal letter te every
ancestors, and in doing se set us an ex- sovereigu in Europe asking them te ceample of perseverance, 'an example of operate with him in fouuding an instiForty nations -rewhich I vas proud, and I ceuld see tute cf agriculture.
in the faces of my hon. colleagues a regret sponded te the caîl cf the King of Italy,
that they could net follow his remarks in represented by ferty ambassadors. 0f these
the French language. If ever a race had te forty ambassadors, tveuty-two spoke difsuifer fer its language and religion, the race ferent languages, but the firet clauses tbey
represented by my hon. friend from Anti- put dcwn in the constitution of the mIntergonish is an example. In 1755 they were national Institute cf Agriculture vas that
taken body and seul, *bouse snd lot, and French should be the official language cf the
scattered te the four corners cf the world. university and that ail documents must be
That was doue with the idea of making themn printed in French, aud this vas unaniforget, not only their religion, but their mously adopted by forty nations reprelanguage, and what success did the pro-_ sented in Rome, and there bas been ne
I
jeet meet with? Seme cf them vent as amendment te the constitution since.
f ar south as New Orleans, but they teolc have had the great pleasure cf attending
reot vherever they vere transported, and sonie cf those meetings, snd found there
lion. Mr. DONNELLY.

MARCH 24, 1915
men who could spoak six, seven and up te At the back of Gibraltar je distributed a
nine languages, whilst te my regret I find very smail population. 1 do not suppose
that we in this Dominion of Canada are there are more than -150 to 200 in the littie
actually figh.ting for the possession cf two umail village behind the rock-of Gibraltar
languages. Could we not impreve the state which je called Catalans village. 'Tney are
te have doacended from the Phoeof our country; could wo net beonefit Can- mupposed both having mixed upwith- the
ada from oast te wost and north nicians,
a Spaish population which is in the immediwere
there
if
south
te
ate vicinity. Their language has beon progenerous interchange cf ideas in sorved, se history tells us, and se people
more
bath languages, if the. division between who live amonget thomn say, in all its
races were net se dlean-cut, if wo could purity
Their customs, manners, and
mako up our minds that 'w. are «Il Cana- costumes have been preserved ini all $heir
dians -whethor wc speak: French or Engliah. purity, and to-day the amaill village je one
We have invited foreign nations te come of the greatoat attractions of the rock of
and settle and help us te build up this Gibraltar. Those of us who have had a
country. If we can take up their lan- collogo oducation are told that by regulaguagos lot us do se, and lot these strangors tion 17, any communication from the
ses that they are wolcome, that we are professer te the student muet be in English.
willing te help them, and that wo are I would require some explanation as te
willing te learn their languages. This ques- that. 1 wont through what we caîl in the
tien of language has been fought since man- province of Quebec a classical course, which
kmnd was in the world. What effort has consisted of 'Iearning French, English,
net been made throughout the world te Latin and Groek. We had through three
abolish this, that or the other language. successive yoars an Irish gentleman as
Take-the case of Poland. In 1795 the lest professor of Latin and Greek. There were
division of Poland took place. Their last
boys in my clase, and the
three
king, a captive in Moscow, resigned and reet of Englieh
us, soins 20 or 21, were all French.
the last vestige cf the kingdom of Peland Do hon. mombore think thât if the professer
disappearod. If yen follow the history cf when teaching us Latin or Greek, had
A
Poland since 1795 what do yen find'
used, as the languago of communication
systematic effort te abolish the Polish either Latin or Greek that we have underlanguage. and a systematic effort te mako etood a word of what hie was saying te us?
the Polish race disappoar. I asc my hion. The language of communication was ,the
The.
cofloagues have they succeeded?
of the majority of the clase, and
Poli race to-day je strenger than it evor language teld us that hie was geing te prowhen hie
was, and let me givo you the answer of a pose such and such a word C>rsentence in
Polihpatriot te the. great German Kaiser, oither Greek or Latin, hie firet, translated
who tried te terrorize that part cf Poland it inte our own language, and thon we had
which je to-day part cf Germany. He was
teld, " If yen do net stop talking Polish te deal with it te the best of our ability
comne
I will have your tengue cut off." The Polo and understanding. How can my few
laughed and replied. " If yen cut off my patriote that are scattered through Ontario,
tengue I cannot epeak but I can stili write just living in their householde where
and wiil." When we follow the events in nothing but French is spoken, get along?
Poland, what did they net do in that place How can yen expect them te rise te the
te make the people and the language dis- level of the othér beys if they are spoken
appear? Seven years ago there was a law io in a language they do not understand?
passed in Germany that the German Gev- They will remain porfectly ignorant of what
ernment took upon itsel! the right te ex- je going on ini the school, but if the
propriate any property belonging te any professer has the liberty te tell them that
Poish man throughout German Poland. a herse is le cheval, or if'he tells the. beys,
Wherever a Polieh patriot was found te ho -Now that I have told yen in French what
tee active, the agent for the German Gev- a herse je in French, can yen tell me what
enment would corne in and simply fix a le cheval is in English"? the. boy Immediprie on whatever estate ho owned, and tie ately answors "a horse." The language of
owner .would have te take German Gevern- communication helpe both sideq, and, as 1
Ho have said, we have enjoyed the priviloge
ment bonds and live on the intereet.
was net allowed te settie anywhore in Ger- throughout Canada of certain institutions
many, and wae considored te ho unfit and which wore veted in us by the ConstituI cannot say that I regret the
unwilling te ho Germanized. We have an tion.
example which cornes nearer te us. In struggle that je geing on just now, because
1704 Gibraltar was taken by the British. liberties and privileges that we possess

SENATE

.without & struggle are not worth enjoying.
I say a great deal of good will corne out of
the struggle. It will strengthen both sides.
Thé. béat efforts on both sides wilI corne out
eventually hand in hand, and let us trust
that this eternal question of race, of French
and Epglish, will disappear, that Ontario
will learn -French, that Quebec will learn
English.
We, know it already, and are
quite wil.ling -to take wbatever in good in
Ontario, and 1 have faith in rny friends in
the neighbouring provinces that they will
take up whatever is good in Quebec. Let
iii .oin. hands in making this question a
question non-existent, and let us teach our
boys tb. héCanadians and Canadians alone.

of the Mînister of Railways, that there
was -nothing te justify the .IuL-oan.I Io
operate this raîlway,. that tIiêra are only
a faw settiers and some sban-..i oper-t'rs.
who should guarantee thé ocst o! the train
service if they wanted it.
Ilié Ilaard of
Trade properly answered ag foilow.s
Thia statemént of the hon. Minuster of Rail-ý

wayu la no cantrary te the opinion generally
held In this province as to the extént and value
of the lurnbering opérations cf the St. Maurice

Valley, of Ita vaat water-powera, eoetly Industrial establishmenlts, valuable. foreets, and, In
certain localitieu, land aultable for aettiement,
that we cannot hélp thInklng thak thé Ministér
of Railways muet have béen 'wrongly adviséd
In the .Informnation givén hlm as to thus country.
Iloi. Sr MACKENZIE BOWELL rnoved. W. have beén aiways under the Impression
of thé
'that the debate. be idjourned until to-moi- that mince thé cuttingélaéwhérepiné timbér In thé
Ottawa district and
the St. Maurice
10W.
had taken thé first placé for magnitude of lurnber opérations, not only In Canada, but poaiThe motion was agreed to.
bly in Amrnea.

DISCONTINUANCE 0F TRANSCONTINENTAL TRAINýS.
DEBATE RESUME D.

The Order of the Day being called:
Reuuming the further ad.journed debate on the
inotion of the Honourable Mr. David:
.That an humble addresu be presented to Hia
Royal Highneus the Governer General. pray ing
that Hia Royal M{ghneas shall uubmit to this
Houa. «opies of i petItions to the Government, or any neinber of the sme, and of ail
coftespondence and documents In cennection
with the discontinuation of the trains 0f the
Transcénntal betwéen Abitibi and flervey
Junetion.-(Eon. Mr. Legris.)

EXoi. Mr. TESSIER-The hon, gentlema n
frorn Repentigny <Hon. Mr. Legris) is not
going te speak on this question. I désire
te -thank the lion. gentleman from. Mille
Ilie for having brought up a question which
la of great interest to thé province to which
Ir belong, particularly the district surrounfding Quebec city, and I wish te state
te the hon. leader of thé House that whén
it was known that the Minister of Railways
had refused te encourage the running ofthis railway from Quebéc te Cochrane, it
was a cause of a great disappointment,
and even of distress, amongst our people.
When At was said that the Mnister of
]Railways in a speech had mnentioned iliat
It was needléss te opérate this road bécause i1t would he useful en]ir te a few
Phantymen,'the statement. crAitl-d a gre&it
deal of dissatisiaction te -trie buz-iness
men, and their sentiments wero3 voice'i hy
very important commercial menî w'lî are
nernbérg of our Quebéc B-)Pri o! Trade.
In their report, which is very well made,
wé can' see the answer te thi-, preténtion
Hon. Mr. BOYER.

And the Board o! Trade took the trouble
to ascertain from reliable sources the numi
ber of men employed by those vairous industries and the amount of capital irivestad
therein, and the investigation shc'wý- that
there are a total o! 10,5W0 rnen ernpto-fed ini
those various industries in thé differcnt
mills ait Shawinigan, 'GrandMère, and
others, and that théy represent a capital
of $48,000,000. The Board of Trade statas:
In the face of ail thes faots, It in easy te
se. that Mr. Cochrane bras net beeli furnishéd
with proper data4 and theré should, aurély hé no
hésitation in believing that this railway la
golng to have a good local traffic.
I do flot want te speak at length on this
question, but I hope that the government
will see its way te the opération of this
road in thé intereat of ail those in the
country for whom it was intcnded.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-This is far from
being a political question, it is an im!portant business proposition with the
Quebéc people and ail those settiers along
this line which has beéxi put hefore the
Governrnnt of this country.
I congratulate the rnover of the résolution, and especially thé hion. Benater fromn Victoria,
<Hon. Mr. Cloran>, who, has spokén
with an intimate knowledgé o! that
country, and spoken the plain truth.
Ail thé reasons brought forward are
excellent, and it seems te -me that
long ago the Government cught te
have resumed the trains on thé line, at
least between Hervey Junction and Abitibi.
Net only is thé city of Quebée interested,
but thé whole province o! Quebec--Three
Rivers, Montreal, and. indirectly the 'whole

MARCH 24, 1915
country le interested-in the continuation resumed at once. I nxay add thst one of the
cf the train service in -that part cf this reasons geven by the Minister of Railways as quoted was that there were
country.
only a few settiers in that section. It has
Hon. Mr. DAVID-And the Maritime been proved that there are over 7,000 people
Provinces.
settled there, employed in the lumber
shanties, running mills and cutting wood
Hon. Mr., CHOQUETTE-I said the whole with the expectation that this wood could
.country; including naturally the Maritime be transported to Quebec or the lower proProvinces. 1 juet wish te read some few vinces. We have been told that there would
remarks taken from the report cf.the Board be a deficit of $40,000 to 360,000 per month
cf Trade cf Quebec, te cite the fact
1 do not admit that that ia true.
that the hion. Poistmaster General, as per train.
The contrary bas been proven by letters
soon as he assumed office in the place of
even if it were
his predecessor, Mr. Pelletier, said that lie 1rom men living there; but
fulfil all the obliga- true, wbat would be the total amount for
took upon hlmsel to
tiens and promises made by hie predecessor, six monthe? A quarter of a million dollars.
and as a Quef>ec man lie was meet anxiouLt What is a quarter of a millionP This very
tihat it should be done, and hie anewered morning they have been voting in the
t1bat delegation from business men and House of Commons a hundred millions for
from the Board cf Trade, assuring the dele- war and we do not complain; it is necessary,
gation of hie eympathy'. He teck note cf and it will pass unanimously in this House,
what had heen said, and-I draw the atten- toc. But do you not think it would be
tion of his celleague the leader cf the Gev- worth while spending a quarter of a million
ernment te this-he declared poeitively that dollars to open a cou.ntry like that, to enhie had made it a prirnary condition cf hie courage settlers to go there who indirectly
going into the Government that ail the would recoup the Dominion expenses by the
works cf Quebec entrustèd te Mr. Pelletier production of wheat, or grain, or lumber,
should be executed, and in order to put enhance the trade of this country and bring
himmeif in a position te know hie had gone back fromn other countries a lot of money to
In increaismg
over ail the works of Quebec, and hie said, be returned to that place?
number of settlers there the Government
«You enu rely on me s being moet active, &lie
and your representation will receive my would natuvaily increase the number of
best attention." This was one cf the first passengers and number of .cars cf freight,
questions brought. before him, and it ie and thus recoup itself in the course of a
stop
shcwn by records that the resens brought few years. On the other hand, if you
now you are ruinm*
forward struck bhim as heing fair and reasoni- that service as it is
part of the country, ruining those that
able. If the running cf trains between that already there, and burting the country
are
Hervey Junction and Ames, which le besides. To show the hardshipe cf the poor
the headquartere up there, were flot people in that section let me refer to a
resumned it would be the greateet bard- latter ta the mayor of Amos' Mr. Authier,'
stiip for the settlers, and would prevent on the 7th of .January last, by one cf the
population going there. It would scatier
settlers, Mr. Blais. The writer sys that as
those who are there new, for they could net they have ne train running, noe means.
means of trans- cf communication, there are people who
live there in winter without
portation, and by giving a bad naine te that have been two days without provisions
part cf the country it would hurt the move- and obliged to walk 26 miles te get
ment ççf ejettlere te that section. Hon. gen- something te eat. The writer cf this
tlemen will therefore sec that thie is net a letter is a prominent citizen there,. and
political question, but a business propo- he. sys that many have had their arme
sition. Mfter such an expression from the and legs frozen and are now in the hoaPostmaster General, a member of the Gev- pital. He assures the mayor that there are
ernment, a minister knowing exactly the at least 7,000 persoa in the woods withont
position in Quebec, anid the coneequences any mail service or doctors; and we cari see
¶which, muet follow from a discontinuance in what position they are. Bee what we are
cf train service-there, it appears te me that doing for the war, for the Red Cross, for
the word of the mninister himself must ho the Patriotic furide. De -you net think it
redeemed in the interests cf Quebec, and 1 would be a patriotic thing ta, spend a few
would add, in the intereets cf the Geverri- thousand dollars te help those people up
ment. The running cf the trains should be there? More than that, this part cf the

SENATE

country ie in the province of Quebec. Well,
1 appesi t o the leader of the Governinent,
and point out that the province of Quebec
has done its duty about the war, about the
Patriotic Fund especially. la it not true
that the province cf Quebec has now given
more money for the Patriotie Fund than al
the other provinces, by many thousands of
dollars? And they have done that witb
piesurs. though we may hear soins cranks
or some fanetice say thal ve have not dons
duty. This je a question of justice for
- cr
the district, for the people along the line.
and even a question cf honour for the
Dominion and for the Government. If this
were a Liberal Government, it would be perhaps atill more a question cf honour. And
when the northern country bas been opened,
the Governinent cf the day is responsible
as a Governinent -for what the past Government bas done-when the country was
topened up by the railway placards and
bookiets were published and sent ail over
the world inviting settiers ta go there, stating that there would be a railway passing
through those wild lands, and that settiers
going there would get easy transportation
rates and be able ta develop that rich
country. The road bas been buit, and settiers have gone there, and they expect that
the road will be kept rumning in order that
*they may communicate with their people
and get their producte ta market. I repeat
that it ie not only a question cf justice ta
the aettiers, but it is a question cf honour
for the Governinent cf the country to continue the running cf trains and enable the
people who have gene there te settie that
country. They will open the country in
larger areas and make that district richer,
*more mopulous and above ail most happy.
I appeal. to the Governinent ta do this as a
matter cf justice and as a question cf
honcur.
An hon. GENTLEMAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-May I hope that the
leader cf the House will lay before this
Chamber before the end cf this session the
documents for whicb I have asked.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, I see no
reason why that sbould not be done.
SHon. Mr. DAVID-Because I think they
would complete'the proof which I have
undertaken ta make, i spite cf the assertion made by the hon. member from Lauzon
that I was not well informed. I think that
the documents 'wben produced will make my
position more evident.
Tbe motion was agreed te.
Hon. Mfr. CHOQUETTE.

YUKON PLACER MINING ACT
,AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND PREADING.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second.
reading cf Bill No. 67, An Act to emend.
the Yukon Placer Mining Act.
He said: Under the General Statutes
dealing with the mining rights cf theDominion, power is given to pass Ordersin Council w.hereby extensions cf lime may
be given to those 'who have taken up
dlaims. An Order in Council was passed
on the 28th Octeber ini which ail thosowhc had enlisted for active service in the
war had their mini.ng rights protected for
six months after the proclamation cf peace.
But it so happens under -the Yukon Placer
Mining Act, that power is met given to extend the lime by Order in Council, and cf
course it ie equally desirable that the samne
privileges and rights should be given t».
those who -have taken up laims under the
Yukon Placer Mining Act and who have
entered upen active service. Consequently
it ie proposed by this Bill te give authority
ta extend tha turne. The saine bas been
dons by Order in Council, as te the other
ining rights ini favour cf
Dominion
those who have sntered on active service,
until six monthe after the final termination of war and. the final declaration of
peace so far as the British Empire je concerned. I therefore meve the second reading cf the Bill.
The motion was agreed te, snd the Bill
read the second time.
SECOND READINGB,
Bill (P), An Act for the relief of Austin
McPhail Bothwell.-Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.
Bill (Q), An Act for t.he relief of A.gnee
Gravelle.-Rom. Mr. Derbyshire.
Bill (R), An A-et for the relief cf Clara
Elizabeth Darnell.-Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.
FIÉÈT AND SECOND REAITINGS.
Bill (71), An Act respecting the Sterling
Life Assurance Company cf Canada-Hon.
Mr. Edwards.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill W, An Act ta amend the Gold and
Silver Marking Act cf 1913.-Hon. Mr.
Lougheed.
Bill (44), An Act reepecting certain patents cf the Lohinan Co.-Hon. Mr. Edwards.
Bill (74), An Act te amend the Criminai
Code.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed. ,
Bill (78), An Act te amend the Bank
Act.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.

MARCH 25, 1915

MONCTON AN D NORTHUMBERLAND
STRAIT RAILWAY CO. BILL.
FIRST AND SECOND READINGS.

Hon. Mr. POIRIER introdnced Bill (X),
An Act respecting , the Moncton and
Northumnberland Strait Railway Co.
He said:" As I understand the Railway
Committee will sit to-morrow forenoon, 1
would therefore u.k te have the rules suspended and the Bill read the second Urne
now, so that it may go te the committee tomorrow-. Otherwise the chances are that
it may not pass this session.

THE SKATIE.
Thursday, March 25, 1915.
The 13PEAKER took the Chair at Three
a'clock.
Prayena and routine proceedinige,
THI-RD READING6.
Bill No. 20, An. Act respecUing th1e Caiad-ian Northern Railway Company.-Hen.
Sir Melvin Jones.
Bill (X), An Act respecting the Moncton
and Northumberland 6traits Railway Coinpany.-Hon. .Mr. Poirier.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-What is the object
of the BiUPl
CATHOLIC MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSOCIATION BILL.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-lt is an extension of
INTRODIUCED.
an existing ccmpany. These Bis, almost as
a matter cf course, are granted their second
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY intnoduced Bill
reading and sent to comrnittee, where they
(Y), An Act nespecting the Grand Council
are discussed; so with the consent cf this cf the Catholic Mutual Benefit Association.
House I would ask permission te have the
The Bill was read the first time.
rules susýended and have the second reading just now.
Hon. Mn. MeSWEENEY moved the susHon. Mr. DANDURAND-Has it been pension of rules 23-F. 30, 63 and 119 no tar
as related ta t;his Biul.
preceded by a petition?
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR--I had a letton frein
Hon.. Mr. -POIRIER-It has, in both
a gentleman asking me if I could furnleh
Hanuses.
hum with two or three c opies of thia Bml.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-And the peUi- Just before lunch time I went ta the Dislion has been. reported. on by the Standing 'tribution Office to inquire and they tlid me
the Bill bad not been printed. Under th1e
Orders Committee.
circumstanoes I would not like to have th1e
Bill put through aUl its stages withaut havHan., Mr. DERBYSHIRE-No.
ing it finit distributed.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Not that I know
The motion ta suspend th1e rules was
of. The Bill was sent bo mc from the House
dropped and th1e second reading fixed for
of dommonî juat now.
ta-morrow.

Mr. DERBYSHIRF-Better read it
PUBLICATION 0F -CONSERVATION-"
the finIt time first.
IN FRENCH.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I will read it the
INQUIRY.
first time, then.
Hon. Mn. LAVERGNE inquired:
Hon. Mn. DANDURAND-I understand
1. la the monthly publication IIConservation"
that the petition has been reported upon by publlshed In French as well as In Engliah?
2. In the affirmative. why la At distributed
the Standing Onder Committee?
-Hon.

only An EnglAshI

3. In the negatIve, bas the Government the
Hon. -Mn. POIRIER-If the petition has
intention ef publluhing At An rench?
been reported upon I will again raise my
demand that the second reading be granted -Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The an.ewers
naw..>
are*
1. 11Conservation is published ini Engliih
Bill was read the firsi and second enly.
*Th7
Urne.
2. Answered by Ne.. 1.
3. The question cf publication in' French
The- Senate -adjourned until 3 o'clock tois now under consideration.
morrow.

SENATE

172

GOVERNMENT PURCHASES 0F BRITcornrittee for reconsideration.
ISH ARMY SERVICE REVOLVERS.
On the motion being put.
INQUIRY.
Mr. BOSTOCK inquired:
Hon.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If -that
1. How maxiy revolvers of a -pattern diUferent be done there should be no entry macle on
to the British Àrmy Service revolver have been the journal of thie contenîts.&f the report.
purchame by the Governrnent?
L. Can the British revolver ammunition be
The. SÉEAKER-It is only Teconsideraused with these revolvers?
which it shouid b.
3. Eow many have been lssued to, the offiers bion as to the forma in
presented.
Up ta date?
4. Wbat price bas been paid per revolver by
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I unthe Governient?
5. At what price have they been charged to derstand that. The objeot then would be
the. ofilceru?
earn portion of IL. That being

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers are:
.Tii. British Army are using revolvers
of variaus types. The. Canadian Government- is supplying Coit's autamnatie pista],
with which many of the British officers are
aima supplied.
2. Answered by No. 1.
3. Five thoueand 'have been purchased
and- are being issued as required. Exact
returils not yet available.
4. No revolvers have been purchased.
Pistais, $18.50.
5 $18.50.
CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS 0F THE
SENATE.
EEYZERED BACK TO COMMLITTEE.

Hon. Mr. POWER. from the Internai
Eoenomfy and Contingent Accounts Committee.,presented their fifth report and moved
that it b. taken into consideration to-morrOW.
The motion vas agreed ta.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-With the, Ieave
of the. Bouse I would say that the report of
tisi committee, which bas been put clown
for conaideration to-morrow bas taken another formi than the custamary on.. Tii.
report lis practically a procès-ýverbal clf our
deluberations in the, committee. I would
auggest eitber that it 'le returned to the
committee for reconsideration as ta its
form. or that At be not priiited. Tiiere are
deaisions given whicb are negative as ta
different matters that bave corne before the.
comxnittee. It bas not been the. custom ta
give .minor details upon petty questions
whioli corne before the committee. I do
mot waut ta go inta the merîts of the. report,
but -it strikes me as inopportune ta publish this procès-verbal in aur Minutes.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wiiat dees my
bion. f'riend propose? HBon. Mr. DANDURAND-I -propose tiiat
,we reconsider the. fixing o! this report foi
lion. MUr.LOUGHEED.

to eliminate
the case, it should, not appear, as having
been presented.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-In order to
ernphasize just *one point I wouid refer ta
the mxention iii the. report of the fact thiat
a payment to Sa and. so does not appear te
have authority or approvai, and that same
inquiry should b. made as ta «why this was
necessary. Weil, such inquiry could be
nmade in the committe.
The. SPEAKER-With the understanding
thiat the report is flot to b. printed now.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-I do not quit. understand the logic et th. hon. gentleman who
lias made this motion. If w. do not consider the. report, bow can ve send it back
for furtiier conaideration? WA bavAx to cons-ider it -before w. know viiether it shouid
b. sen't back. or what la ta b. done li the
matter. It appears ta me that the bon.
gentleman answers himself. If tiiere is
anything objectionaible in tis, report, that
ie, if the *majority of the members of th.
Senate thinks there are things dxi the report that ought not to appear, or that had
better -b. left out, then I think the lion.
gentleman shoudd aak the.permission of the.
House to withdraw t1he report.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-That is my motion.
*Hon. Mr. DANIEL-But for us ta send.
the report back -for further consideration
without considering it at ail would, I think,
stultify thie Chamber very mucli.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAKD-It would nat If
my bon. friend would simply note the. fact
that the. report was read at the. table five
minutes ago.
Holi.. Mr. CHOQUETTE-It ougiit not ta
have been read eltiier.

MARCH 25, 1915

In any other way contravenez any provision
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Se that we are
of tht. Act, or ot any such regulation, au te the
cegnizant of what there is li the report.
application et marka te article.
The motion was agreed to.
Any one who importa an article of that
kind la subject te a considerable fine. I
ACT AMENDMENT
CANADA GRAIN
think iwhen we go into committee we ahould
BILL.
-have a satisfactory explanation why rse
drastic a measure as that is required.
SECOND READING.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED .moved the second
reading of Bill (F), An Act to anxend the.
Canada Grain AeIt.
Iee suaid: This is a smali amiendaient
which àhas been introduced at the requeui
cf the Winnipeg Grain Exchange. It provides that inspection and weight certifloatea
shail be recognized as evidenoe in courts
of law. and as being conclusive evidence
therein.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
GOLD AND SILVER MARKING ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Without entering
into any explanation. I rnay say 'that this
is sirnply following out the principle cf the
Act. It is the logical outcome cf thei. îfciples which we have adopted and which
govern the Aot.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Following eut the
Made in Canada"- principle.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
was rcad the second time.
YUKON PLACER MINING ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.

SECOND READING.

The House resolved itself into a ComHon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved t-he second mittee cf the Who.le on Biff No. 67, An Act
reading of Bill (W), An Act to arnend the to amend the Yukon Placer Mining Act.
Gold and Silver Marking Act.
(In the Committee.)
He said: 6ection 13 of the Act is amended as proposed by .Lhis Bill. Section 13
Hon. 'Mr. LjOUGHEED-As I explained
deals with penalties. Clause 14 is sorne- yesterday, tia 'brings the Yukon Placer
what of the sarne character. Clause 15 Mining Act into harrnony with the Gendeahs with the metal of articles seized being eral Mining Act of the Dominion. Orders in
made forfeitable éto the Crown. The -fol- Council -have been passed by the. Governlowing clauses ernpower officers to seize ment respecting the extension of mining
and retain articles that may be found li dlaims in faveur cf those who are in active
possession of dealers in contravention, of service, but under the Yukon Placer Minthe law. The reasons that led the Govern- ing Act that authority bas net been given;
ment to amend the Act as proposed rnay that is te say. the 'Gavernmaeut lin- net
be somcwhat lengthy, and if hon. gentle- authority by Order àn Council 'te rske the
men desire further explanation, as douibt- extension which we have in v-iew.
less they will, I shall be glad te rnake thern
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-arn fully in
-when the House goes into cornmittee on
accord with the principle of the Bih!!, but
the Bill.
it doe net seem te b. explicit enough.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-T-here is no altera- The clause reads as follows:
tien in the principle?

3. Any person who rnay be accepted for and

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, sirnply to who continues In active service In the defence
during the war
make the Bill more practicable -than it is. of the Empire British or Allied of 1914-16, wheterces. and who
ther with the
be bolder et mlning rights acquired under
Hon. Mr. POWER-I ehould like to cail may provisions of tht. Act. shall be permitted
the
attention to paragraph (d) of the first te hold uuch rlghta free from the rtsk of dancellation owing te fallure te, comply wtth any
clause, which reads as follows:
Makes in Canada, sella In Canada, or importa or otherwise bringa Into Canada, an article to which any mark flot authorized by
thia Act or by regulation made under authority
ertdis Act, in applied, or te whlch a mark la
applied In a manner flot; ne authorlzed, or which
han flot applied. thereto any mark requlred by
is Act or by such regulation, te b. applled
thereto :

et the requirementa ef
the rtghts were acqulred,
the final terminatien of
dectaratien of peace. In
Empire la concerned."

the -Act under which
untIl six montha atter
the war and the final
se tar as the British

I arn afraid the hanguage cf the clause
would imply a centinuous servàce as long
as the war lasts.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-At the end you
wll find the terni of the restriction.
Han. Mr. BELCOURT-No. It says «vwho
may lie sccepted end who *cootiues i
active service ini defence af the Empire
during the war af 1914-15 wbether vith the
British or A>lied forces," etc. I amn afrsiid
that this might be interpreted as aneaznung
a can4tunued service duxing the whole war
ea long as it laste. I do nat think thst
vould lie fair. Soxnebody voiunteers ta-day,
and is acoepted; lie begins active service,
but.h. is waunded next month. He cames
back and is no longer in active service during the vwar of 1914-15. He viii only have
been i active service durung a -portion et
the vax of 1914-15. 1 think that shauld be
made clear. I understand the object of the
Act is ta relieve the Yukon placer mining
ovners from the necessity ai doing actual
-work an their dlaims. That party mniglit not
come -wit:hin the exception.
Hýon. Mr. ROSS (Middieton)-I understand when a man enlists he is enlisted
until the end of the var, and unless this
vounded man got his discliarge, he vouid
Le -in active service. I do not see any
necessity for the amendment. It ail depends upan the ternis of enlistmnent.
Hon. Mr. BELCOUET-The condition is
a double one, that lie is accepted and that
lie continues in actIve service duxing the
var of 1914-15.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middieton)-He is in
active service the very moment lie takes
the oath, brut he miiglit be discharged. W.
niight include "'unless discharged."
Hon. Mr. CLOR AN-They von't discharge
i>.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will my hon.
friend suggest boy we should amend it, and
we wiii take it into consideration and the
commiittee viii rise.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Couid ve net add a
rider to this clause ta the effeot that one
who is wounded should not ilose his rights
under this section.
The CHAIRMAN-He may be sick from
other causes.
Hon. Mr. BELCOUET-It aeems ta me
that if a man enllis and gives bis service,
that wiii be sufficient ta entitle him ta be
relieved of assessinent work, because the
assessment work is not made ini a day or a
month, and ample provision must lie made
for 4it, and remember that that work n
only be done during the period from the
month of June to-Octtber. 1 take à4 that if
anybody enlists and is accepted and begins
active service lie alicuid b. exempt fro.m
this vark.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I appreeiate the
objection made Iby my hon. friend and
think they are weli founded. In the meantime I shahl have the draftsman give further consideration ta this feature. I miove
that the committee rise, report progress,
and as*k ¶leave to sit again.
Hon. Mr. DANDUBAND, from the coinmittee, reported that they h-ad made some
progress with the Bill, and asked leave to
sit again.
BANK ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading af Bill 78, an Act ta amend the
Bank Act.
Hbe said: The abject of these amendments
is to permit of loans being advanced by the
banks an the security of an)y crop to be
grown from seed grain upon which a loan
It is a new
may, have been made.
departure which is manifestly in the
interest of the farmer, that lie should have
the opportunity of invoking the assistance
of the banks in connection with this branch
of his iarming operatians. The Bill proposes that the bank should be enabled to
make advances on seed grain, and should
1
take a lien upon the standing crop.
miglit say that the security is taken by way
of hypothecation receipt. This subject has
been taken up with the banks, and the
The idea lias nat
banks approve of it.
originated witli the banks, but rather wvitli
those who have been advocating the
interests of the farmer.

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-We might insert
the yaords " durung any portion o-f the var
ai 1914-15."
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That might result ini a public abuse in this sense, that a
man might bring about his discharge, froan
-active service shortly after lie had entered
the service; in that case lie sho-uld not
enjoy ail the riglits and'privileges ai those
in active service.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-It is merely -an
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-4he great diffiextension of a principle which. is already
culty vill-Ibe found in the way you have in the Bank Act.
it.

MARCH 25, 1915

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-But the banka
are net bound te advance moneyP
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, th.y may
use discretion the same as they do in al
their transactions, but it makes a security
valid which is net now contemplated under
te Bank Act.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Doea this affect the
question of mortgages whicit a farmer may
have againat his propertyP Will he be put
ini any more favourabie position?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The lien upon
the crop of the seed grain upon which the
money has been advanced will take priority
of any mortgage on the property.
Hon. Mr. THOMSON-But only on the
grain?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Oiily on the
grain, net on the land itself, but sinipiy
on the crop.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-There should not
h. any objection te that, because, after ail,
the chattels on a man's farin may be
chattel mortgaged even if there is a mortgage on the farm.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-In Manitoba at
present it is custoinary for a person te
take a chattel mortgage on th. crop of seed
grain.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-We have that in
titis province; you can chattel mortgage
your gooda.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But lion, gentlemen will see that it will b. necessary te
give banks authority te de that, bûcause
under lte Bank Act they %vouldnet have
such authority.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Would the lien,
or chattel mortgage, b. recorded in Manitoba?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I do net think se.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-I understand a
lien given te the bank is net recorded?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I do net think they
are recorded in Manitoba for seed grain.
The motion- was agreed -te, and the Bill
was read the second time.

initte. on the Internai Ewomy and Contingent Accounts oyf the Senate.
He said: I ju8t wiah te Bay with respect
te this statement as te 'what is saved, that
the savings are effected without any sufbstantial diminution of the privileges of the
members or the officera of the House. The
eub-committee te whorn the question of
etationery was submittecl wenL very carefulliy
over the liaI cf goods ~furnished and did not
omit anyLh.ing frein the Bust tat oould b.
conaidered really stationery and as in any
sense necessary for the use of members
either when they returned tb their homes
or during their stay in Ottawa; so that the
saving, as is shown by tlb. report, wil
amount -te$3,578, without in any degre. interfering with the rights and priviieges of
the members or the advantages they have
beretofore enjoyed.
The motion was agreed t0.
ONTARIO BI-LINGUAL
QUESTION.

SCHOOL

DEBATE CONTINUED.

The Order of the Day being eaUled:
Reuumlng the further adJàurned debate on
the motion mnoved by the Honourable Mr. David.

ueconded by the Honourable Mr. Mcflugh:
This House% without derogating from tb1e
principie of provincial autonomy deemai it proper and within the limnite of Its powers and
Jurludiction and In pursuance cf the object for
wbich it was estabished. te regret the divisions
which aeem te exist among the people of the
province of Ontario ini connection wlth the
bi-lingual school question and believes that It
ia In the Interest of the Dominion at large that
ail uuch questions shouid be considered on fair
and patriotia Unes and settled in auch a way
as ta preserve peace and harmony between the
different national and religious sectior. of this
<'ountry, In accordance w1th the views of the
Fathers of Confederation, and wlth the spirit of
Our constitution.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-By permission the Hon. Senator Mason from Toronto will continue the debate.

Col. the Hon. Mr. MASON-I quite agree
with the lion. gentleman from Ottawa that
the discussion arising front the motion now
before the Houa. be treated ini a nonpartisan and non-political manner, but
-it will net be a matter of mucit
surprise te find the different argumenta
and statements contained in the discussion
of th. subi ect being made use of for election
CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS OF THE
purposes or during an election campaign.
SENATE.
Let us hope that this will. not b. the. case.
MOTION.
The motion before the House desires an
-Hon. Mr. POWER moved the adoption of expression of regret that divisions seem te
the Fourth Report of the Standing Gem- exiat among the people of the province of

SENATE

Ontario in comiection with the bi-lingual
school question, and that it would be ini
the interest of the Dominion at large that
the questions should be coneidered on f air
and patriotie limes and settled in a way ko
preserve peace ana harmony between the
different ýnational and religious sections of
the country. The. question -naturally arises
what are lte divisions referred to and in
what way -the peace and -harmony between
the different national and religious sections
of lte country are distuxlbed by theni. I
think it » ili be admitted that the troubles
and discords stated to exiet are confined
-entirely, or almost so, ko one demomination,
of which I arn a member, viz.: the Roman
Catholic, and the schools at which the
children of that denomination attend, that
is lte Roman Catholic Separate Schools and
the Public Schools where the majarity of
pupils are Roman Catholic. 1 think it
would have been much better if, before this
subject was brouglit before se important
and public a body as the Senate af Canada,
that peace and harmony could be brought
ta prevail among the aditerents of the
Churcit named, and that being accomplielied, any grievance such as .the motion before lte Houe points ko, could be presented with a united front; but while s0
mauch disunion and* difference of opinion
prevails aznong the*section of the people
thus affected, a settiement such as je desired by the motion would seei ke be ko
difficuît of accomplishment.
In order ko make clear what I have stated,
I would refer ini the firet place ta the trou.
bles prevailing in the eaetern section of
titis province of Ontario, and this I can
best do by quating froni the proceqdings of
the action at law called The Ottawa Separate Scitool Case, or the Roman Catholic
Separate Scitools of the c'ity of Ottawa. In
the statement of case of supporters af English. echools it is stated, and correotly, es
follows:
1. There are only two classes of
schools in Ontario public and separate.
2. For the purposes of thie case,
schools may be taken to mean Roman
aeparate schols,-that la ta say
achools

establlshed

and

prlmary
separate
Catholic
separate

maintalned for

mem-

achools. No class of persona then had any right
or privilege wlth respect te the -une of any ianguage other than Englleh ln these achools.
5. The British North America Act 1867,
section 93, provides as fallows:
In and for each province the Legislature xnay
excluslvely make laws in relation to education .ubject and accordlng to the followlng
provlslana-I shall quote only the firet:
1. Nothing in any uuch law ahail prejud1cially
affect any right or privilege wlth respect to
denominational schoola whlch any clam of persons have by law ln the province at the Union.

I shall now proceed to quote from th"
judgment of Hie Lordship Mr. Justice
Lennox in that action, delivered on the
28th cf November, 1914:
There are only two classes of vprlmary

sparate
achools ln Ontario, "public and
schools. IlPublic achool I or Ilseparate school I
s!mply Imports an English school. For convenlence the Departinent of Education annually
designate certain schools attended by Frenchspeaking pupils as Engllsh-French and theze
may be either public or separate achools. The
defendants, that la the board of trustees of
the Roman Cathollc separate achools of the
city of Ottawa, have under their charge 192
Poman Catholic separate achools. of which 116
are Engllsh-French.
The main issue ta be determlned ln this
action la the valldity or invalldlty of certain
provisions of the achool laws of Ontario, and
particu.arly of Instruction or Regulation No.
17. of the Department of Education, Issued ln
June, 1912, and Augiust 1913, 1 wlll dea! wlth
this issue firet.

His Lordship then-went on to deal with
what lie coneiders the main issue, and smns
up as follows regardmng it:
"The resuit la that the defendants have
wholly falled to show that Instruction or Regulation 17 of June 1912, or of August 1913
of the Department of Education for Ontario, or
the manner in whlch these Instructions have
bee.n or are belng admlnlstered by the department prejudlcially affect any rlght or privilege wlth respect ta denominational achooas
which the defendanta as a clqes of persons
had by law in the province at the Union; and
the result le; that lt dce flot appear that
these Instructions or the manner of their administratian of the utatutes on whlch they are
founded are ultra vires of the provincial
Legisiature. It follows, as a consequence of
course, that they muet b. obeyed. That they
have been flagrantly diaregarded. deflantly and
ostentatloualy repudlated and set at naught by
a majorlty of the Ottawa Separate School
Board, la not and could flot be denied. It wauld
serve no useful purpose ta partîcularize the
evidence of this. It la for the departmentthe law balng declared-to us that the. law la

bers of the Roman Cathollc denomination, hence
denomainatianal achoals.
obeyed."
3. Engllsh le the officiai language of the provStill quoting froni His Lordship's judgInce of Ontario, and the recognition of any
other language ln the primary schoals, ta the ment, hie says:
Impairment of Instruction in English, and the
The attachment of the French Canadian
detriment of these echools le an infringement
upon the conatitutional rights of English-speak- People, includlng the French spealdng trustees,
to their mother tongue le easly understoad, end
Ing supporters.
That ln
4. Roman Cathallc separate schoals es- is net ta he ruthlessly condemned.
tabllshed at the union were, in law, Engllsh ail sincerity they should concelve It ta b. an
lIon. Mr. MASON.

MARCH 25, 1915

Imperative.duty to guard what thcy regard au
right. 1 can weil umderatand. The maintenance
o: our religions righta in admittediy of paramnount Importance te us al The tense feeling
lnevltabiy engendcred by the discussion of a
dual language and i cvii consequences, la

Italien, Poilait or any ether language, well and
good, but It la absoluteiy Imperative that the
ground work ofthis education ehouid lie ln the
Unglish language."

While admitting the desirability and fairufortunately net a nevel phase of our national rins of the privileges given in the province
deveiopment. 1 should b. careful net to ac- of Quebea and the Parliamexit and the
centuate this unhappy strife. If Uic judgmcnt courts ol the Dominion for the use of the
I have Juat -pronounced in riglit, thc defendants
have ne just ground of complaint and I have F~rench language, I think it. je no harmn to
se dcclared. The tactbcs rcsertcdl to wcre un- go back to the Treaty of Paris, in order 10
fortunate and Iliegal and. I have cendemned show that these rights were not giyen at
ttem, They cannet lic too scverely condcmncd." that time, but have ince been acquired.
Continuing in connectien with this case,
The Treaty of Paris was signed in FebI ehail new quote fromn a letter addreeeed by ruary, 1763, and the following October King
the English trustees, six in number, bo the George ieeued a proclamation defining the
Hon. Mr. Hearst, Premier cf Ontario, and linmité of the new dependency (Canada), prethe Hen. Dr. Pyne, Minister ef Educatien scribing how it was to be governed and the
for Ontario, dated February 20, 1915. The conditions on which settiers could rely.
The royal proclamation declared:
letter begins as follows:«The meat imnportant question that the
*Ail persoa inhabltlng in, or resorting to,
Legialation of Ontario has te deai with this our said coiony, may confide ln our royal proiu that of the bu-lingual schoola.
year
tection for the enJeyment of the benefit of the
"At the lait election the Government adopted iaws or our realm of England."
as lit platform Uic putting Into force of ReThe proclamation instructs the Governor
gutation .17. The people ef Ontario wil naturaily expeet the fuifilment of that pledge. te constitute courts for trying cases, both
The agitation againet Regulation 17 in now civil and criminal, as near as mnay be agreewitlieut any, other basis than the desire that
Ontario, an English-speaking province, should able to the laws of England. There is not
bceme a bi-linguai province where Engish and a word in the proclamation modifying this
French wouid have equal footing. That ln thc assurance of English law to whomsoever
clearly defined and openly avowed poiicy of thc should settie in Canada, and not a word cf
affouente of Regulatton 17. AU the other &ru-

ments have cellapaed. The attempt te show
that Regulatien 17 waa againut thc natural
law has Ilkewise faiied. The naturai riglit of
Uic French child te learn English ln an
English province. and the natural rlght of Uic
English chlldren, Cathollc and Protestant in
hi-lingual districts te have an efficient Engiuh

any exception in f avour of the French Canadians. This proclamation of the King ie
nnqualified and absolute in plaeing Canada
under the samne conditions as Massachusetts
or New York.
In December, 1763, General Murray received hie appointaient as Governor of the
province of Quebec, with minute instructions
as to what hie was to do. The following were
the directions lie was te foilow in ecclesiastical affaire:

educatien would neceasitate Uic framing of
sme sucli regulation as Regulatien 17, were
that regulatien net ln existence.
Turning te the other end of the province
of Ontario, where bi-lingual achoole exibt,
that in in the county et Essex, I cannot do
"Anid whereas wc have stipulated, by the
bftter than quote from statements made by
the Roman Cathelic Bishop et the diocese late definitive treaty of peace, concluded at

Paria the lOth February, 1763. te grant the
ni which the county et Essex tonius a part. liberty ef thc Catholie religion to the Inhabitante of Canada, and that we will consequently
He states:
give the mont preci3e and mont effectuai
certain order that our new Roman Cathoilc subjecte ln
-That lie lias beeu assured that in
there are children that province may profe.. the worshlp of their
parts of thc county et Essex,
going te the public achois who are unable te religion according te the rites cf the Roman
speak the Engish language, and this three churcli, as far as the laws of Great Britain
generations atter their ancestoi's had arrlvcd permit: it le, therefore, our wiii and pleazure
Aasuredly ene couid se that you do, ln ail things regardlng tic sald
ln thia country.
nething more te prove that the teachlng of Inhabitants, contorm wli great exactness to
Engiish lhas bean conipleteiy negiected ameng the stipulations of the sald treaty in ts
the French Canadiane of this region."
respect"
Tyon are not te permit of ecclesiastlcal
Hie Lordship gives hie opinion as fellowe: juriedlction of Uic Bec of Rome, or any pther
forelgni ecclesiastlcal juriediction 1 whatsoever
"We belong te an Engish province..

"lWe live in an Engiili-speakling continent in the province under your Governmnent"

,wheré ail the chlldren. boys and girls alike,
In these instruct .ions there ie net a word
eheuld go out from the scheols te fadb thc
battle etflife armed therefor with the Engliali as 10 the French language, while as 10

language at whatever cost. If, moreever, they courts and laws, General Murray je advieed
are able te command ln addition, Frenchi,
8-12
REVISED EDITION

SENATE

ta copy those of other American colonies,
especially of Nova Scotia. These are the
facts of the treaty: (1) Tht French king
asked that the article of the treaty regarding religion read so as ta leave tht priesta
their old statua. (2) This tht British not
only refused, but instrted words to make
it clear tht pritats would only have tht
status allowed by -the English iaws then in
force. (3) To make tht matter more definite
an article was- includtd in tht treaty deciaring the French king muade over bis sut»
jects in Canada without restriction. <4) Foliowing tht treaty King George issued a
proclamation declaring English, law to be
the law oi Quebec. (5) Tht priesta recognized they posatsstd no longer tht statua
under tht French regime by not exacting
tithes or dues by law. (6) Tht instructions
to tht first Governor were that he was flot
ta permit any ecclesiasticai jurisdiction of
Rome in tht province, and was told tht intention wvas ta mnake tht Church of En-land its established church.
In the beginning of May, 1774, the British
Government without previous notice, laid
before the House o! Lords a Bill ta provide
for' better governiment of the province of
Quebec. It met with no opposition, and in
a fortnight was adopted and transmitted ta
tht House ,of Commons. It was a short
Bill, tmbodying three important enactments:
Restored !French iaw.
Reptaled test oaths sund invested tht
priesthood with authority ta ltvy tithes and
dues.
Provided that tht province be ruled by a
governor and nominated council.
Amendrueuts ta this Bill met with considtrahie opposition in tht House of Lords.
What were tht changes made hy this Act
which caused so much discussion? Tht
fifth is tht vital section, and reads:
"And for the more perfect securît>' and
esse of the mînda of tht inhabitants of tht
said province, it in hertby declared, that Mis
Majesty'a subjecta, protesaing tht religion of
the Church of Rome, and in said province of
Quebec, may have, hold and enjo>' tht fret
exerciae of tht religion of tht Cburch of Home,
subject to the Klng's supremac>'. and that the
Clerg>' of the said church ma>' hold, receive,
and enjo>' thelr accustomtd dues aud rights,
with respect to aucit persans only as shahl profeas tht sald religion."

The eigh¶.h runs thus:
I'That ail Hia Majesty's Canadian subjecta
within tht province ot Quebec, tht religious
ordera and communities ouI>' exctpted, may
aiso hold and eujoy their property and possessions, togethtr with ail customs and usages
Hou. Mr. MÀSON.

thereto. and ail other civil rights as may conaist with their alleglance to Hia Majesfty. and
subjeet to the Crown, and Farliament of
Great Britain; and that ln the mattera of contravers>', relative to property and civil rightz,
resort shall be had to tbe laws of Canada, as
the rule for the decision of the sme.-

What then do wé find? That neither the
treaty nior any of the Imperial documents
ha-s a single 'word about the French Ianguage. The assertion that its officiai use
was then guaranteed has flot a tittie of
evidence to rest upon.

Tht use of French as an officiai language
came gradually, and as circumstances from
time to time showed the necessity of it in
a country where it was the language of the
people and no other oongue could be then
understood by them, and the British North
Arnerica Act 1867, Clause 133, provides as
foilows:
IlEither the English or the French language
may be used by an>' person ln the debates of
the Housea of the Parliameiit of Canada and
of the Houses of the Legisiatures of Quebec;
and both those languages shall be used in the
respective records and journals of those Houss;
and either of those languages mnay be used by
an>' person or ln any pleading or process ln or
issuing from any court of Canada estabhished
under tisi Act, and ln or from ail or an>' of
the courts of Quebe-_
The Acta *of the Parliament of Canada and
of the Legialature of Quebec shall be printed
and published ln bath thos languagea."

Let us now turn to Regulation 17, which
is the document complained of. I 6hall
begin with section 3:
3. Subject, ln the case of tacit school, to
the direction and approval of the chief inspector, the following modifications shall aiso be
made ln the course of study of the public and
separate achoole:
The use of French for Instruction and
Communication.
(1) Where necessar>' ln thte case of Frenchspeaking pupils, French ma>' be used as the
language of Instruction and communication; but
such use of French shail not be contInued beyond form 1, cxcepting that, on the approvai
of tht chief inspector. it may also be used as
the language of Instruction and communicatior
ln the case of pupils beyond form 1 who are
unable t0 speak and underatand the English
language.
Special Course ln Enghish for French-Speaking
Pupils.
(2) In the case of F'rench-apeaking pupils
who art unable to speac and undtrstand the
Engliah language wtii enough for tht purposes
of instruetion and communication, the followlng
provision la hereby made:
<a) As soon as -the pupil entera tht achool ht
ahail begin tht atudy and the use 0f the English
lang-dàge.
(b) As soon as tht pupil bas acquired sutficient facilit>' in the use of tht Engiish hanguage he shahl take up ln that language the

MARCH 25, 1915
course of atudy as prescribed for the public i s meant-it would follow that many boys
and separate sehool.
ind girls brought up in the province of
French us a Subject of Btudy An Public
Jntario without acquiring. a knowledge of
and Separate Schois.
lhe English language wben grown up may
-4.
In the schoals where Prenci lhas hitherto eo to the United States, to where such a
the
been a subject of study. the Public or
Separate Sohool Board, as the case may be. nimber of our population gravitate, and
may provide, under the foUlling conditions., find themeelves at a distinct disadvantage
for Instruction ln Frenchi reading. grammar, without a knowledge of Englieh.
and composition in forma 1 ta IV (sec aisa
To furtMer illustrate the importance etprovision 'for forai V in public .chaol regulations 14 (5) ln addition ta the subjects pre- t~ached ta a knowledge of the English
wAcx*d for the publie and ueparate achools;j
lai uage, I may relate the following cir(1) Sucli Instruction in French may b. taken
only by puplis whose parents or guardians direct ,unlatancee:
I vas in the city of Havana me two
that tliey shall do no and inay, notwithatanding
above be given ln the French language.
or thrge yeara ago, and among the placsg
(2) Sucli lnstructon ln Frenchi shail flot lni- of interest I viîed vas u college for boys
terfere with the adequacy of the Instruction ln English, and the provision for sncb under the charge of thae Jesuit Order.
instruction ln Frenchi la the Urne-table of rhis college was founded emre 150 years
the achool shail be subject ta the approvai ago by a Spaaieh Queen.
It isa very
and direction of the chief Inspector and large and flourishing institution, .having
shail fiat ln any day exceed one hour in ecd
ome 4030 boys as pupils, reprasenting the
clans-room, except where the time la Increaaed
Liat families in the island o! Cuba. I
upan the order of the chief Inspector.
(3) Mrhere <as permitted above). French la a was told by one of the professors tha-t it
subject of ,tudy ln a public or a separate w.a.s well recognized that a kriowledge of
school, the text-books ln use durlng the. school the English language was considered essenyear of 1911-1912, in Frenchi readlng, grammar,
and composition remain authorized for use dur- Liai for success in business, and eo mueh
ing the school year of 1913-1914.
so thot the study of that laïnguage is made

It le contended *by those in sympathy
with the motioc that sufficient trne is not
given to the French pupil to receive the
necessary instructions in hie own tongue in
the time allotted. With this view I do not
agree, as in section 4 it le provided that
under certain circum-stances instruction in
French reading, grammar and composition
may be conducted in the French tongue in
forma 1 to 4, and that, wh'ile it je atated the
time limited for euch instruction cannot li
any day exceed one hiour in each claseroom, bear in mind it states-in each classroom-and should there be 'in the school
several class-rooms. then several hours
could be allowed, and in any event, should
the tirne so allotted not be considered sufficient, At may be increased on the order of
the chief. inspector; so that every due
allowance is made for the echools where of
necessity the pupils epeak the two Ianguages, Englieli and French, and the regulations are. intended to deal as fairly as
le possible with these cases in which it is
go difficuit to completely satisfy both aides.
It is generally conceded that the knowledge
of English le absolutely necessary for
succese in life oi residente in the province
of Ontario, and to send out a French boy
living in Ontario, without euch knowledge
ie placing upon him a severe handicap.
And, as His Lordehip the Bishop of London
go emphatical ly states, that this being an
English-speaking continent-North America
8---121

compulsory in the college.
Reference bas been made by some hion.
gentlemen in speaking to the motion, to
the fact thst in the present. var French
and Engldeh soldiers are fighting aide by
aide in the cause of liberty and civilization. I 'think lt no Ïharm, in faot, my
duty, to se>' in that connection, I believe
the present a mont inopportune time to
bring about a discussion which tnay resuit in widespread bitterness and il1feeling in -this country, and at a trne w-hen
le is so essential, that every element should
Lie in harmo.ny, es it will require our utmort efforts here in Canada -and -in every
other portion of, the British Empire to
bring ta -a -succeseful conclusion in the interests of 'humanity and of everything w.
asc a nation prize and hGld do3ar, thîs dreadfui wax; and I tru-st that -taking this into
consideration, if for no other reason, the
hion. gentlemen who introduoed -the motion
in-to ithis House will sec fit to withdraw it.
Before concluding my remarks, I should
likt to appeal to the. good sense of the
people of the. Roman Catholie denomination, French and Engluish, and more especialýly to the ecrgy, who could have no
higher duty, tD make every effort to put
.an end to the. unseemly contentions that
calot between them, and w.hich now have
becoine Mo public. No truer saying than
«"that a house divided againat itself, shail
fah." and iL dos not need a prophet, nor
the son of a prophet, ta ses that the end

SENATE

to, who has spoken just now, taking the
other side, contending that no iault is to
be found with the Ontario Gavernment and
that there is no substantial ground for coinplaint. This point of view does not appear
te be canfined to the English speaking
members af the church ta which 1 fbelong.
I find that a gentleman who occupies a
lion. Mr. POWER-I suppose 1 luight rather prominent position amangst the
be expected ta apologize ta the Houge fol Frenoch Canadians. of Ottawa, Mr. Vincent,
undertaking ta discuss the question that *18 has recently issued a pamphlet in which ho
now before it for the-reason that I have not undertakes ta defend the action of the Onmade myseli familiar with the proceedings tario Government. 1 think we should be
that have taken place in connection with very slow, finding there is euch a diveraity
-the question on which the motion made iby of opinion, ta umdertake ta interpose in the
-the hon. ,gentleman fi-rn Mille les and discussion. ta express an opinion one way
the amendment moved by the bon. gentie- or the other. As ta the merits of the quesman froni Lauzon are based; but if hion. tion, I do not knaw about the exact rigbts
gentlemen will consider a littie they will or wrongs; but I know there are differences
see that perhaps the 'fact that I do not of opinion even ornongst the inembers of
know much of the details af the diffieul- the church ta whiich I belong. Some
ties -is rather an advantage ta one looking speeches delivered here-and I might speciat it f rom the point of view of a mfemfber ally perhaps refer ta the speeches delivered
of this House than otherwise. I think it .by the *hion. gentleman froin De Lorimier,
only right ta say that the hion. gentleman and the hon. gentleman from Toronto, and
froni Mille Iles and the lion- gentleman particularly that af the hion. gentleman froin
irom Victoria, and the other hion. gentle- De Lorimier-are speeches rwhich ~might
mon who have advocated the resolution and very well have been del-ivered in the Legislative Assembly. of Ontario, but are net
the amendaientHon.Mr.CLORN-Ihavenotdonsso.speeches wbich we should 'he called. upon
Hon.Mr.CLORN-1havenetdonese.to listen te in this Hause. The point is
Hon. Mr. POWER-I refer ta the hion. that the subject af educatian is a purely
gentleman froin Victoria, Ontario; perhaps provincial question, and if we are ta have
I shbuld say the hon. gentleman froin harmony and good-witl ini this Dominion
Lindsay-and the lion, gentlemen whio suc- that end can be obtained oanly *by each
ceedod theni, speaking in faveur of the power. each autbority in the Dominion keepresohition. Their language was moderato, ing within its awn jurisdiction and not
and no 'fault courld be found with what undetaking ta trespass upon the jurisdicethey said; but as the discussion progressed tien of other authorities, however good aur
the. general, and an. may say the senatorial intentions may bie; and there is no doulit
character ai the discussion tended te dis- but that the intentions ai the hon. 'gentleappear, and we gat.into details, and rather man from Mille Iles were ai the very best.
strong things have been said, particularly Any one irbo kno.ws the hon. gentleman
in advocasy ai the resalution and the will admit that his intentions are always
amendment. I may say now that befare the for the public good. I .must say, however,
matter came into this House, and shortly that I was somewhat surprised that the
alter it came here, my o'wn feeling, althougb lion. gentleman, who is above ahl things an
not knowing much about the details and advocate af provincial rights, sbould have
merita ai the differences between the variaus stood up ini this Ohamber and undertaken
parties, was that the rEgulation made by ta ask the Senate ta express an opinion an
the Ontsnio Department o'! Education was a siibject wh*ich is completely out ai aur
penhaps on the whole somewhbat drastic jurisdiction and which ibelongs ta the provand one 'which might have been moderated ince. If the Governinent or Legislature ai
with advantage ta al concerned; and I Ontario had asked for an expression af
may gay that my opinion on that point, opinion from the Senate on this question,
while not as strong es it was, has nat beeri then this discussion might bu well enough;
altered. One reason why my opinion is but they have not, and not only have they
nat as strong as it wvas is tbat we have had nlt. asked for the introduction af the subhere on the floor ai this House hon. gentle- ject here, but they resent it and abject ta
uten, -like tbe hon. gentleman froin South l it; and they are in the right, and we are
Bruce, and the hon. gentleman froin Toron- 1putting ourselves in the wvrongc if we underof this estrife will be most disastrous. A
weakening of the faith, beginning with the
chaldren, who are being scandalized, and
to more than likely destroy the efficiency
of 4Mie separate schools, and s0 probably
put en -end te en inetitution they have sa
strenùously 6triven for.

Hon. Mr. MASON.

MARCH 25, 1915

take to interfere. 'The only effect of our
interfering-and I think that effect has
been already feit to a very considerable
extent-.is that instead of peace and barmôny: being promoted, the two parties are
becoming more intense and determined
in their respective attitudes; and thje
longer the subjeet is discussed the more
pronounced will become the attitudes on
both aides. The Legislature of Ontario and
the Goverument of Ontario are not likely
tb-take advice from us, and then the Senate
will be in the position of having interfered
in a quarrel. where its interference was flot
asked, and where it had no right to interfere. Now I glo flot think that that is a
position that the Senate should put itself
in. Then I might say one or two words
about the course adopted by the gentlemen
who complain of this Regulation 17. 1 do
not undertake to defend Regulation 17. My
own impression is that that regulation
migaht be modified in the interests of the
French-speaking people, withi great advanAs to that I
tage to the whole country.
agree with the hon. gentlemen wbo have
supported the resolution and aiendiment;
but it must be remembered that we
Catholica are in the minority, and that we
should at any rate act in such a way as
flot to antagonize or irritate the majority.
Looking at the question from that standpoint, 1 think that the gentlemen who are
protesting against this regulation and
resisting it have adopted an injudicicus
course. The separate school law of Ontario
bas been in operation for a good many
years. It was first introduced in 1863 by
the hon. gentleman wvho formerly led this
House, the Hon. Sir Richard Scott.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
was flot the origin of it; that was an
amendment to the law as it then stood on
the statute book.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hion. gentleman
knows a great deal better than I do what
took place. but I know that the Act of 1863
was the one that was generally spoken of.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Quite
30.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I know that wberever
any reasonable request for. an amendment
of the law, and its improvement from the
point of view of the Catholics, bas been
made, the Government of the province bas
always shown a disposition to meet the
views of the Catholic minority.
Hon. *Mr. CLORAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Now, that la the position; and that being the position. wben
this Regulation 17 waa pasaed, and it was
not satisfaotory to a large section of the
Roman Catbolics of Ontario, wbat would
ourse of the
the reasona.be and proper -persons 'who feit themselves aggrieved have
be6n? Was their proper course to act as
ihey did- to refuse to obey tbe law, t0 ire!use te admit tbe inspectora into Iheir
3chools, and to set the law of tbe province
at defianceP That vas not the line 10 take.
1 think, and I humbIy submit, that the Unme
1hat sensible people, people without strong
prejudices, -would have taken. would Ve to
accept bbe law, obey the law, and Iben
point out to the Government of Ontario
just how they laboured under a grievance
with respect 10oIbis question of the Frendb
lauguage. If the French speaking people
bad taken thal lin. instead of disobeying
the law and resiating the officers of the
law, i arn satisfied that before tbis lime tb.
wbole malter would probably have beoen
settled in a way aatisfactory 10 ail concerned.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Will tbe hon. gentleman allow me 10 ask hlm tbis question:
Are we 10 undersland from bis stateanent
that hie pretends that no representations of
that kind *were made to tbe Ontario GovernmentP
Hon. Mr. POWER-I can not pretend to
anything that I do mot know, but I know
tbisHon. Mr. BELCOURT-The bon. gentlemanm should net make tb. statement then.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I knuw that coinplaints made against tbe action of the Gevernuient bave beeu discussed to a very considerable .extent; but I -have neyer seen
anywbere a stalement showing that there
had been a respeobful and persistent effort
.made on bebalf of t~he French-spekiflg
people le tbc Government or Legisiature of
Ontario.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Although, as I say, 1
do flot know much of the details of the
difficulties.between the Ontario Department
of Education and some of the people who
come under their juriadiction, I know this,
that since the year 1867 the Government oi
Ontario have administered the separate
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-If my hon. friend
school law in a fair and generous spirit.
a dozen of bbem
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-H1ear, wishes il I wiii put haîf
before hlm.
hear.

SENATE
.Hon. Mr. POWER-Well1 those thinga have ously with the Protestant minority there
not made their way before tise public; they did not see its way at once to make the
change, would any hon. gentleman feel
have been kept carefully concealed.
that this Senate 'wae justified in interter.Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Oh, no, not con- ing on behaif of the English-speaking mincealed.
ority in Québec? I think not, and 1 amn
les
Hon. Mr. POWER-Perhaps the hbon. satisfied ths.t my lion. friend from Mille
will alow me ta go on. The and the hon. gentleman f rom De Salaberry
gentleman
their déclarabon. gentleman is a party ta this d.ifficulty, would lie quite emphatic ini
to infriaige
and I do not think-if I may lie allowed Wa tion that we were attempting
rights. I suppose I have
say so-that lie approaches thse question in upon provincialtoo long.
littie
that spirit of aloofness which sbould char- talked a
acterize a isenaWor in dealing with this quesHon.- Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
tion.
no.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-l only want the
Hon. Mr. POWER-The resolution aibon. gentleman tW state thse case faîrly.
though couched in very moderate language
Hon. Mr. POWEB-No matter what an- does not satisfy me; neither does the
swer thse Government of Ontario may -have amendment moved by the hon. gentleman
made Wa the first application-I assume from Lauzon. That ametidment, while it
froin what thse bon. gentleman says that is stili more moderate in language than the
there was an application made-but even original resolution, is simply substantially
the saine thing. When those two resoluif the first application is nýottions are taken in connection with thse
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-There ivere doz- speeches miade in support of thein, you will
ens.
find that it is all the samne thing--it is
just this difficuity which bas arisen in the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-From whom?
city of Otitawa; substantially that is what
Hon. Mr. POWER-I can-not undertake ail the trouble is about. Therefore, I move
Wa contradict thse bon. gentleman 'wben lie to amend the amendmient- sa tbat it wili
says there were dozens of applications read this way:
made.
This House, while It belUeves that It la In
the Interest of the Domninion at large that ail
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT--So there were.
questions as to which divisions exlmt among
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is very remarkable that the characters of these applications have been- kept se carefully concealed. I should add that the resuits of
tise.action that bas been already taken in
thse Senate and thse speeches that have been
made are not sunob as we cati comgratuiate
ourselves upon. We bave eimply strengthened the sentiment of hostility whicb exists in parts of the -province of Ontario towards our French fellow-citizens, and on
the other isand. we have intensified thse
feeling of hostility Wathe English..speaking
people of Ontario wbich begins to exist
jamongst thse people of Quebec; I think
tisese resuits are just the reverse of tise
results that the hon. gentleman from Mille
les wished to -bring about. Before sitting
down I shouki like to put this question:
suppose that in tise province of Québec
thse Protestant minority wished tW have
rame change made in the law witis respeot
to the taxes paid by corporations, and
an application was made to the Government of Québec Wa make a change ini that
respect, and that thse Government cl Que.bec, -whîch has always dealt very generHon. Mr. BELCOURT.

the people of any province should be considered
on fair and patriotic Unes and settied. in .uch
a way as to promete peace and harmony between the different racial and religlous elements
of the population, la of opinion that inasmnuch
as the subject of education lis one of those by
the British North Ainerica Act, 1867, comnmitted to the provinces, any suggestion volunteered by the Senate as to, the manner in
which any province should exercise those powers
would be contrary to the spirit of the constitu-

tion and calculated to intensify and extend any
divisions of feeling that now exist
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I think
we should have a littie time Wa consider
the amendment which has been proposed by
the hon. member from Halifax, and, therefore, I move that the debate be adjourned
until -Tuesday next, second sittîng of thse
Honse (if two sittinga are held on that day),
to be the first order of the day after third
readings. I have been requested tW make
this motion.
The motion was agreed ta.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (75), An Act tW amend the Customs tariff. 1907.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.

MARCH 26, 1915
.Bial (79), An Act to authorize certain should like to know what the leader of the
ie as folextension of time to insui'ance companies.- House thinks of it. The -article
love z
Hon. Mr. Lougheed.

31r. Vincentsa Outhurat.
Undoubtedly'the mont amnazing production of
lit lcind yet isaued in Ottawa or anywhere in
Canada, for that matter.'la the effusion Intended
to make the provincial blUngual dispute a
federal iffair by a civil servant. Mr. J. U. Vincent, recently appointed Deputy, Minter of Inland Revenue ais a reward for services to the
Tory party in the past The Citizen bas no
desire and no need to talc. part in the controversy regarding bilinguàaism in this province,
but the tact that a Vaid olticial may so far violato ail the traditions et the civil service and
participate lni a violent political harangue 15l
too redoient of certalh phases of Tamzmny ruie
and corrupyt polities in the Ulnited States to pasis
unzoticed. It ln, we think, an unprecoented
occurrence and it ta inconcelvable that this salaried servant of ail the people should presume
THE SIENÂTE.
to actively engage ln politics and to assist his
own pollitical masters ln a violent and objectionFriday, March 26, 1915.
able t.tack on political opponents without being
price of his presumption.
prepared
SPEAKER tooli the Chair at Three The peopIletoof pay the Liberal and Conservative,
The
Canada.
0'clock.
art, fot paying Mr. Vincent's salary for hie
political partisanship. nor are they disPosed to
.Prayers and routine proceedings.
permit him to participate ln snch outbursts as

FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
'Bill (Z), An Act for the relief o! Thos.
Batin Harries-Hon. Mr. Talbot.
1Bill <A-l), An Act for the relief of William
John Owen Deianey.-Hon. Mr. Talbot.
Bill (B-1»), An Act for- the relief of Editli
May Webster Boydell.-Hon. Mr. Taylor.
Bill (C-1), An Act for the relief of Williami
Robert Delaney.-Hon. Mr. DeVeber.
The Senate adjouruied until t.o-morrav at
three o'clock.

now characterize hlm without asklng that; ho
.PURCHASE 0F TORPEDOES FOR SUB- disassociate himseif from the pay-roli of the
country.
MARINES.
I ahould like ta know what the GaveraINQUIRY.
ment intend ta do willi Mr. Vincent, and. il
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY inquired of the they approve cf bis politicai pamphlet reG'overnment:
garding the bilingual achool question in
.1. How many torpedoes did the Government Ontario. Io lie ta b. suspended frcm the
receive with the submnarines purchsid by Sir public service, -or wiii the payaient of ii
Richard McBride?
be suspende&?
Government a supply of torpedoes salary

2. Had the
at Esquimaît, suitable for use by submarines.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Government
ln Auguat, 1914?
were they of a size and make that is not et ai avare of vhat Mr. Vincent àe
3. If so,
they could tpe used by the mubmarines purcliased doing, outside of hie officiai duties, and

ln August by the Government?

has no opinion wheatever en the subject.
snswers furHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tha
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Would the hon.
nished by the Government are as fllovs: gentleman fbe good enough ta ask Mr. Vin1. The Government does not consider it cent's chie!, Mr. Blondin, if lie approves of
advisable et the present time to publish this political partisanship of bis deputyP
information concerning the -armament o!
The SPEAKER-Orders cf the Day.
the submarines on the Pacifie coast of Canada.
THIRD READINGE.
2 and 3. Ansvered by No. 1.
The hon. gentleman viii appreciate the
Bill (K), An Act respecting the patent of
situation.
John Millen and Sons. Limited.-Hon. Mr.
Derbyshire.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-Certainly.
Bill (44), An Act respecting certain patCIVIL SERVICE AND THE BIL1j'ýGUAL ents of the Lohmann Company.-Hon. Mr.
Derbyshire.
BCHOOL QUESTION.
Bill (49), An Act respecting the Calgary
0F ]PRIVILEGE.
QUESTION
and Fernie BailWay Company.-Hon. Mr.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I should l1ke to De Veber.
Bill (50), An Act respecting the Cancahil the attention of the -bon. leader o! the
in the Ottawa Morning adian Western Bailway Company.-Hon.
House to an article
Citizen headed «'Mr. Vincent's Outburst." Mr. Watson.
Bi (52), An Act respecting the MonThe Citizen is a good Tory paper. and I

SENATE
T

treal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal 0Cm- a'large number of Ithe eider membere are
passing away and their familles become enpany.--Hon. Mr. Casgrain.
Bill (54), An Act respecting the Toronto titled to receive the benefita proanised in
Terminails Railway Company.-Hon. Mr. their endowment certificates, it appears
that the association would, be practically
Kerr.
Bill (60), An Act to incorporate Ent- insdlvent if it had te ment them in full and
wistle and Alberta Southern Rail-way Ccxn- an Act was passed iast year in order teo
prevent that very undesirable consummapany.-Hon. Mr. Pope.
Bill (61), An Act respecting the Simce, tion Ïbeing reached. Under that Act, the
Grey and Bruce Railway Company.-Hon. rates were increased. It appears that tbis
Act of hast year, 'while aatigfactory to meinMr. Taylor.
Bill (65), An Act respecting the Toronto, bers who are now jocining thse association,
Hamilton and Buffalo Rsilway Cern- or -have joined it recently, ir looked upon
as embodying a grievance on the part of
pany-Hon. Mr. Taylor..
Bill (51), An Act respecting the Kettie memfbers who have been paying assessrnents
that some of the
Valley Railway Company.-Hon. Mr. Bor- for many years. It ses
older members are not able te ç>ay the adtock.
Bill (55). An Act to incorporate Fraser vanced rates, and consequently wouid lose
Valley Railway Ç2cmpany -Hon. Mr. Bos- the money they have paid in asgessments,
and receive nothing in return. Some of
t.ock
t!hen> have been paying for thirty years,
CATHOLTO MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSO- and are in danger of losing everything they
have contributed te the association. As I
CIATION BILL.
understand. the object of this Bill is te
READING.
SEOND
provide for a re-consideration of that feaHon. Mr. MoSWEENEY moved the second ture of the scheme. The matter is to be
reading of Bill (Y), An Act respecting the reconsidered at a generai meeting cf the asGrand Council of the Oatholic Mutual sociation. As to the menits cf the Vhing I
Benefit Association of Canada.
do not know anything.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-This Bill is not
Hon. Mn. MeSWEENEY-I saw Mr. Hacprinted in either language, and I should kett, who in a leading member-I think prelike to know why this legisiation je sought. sident--of the Catholie Mutual Benefit Asin quite willing te have
Hon. Mr. MeSWEENEY-My objeet ir to soc-iation, and he
and dismove the second reading now; the Bill wil this Bill referned te the committee
if lhe was satiefied the
be explained at the meeting of the Banking cussed. I thoughtsatisfied.
House should- be
and Commerce Committoee.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-If the hon. genHon. Mr. THOMPSON-The Senate should tlemnen will read the petition they will find
explanation of this Bill before that the BilI as.ks juet what bas been said
have some
allo'wing it te be read t.he second time. In- by the hon. gentleman from Halifax. If the
cidentally, I uxiderstand. A is intended to Bill in te be explained 'before the Bauking
stultify legislation of last session on which and Commerce Committee, we ougbt teo be
a great deal of time and attention was b
satisfied te let it be read the second time
stowed by the committee. The Senate now, and referred to that committee, where
should know the facts with reference to this it van be prope-ly deait with. I may say
sending it to a ccmmittee. If I arn not I arn a niember o! that association, and I
wrongly informed an explanation would be tlîink the asseesment is more than double
in order from some memJber of the Senate what it should be.
who understands the Bill.
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-I agree with the
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-That informa- hon. gentleman from Halifax as far as he
tion will :be furnished Iby th,- 1%wvers who goes. This Bill embodies a wrong principle.
'will appear before the committee whiéh wil Last year a Bill was passed by the Banking
disecuss the Bill.
and Commerce Committee, reported to the
Hon. Mr. POWER-The House in en- House and subsequenthy passed. The Act
titled to some explanation at the second o! hast yearwas the resuit cf a convention
reading of the Bill. As I understand the held nearly three years ago when the grand
position, this Mutual Benefit Association, trustees of the order were authorized te get
like the Foresters and some other fraternal leg-isiation enabling them. te put the society
associations, started. i with a very low rate in a position of solvency, and rescue them
of assessment on the members. Now, when frein the position in which the seciety had
-Hon.

Mr. WATSON.

MARCH 26, 1915

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-What my hon.
been placed by the action of the members
who are now scrambling for redrese. The friend said ie about correct, except on one
îsociety allowed matters -ta go along, con- point, and it ie this: when the trustees
vention after convention, until the Ineur- were empowered ta raise the asseesments,
ance D)epartment taok a hand and tald the the rate of assessment had not been deWhen
trustees that they muet do eomething ta cided; it was left ta themeelves.
make their rates adequate and provide they obtained permission ta corne before
againet inàolvency. As a result, the trustees the House last year, with the consent of
taid
cf the eaciety employed an actuary of their the last convention, the members were they
se much as
own, and he, in conjunction with the Gov- that. they would not ask for amendment they
ernment actuary cf insurance, made out the are demanding now. Thethan je necessary.
asking now is more
schedule- of rates that was ta be put into are not inciined ta favour the Bill at firet
I arn
force, as a resuit cf the measure we passed sight. but 1 should like ta hear the matter
lait year giving them this power. Lest debated before the Banking and Commerce
year the question was fully discussed and C.ommittee, and if those wha say the asseesrepresentatione were made by the saine nmente are too high can prove it, I shall
people who are now clernouring for tbis vote for them. But in order ta sétisfy these
measure. An attempt was made ta incor- people, members of my court, for instance,
porate an amendaient in the legiclation of are assessed more than double the rate
lest year ta accomplish what this Bill je they should pay, and they are dropping out,
designed ta do. I was present et the meet- becauee they cannot pay the asseesment,
ing cf the committee, and therefore know and we are defrauded by the actiou off the
ail the circum stances, as do some of the court. We were taid that the increase of
other gentlemen who have just spoken. It rates would be about 25 per cent, and now
was made clear by the representative of the it ie more than 60 per cent additional. If
trustees, and aiea of the insurance inspecter it is proven before the committee that the
of Canada, that sncb an amendment would assessment je neceseary ta keep the -order
be doing injustice te the mien who are now in goad standing, I shahl faveur it; but if it
paying adequate rates. If the condition of should be proven that the trustees have
insolvency had been allowed ta continue more than doubled- the necessary asseseany longer, not only would every member mente, the committee should protect the
have suffered, but tbe order would have rights of the oid members.
been unable ta perpetuate itseif. Every
Hon.- Mr. MURPHY-This matter has
year put them more in the bale. That is
the reason why the Bill of last year was re- been fully considered by capable actuaries
ported without that amendaient and passed of the higheet standing in Canada and the
by the House. Now the aid members came United States, and aiea actuaries in behaif
and ask us ta accept the amendment whichi af the Insuranoe Department, and ail f>hee
agreement.
was rejected lest year. I do not think there actuaries are in complete
for this Bill. It would only Layrnen, therefore, are not in a position ta
is any necessity
have the effect of making their position say whether the increased rates are right
worse from month ta month, and rendering or not.
it increasingly difficuit ta eiut them on a
Hon. Mr. DONNELLY-Not being a
solvent basic, where tbey shouid have been member of the order, I arn not as familier
put fitteen years ega. I pointed out ta three withi the details as the hion. gentleman who
conventions o! the Cathoic Mutuel Benefit bas juet spoken, but I have received corAssociation what would be the recuit cf con- respondence from members of the order in
tinuing inedequate rates, I pointed out thet whose judgment. I place very great 0on1I
they muet inevitabiy become defaulters. But dence, asking me ta support the Bill.
the parties wbo are behind this measure fully agree with the hon. gentleman froni
etood up in the conventions and talked ta Halifax that the original aseesernent was
the members against a reasonable ireese, nat high enough. It was necessary that it
That was admitted by al
and hon. gentlemen know how much can be increased.
be done by persuasive speaker. when they members of the order, but the ground taken
are talking to 400 or 500 men who know by those who seek this amendment is that
nothing about the merits of the question. I they have not been properly equalized in
A new set of assessments
feel like inoving the six monthe' baist, but the increase.
perhaps it would be ac weli ta let it go ta was levied, and the members were notified
the Banking and Commerce Committee, and that they wouid take effect in December
last. but se strong was the feeling against
hear bath cides.

SENATE

the new set of assessments, that the Grand
Couneil decided not to put thema into -effect
The members who are prountil June.
moting tbhe Bill desire that they shall not
go into eff ect until there has been a general
meeting of the society, in order that the
matter may be thoroughly discussed. I amn
not prepared to discuss the matter fully aI
the present, but I should like to have it go
before the oommittee, so that the prompters
of the measure wil have -au opportunity to
place the matter 'before the committee.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-I have a letter
froin the secretary of this society in our
town. and he asked me not to let this legislation go through until the annuai convention, when this matter can be brought
up and discussed fully, and at another
session a proper Bill can be brougbt in to
nieet the views of ail.
.Hon. Mr. POWER-It would be pretty
bard to draw a Bill of that kind.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-This matter Of
mutua:l association is a deep and grave
one. It is deep because sa many of these
societies are desîgned to bring in members
of the commumity, especially working peopie, and therefore these matters shouid be
carefuily considered. The object of Ihese
societies is one that commends itself 10 ail
families, but especially ta widows and
orphans. It appeals 10 the human sentiments. If these associations were conducted in the interest of the children sud
wives of their members, they wouid be
mutual benefit organizations., Some mnen
are led into them because of the protection they promise for the widow and the
orphans. In my yaung days I vas a. very
strong advocate of those mutual benefit
societies, on the ground that the benefits
accrued ta the orphan and the widow, and
not 10 the officers in charge of such institutions. What has been the resuit of my
experience and of my observation in regard to these societies? That a large
amount ai money contributed by the poor
working manl and the clerk for the protection of the orphans and the widow, did nat
go ta them, but vent largely ta the afficers
ai the institution. I was an observer and
a payer at the same time, and I found that
the money contributed by the members ai
any ai these organizalians went iargely ta
officehalders, ta caver the cast ai conventions, and ta useless expenses. The resuit
is, and the resuit bas been, that special
assessments had to be collected and exacted
irom members ta meet these extra expendHon. Mr. DONNELLY.

itures for professional. purposes. The resuit wvas after being a member of thee
associations for years, such as the Independent Order af Foresters and Catholic
Mutual Benefit Association and other
orders, that I dropped out, and I think I
acted wisely. It cost me several thousand
dollars ta belong to them for several years.
Hon. Mr. TESSIER-Did the hon. gentleman lase the money?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I took chances, but
they had a hundred chances against mine.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-The hon. member is not dead yet.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Not dead yet.
Hon. Mr. TESSIER-Was the maney
lost?
Han. Mr. CLORÂN-The money is al
gone. In dealing with tbis question we
niust be very careful in accaling to the
demands of the officers af the association,
which are principally directed for their
own self-interest and seli-aggrandizement,
and not for the interesîs of the members
and the arphans and widows. That has
been my experience, and I am one of the
people who held. 10 these mutuai benefit
societies, until I found out what- they
amounted ta. Take the Independent Order
ot Foresters of which I was a member;
when I found th at the officera, the secretary, the treasurer, the president and
other officiais were paid salaries of four,
five. eight or ten thousand a year, I came
ta the conclusion that Ihere %as no good
purpose served by keeping up my assessmients-Ihat it was sixnpiy providing iunds
that I had supposed were mntended for the
protection ai widows and orphans, ta pay
big salaries ta the officiais of the order.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I do not think
it is fair, in discussing a measure of this
kînd, for my hon. friend to abuse the
Cathoic Mutual Benefit Association or the
Independent Order o! Foresters, sud I appeai to his spirit ai justice not ta speak
harshly without proof. Il is nat correct
either.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I i ully appreciate the
abjection made by the hon. senator, I ain
making no attack, I am simply makinga
observations which have cost me maney,
and which have cost other people nioney.
AUl these associations are spendîng money
on themselves and thir conventions and
other inutilities, instead of spending it on
the widows sud orphaus for vhose protec-

MARCH 26, 1915

CANADA GRAIN ACT AMENDMENT
tion the funds are collected. That ie a
BILL.
direct charge.
THIRD RtEADING.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-That is not corThe House resolved iteelf into a Commitrect.
tee of the Whole on 'Bill (S), An Act to
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That ie one of the amend the Canada Grain Act..
reasons why I left the organization. I amn
(In the Committee.)
entitled to, ry opinion and my opinion is
based on money.
1
On clause 1:
on facts.
1. Section 27 of the CanÉda«Grain Act, chapHon. Mr. McSWEENEY-And
ter 27 of the utatutes of 1912, la amended by
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The point ie that adding thereto the following subsection:
«2. Such certiticate shallbe In ail cases, prima
these organizationsfadie evidence of the facts thoeein cointained."
The SPEAKER-What is the motion beHon.'Mr. BOSTOCK-CaiI the hon. leader
fore the Chair?
of the Government tell ne what the arrangeHon. Mr. CLORAN-I want to know froin ment is at the present tinie? As I underthe Speaker what is before the Chair.
stand this clause, it je that the certificate
evidence without
is to suspend will now be accepted as
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-It
any proof.
certain rules.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As prima facie
The SPEAKER-Does the lion. gentleman
for
the Bill read a evidence. Section 27 makes provision promake the motion to have
issuance of thie certificate. There je no
second time?
vision in the law whereby the certificate
Hon. Mr. MeW~EENEY-Yes.
should be accepted as prima facie evidence
I of its contents. It is, therefore, desirable
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Then supposing
the effect of
do not want it read now, would I be in to declare that it should have
being prima facie evidence. of what is conorder?
taîned therein. 0f course, the onus can be
The SPEAKER-Yes.
shifted by the other side in impeaching the
CLORkN-Before the Bill goes saine.
Hon. Mr.
to committee, I want to place before the
The clause wae adopted.
House my observations as to how these
On clause 2:
mutual benefit societies conduct their
2. Subsection 4 of section 126 of the uaid
affaire. Firet they induced me, as a young
21 of
by section 9 of
man of 22 or 25, te go into the organization. Act, as enacted 1913, ln repealed chapter
and the foiI had to pay ten or twelve dollars a year on the atatutes of
lowing in substituted therefor:
a benefit certificate of one thousand dollars.
Il4. No grain &hall leave a terminal elevator
for five years. The wlthout being oiciaily weighed. and the offiI arn in the associatiorn
be conclusive
firet thing I know, inetead of paying ten or cial certificate of weight shahlgrain-"
twelve dollars a year on a thousand of in- evidence of the weight 0f such
surance, eome convention increases the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Thî5 amendment
rate to fifteen dollars a year. Then I pay ie self-explanatory, and I think my hon.
my fifteen dollars. Three or four yeare friend will observe that it is very desirable
afterwards the expenses of the organization that such grain, before leaving the elevator,
have se increased that I have to pay twenty should be offlcially weighed, and -having
dollars on a thousand. At the end of an- been officially weighed and the neceseary
other five years the expenees of the -asso- documente issued, the logical conclusion
ciation are so increased that I have* to pay should be that the contents of that certifitwenty-five dollars a year inetead of ten dol- cate ehould be conclusive evidence as to the
lars. 1 wae inv'eigled into the association weight.
on the ground that ali I would have to pay
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Does this apply to
would be ten dollars a year on a thousand
of insurance. That je a 1fraud on the public aIl terminal elevators, or simply to the
and should not be tolerated. These facts Government terminal elevators?'
should be laid before the Banking and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-AhI terminal
Commerce Committee.
elevat0rB.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bull
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Government and alP
was read the second time.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes; the section
we amend reads as follows:
No 'grain shall leave a terminal .elevator
wlthout belng offtela-IIy welg#ed.
Now 'we re peal that and go further, and
require the grain to be weighed, and then
we provide that the officiai certificate of
weight should be conclusive evidence of the
weight of such grain, so as to dispense 'with
the necessity of calling those'who weighed
thé grain to give parole' evidence as to
weight. Once they have issued the certificate, of course the logical conclusion is that
it would be conclusive evidence of that
weight.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-Hon. gentlemen will
remember that during the passing of this
Grain Act, and in recent years in Canada,
there bas been a great deal of complaint
about the weighing of grain and the shortages at this end of the lake passage. Will
thîs certificate be conclusive evidence? Will
a vessel owner taking a load of grain from
the elevator be able to prove that hie took
on so much grain, and can lie be compelled
to deliver that amount?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, it should be
-conclusive evidence once the grain is
weighed out at the terminal elevator and
the certificate issued; that is conclusive
evidence of the weight of the grain.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-It seems to me there
should be some facilities for the shipper te
test the weight of the grain.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tlie opportunity
is given them te check the weight of the
grain at the time it is weighed.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL, from the Committee,
reported the Bill without amendment.
The Bill was then read the third time, and
passed.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The first' amendment proposes to make provisioa whereby
violators of the Act should be liable to suinmary conviction instead cf indictment.
This makes the procedure more simple, and
enables prosecutions to be made before a
magistrate, when a minimum fine of S25 is
to be imposed. Heretofore the minimum
fine was at the discretion of the cour&.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-There is no other
alteration to section 13?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Of course none
outside the Bill. We repeal the former section 13, also 14 and 15, and the explanatiofle
I have made apply likewise to section 14.
Section 15 of the Act at present requires
that:
Every article ln which conviction under the
Act la had shall be broken or defaced.
The proposed amendments require that
1
the metal should revert to the Crown.
.think this information will cover those
three sections.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-This is very drastic legisiation, although the changes evidently are made so as to more readily rach
offenders and not leave to the court discretion as to the nature of the fine. I do
not know whether the terni «dealer" would
refer to every littie country store that sells
small articles of jewellery, and that a man
would be fined $25, though not knowingly
or willingly committing an infraction of the
Act. Perhaps there is another definition
of "dealer."
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend's
definition of dealer is substantially correct,
but hie will appreciate the fact that if we
did not include the retail merchant-and
including the retail merchant it is impossible to establish the extent of business
lie may do--it would be impossible to enforce the Act. A dealer is defined by the
Act as follows:

Dealer means any person who la a manufacGOLD AND SILVER MARKING ACT, 1913, turer of or a seller of or a dealer in, whether
AMENDMENT BILL.
by wholesale or reta4il, any article to whlch
this Act aNulies, and whether such P)erson la an
IN COMMITTEE.
individual Person or a corporate or unincorThe flouse resolved itself into a Com- porated body of pezsons, or a director, manager,
body.
mittee of the Whole on Bill (W), An Act to oflicer or agent of any such
amend the Gold and Silver Mtarking Act,
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Would not the
hon. gentleman regard this as specially
drastic legisiation? I cannot conceive that
(In the Committee.)
it is of so great importance to bring up an
On Clause 1--Offences made punlehable on individual who buys jewellery, say an Insummary conviction and minimum penalties
gersoli watch or some of those plated goods,
added.
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

MARCH 26, 1915

and pronounce him guilty of something be- way rather than by indictmnent. and thus
cause the article did not have such a mark imperting into the proceedings a magisas this Bill requires, and subject him te a trate instead of a higher'judicial functienary
-tîat we should hay down certain lines of
fine of $25.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If my hon. friend penalty ahong which we shouid act? The
will look at the Bill and take inte consider- only reason 1 can give for the fixing of a
ation the principles we have already in- minimum fine is that we are placing the
corporated into the law he -will scarcely enforcement of the Act now in the hands
of magistrates instead of in the hands of.
make that objection.
judges. I think hon, gentlemen will recogHon. Mr. THOMPSON- My point is that nize that it is desirable for these proceed1 do flot think we should make it easier ings to be disposed cf as summarihy ag posto commit a person for an offence of which sible, and that ail the costs incident to the
lie is not knrowingly guilty.
Under thiB trial of a case like this by a higher judicial
clause, the magistrate, whether he approves funetionary should not be continued. That
or net, must impose a fine of $25, and there -is the oniy reason I can give.
dees net seemo to be quite the latitude that
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-There ought te be
a magistrate should have in dealing with an
offender who does net mean to do anythîng a real distinction between men who might
wrong. The Bill makes it possible for per- intentionally infringe the Act in respect to
sons who may be interested in manufactur- the marking of jewellery or anything cf that
ing jewellery and desirous of protecting kind, and men who iinnocently do se; and
their interest, to fine anybody who might the court should he kift te decide that. from
innocently, and without knowing ahi the the evidence produced. This is a very
conditions of this Act viohate the law, for Irastic Act touching many points on the
the magaistrate cannot exercise his own niarking of jewelhery that men in the country
judgment as to whethier the man knowîngly districts handling jewellery would naturahhy
or innocentiy infringed the provisions of know nothing- about.
the Act. I think that is a very drastic prolion. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does net my hon.
vision.
friend think. that the magistrate in that case
Hon. Mr. BELOOURT-Has my. hon. would dismiss the case?
friend some statement as to why tfhiis a.mendment is made se shortly after the Act was .Hon. Mr. THOMP SON-I do flot think
passed? I remember that this Act was very he could dismiss it, for if the accused iniengthily discussed in 1913. Perhaps there fringed the Act in any respect the magisis sme reason that has demonstrated why trate must fine him $25; there is ne excuse
there should be an amendment. Formerly for it. 1 presume this Act was passed for
a Àiscretion was given te the court to im- the purpose o! preventing frauds.
pose a. penalty of $1; new the minimum is
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
$25. Lt seems te me that this House is
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-It is ahi right te
entitled to sme information why we are
called upon to amend an important Act of prevent frauds on those who deal in those
things, but 1 quite appreciate that where
this sort, so recently passed.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I mighit say, in jewellery is sohd ail over this country in
rephy to niy hon. friend, that fixing a mini- the jeweliery stores, large or small, a man
might infringe the Act unintentionaliy or
mum penalty has the advantage of leading
to smre uniformity in the enforcment of the unconscioushy, and yet if he was found
Act. A discretion that may be exercised by by a manufacturing jeweiler with some
a magistrats in imposing fines may run little piece cf jewellery in his case that
the whohe gamut of penalty as to the amount was not marked according te the Act, he
couid bring iim befor*e the magistrate cf
of the fine.
that district and have him fined $25. 1
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And less.
think that is drastic.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It depends now
Hon. Mr. CLOIRAN: I do not think it is
entirely, I suppose, on 'whether the -magie-. drastic enough.
This point cf legielating
trate is sympathetic or not what the fine te give under6trappers a right te de thingq
shouid be. Is it not more desirable, par- which the manufacturer has net the riz it
ticularly as we are making provision that te de cannot he acceptad hy any judicial
the cases should be tried in a summary boiy. The law is that certain goods she ilI

SENATE

190

'hich this Act applies and which la marl<ed

not be manufactured or sold; thne goodsw ther-wise than In accordance with the proviof the regulationfi made
manufactiired Pans from one hand to the O lons of this Act, or retain the marne until the.
and may
other and get down to the pediar, 'whom t sereunder, for the offence oomntted in respect
rosecution
1 hold to be just as lhable under the law pf such article bas been finally decided by the
He is not o ourts. Atter a conviction han been obtained
himself.
ai the manufacturer
the
supposed to know, we are tol.l. 1 say he ànd the prosecution flnally decided,mnetal article
therethe
to know, and the law should hall be brolcen or defaced and provlded In necis supposed
ta
theo 'f forfeltéd this the Crowfl. as
recogniza no distinction between
Aot."
ton 15 of
manufacturer of adulterated goodsa snd t
BO8TOCK: This seems 10 b.
Hon. Mr.
It - ei up to him 10
the seller thereof.
we 'wourd like
know what the law ie just as well as the juite a new saclion and
sympathy wit
know lh. reason why il is enacled.
eo
I1 have nio
manufacturer.
My experience in
that kind of people.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED: The axnendments.
regard to the execution of laws in this to section 16 will enable th. inspector .10
direction leads me t0 beliave that the more~ ieize articles whiéh hle is led 10 tbelieve
discretion you give te the courts the les-3 are in contravention of th. Act and hold
exactmng is the administration of justic-. the same until the case is drlspose4i of by
Heretofore théi inspector
I have held in this House lime and lime the courts.
again that our laws ought te ha sa cloir could only inspact articles on the owner's
and distinct that the judges on the bencii premises and would have 10 buy the article
In smre
would have no diecretion or power to iii- in order 10 obtain a conviction.
terpret thero, but simply to administer cases where proceedings have Ibeen taken,
It is a false principle of justice to whan the inspec10r returned 10 the esthem.
leave one judge free 10 interpret the law tablishment for the purpose of seeuring
in one way and another judge 10 interpret ag-ain th. evidence which led hlm 10 inThe laws ought to be stitut. the proceedîngs, hie found a disit in another way.
-made so clear and distinct as to leave no appearance tVhereof; oo this proposes that
The the officers at lhe lime may seize lh. arroom for different interpratations.
Il is then in the pospower and the riglit of impoeing a fine ticle in question.
might be left by Parliament 10 a judge, as session of the Crown for lhe purpose of
ini sucli case ais thiir one the fine would be establishing the proseculion.
one of $25 but the judge would Ihave disHon. -Mr. POWER: I siuppose lte procretion 10 impose $5, $10, $15 or $25; but ceeds of the sale of these articles by the
nol apply 10 the
such diecretion should
lhe deficit.
1 have known Governmant will help 10 reduce
interpretation of the law.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED: Oh yes, and the
very important cases> affecting the revenues
of tha entire province in whîch. jirdges de- public debt, I should say.
clared that they were sorry to have 10 inHon. Mr. BELCOURT : Does my hon.
terpret the law, they would rallier have friend unfderstand that thera is an appeal
had a clear law made by the legisia- from a conviction under this Act?
Judgèts are very often in difficulty
lure.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED: The Criminal
to inlerpret the law, and our auty as
legisiators is 10 see that we make the laws Court maltes provision for an appeal from
perfectly clear as 10 their meaning. I ail convictions.
know il will take yaars 10 do that, because
The clause was adopted.
ail our Parliaments, Federal and othergrammatically unfit
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY, from lte coinwise, have passed laws
and unsound, and then leave them 10 the mittee, rèiported the Bill wilhout amendI ment.
courts 10 interpret in various ways.
lhink the Governmeflt is right in the
The Bill was then read lhe third time, and
present instance in providing that the fine passed.
shouid be definite and that the culprit
under the law should be deait with without
YUKON PLACER MJNING ACT
distinction as 10 whether ha be a manuAMENDMENT BILL.
facturer, a go-between or a seller.
THIRD READING.

The clause was adopted.
On clause 16:

The House resumed ini Committee of the
Whole consideration of Bill No. 67, An
Placer Miningc
2. Section 16 of the said Act is aznended by Act 10 amend the Yukon
Act.
thereoto the following subseotion:
adding
to
"2. Such officer mnay seize any
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN.

article

MARCH 26, 1915

(In tihe Committee.)
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
froin Otawa (Hon. Mr. Belcourt) pointed
ont yesterday that t.he words "«continues
in active service"- might lead «te a difficuity with regard to a soldier who had been
wounded and had thus secu.red his dischar~ge during the continuance of the var.
I bave prepared 'an amendinent to make
t4he clause read as follows:
Every peson enlisted or accepted for active
service, whether wlth the British or AllUed forces In the detencea of the Empire during the
present wEr, or
(a) la on such active service, or
(b) having been In such service has, by reason of any wound, IlUnesu or dlsablity ncurred.
therein, been Anvalided, or discharged, otherwise
than by sentence of court marahal,
(c) in elther case la the hoider of mlning
rights acquired under the provisions of this

Act.
I move thie adoption cf tihis aniendment.
The motion was agreed te.
Hon. Mr. Baird, frein the commîttee, reported the Bill with an amendment, which
was concur-red in.
The Bill was then Tead the third turne,
and passed.
~BANK ACT AMENDMENT BILL..
THIRD POCADING.

The Hou-se resolved it.self into a Commititee of the Whoie on Bull No. 78, An Act
to amend the Bank Act.
(In the Comnmittee.)
On clause 11:
11. The bank shall have the right, through Its
servants or agents, An case of defauit An Payment of the money lent or In case of neglect to
care for and harvest the crop, Or An case of
any attempt te dispose of the crop without the
consent of the bank, or in case of the seizure
of the crop under process of iaw, te enter upon
the land upon whlch the crop Is grown, to take
possess:on. of, care for and harveat the crop
and thresh the grain therefroin.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-NVould that power

be gran*ted Io an agent cf the bank outside of the regular legai officers cf the
provine?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Oh yes, it wveuld
be tèhrough its servants or agents.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-T-haM is, te ïomebody appointed for the purpose by the
bank.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, servants or
agents of the bank. The probabilit4es are
they would make use of the provincial

officers-that is the sheriff or his baiiiffin se doing. Fer that purpose. they are te
servants or agents of -the bank.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I think it vould be
necessary, because there might be a conflict between the bank and a court officiai
who mig4ht have a kien on a girowing crop
for grain advanced by eome other party
autaide cf the bank.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-The ban4c requires the first lien.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-T-he law provides for the settlement of euch eonfiicts.
Hon. Mr. BELOOURT-It would be
similar to the case cf a landiord who issues
a éistress warrant for rent; the case would
be analogoue.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Supposing an individual advances, grain, and -the bank also
advances grain to a fariner, has the bank
uy preference P In Manitoba I have a
right to take a chattel inortgage on -a growing crop for seed eupplied. Supposing 1
and the bank separately furnish seed grain
to the fariner, 'wOho has the prior right on
that cropP
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-The courts viii
settie that.
Hon.. Mr. CLORAN-You leave. it te a
judge who in one place wiii decide a ce>~
tain thing, and in another place he wiii
decîde the ot4her way. Either the ban-k or
the individual bias the prior right.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-That je what the
courts are for.
Hon. Mfr. CLORAN-The point 19 wehl
taken. Shahl the individual who bas advanced money on a grain crop, or bas advanced the seed, have a lesser right than
the bankP The hon. gentleman -Irom Ottawa says, "Jeave it to the court." Nov
we are net here te make lave for -the benefit of ]avwyers. We ehould make it clear
and distinct that the bank should have the
prier right, or that the individual ahould
have an equal right. Let us *make that
declaratien. The hon. gentleman says iet
the court decide it. What does tlhat inean?
Litigation and the empicyment of iavyers.
I arn a lawyer myseif. but 1 arn oppoaed on
proper grounds te that kind cf construction or -making havs ini this country. I say
make a straight case. Tell us the ban-k has
a prior dlaim, vhen it advances money on
a crop prior te that cf an individual. For
God's salie give up that kind of legislation.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. POWER-This is a matter of!
such consequeuce that it should not be
passcd over without serions consideration.
We have laws in ail the provinces 'with
respect to the rcgistration of enoumbrances.
The object cf these laws is te prevent peopie being taken by sur-prise. It is te prevent crediters beiug defrauded iby scret
bills of sale. In every province there la
legislution cf that kind.- Here, I understand, the bank is not called upon te register its enoumfbrauces, and the objection I
bave te tfhe clause under conaideration is
that t!he bank is allowed te hold an encumbrance on the property, and there is
no notice given Vo the public, or to any person who might afterwards advance money.
There ig no reason why the banks ehould
not be subject 4e the provisions of! the law
with respect to secret -bills of sale as veli
as individuals, and tIhe least the Government *rigbt do is te consider this matter
before we read the Bill the third turne. It
is a very important matter, snd a departure
f rom the un-iforin practice cf the provinces.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My heu. triend
is in error in his ostatement as te these provisions Ïbeing repugnant in sny way te tlhe
iaw as it is on the statute book. 1 have
no recollection of my hon. friend, when we
were ocnsidering the Bank Act, raising thia
point. This principle rmas ail through thé
Bank Act. The t>anks are not called upon
te register their sccurity receipts, their hypothecation recepts, as against the properties upon which tbey hold security, sud
why. I ask, in this particular case, should
a different principle be adopted, and one
repugnant Vo the fundarnental principle of
tuhe Bank Act se far as advancinug money
on goods is concerned.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think the fundamental principle is wrong.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-This is a new departure on the part of the bauk launchiug eut
this way.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-There are certain
classses of business they are al1<wpui to dc,
aud certain classes they are net allcwed
te do. I think my hon. friend. te my right
le correct, tihat they dhould Tegistir their
liens, and that they should net be put lu
a better position than auy one euse. Why
ghould a bank be given a privilege whicb
ne other business man in the country en
joysP
lion. Mr. CLORAN.

Hon. Mr. GORDON-The argument advanced by thie hon. gentleman 'Who bas just
spoken Ieads us to the conclusion that the
farmers are not to be trusted as rnuch as
the ordinary -business man.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Oh no.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-t-No, that the tbanks
are not te be trusted.
Hon. Mr. GORDON-There is not any
business to-day where banks advance money
iu which the banks 'have net a -lien. It is
a secret lKen if you wish to call it so.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think the hon. gentlejnan is wrong.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-What kmnd of liens do
the .banks at, the preseut tirne receive under
the present leglelation and on 'what class of
property? This is a different proposition
froin the ordiuary note you might qhypothecate. This is practically taking a chattel
m'ortgage.
Hon. Mr. GORDON-The banks iu doing
business with millers, lumbermen and men
who have goods in storehouses or warebouses, invariably take security suoh as
will Ïbe cabled for by this measure, ilotbing
more and uothing less, and if you wish te
enforce a registered lien against a farmer,
fihen you are making out that the fariner
is not te be trusted.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Oh rats!
Hon. Mr. GORDON-This advance is for
the purpose oi giving the farmer a chance
Vo buy seed grain. Every person wiil know
of that, and it should be the -business! of
bon. gentlemen who 'try te inforrn people
w~ho, I think, will noV kno-w of snoh legislation. You w-11l find flhey ail know. That
being the -case, 1 do not see where any ir.justice arises either te the farmer or the
merchant who rnay be dealing with hlm.
I think this legislation is rig'ht and proper,
and more in the interest of the fariner
than in the interest of the bank.
Hou. Mr. WATSON-I am net objecting
Vo the legisiation; I amn a.pproving of it. It
is a move in the right direction, but I want
to have the matter made clear if I eau. I
amn not a lawyer; I arn sirnply a layman,
but 1 have Ïhad a little te do with f urnishing seed grain ln Manitoba, and tihe persou who f uruishes seed grain in Manitoba
bas the first lien on a growing crop, ahead
of executions and everything else. Re eau
take the *whe# in payment. The statute
provides that a man can take a chatte]
mortgage on a growing crop. A few years

3IARCH 26, 1915

ago the Menitdba Government passed legiqlation .preventing any person taking a lien
or mortgage on a growing crop. That was
done for the reason that the intphenent
machine men very often would have a lien
on a growing crop, probably two or three
yeara before it is grown. The other creditors
simply have to stand back before that claim
is satisfied. The Legisiature passed an
Act preventing a chattel mortgage being
given on a growing crop except for one
purpose, name]y seed grain, and this takes
the same place. What I want to try and
find out if I can is who will have the prior
right if two people furnish seed grain to
the one farmer? You are saying by Dominion legislation that the banks have the
prior right. There is no registration required. I do not say that we should require any registration. There is no registration necessary in the case of the individual who furnishes seed grain. The nian
-vho furnîshes the grain draws his agreement, has it in his pocket and collects
when the grain is grown. Il there is a
private individ-ual and a fbank both advancing grain to the farmer, who wvill have
the right to profit under this legisiation,
the individual or the bank, both having a
lien for the samne purpose?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHÉED-The individual
could not have a lien for the sarne grain,
because the seed grain upon which the
bank makes an advance is a specific article
used on a particular piece of land, whieh
would 'be described in the security certificate for the seed. Now, il the farmer
should s0w this particular land with seed
grain upon which bath parties have advanced money, that would produce a confluet. perhaps, which no statute could well
provide against.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-That is the càse I
amn speaking of.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is almost an
impossible condition; that is, if a bank advances rnoney on seed grain, it will kno-w
where the seed grain is sown and will know
the particular crop which it represents,
and 'which will -be described i the security
furnished, and if another individual advanoes seed grain to that saine man it is
to be presumed it will flot be mixed with
the seed grain or the crop belonging to the
'bank. Furthermore, let us assume that
confusion arises; then tihe courts are there
for the purpose of adjusting a dispute of
that kind. We cannot possibly sit down
and legislate that two individuals or corporations 'will not produce a condition of
EPEVISED

confusion 'w<ich will eventually lead to
ltig-ation.
Hon. Mr. WATSON--Give the lawyers the
first chance.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-the samne question
mighttrime Ibetween two banks. They mighit
both have warehouse receipts covering the
sarne crop, and it wou.ld be for the courts te
decide. It seems to me these are questions
which. must be left te the court.
Hon. Mr. DAV IS-My hon. friend fromn
Portage la Prairie cites tfhe law in Manitoba. We do not know that the Iaw in Saskatchewan and Alberta are the eame. Bupposing a farmer comes te John Brown, a
busineas man, and says "I1 want te borrow
frorn you so much rnoney for the purpose
of buying seed grain, and hie gets it, and
another man, John Jones, gees to the bank
and borroiys the rnoney. Is it flot a tact
that when a man borrows from the bank
the bank will not be compelled te register
the lien at ail, while the business man who
'bas lent te the fermer will be compelled to
register his- lien? Why should that be the
case? W!hy should a bank be placed in
ûny different position than an individual?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is one of
the principles of the Bank Act.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I see the lion. leader
of. the Government, a bright, intelligent.
lawyer, wants te keep the business in legal
hands. He just now made the statement,
"Leave it te the courts to adjust."
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Is the hion. gentleman not a lawyer?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Yes, but I arn dead
against courts adjusting thingas of this kind,
and when we can, by simple declaration,
put it in such a state, as ta make it clear
that the courts will have no adjustment ta
make, but simply apply the law, we should
do so. The vat majority of the people of
But
the country are getting on te it.
lawyers want the courts open so as ta adjust
cases. I say the law should be made 50
clear and distinct that there should be no
dispute at ahl. It wiIl put the lawyers out
of business. Now there is a principle of
business underlying t.his. As the senator
fromn Manitoba said, supposing John Brown
advances $500 for grain purposes, and that
is ail hie is able ta advance; the fermer
wants another $500, and the only source hie
cen get it froin is the bank, and he goes
there and. obtairrs At. Who is going ta have
the prior dlaim on that crop-Mr. Brown or
the benk? Under this law the bank will
Suppose the crop
have the prior dlaim.
EDITION

SENATE

was a failure and there was not sufficient

autput af that crop ta pay the two, whose
I Say
dlaim would be recognized first?
there should lie no favour shown ta one or
the other. The law should lie made clear
and distinct, that the man who advances
the money should have the first dlaim.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 12.
12. Meney lent under subsection 8 of this section ta be entitled ta the sccurity therein referred te muet be lent flot later than the flrst
day of Âugust, 1915.

Han. Mr. DAVIS-What is the abject af
this, if it is anly ta apply to seed grain?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Your Iaws are very
bright.
Han. Mr. BELCOURT-It might lie seed
grain for the following year.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is oniy to lie
If it
in oper4tion for the present year.
works satisfactorily it will lie continued.
Han. Mr. BELCOURT-There would lie
nothing in the Act to prevent security
being given under this section for seed
grain far the following year.
Han. Mr. DAVIS-Suppasing a bank
should take a mortgage on a man's farm
wonld they be compelled ta register it or
would they not?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This does not
deal with that subject.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The hon. gentleman
behind me said they were not compelled ta
register any security. They have to register
a martgage.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Why should they not
register this lien? I think this objectionable legislation.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The new clause 12
really takes the sting eut of the thing,
because it shows thit is a war measure and
is going out af operation soon.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The hon. gentleman
says it might lie purchasing grain for 1916.
Is that the intention? 1 should not think
so. I should like to see the limit taken out
altogether.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I take it that
under this clause, if it goes without any
amendment, there is nothing ta prevent a
bank taking security for seed grain for one,

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It muet lie for
that particular year.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-It 'does not say
go.

Hon. Mr. POWER-The clause says,
"Money lent under subsection 8 of this
section to, le entitled ta the security must
lie lent nat later than the firet day af
August, 1915," so that it could not very well
apply ta what was coming alter.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. MURPHY, from the committee,
reported the Bill without amendment.
The Senate adjourned until Il a.nh.,
Monday.

THE SENATE.
Monday, Mar-eh 29, 1915.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eleven
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
ROADS IN REVELST(YKE PARK.
INQUIRY.

Han. Mr. BOSTOOR inquired, of the Goverument.
1. What le the total length of the road being
buit ln the Reveistoke Park ln the Railway Beit.
of British Columbia?
2. How many miles were completed ln the
year 1914?
3. Who was the foreman on the work?
4. By whom was lie appointed?
5. What was the total number of mien employed ln connectlon with this work, giving the
number for each manth separately?
6. What «was the Tate of wages per day paid
to the forernan and each man respectivaly, and
the total for each month?
7. What was the cest of the supplies and the
materials used during thc year 1914?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers are:
1. Ten miles.
2. There were two and one-half miles of
road c.ompleted and anc and one-haîf miles
partly completed in 1914.
3. Work was done under the supervision
of general foreman W. Fleming.
4. Appointed by P.C. Barnard-Hlervey,
Ohief Superintendent of Dominion Parks,
Edmonton, Alta.
5. Average number af men employed,
July, 66; August, 87; September, 20.
6. Rate of -wages: Foreman, $4.503 per day;
t.ime-keeper, $80 per month; cooks, $3 per
day; axemen, $3.503 per day; rockmen,
two, three, four or five vears, provided $3.50 per day; labourers, $3 per day; blacksecurity is taken before the ist August, 1915. smith, $4 per day; sub-foreman, $4 per
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

MARCH 29, 1915
day; engineers, $4.50 per day. Total wages
for July, $4,433.60; Âugust, $6,664.76; September, $315.08, Total, $11,413.44.
7. Cost of supplies and inaterial. $3,671.51
RetuTned to stores.......2,335.10

Hon. Mr. BOST')OC-My hon. friend does
not appear te be prepared to give us aaiything more definite about the «matter et the
present moment. Perbaps he may eee hii way
to doing it a little later on. This la a very
serions -matter, and one with regard te
Material consumed on job.. $1,336.41 which this Chaenber has a right te have an
explanation from the hon, leader of the
THIRD READINGS.
Goverarment. We are teld tisat thia increase
Bil No. 71, An Act respecting the Sterling of the duty is occasioned by 'the expenses
Life Assurance Company-coi Canada.-Hon. caused the country on acoount of the w&r,
M r. Edw;ards.
but when we come te examine this question
Bill No. 78, An Act to amend th}e Bank a little we shail see that theze expenses have
Act.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
not been ca>used by the war, that the conCUJSTOMS TARIFF ACT (1907) AMEND]- dition brought about through the manageMENT BILL.
ment cf the affaire cf the Dominion lias bad
a good deal more te do with the 'present conSECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second dition of the finances of the country than
reading of Bill No. 75, An Act te amend the the actual war, conditions from which, te
some extent, we are suffering. The hon.
Customs Tariff, 1907.
He said: This is what might be termed gentleman has told us, that the general
a vwar measure. It has -been introduoed tariff and the intermediate tariff has been
with a view of enlarging the revenue on mncreased by seven and a hli per cent, and
account of the increased expenditure te that the preference on imports from Great
which the country is subjected owing te Britain lias been decreased.
The tariff
the war in 'which Canada is involved. It on goeds ceming from England has been
proposes increasing the general tariff by 7j raised by five per cent. At the present
per cent, likewise the intermed-iate tariff. time, when we are lielping the Empire in
It will increase.the British preference by 5 the confliot that is bcing carried on in <Euper cent.
rope, that is e very serions matter. I hope
Hon. Mr. CLORAN - Inereased downwaxds w6 are doinig everYthing we can te help
Great Britain te bring the war te a anocesaor upw-ards?
fui issue, but whilst we are going te a conHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There are cersiderable expense li aending men te Europe
tain exemptions wbich will be found under
clause 3 of 'the Bill. If my hon. friends de- te take their part in the fi ghting Une -et the
sire, as doubtless they *may, 'when we go front, on the other hand we eay te the
into committee on the ineasure, I shall be people cf Great Britain: «'We are going
glad te answer questions in relation te any te make it more expensive or troublesome
of the particular items deait with in the for you te ship your gooda into Canada."
We are receiving large contracts !rom the
Bill.
Imperial Government te manufacture and
Hon. Mr. POWER-In an important mat, aupply ammunition, clothing and other neter of this kind the hon, leader of the (3ev- cessaries required in the prosecution of the
,ernment ought to give us a more serions war, yet in spite cf the increase this wll
atateiment of the reasons which have lin- bing te the trade cf the country and the
fiuenced them -in introducing this measure benefit that expenditure
will confer on
and what the resu.lts are likely te be. 1 Canada, we turn
-round and say te the peonoticed the hon gentleman said -something ple of Great Britain: -We
are going
about an increase in the British prefer- penalize your goods coming fite Canada te
by
ence. What the hon, gentleman means by an extra
five per cent duty, and this net
that I cannot tell. Take English cloth or only on goods that are
subjet te duty at
woollen goods: At the present time the duty the present
time, but aise on goods that
is altogether too high. It is 30 per cent, have
been admitted free of duty.
and now it is proposed te make it live per
Hon. Mxr. WATSLON-And we are borcent more, -and the hon gentleman tells us
that that is increasing the British pre- rewing money from them.
ference. It eenis te me it iii increasing the
~Hon. Mr. BoeTOOK-Tlie increase is very
preference te the local manufacturer. We considerable, and when we take into acought te have eometbing a littie -more sermons ceunt the extra expen-se incurred in ehipfroni the bon. leader.
ping the geods across the Atlantic due Si
8-131

SENATE

higlier treiglit and insurence rates, ana
otlier expenses that necessarily arise frein
the dislocation cf trade cauaed by the war.
I venture ta say that this higlier duty levied
on Britishi goods, coming into thi-s country
will very materially affect the trade cf
Canada with Gre at Britain. The benefit
that we expect ta receive from contracta
let on thia aide cf tlie water for supplying
the Governments cf Europe will be affected,
as f ar as Canada ie concerned, by the very
fact of the proposed raise cf duty. .1 have
net seen any definite figures as ta, what
this amounts to, but aome newspapers estimate that up ta the present time these
like
contracta amount ta aomething
one hundreà million dollars. That increase cf trade will add very materially te
the prosperity cf Canada. It is a businels
that is brouglit ta -Canada as a result of
the war which is a benefit ta the Dominion.
Therefore, owing ta aur increase o! business
in that way, we are beneflting ta that
extent by the War rather than being hurt
by it, as my lion. friend leada us ta think,
wlien he aays that this increase cf duty
i6 due te the trouble brought about by
the war. I wish ta quote a few figures te
hion. gentleman at the present time to see
if Il cannot show that before tlie war coinmenced there was a considerable decrease
in the revenue and the trade cf this country. If we take the imports inta Canada
between the montha cf January and August,
1913, and compare tliem, with the importq
for the corresponding period o! 1914, we
find the following:
Imports, January ta Âugust. inclusive:
1913.. ....
............
1914.. .. ..............

$304,161.411
222,699,782

Decrease.. ....
-......
Duties collected during the
period:
1913.............$65,224,434
1914..............46,931,171
Dccrease ....

........

$ 81,461,629
same,

$18,293,263

or at the rate of $2.285,000 per month, which
fer the whoie year would make $27,4n0,000.
The total decrease in Customs revenue for the
calendlar yezar 1914, when compared with the
calendar ycar 1913, is $32 109.927.
.On this basis, therefore, it can be argued that
the Iras due to the war is Iess than $5.000,000.

It is almost fair ta say that if we had
the figure3 ta the end cf the fiscal year,
31st Mardi, 1913, we would, find the
decreaee in duty up te that time wvas
very little more than this five million dollars. When we corne te examine
Hon. M-Nr.
BOSTOCK.

the statement of the Finance Minister,
which hie mnade to the House in the second
session of 1914, we find that lie estimated
that by extra dutie-s and by the alterations
he -made in the tariff, he would raise. a revenue of seven million dollars, whdc'li, if ibis
estimates. had 'been borne eut, would have
more than offset the arnount of loss oaused
by the war. We flnd, however, on examining the epeecli of the Finance Miniater delivered in February of this year, that he
estimated 'his revenue for the whole year
at one hundred and thirty million ta the
end of the fiscal year, exactly the saine as
his estimate in Auguat last year, when he
imposed the new taxes. Therefore the only
conclusion we can arrive at is that the increase. in the tariff made in August last
year did not produce .anything like the
arnount of revenue 'we were led ta expect
it 'would, because his estimate for the revenue for the end cf the fiscal year was the
samne last February as in August. We have
an estirnate at the present turne froin the
Minister of Finance that the increased duty
due ta this change in the tariff will give
him an extra amount of revenue of twentyfive, million'dollars. I should like ta hear
an explanation from the leader of the Governiment on this question as to whether we
may hope that this estimate of twenty-five
million increase in the revenue cf the country 'will be -borne out this turne better than
the estimate made in August last year ta
which 1 have referred. In connection with
this matter I should refer for a few moments ta the expense that has gone on in
Canada sînce this Governinent came into
power. The hion. gentleman lias said that
this increase in duty ia required on account
of the war, -but I think lie ougli ta, have
shown, in order ta establish his case, Vhat
the expendîtures in other directions had
nat been increàsing eut of proportion ta
the revenue tliat was required. Comparing
the expenditure for 1910-11 with the expenditure for 1913_1914. we find that there
lias been a great increase in nearly every
department of the Civil Service. Hon. gentlemen will probably remeniber that the
Prime Minister cf to-day, -when lie was in
Opposition, lield up 'to the country a pieture of enermous extravagance and enormous waste, and I think I -arn riglit in stating that lie said the way the expenditure
:had been increasing n'as evidence cf graf t
upon the part of the late Government. If
we apply the saine statement ta the conditions of the present day, therefore, the increase in the expenditure cf this Government shows an extravazance and waste and

MARCH 29, 1915
period previous to that; and if the statement of the present Prime Minister is to
apply to the late Government, it applies
very much more strongly to the present
Administration. Then we have in the
case of the Customsa Department a customns
revenue in 1911 arnounting to $71,838,088,
and in 1914 the customs revenue was
$104,691, 238. The expenditure for the collection of revenue in 1911 was $2,187,174, and
in 1914 it was $3,849,083, showing an
increase for the collection of revenue
of $1,661,909 in tlhree years. It would be
interesting to know what the collection of
revenue will 3>e for the ensuing year, when
our revenue is falling, as has been stated
by the Finance Minister, and will bo muoh
Iess fer this next year. Then wo corne to
the question of the expenlditure on public
works. In the year 1911 there vas a deficit,
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-That does not answer as the following figures show:
the question as to wvhether there has been Expenditure on collection of revenue:
$11,123,250
any increased expenditure here.
Railways and Canals .. .......
Public Works............594,868
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The expenditures
were as follows:
Total............$11,718,118

evidence of graft very much more accentuated than it was in the year 1910-1911.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-I should like to ask
the hon, gentleman if the sarne state of
affaira applies to the Senate as well as to
*the other ordinary expenditures?
-Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-He is
speaking o f the Civil Service.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I arn speaking of
the Civil Service, the expenditure that is
çander the control of the Government.
* Hon. Mr. DANIEL-What about the Civil
Service in connection with the Senate>
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-As I understand it,
the Civil Service in connection with the
Senate is ahl voted under a lump sum and
is under the control of the 8onate itself.

1910-11.
$..
.4,463,094
Civil Governnient
Administration of Jus1,292,401
......
tice... .. ....
Penitentiaries.......527,760
64,484
........
Police.. ..
713,813
Mounted Police.... ..
760,734
......
Flsheries.. ....
Mines and Geological
244,274
...
Survey.. ..

Immigration......

.1079,129

1,449,961
Indians.. .. .......
Publie Works......8,621,431
2,187,174
Customs.. ........
Dominion Lands......1804,260
Post Office........7,954,222

1913-14.
$ 5.607,794

1,399,456
ý910,413
119.892
963,650
1,229,519
470,506
1,893,297
2,182,470
19,007,512
3,849,083
2,286,480
12,822,058

Revenue collected during that time.. 10,818,834

Showing a difference between revenue
collected and expenditure of. . .. $ 899,284
Add to this expenditure on Public
Worca..............8,621,431
And on Railways and Canals.......85.018
Making a total of expenditure on
.. $10,155,733
Consolidated Fund Account ....
If we take the year ending March 31,

1914, we find an expenditure on
collection of revenue:
On Raiiways and CanaIs.
......
On Public Works .. ....

14,935,138
780,455

15.715,598
Making the total.. .. .. ..
The amount of revenue collected dur14,197,052
...
ing that period was.. .. ....
That -ives the totals for the several items
Total.........$31.162,727

$52,741,130

of the service of the country during those
two years.
1 should like to give a little further
explanation of the condition of things.
In the administration of justice for
those two. years there w-as an increase
of $ 107,055; in the penitentiaries an increase
of $382,653. It will appear -as if the condition of things in the country w-as getting
much worse when the cost of our penitentiaries increase to that extent in three
years. At the same time, the cost of the
Dominion Police increased by $55,408, and
the cost of the Mounted Police by $249,839.
There does not appear to - be any reason
why those items of the service should have
increased to sueli an extent these la-st tAiree
years. If we go back to the years previous
to 1911 we find that there was no sncb
large increase during the corresponding

Showing a difference between revenue
collected and expenditure of.. . .$ 1,518,541
The expenditure betng less than the
revenue by that amount, which was
not quite double the difference in
1911.
Add to this the expenditure on Public Woroe............19,007,512
Railways and Can.ai..........732,348
Making a total of expenditure on
3
. .21,258,401
Consolidated Fund Account.
Again we have an enormous increase in
the expenditure, and although 1 would not
propose that the public works should be
neglected in any way, at the sarne tirne the
fact that tlhe increase in the collection of
revenue has been greater than the increase
in the amount of revenue, is a point that
I think the Government might very weil

SENATE
look~ inte and see whether they oould not is going to aff ect the country in a disadvantageous manner, because where you
effect a deerease -in the cost of the service.
increase the duty, as has been done at the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is not their present turne, you necessarily hamper the
people and interfere with their production;
business.
you make the cost of their supplies ranch
Hon. Mr. BOSTOOK-Again, we have ini greater, the co.st of their implemneits and
1910-11 a revenue froin Dominion lands of anything they have to buy will be greater,
$3,108,735, and an expenditure of $1,W04,250; and consequently their money will not
iii 1913 the Tevenue eollected was $3,036,060, brmng as much as it has in the past, when
and the expenditure $3,286,489. In 1910-11 the duty wus lower. - The Governinent have
the revenue exceeded the expenditure by been.urgmng on the farmers, especially,
$1,304,485; ini 1913-14 there was a deficit of throughout the country from one end to
$250,450. That is one of the biggest dif- the other, that they should turn ail their
ferences in the public accounts at the pres- energies to a greater production for the
ent time. Then we find at the saine turne benefit of the whole Empire; yet they turn
that for the fiscal year ending Maroh 31, around now and tax the people at a greater
1914, tihe homnestead entries 'were 31,829; rate, which will most certainly interfere
for the -calendar year 1914, the homestead with and injure their capacity for proentries were 25,623, showing that the home- duction. In the West last year we hiad a
stead entries were falling( off, the revenue very plain instance of the benefit of larger
was diminishing-, but the expenditure 'Ras markets to the farmers throughout the
increasing, and increasing speedily. The Northwest.
The United States thought it
decrease in the homestead entries for tlie wise te take the duty off animal produets
fiscal year ending 'March 31, 1914, was g-oing into the United States, and the
1,870, as compared with the fiscal year end- people throughout the Northwest very soon
ing March 31, 1913. Thien if we dook at found that this gave thein a market on the
the post office collections we find that ini Pacific coast for their live stock, a hetter
the year ending Mareh 31, 1911, the post market than they had before. The resuit
office collected $9,146,000, 8pent $7,954,000, was that a considerable trade was built up
cdho'wing surplus of $1,192,000; in the year with the cities of the Pacific coast between
ending March 31, 1§14, collected $12,954,000, the farmers in the Northwest and the conispent $12,8M2,000, showing a sinaîl surplus sumers on that coast; and the farinera were
of $132,000. This is before the parcel post getting a great benefit f rom the sale of their
was started.
pigs especially. Then the people who were
It would be interesting to see what has buying those pigs found that the cost to
been the reanît since the starting of the them, the freight and other charges they
parcel post systein. Then, also, in amaller had te meet, were very considerable, and
-matters the saine tendency to increased ex- that they were being asked to pay too
penditure appears. We corne down te t)he much for the freight and charges connected
They represented the case to
question of inspection, and we find the fol- therewith.
lowing: 1910-11 the cost of inspection of the railways and other companies withi
steamýboats 'was $42,818; 1913-14 At had riaen which. they were dealing, but could get no
te $63,714, an increase of $20,896; but at the satisfaction, with the result that they said,
saine turne the fees oollected were leas. «We are not forced te buy these pig-s
In 1910-11 the cost of inspection of -staples throughout the Northwest, and if we cannot
was $203,591, in 1913- 14 it was $450,737, an in- get the consideration we think we are
crease of $247,143. In 1910-11 cost o! inspec- entitled te in the matter of transportation,
tion of 'weights, measures and electrie light we will discontinue buying pigs throug-h
was $180,965; 1913-14 the cosrt was $258,095, that part of the country." The resuit -%as
that for nearly two months the market for
an increase of $77,130.
These few figures that I have given te the pigs was very much interfered with, and
House, and which I hope I have not the consequence was that the fariners
wearied the House by reading, will show through that country found that the price
te this House the way the present Govern- of their stock dropped very considerably.
,ment have been expending their money, This was a very clear instance of the beneand will give thein some ides, of why it is fit te the fariners of an increased market;
necessary on the part of the Governrnent and now they are going to have brought
at the present time to propose an increased home to thein the result of an increase of
tarif! in the way that the leader of the tariff which wilI militate the other way and
Governinent has told us they propose to do wiIl cause thein to have to pay a great deal
under this Bill. The increase in this tariff more for everything, they require than they
lion. Mr. BOSTOCK.

MARCH 29. 1915

have done in the past. In this House we
cannot, of course, deal with this question,
but I think that we should make oui strongest protest agamnst the action that the
Governrnent have taken in this matter,
whist at the sme time notifying the
Government that the responsibility rests
entirely with them, and that hon. gentlemen on this side of the House cannot be
considered to have in any way sanctioned
or agreed to the policy« whieh has been
adopted. although they do not take any
active measures to prevent the passage of
this Bill.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, heai.

raw material of course means large dis.
crimnination in favour o~f the rnanulactured
goode, because the duty on the rnanufactured goods rnay be two or three tirnes
increased.
Sorne hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
-Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-So I regret that
that bas been done. It is neoessary, of
course, because we cannot get over it, to
rai-se a larger revenue fron sme aource.
That is undeniable. «So fer as the war
is concerned, every ill from which Canada is suffering is attributed to it. Well,
If there had been
that is not true.
no war Canada -would have had to pass
through a very considerable period of readjustment-largely brought about by the
overbuilding of unnecessary railroada.

Hon. Mr. EDWÂBDS-I do not desire
to discuss this question at s.ny length,
but I desire to put right, if I may, one
littie qubstion that has been raised, and
Sorne hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
that is the question of the British preference. The tariff againist British goods bas
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-That is one'of the
been increased 5 per cent and the duty
against goods coming from other countries rnost important policies for wvhich the whole
74 per cent, thus discrirninating- against people of Canada are responsible and blarneother countries 21 per cent and consequent- able. During the period of apparent good
ly in effect raisingo the British preference times that we enjoyed-I did not enjoy
them, but a great many people did-for a
2j per cent.
great many years, the people of Canada got
hear. it into their heads that we were now on
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear,
the upward move and that nothing i the
Hon. Mr. POWER-Lowering?
,world oould prevent- Canada from going
it raises it 21 ahead under any conditions. But we found
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-No,
Every hon. gentleman Who wil out that it was possible for us to overdo
per cent.
think for a moment will see that will be the ourselves, and we had done it, and conseresult; that if you discrîrninate 2j per cent
on that there had to be a very great
against other countries you discriminate ini quent
under any circumfavour of Great Britain 2j per cent, there can period of adjustment
be no other effect. The question of raising stances, war or no war--of course aggravated
the duty against British goods at ail is an- and accelerated very largely by the war.
want to make is that I
other question and can be deaît with on The simple point I
Hon, gentlemen *well know fear the increase of duty in favour of proits merits.
the opposite effect 'frorn
that I arn a free trader-I need not tell tection will have ivili not give the resuits
tlîat intended, and
that to the House; but I will admit that
in 80 far a s returns frorn customs are conany Minister oi Finance in Canada to-day cerned.
is in e very difflouit position, because with
the diaturbed conditions created by the
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
war it is not easy to forecast what will
Hon. 'Mr. EDWARDS-Because, you canresult, so far as importation or even s0
far as exportation i concerned. It is a not do two things, one opposed to the other.
very, very difficuit position to deal with, at the sme time; you cannot protect and
and I frankly 8ympathize with any Minister consequently shut out, and at the sme time
at the present tirne who administers the increase the importation and thereby get
finances of Canada.
At the sme time, revenue. I sincerely hope that everything
there is oîîe point which, so far as tariff witl corne out right, but that point occurred
arrangements are concerned, is a matter to me very strongly at the time the Finance
of regret to' me; I arn sorry that the Minister made his speech tihat, the init crease of manufacturing in Canada by infound
has
of Finance
Minister
necessary to discriminate to the extent creased protection would not arnount to
he bas done in favour of protection. The very much. I do not think the tariff inraising of the duties by 7j per cent on 1 crease will accornplish that end.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. M-%URPHY-Will the hion. genHon. Mr. MeSWEENEY-I shouid like to
their tienian say what the tariff had to do with
ask, have the manufacturers raised
prices since this tariff has been put in force? that?
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-The GovernHon. Mr. EDWARDS-Wil1 the manufacper cent-25 to 30 per cent
turers raise their prices? Weil, in Iny ment raised it 5
some on tbe British goods. They are buying the
humble opinion, yes, 1 think that
raw material. for balf the price last year,
manufactiurers wiil.
and they bave raised tbe prîce 1 and 2 cents
a pound.
Hion. Mr. McSWEENEY-Have tbey?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-This is a question that
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Tbat I cannot tell
you; I imagine that some wii; and, of affects the people in the part of the country
course, from my standpoint, that will be in whîch I live te a very large extent, and
hurtful to Canada. But again, I say, the as my hon. friends on the other side of the
position is an exceedingiy difficuit one, and House are no doubt avare, the people ini
it behooves every Canadian who tbinks upon my part of the country do not like an inthese subjects to offer his opinion and give crease in the duties.
*Of course my hon. friend who -made such
his very best advice. Canada bas ber difficulties abead of ber, wbether there. be war a voluminous statement in iutroducing the
or no var. 0f course, the war accelerates Bill, said it was a war measure. The peoand augments that condition very much. pie of the west are very patriotic, and will
W'e bave a great probiem, and every Cana- not hesitate for one moment te find ail the
dian must exert bis very best efforts to money required te prosecute this var, and
bring about resuits which will be f avour- if you could impress upon thern that this
able to Canada. We have a great country, taxation was for the purpose of getting
with great resources, and to develop tbemn money te conduct the war it might have
is the probiem we must solve, in the best an effect; but unfortunateiy for .my hon.
friend, the people in my part of the country
interest of the country.
are well posted. We have a class of men
known as the Grain Growers, and they are
Some bon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
weli-informed .on tariff aatters, and ail
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Of *course, free matters connected witb public affaira ini
trader as I arn, I firmly believe that no this country, and they know very well this
measure of protection can belp in the de- increase of tbe tariff is not for the purpose
veiopment of Canada; it can only have the of the var, that every dollar that bas been
reverse effect, and 1 bave risen only to say used to conduct this war up te the present
a few words on that subject, which is near time has been borrowed from Great Britain
to my heart.
and in the future the same course wili be
we could expect to take
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-I car. give you pursued, and ail
out of this revenue would be the interest
a concrete case in regard to raising the
on that -money if we coula get that, when
prices in Canada. The Dominion Textile
interest is due. Therefore it is misleading
Company some ten days before the tariff
the people to call it a war measure in that
measure was brought down raised their
sense. It is a war measure in another sense.
prices 1 and 2 cents a pound, and they are WVhen these gentlemen took office a few
buying their raw cotton now, and have been years ago they found a full treasury. They
for some time, at 50 per cent Iess than-they piayed with the money the way children
did last year. They are buying it now, and
play with toys; they thought there was no
have been, for about 7j cents a pound.
end te it; Canada vas prosperous and they
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Did it spent money right and left. They have incost Vhem any more to purchase it?
creased the expenditure in every way they
couid. The vise mariner seeing a storin
Hon. Mr. WATSON-It costs themn less.
approacbing takes in bis sals. Did these
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-Last year they men do that? No, they put on more canvas
were buying that same cotton for 12J cents
until the sbip of state is nearly swamped.
a pound, stili in spite of that, in spite of
accounts and the increase
their getting the raw material 50 per cent Look at the public
and 2 cents in every uine. Take the collection of reveiess, they raised their price 1
a pound. I cannot give a better specimnen nue, it bas increased in round figures from
twenty-four million te thirty-nine million
than that.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS.

MA_ýRicH 29, 1915

in three years. 1 suppose that is accou.nted
for by the ten thousand extra employees,
people who had been looking in vain for a
job for fifteen years. On March 16, 1
asked a question about liomestead inspectors and flue rangers. And the information I obtained is just a eample of what
is going on in the country from one end
to the other -and ail depariments are in
the saine position. Every man who has
been supporting the party for fifteen years
thinks lie shouid have a job, and get his
biands in the treasury. and unfortunately
the gentleman in charge of the treasury at
the*present time lias not backbone enough
to proteet it. The revelations before the
comnmittoees at the present time show to
what extent the looting has been going on.
The business of the fitate shou]d be conducted as an ordinary business is 'managed,
and a businessman, finding, hard Limes
and his income decreasing, would flot increase his expenses; lie would sit down
and fig-ure how lie couki reduce expenses.
The gentlemen in charge of the affairs of
this co'untry have not done that.
Hon. Mr. WATSONPÇ-They have done the
opposite.
Hon. Mr.'DAVIS--I asked how many fire
guardians and foreêt rangers were employed
in 1912, when the country was enjoying -a
wave of prosperity and the answer was
136. I asked how many fire guardians and
forest rangers were employed in 1914, and
the reply was that the number had icreased from 136 to 294, and the cost was
increased from $90,6W6 in 1912 to $177,971
in 1914.
They have increased the number of hornestead inspectors from 48 to 69, and -the
cost of inspection was increased from
$101,969.22 in 1912 to $150,869.49 in 1914.
Hon. NMr. WATSON-And
steads to inspect.

fewer hiome-

Hon. '-I. DAVIS-Yes. At that time the
patents had been pretty wvell issued in that
part of the country, I tried te find out how
miany inspections had been made in 1911
and 1914, and could not get that information re 1911, although I pointed out that
I
the information wvas in the department.
venture te say that there were more inspections made-by the homestead inspectors in
1911 than in 1914 by the 69 inspectors, because, in place o! inspecting homesteads,
the snajority of those gentlemen, from what
I have seen, have been inspecting bars.

That is just a sample of the extravagance
going on in this country. I did not. get
any information from the leader o! the
House in reference to the question as to
how many inspections were made in 1911.
I read the second speech of the Finance
Minister, and I think any hon. gentleman
who lias read that speech should be preseitEd 'aith a medal if he wades through
the repetitions and puzzling staUgmen ts
in that speech. He says that the iL
Government, when they retired fromn office,
handed to the Conservative party a terrible
responsibility in the way of obligations
that had been incurred and which must
be met. I venture to aay that if the Government of Sir Wilfrid Laurier which took
office in 1896 had taken stock, the saine as
a business nman wouid, of ail the assets
handed over to them by the previous Goverment, aned if stock had been taken agamn
in 1911 when Sir Wilfrid handed over the
management .of Canada's businesLz te th,present Government, 1 arn pretty sure the
statement would showv tlat the public business had bee-i !i)nducte.1 pretty weli for the
peuple --f the country.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not a
bit o! it.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-How niany people
were there in Montreal aud Toronto in
1896. How many railroads lin the N~orth»estP How many people in the whole
countryP What was the revenue o! the
country, and what was the wholq trade of
the country? Take these thinga and figure
them out and give your verdict. The idea
of the Finance Minister rising- in bis place
and talking of the responsibility he assumed
when lie was handed over prosperous country, and a flowing treasury, a country gridironed with railways in the West. Whcre
we had nothing at ail in 1896, we have now
a systemn of railways, and numerous cit-ies
ail over the country, a peopled and developed West, made out of a wilderness.
Hon. Mr. MeKÂY (Cape Breton>-Who
grid-ironed that part o! the country with
railroadsi We do not know o! any railroad the Government put through there
except one.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-My hon. friend did
not live in the West as I did in the early
days, and one of the reasons people could
not 'be induced te settle there in those days
was the f act that we had only one railroad,
which the hon. gentleman can take credit
for, and that railway used te charge 6

SENATE

202

-

SENATE
cents a mile for people travelling, and a something for our friends," it would be
farmer could haul bis product by oxen different. But what have these commischeaper than having it transported by the sions done? We have an Indian Commission in British Columbia. What have they
railway.
done?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-They had a monoHon. Mr. RILEY--Gone to the Frisco
poly.
fair. .
Hon. Mr. DAVI1S--But now we have the
We have «Il
Hon. Mr. DÂVIS-Yes.
people there. How many emigrants were
kinds of commissions and when these
country in 1896P-16,M3.
brought into this
And how xnany the year before the Laurier people go on appointing cominissions and
Government went out of power?--54,234. building drill halls ail over the country ini
Does not that show what wonderful progress small cen'tres until they find the treaeury
empty, and when they find they have no
was made under the Laurier Goenet
The hion. Minister df Finance talks about money and must get At some way, they
the liabilities handed over to the present make the war an excuse for increasing
Government by -the Laurier Government. taxation. Finding the treasury was empty,
1 would ask him this: were the million they should, have taken some means of
handed over to the Ontario Government curtailing expenses, 'to make the revenue
for the construction of a liue of railway balance expenditure. There is no reason
that was built for the exclusive benefit of for this tax; they should have kept their
Ontario, and to open up their lands for expenditures within their income. My hon.
development and sale-the said railway friend from Russell (Hon. Mr. Edwards)
These gentlemen
being an asset in the books of the Ontario spoke as a free trader.
Government, and not subject to the Do- have no use for free traders, they do flot
minion Railway Comnission-was this subscribe to campaign funds. But the
amount a liabîlity left by the Laurier Gov- question is how much more revenue
ernmentP Were the millions given Mac- are you going to get out of the seven and
kenzie and MaLnn on account of another a half pet -cent increase ini the tariff.
provinicial irailway in British Colunibia, Everybody knows that the higher you raise
a liability left .by the Laurier Governmeut? the duty the lesa revenue you get. - SupWere the other fifteen millions given two posing there are a hundred wagons sold
years «go and the forty-five millions given in this country and as a resuit of the tariff
last year to the samne gentleman a liability 7à are made in t.he country, they do not pay
left by the Laurier Government? Was the any duty. The duty is paid on 'the 25 that
expenditure ofa million on unnecessary come acrosa the line. By that process you
works in Calgary, to assist their pet lamb increase the price the farmer has to pay
in Alberta, Mr. Bennett, a legacy of the for his wagon ini this country, because the
Laurier -Government? Were the millions manufacturer takes advantage of the duties
spent on the harbours in British Columbia to raise his price, and where you have $1
to assist their political friend, Mr. McIBride, going into the treasury you have $3 going
a legacy of the Laurier goverument? Take to the manufacturer. If you must raise
the public accounts, they show that the money by a tariff, it cannot be done by a
ordinary subsidics given to railways in 1911 tariff of that kind. If gentlemen want ai
was a littde «over three million, and hast increase in the 'tariff and raise the slogan
year it was over nineteen million. Talk "Made ln Canada," the Government should
about legacies handed down by the Laurier say " Ail righit, we will raise the duty on
Government, are these 132 or 133 com- manufactures 10 per cent, and that will give
missioners to whom the Government is pay- you the market in Canada, because it wîll
ing salaries from $5,000 to $7,000 eachi and exciude other stuff from coming in, but
big bilis for travelling expenses, said they we will put an excise duty on your proare supposed to be doing something-are ducts; we will send an inspector tu aýicerthey legacies? There has been a commission
how much you have manufactîîred and
appointed for everything. It was a panacea tain
soid, and collect 8 per cent on ail your
for all juls. It is doue in order that hon.
That would be a method whereby
gentlemen opposite may put eome of their sales.
can you would get a revenue and the peopie
politcal frienda in a position where they
get a reward for their services to the party of Canada would get the benefit of the
in years gone by. If they would only be industry. But to introduce a system of
raisiiîg
are
you
where
kind,
honest and say, "We are trying to do this
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

MARCH 29, 1915

the duty for the special benefit cf the
ridiculous.
simply
is
manufaciturer
Everything is taxed. Pretty sean the hon.
minister will tax the ait we breathe, railroad tickets and all sorts cf thinga, and
It is
be telse yôu it is a war measure.
A system cf direct taxne war measure.
When
ation is better than this method.
the people pay ten cents on a railway ticket
and the money goes into the tlzeasury, we
know where it is going; but by this method
cf raising th~e tariff seven and a hall per
cent, three dollars will go into the pocket
cf the manufacturer and one dollar into
A proposition ta raise the
the traasury.
money in the way I suggest should appeal
to the Finance Minister. *It would benefit
net only the party te which he belongs,
but also everybody in the country. The
Minister of Finance seems to be amenable
ta, the loan corporations, railways, etc.,
and he is a littie tee prone te assist the
manufacturing industries cf the country te,
more protection. He has been breught up
in that atmosphere and yeu cannot blame
him. He cannet sae the agriculture side
cf it, but only what the manufacturer
He is net looking after the farwants.
mer. His attention muet be drawn te th(
f act that the farmers do net want any increase in duty, unlebs it is absolutely necessary ta fill up the depleted treasury after
uinnecessary expenditure has been cut te
bed rock.
The Government should go te work and
reduce the axpenditure. Should the trips
which a minister made on the continent
with his automobile and ail that kind of
thing be charged up te the Laurier Gev.
ernment as a legacy that was handad don
Look at the
That ie only an illustration.
blue-books. I have 'been looking up some
of them and I find that since 1910-11 the
debt has increased from $474,000,000, te
$544,000,000. I do net knew anything thaae
gentlemen have done in the *way cf
They did a little work on the
progress.
National Transcontinental railway and degraded it in such a way that the Grand
Trunk Railway would net take it over.. We
have looked forward te that read carrying
produce almost as cheaply as it could be
carried by water. We supposed that the
National Trancontinental railway would
hava such grades that we could send ougr
produce in large loads, antI thereby reduce the cost cf transportaffion, that istead cf having to depend on î3ix menthe
cf navigation for shipping our produce by
the lakes, we would have a year in whichi

ta ship it by rail. But they have changed
tihe grading. and the bridges, and have
made .the road, as I understauid it, practically useless at the -present time as a
competing lime. The total expenditure has
increased from $87,774,198M3 in 1911 to $127,-'
384,472.99 in 1914 with a falling revenue and
Why did
prospects of depression ahead.
they allow th.is; they accused the Laurier
Government of extravagance in prosperous
years but uwhen times were bard, inetead, of
cutting down this expenditure they increasNo wonder they
ed it by $39,610,274.99.
have an empty treasury and require f ancy
I mentioned the fact
taxes imposed.
about the collection of revenue earlier ini
my remastks. 1 wish to -explain that
rneans the collection: of the customs, on
railroads, post offices and the whole Ooverament business and it is a very large
amount.' They -have increased. it ftom
twenty-four millions to thirty-nine millions.
That is a fair sample of extravagance.
that?
for
reason
any
there
(Is
country
of this
people
The
No.
are not geing to, be satisfied with the tarif!
which has been brought down, and you
cannot hornswaggle any one into thinking it
is a war measure. The Liberal party is
quite prepared to vote every dollar required
to, prosecute the war, but as the ex-Minister
of Railways said, - We are in favour o!
spendirig millions for the war, 'but not. one
dollar for graft." We were asked in August
to vote a large amou.nt of money. We voted
At without a word of p)roteet. How has that
fifty million dollars which we veted been
spent' The committees which are sitting
at the present time tell us how it ws
expended-buying boots, bineculars and
bicycles at extravagant prices. There were
middlemen here, there and all round.
Nobody could deal directly with the Governmnent, because the middlemen were there
and transactions had te be made through
them. And they pocketed millions cf the
people's money. Then, if you critîcise this
course of dealing, you are told you are not
patriotic. I venture te say 98 per cent of
the people of this ceuntry do not care how
much mo.ney is spent on this war; they wil
centribute ahl the men and money necessary
to prosecute the war, but they do net want
If $100,000 is
one dollar spent in graft.
spent on boots for our men who are
flghting in Flanders, we expect thein
te have proper boots and net boots
men
The
made eut of sheepskin.
should net be compelled te put shingles on

SENATE

their feet to keep them off the ground. 1
do flot hold the Prime Minister responsible
for this, but 1 hold him responsible for the
fact that he has flot proper supervision over
the men who are responsible to him for the
purchasing. Ali we can do is to give him
aavice and it is up to him to attend to it.
I amn not very well satisfied with the inicrease in taxes. The people in the country
are flot satisfied. because it is absolutely
u*nnecessary. Cut down the expenditure
and there will be no necessity to tai thern
in the way the Governrnent bas done at the
present time.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The Bill which the
hon. leader of the Government bas brougbt
down is one that commands flot only the
serious attention of this hon. House, which
after ail is a sine1 item in balancing up
accounts, but should command the serious
attention of the great public of the Dominion of Canada, the taxpayers, the men who
furnish the money. WVe are here to do our
criticising, and that is ail we can do. That
criticisni will be of no avail with the
Finance Minister under these conditions,
but what will be of avail with the Finance
Minister and his Government wil1 be te
serious questioning of his poiicy by the
electors and taxpayers, -and that is what this
hon. House ought to undertake to do. We
are not called upon to convince one another
on thîs point of protection or anything else,
but this House, in its capacîty as far as it
goes. sbould bring before the people of the
country the facts as they concern the -administration of the affaira of Canada. When
we do that we shall have accomplished our
duty. WVhether there be one, fifty or eighty
senators in the House makes no difference
The
"as far as the argument la coiicerned.
argument la given out, it is put in the
recorda of the country and can be uaed by
the different organa of -opinion, by the
different piatform speakers throughout the
Dominion during the coming general
That la where -%ve ahould
election.
drive home the wedge. Wte may talk here
from now to prorogation and it would not
change one vote. What the Senate should
do is to bring before the public the reai
facts of the case. What la the main fact in
this debate? The Government cornes'down
here, as it did elsewhere, and tells its foliowers that the Bill is a war mieasure,
doing so with the hope that they could
bli.ndfold the public, throw dust in their
eyes, have the people admit that this war
measure of increaaing protection in Canada
Hon- Mr. DAVIS.

should be swallowed without any comment
or discussion because it bears the namne
of war measure. Anybody oriticising a war
measure wi11 be put dow-n by these gentlemen who are adrninistratmng affaire as disloyal and unpatriotîc. That la the game we
have to meet, and it la being played by the
Administration in the halls of Parliament
and wfi be brought into play on every
publie platform and in every organ of
public opinion during the next six months,
when the elections corne on. It is up to
the Liberals in the House, in the House of
Commons and in the country to unmask
this campaign and tell the Government
they are not dealing fairiy or honestly by
the people of Canada, that in this Bill
they are handing out not only te Canada,
but to the British Empire, a gold brick,
forsooth a war measure. Here is Canada
bleeding itseif in money and fiesh for the
upholding of the honour and integrity of
the Empire, and this Government under
the mask, and under the deceptive term
of war measure, says to us, -Don't buy
English gooda unleas you pay 5 per cent
more for them'". Ia that the noble seherne
of an ally, a chiid of the Empire towards
its parent? Ia that the attitude whîch
Canada in its power, strength, wealth and
richness should assume to the Mother
Country in its hour of stress, when even
its own children are on strike, refusing
the manufacturer the gooda necesaary to
bring this war to a successful end? Are we
going te back the dock labourera in England.
the factory hands in Eng-land who are on
strike, and tell themn that Canada backs
them up by placing a duty of 5 per cent
on British goods? Where is your Canadian
Conservatîve Government in this matter
as far as loyalty for British arma, the
British Government and British people la
concerned? These are the thinga and thîs
is the point that will appeal to the people
of this country. It la not the mere quoting
of figures here and there. Let the people
of Canada tznderstand that this Bill
and
is a gold brick both for -Canada
England, and then we will see where the
Minister of Finance will stand at the
polis, we wili see whiether the brave soldiers who are laying down their lives in the
trenches of France and Belgium wvill cast
their ballot for a Government which
says to the people of Canada: "buy no
goode from England; you have to pay 5
per cent duty on thern." When a man bas
oniy a dollar he'cannnt purchase an article
which coats $1.05. This law is a moat
perniclous and unnecessary one, and
the
of
stability
the
undermines

MARCH 29, 1915
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If no other
Empire. The soldier knows no politics,
alI he knows is hoiv te handie his gun to hon. gentleman has any observation to
strike tbe enerny down. The present Gev-! make upon this Bill, I should like, by
ernment is undertaking a tas'k wbieh will way of reply, te correct -some misconcepredound against it as it should, invi'ting tions which eeem te govern the minds of
the co-operation cf poor soldiers, wounded hon, gentlemen opposite. I would not have
and dying, .asking tbem te send over votes considered it necessary to say any-thing
for certain candidates throughout this broad in reply to the observations which have
Dominion. Is that thie kind of legisiation fallen from my hon. friend, the leader
this Governinent misgoing te give to Can- cf the Opposition, had the criticism been,
ada? la that another war measure? The in my judgment. fair, with reference te
people cf this country will not stand for iA the legitimate and increasing expenditure
when the facta are blazoned Ibefore them ini to whieh the Grovernmenit of Canada bas
all their true colours and light and net to been committed for sorne years. I eaunot
be to.ld: "«we want this Bill passed with shlow statistics of the character cf those
71 per cent protection againat foreign coun- whieh have been used by my hon. friend
tries, and 5 per cent -against Britain, and to, appear in the Senate Debates without
we want it passed because it is a war mea- making some reply te -the reasons igovernrure. " That has done its duty in the Lower ing the apparent increase of expenditure
House, but it cannot do inuch of a duty which has taken place. It is unusual for
here. We cannot undo the evil perpetrated the Senate to enter upon a longthy discusin a lower spbere, but we can prevent by sion respecting a revenue Bill such as the
courageous and true expression of opinion one we have before us, but opportunity
the evil frorn being prepagated throughout has been takien of the occasion, apparently,
the leng-th and breadth of this country. to make bitter partisan speeches against
That is the position, and J1arn glad to have the Administration now in office.
followed niy hon. friend from Alberta ini
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the, hon, gentlethis debate. He has fortified his statement
by facts and figures taken froin the blue- man wil pardon me, going back: a good
bocks, which ought to condemn any gov- many yeare, 1 remember that we had sucli
ernment. Juat imagine a meeting cf 200 or discussions as the hon, gentleman refers
300 good honeat electera beîng 'told that the to which lasted for several days, conducted
collection of revenue in 1911 was only $26,- by gentlemen cf the Conservative party.
000,000 and that three yeara later it was
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn not ts.king
brought up to $39,000,000 without any necessity. How many votera would yog get te exception to the rîght cf the Senate to
support this Government except the bide- diecuss these matters.
bound partisans? One citation of these
Hon. Mr. POWVER-But the practice.
figures would be enough te open the eyes cl
country and have them
the electoTra cf this
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I amn refering to
caat their ballots against nmen whe are re- the practice which has obtained cf late
sponsible for this state cf thinga in Can- years. No-%v, niy hon. friend the leader of
ada. 1 could quote many other figures and the, Opposition through an expenditure of
facts te niaintain the position I hold in thias very considerable industry, has eubmitted
hion. House. 0f course I know it does net te us a table of the expenditures of the
meet the wishes cf hon. gentlemen opposite varions departments of governmental serwho are supporters of the Government, but vice shewing the increasing outlay which
let me tell them, beware of 'biinging down has talken place from year to year. I have
gold brick~s to Parliament. The people will flot had the opportunity of following closebýave the examination cf these bricks and ly the figures which hie presented, but
they will have te be pure solid geld if, the within the last fifteen minutes I have
hion. mienbers wish te be returned in the
bearing upon
next general election which is coming soon. looked into sorne statistics
Let the Senate do its duty in this matter. the subjects with which hie has dealt. My
We are responsible te the people. We are hion. friend grew indignant at the increased
old in experience. We have 'had 'to do with cost of the collection of revenue. Allow me
party strife and polîtical parties, and it La by w-ay of contrast, to cite some figures
up te the Senate te put the people on theiT as to the growth cf the cost of admingauard, net that the Senate can aceomplish istration during ten years of the late Govanything directly by its action or by its ernment. Beginning in 1901-because that
vote or word, but it can bring home te is the total that I have before me--I find
the people of Canada the facta cf the case. that the cest of collection of the customs

-

SENATE

revenue in 1901 was returned at $1,123,000.
-I amn not using the hundreds-and in
ten years that oost had almost doubled until
in 1911 it was $2,187,000. Now, tal<e another
item ci expenditure: In 1901 the cost of
co]lecting t.he revenue from Dominion
lands amounted to $133,000, but in less
than ten years, namely in 1909, it had grown
to $548,000. Take the question of excise;
in 1901 the coet of collecting the revenue
*was $458,000; in 1910 it had growu to $660,090 about fifty per cent increase.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK--Could my hon.
friend give us the revenue that was collected on the Dominion lands in that year?

it had grown in ten years to $1.246.000, or
about fifty per cent. Arts, agricultural
census and statistics in 1901 cost $697,000,
and in fine years it had risen te $1,403,000an increase of more than a hundred per
arose from
cent.
Civil Governmént
$1,474,000 to $4,269,000 in the terr years,
several huindred per cent.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think that muet ha
a mistake.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I am citing the
figures from the Public Accounts. It is
not a mistake. Of course, in my bon.
friend's judgment, it is amsistake, because
ha bas not been sufficiently impartial te
investigate the figures closely and to
eontrast the expenditure of the late Government w.ith that of the present Administration.
My bon. frieud us'ually adopte
a judicial attitude in viewing and discuesing public questions of this kind, but 1
venture te say that as to this particular
situation, my hon. !riend has flot made the
saine impartial axamination as hie would
on otber subjects.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn eatiefied that
there is some mistake.
Hon. Mr. DENNIS-A great mistake on
the part of tbe party responsible for it.
non. Mr: LOUGHEED-My hou. friend
cited the cest of- immigration.
Immigration in 1901 cost $444,000; in eight
years it had grown te $1,074,000, about 125
per cent increase. Take, for instance, the
Indians: the increased. cost fromn 1901, to
1909-was tbree hundred thousand dollars.
Take, for instance, the lighthouse and coast
service, la 1901 iA was $578,000, in 1910 it
had grown to $2,127,000, several hundred per
cent. Then take the question of mail
subsidies and steamship subventions
in 1901 the cost was $629,000, in 1910
it had gone up to $1,736,000, about
125 per cent increase.
Take, for instance, the question of pensions against
which hon. gentleman inveigh so mndignantly and so frequently; pensions grewv
fromn $93,000 in 1901 to $216,000 in 1910, an
increase o! over 900 per cent.
Miscellanieous expenditures on public works
grew !rom $3.386,000 in 1901 te $12,300,000
in 1910, nearly 400 per cent i nine years;
railways and ce.nals had grown from
$210,414 in -1901 te $987,000 in 1909, a.n increuse o! nearýy 300 per cent.
Hon. Mr. IleSWEENEY-More business.

non. Mr. LOUGHIEED-I shall approaeh
these various pointe with the information
1 have before me and then my hon. friend
can judge as to whether the administration
of the present Government bas not been
conducted with a great eaving and greatly
in contrast with the very increased expenditure which. took place during the years
I have mentioned of the late Administration.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Hear, hear.
Hon.'Mr. LOUGHEED-Take for instance
the post offices. The expenditure on.Consolidated Fund in 1901 was $3,931,000; ini
1910 it had grown te $ 7,215,000: in round
numbers it had increased. close to a hundred per cent. Public works had grown
from $272,800 in 1901 to $576,000 in 1910,
that is on Consolidated Fundý Account.
Railways and canais had grown from
$6,377,000 te $10,215,000. Trade and commerce had grown from $41,000 to $ 132,000,
nearly three hundred per cent. The total
collection o! revenue grew from $12,503,000;
in 1901 to $24,951,000 in 1911; when the
present Governument came iute office. The
collection o! revenue cost over a hundred
per cent more during that period than in
1901.
Hon. Mr. POWER-What does it cost
now?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
has the figures there. Will rny hon. friend
give bis fig-ures?
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I have handed niy
figures to the Debates reporters.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In 1913 it was
thîrty-three millions. We have not begun
to increase at the rate the late Government
-increased. its expenditure. Let me cite
miscellanous expenditure. The adminisnon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Take, for instance,
tration o! justice in 1901 cost $873,000 and my hon. friend's complaints as te steamHon.

Nir. LOUGHEED.

MARCH 29, 1915

boat inspection, lI 1901 it was $29,000 e.nd in
fine years it had grown up to .841,000. L.et
us 'take the total expenditure on Conmolidatý
ed Fund Account -between 1901 and 1911the dast year of office cf the late Goveraiment-the total expenditure grew from $46,8W6,000 le $87,774,000, nearly 100 per cent
increame. Yet my hon. friend takes this
Government te task because there is a
increase ince its accession to
-substantiel
office. I will. grant that- there bas been,
but 1 want ta point out that for years,
owing te the growth cf Canada, there has
been an irremistible ascending expenditure,
whieh is absolutel!y necessary, which is in
the very nature cf events; and te attack
a Governiment, because cf this growing
expenditure without taking into consideration the many and the varied conditions
which have arisen warranting that expenditure, 1 esay is an uni air criticisan of the
Administration.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Now, let nme
te
point out a few more statistice
I
warrant the conclusion at which
have arrived, Ïbecause I feel the assumption is 'wrong, and I think it is
disereditable to the Dominion te say
that every Government that edaninisteri
the affaira cf Canada is corrupt, and
because there is an increase cf expenditure
that the flogical conclusion can only be
that the Government is corrupt and is
prefiting by this increased expenditure. 1
say it is in the very -nature of events that
expenditures should inorease with the
growth and development of the country,
and it becoines public men and particularly gentlemen cf this Sonate, te. view
dispa&sionately and in *ajudicial way important subjfcts cf this kind, and net te
stanp upon our public men the questionaible reputation whioh partisan speakers
would invariably seek ta attach te the
character of every public xnan who is prepared te give his tume and his abilities in
the administration of the affairs of his
counètry.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-WculJ
friend allow me?

niy

hon.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Certaialy.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I did net say the
Government was corrupt; I was quoting a
statement made 'by the present Prime Minister.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-The total expendiLure on Co.nsolidated. Fond in 1896, when
the late Administration came fito office,
was $36,949,000. When the present Government came inta office that total ex!penditure
on Consolidated Fsmd Account had grown
ta $87,774,000, thus showing the growth and
development cf the Domi.nion.
Hon. Mr. POWEB-That was toc much,
was it netp
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That shows the
growth cf affaira -in Canada-net more thau
we are warranted li doing. The toital expenditure in 1896, when the late Goveraiment came inta office,wam $44,096,000; when
they went ont of office li 1911 'that expenditure had grown ta $122,861,000. Does my
hon. friend say that is toc mnoh?
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I did not before
heur my hon. friend sc emphatio es that.
Hon. Mr POWER-Yes, I did; I alwaym
thought our people spent toc much at the
end cf their term. Then my hon. friend
do6s net get over this peint, that the presen-t Gcvernment is mpending a great deal
more.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They are net
mpending correspondingly mere.
Hon. Mr. MeSWEENEY-Doing lees business.
Hon. Mr. DARDURAND-I suppose my
hon. friend recognizes that the question of
income is a very important factor.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We wil came ta
thbat ini a moment. The total reoeipts of
Canada in 1896 'were $36,618,000. When the
present Goveraiment came ito office they
were $117,884,000.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is ta say,
aur revenue or our incarne h-ad increased
nearly tbree t.imes. Consequently, if my
hon. friends on the opposite aide ehould
find that expenditure has increased correspondingly, they must reamon out for
themselves-at, least they mhould, as every
business man should-that an increased
revenue invalves a corresponding inoreame
of expenditure. Now, I do net desire te
say very much more exoept ta impress on
the Hanse, by the figures which I have
pointed out, the very important f act that
the growth of Canada has been cf suoh a
character as te demand cf t4hc Government

SEN'ATE

208

of the day, no0 matter what that Government may -bc, the increasing expenditure
from time to time. As to the present Government. no0 Government since Confederation came into office under more inauSpicious circumstances and conditions than
the present Governiment.
Hon. Mr; iPOWER-Under more auspicious circumstsflces.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-InauspiciOfl5.
The present Government came into office
and became the inheritors of legracies. of
liabilities and of obligations, 'su-eh as no
other Govemnment had 'to face.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-And $40,O00,0O0 ready
cash.
Borne hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They had to face
the resuits of the extravagance and incompetence and ail the hiabilitiezs that had been
incurred throug"h unwise administration by
the late Governnment.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This Governmen't
had to face the -building of practically two
transcontinental systems wbich should
neyer have been entered upon.
Some bon. GENTLtlMEN-HeaT, hear.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This Government
had to face the expenditure practically incident to botb those great systems. This
government to-day, and not only this governmnent but Canada to-day. is staggering under the load th-at hias been placed
upon its shoulders by the late Administration.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Avery substantial
part of the general revenue has been expended by the present Government in meeting the obligations incident to the coinpletion o! the Nation&l Transcontinental
railway. This Goverin!ent lias had to go into
the money markets of Europe bo borrow
nioney for the purpose of completing that
undertaking. This ýGovernment has not only
had to do that, but it bas had to hand out
of the public excbequer f0 the Grand Trunk
Pacifie, in addition to the ouflay on the
National Transcontinental railway. a loan
amounfing f0 twenfy-five millions of dollars,
and in addition an amount, under the
implementing clause o! the agreement, of
over ten millions o! dollars. Those two
amounts alone would represent aliriost the
13on. Mr. LOUflHEED.

entire revenue of this country whien the
Government of my hon. friend to, rny left
(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell) went out of
office in 1896.
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Moosejaw)-How many
millions did you give to the Canadian
Northern railwayP
Hon. Msfr. LOUGHEED-That was another
obligation that was placed on the shoulderso! this Governinent. We have had to bear
if and oarij' it tbrough, and in doing 80 t0
uphold the financial credit of Canada s0
fai as we possibljy could.
Hon. Mi. DENNIS-And one of the hon.
gentlemen's friends said he would vote a
hundred millions.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The late Government weîe willing to vote those large
amounts and leave if f0 their successois
to f uînish the money, which is always, 1
nee-d nof say, the more difficult fask. Then
we have other obligations. This Goveinment had bo enter on an obligation made
by the late Government as f0 carrying out
the Hudson Bay railway, whichi involves
a veîy large expenditure. So thaf in the
three yeaîs during which this Governmenf
ba.s been administering the financial
aif airs o! Canada, we bave been called. upon
to f urnish money bo meet obligations incuired by the colossal mistakes made by the
late Administration, an amount representing a couple of hundred millions of dollars,
and at a time when we had just entered
upon the t.hreshold of one of the gîeatesf
financial depressions the world bas ever
experienced.
Soine hion. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. MT. LOUGHEED-We bad scaicely
become seated in office before the financial
edifice, not only in the United States but
tbiougbout the greater part o! the civîlized
woîld, collapsed, disturbing the finances
of Europe at that particular fime. We no0
sooner fook hold of tbe reins o! office and
proceeded bo administer the af!airs of this
country than we were thus confronted by
a financial depresÏsion, the most disastrous
in ifs results and in ifs bearingas of any
that bave happened. Not only had we bo
face these difficulfies, but this depression
was followed by the present Euiopean war,
a war thaf kmndled nof only the whole
continent o! Europe into flame, but has
ove.rwhelmed the world'e finances. A cataclysm o! disaster, the greatest in the
history o! the world. Did hon, gentleman

MARCH 29, 1915
We do not by our resolution offer anything
expect that thé revenues of - this country to Great Britain alone. We make our offer not
remain unimpaired, when the whole to Great Britain, but to every nation that la
would
world was suffering from the financial de- wiUing to accept. We make the offer to every
establiah fair
pression? The logicai conclusion was-and nation that la willing to with Canada. and reasonable trade relations
the resuit li fact as weil as in theory has
This was simply to implement the pledges
been-that out revenues were boumd to
tumble. The revenue of ail the institutiono, which have been given from time to time
in Canada hae fallen off ; many of them îor some years previously by the leaders
o!
have fallen off 50 per cent. The revenues of the Liberal party, that a measure
be
of our great railways have falien off by free trade as it was in England would
i Canada.
over 50 per cent, and those of the Domin- introduced and established Fielding-to
1 This was the idea of Mr.
ion of Canada have fallen off likewise.
it by 121
will veniture to say that the income of every reduce the tarif f and to reduce from time
in this Chamnber who may per cent, and then insidiously, tariff walls
hon. gentleman
lower the
have something to do with the larger inter- to time, te gradually in 1878, and under
which had been built
est$ of business wiil have shown a like which Canada had mo magnificentiy prosdecreee. The effects of the depression are pered.
fel't universaliy by the people. Then I ask,
is it a fair argument for hon. gentlemen
Some lion. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
on the other side of the House to stand
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Weil, what
up and accuse this Governinent of so admmnistering the affaira of this country as became of Mr. Fielding's proposaI? It soon
to be responsible for this impairnient in became obvious that the Gover-nment'Sz
revenueF It nmust occur, even to the most proposal woi4ld prolve abortive. Existinîg
unintelligent, that fair play should be ex- trade treaties prevented the general recipoperation, and
tended Lo a Government administering the rocal offer fromn coming into Lords of Great
i.mder the disturbed upon the advice of the Law
affaire of this country,
section 17 of the tariff, offering a
conditions which we ail have to face. Some Britain,
préference te every nation willing to accept
hon. gentleman expres-ed the deepest solici- it had to be repealed, and o! course extendtude i regard te the preferential tariff ed te Great Britain alone. I need not
beimg somewhat inipaired by the 5 per point out to hon. gentlemen, because tliey
cent increase i this measure. If there je will ail remnember it, that the Belgian and
anythinig that lias appealed to my sense German treaties at that particular time,
cf humour iA is the -solicitude, 'the deep owing to the favoured nations clauses in
anxiety which hon. gentlemen on the Lib- their treaties, stood in the way of the
eral aide have alwaye displayed for the pre- adoption of Mr. Fielding's proposais; and
Those hon. gentlemen consequently we find it by a process o!
ferential tariff.
have taken the very happy unction to their evolution, shaping itself into a preferentiai
soule that they deserve the credit for tariff applying to Great, Bri'tain alone. But
adopting the preferential tariff, forgetting I might say that between 1900 and 1907 Sir
that preference came into existence purely Wilfrid Laurier, oby certain amexidments,
as the resuit cf a legisiative blunder, mnade raised the tariff duties to such an extent
by the late Administration after it came as to practicaliy place the pre!erençe in a
into office.
more unfavourable position than it lias
Now,
adopted.
before it was
been
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hlear, hear.
Sir WVilLrid Laurtier, the leader cf the
Hon. Mx. LOUGHEED-We know that Liberal party. shortly previous to that,
one of the firet mes sures brought down by had been opposed to preferential treatMr. Fielding when he came into office was ment to Great Britain. Sir Charles Tupper
a Bill promotive of free trade. Mr. Field- discussed the proposai in the House o!
ing, when lie brought down that ceiebrated Commons. Mr. McNeil, a member on the
measure proposed offering a 12J per cent re- Conservative side, -brought in a motion for
duction in duties on the goods of any coun- the adoption cf a British preference, but àt
'try -whicli admit Can.adia-n goods on equaily was defeated in the House, and at that
favourable terms. Now Mr. Fielding at that particular time Sir Wilfrid Laurier opposed
time had no expectation thiat this would it; but, as I have said, through a concateevolve itiself ito a British préference, be- nation cf circumsatances or bilunders which
cause the sentiments expressed by Mr. sometimes happen in legislation, this mesFielding on that particular occasion were sure biossomed out into what V-day is the
Brit.ish preferential tariff. For this my
these:
S-14
REVISED

EDITION

SENATE

hon. friends on the Liberai side have
taken credit, a something for whieh they
1 find the
were not at ail responsibie.
time has gone by so rapidly that I shall
flot make any further discussion on this
Bill. 1 therefore move the second reading
oi the Bill.
The motion vas agreed to, and the Bill
vas read the second time.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (76), An Act to supplement the
revenue required to meet var expenditures.
-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
IBil. (85), An Act respecting Seed Grain,
Fodder and other relief.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
Bill (93), An Act to amend the Judg-es'
Act.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
The Senate adjourned until 3 o'elock.

Second Sitting.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
o'clock.
Routine proceedings.
INSURANCE COMPANIES EXTENSION
0F TIME BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading of Bill No. 79 An Act to, authorize
certain extension of time te Insurance
Companies.
He said: This Bial makes provision for
the extension of charters of Insurances
where tihere would be a lapse u.nies legis.
lative enactment extended the time for the
payrnent of money, as provided by the
Insurance Act. As hon. gentlemen are
aware, before a license can be issued te, do
busineiss, a certain amount of money has
te be paid in. There are, I believe, outstanding some charters of companies, which
have not yet been able to comply with
provision of the Insurance Act te which 1
have referred. This is intended te extend
the time for payment to ail companies that
are in that position.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Has the hon. gentleman a liat of those companies?
Hon. Mrt. LOUGHEED-No.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-We have already
put t.hrough one or two Bills extending
the time for Insurance companies and to
Mon. Mr. LOUGH=E.

a certain extent it is rather unfai.r. Those

companies which have already got their
extension hav&. paid their fees and gone
to the expense of paying for an extension.
whereas under this Bull the companies wil
be relieved of this expenditure.
Hon. MTr. LOUGHEED-Not necessarily,
because >under this Act they will have to
It wilà
pay a fee te, secure an extension.
flot be as long an extension as is usually
granted by a private Bull.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOC'K-It will flot be for
two years?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, the Bill provises that the extensionwill be until after
the next session of Parlianient.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-It is a slight
innovation on the rights of Parliament.
Ail this matter bas been deait with previousiy by Parliament.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, verv rnuch
along the line indicated for sorne time, that
private Bis shouid not be obtained fromi
Parliamnent but that tlue promotors shouli
make an application under a General Act
for power te do business. It seems te me
that is a poiicy weiJ worth considering.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
was read the second time.
CRIMINAL

CODE

AMENDMENT

BILL

SECOND READING.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading of Bill No. 74, An Act to amend
the Criminal Code.
He said: This ineasure has for its object
amending the Criminal Code in severail
particulars. The first amendment provides
against assisting alien enemies ieaving
Canada. This is a phase of legis3ation
which. scarcely could have been anticipated
until we learned the necessity of it during
the existing war. The i-aw is somiewhat
complicated on the subject, and it bas been
a subject of discussion, in a case which was
recently tried in Toronto. The amendment which. is now proposed to be miade to
the Criminal Code bas been suggested by
one of the Chief Justiceg of Ontario, Sir 'Wn.
Mulock.
The next aniendment proposes
amending the code te, make provision
against the perpetration of . fraud in connection with the sales of military clothing.
As hon. gentlemen can very well conceive,
a great many persons will seek. particuiarly at a time like the present, when great
pressure is being brought te bear upon the

MARCH 29, 1915
Governnient, to palm off defective military
stores. without proper opportunity being
given to discover the fraud that is being perpetrated. This applies to ail military stores.
It aiso makes provision against the perpetration of any act cf dishonesty, fraud or
deception upon His Majesty ini con nection
with the purchase, deiivery or manufacture of military or militia stores. The next
amrendînent proposes -attaching certain liabilities or penalties to the officers cf coinpanies who may in any way be lisible for
the working out cf any such frauda or deoeptionias those wh.ich 1 have pointed out.
We propose aisE amending the .Criminal
Code oRs te the infringement cf copyright in
Canada. Heretefore we have bad no provision in the Criminal Code against the
use cf copyrighted products ini Canada. I
might say that this subject has been conaidered by the -Senate on a previous occasion. I think in 1908 similar legialation
wnas introduced into this Chamber, which
liad passed the House cf Commons, but
which 'vas rejected -by this House. As hon.
gentlemen doubtless know, our copyright
la'ws are somewhat nebulous; we are net
in the saine position, or have not proeetded te the saine extent, as many other
countuies upon the subject cf copyright.
The consequence is that there is on albsence
of legisiation in our'statutes which would
naturaily be expected by those interested
in copyrights. Hence there bas been considerabie pressure brought te bear on the
Governinent and others that Canada should
amend its Criminal Code te make punish-

able by penalties the unauthorized use of
*copyrights. For instance, the authors of
certain plays that are copyrighted in thse
*United States, and other foreign ooun tries
strengly object te those pisys being made
use c! in Canada without the usual royalty
or percentage bcing paid. Their remedy at
the present turne is through the civil courts.
We -have net made it a criminal offence as
yet. Pressure has ibeen brought te bear

with a view of giving not only a

Civil TeM-

edy in our courts, but aise enforcing its observance througli the operation'of the criminal iaw. The other amndmients deal with
a clasa cf criminal law which I think 'vili
appeai te hon. gentlemen. This Bill proposes making greater the penalty than has
heretofore obtained againat the inmates cf
bawdy bouses.

When we go into commit,

tee I, shahl be very glad te discuss te Eome
lurther extent the desirability cf this hegislation.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I do net propose to
object te any-of the clauses of this Bilh, but
S-14J

1 should ]ike if the hon. leader would give

us some information, especially ýoi> Ile
copyright clause when we go into caimniittee. It wouid be interesting te know how
the matter stands in England end the
United States-how they deal with the
question. 1 think tlie other clauses of the
Bill are.quite necessary, but we can discuss then ibetter in comrnittee thau. at the
second reading.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I can perhaps
give a partial anàwer te the hon, leader of
the Opposition as te t6he situation ini Great
Britain. 1 do not speak for the United
States, but a penai enactment has been
passed in England making it a criminal
act te violate the rights of authors in literary or other fields.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
AMEiÇDMENT TO BlRITISH NORTH
AMERICA ACT.
MOTION.

The order of the day being called;
Conhideration of the message from the House
of Commons requesting the senate to unite with
that House In an address to Hi. Majesty the
King, praying that he may be pleased to give
hie consent to submitting a measure te the Parliament of the United Kingdom to amend certain provisions of the British North Aznerica
Act. 1867, etc-_Hon. Mn. Lougheed.

non. Mr. LOUGHEED-At the close ef
the session of 1914 1 had the honour to
move, on behalf of the Government, a
precisely sîmilar address te the one now
before us for our consideration. The object
of the address is te divide the Dominoin
into four senaterial sections, or groupa, net
in any way departing frein thse representatien already enjoyed by the Maritime Provinces, the province of Quebec and the
province of Ontario se far as the numbers
of their representatives in this Chamber
are concerned. It is proposed. te add, as
I have saîd, a fourth group, giving a representation of 24 senators in this Chaxnber te

that portion of Canada iying west of lake
Superior. *That is te say, it is proposed to
increase its representation in this Chaxnber
to six senaters for the province of Maz>itoba, six for Saskatchewan, six for Alberta
and six for British Columbia. As h&sa.
gentlemen are doubtiess aware, we alreadY
have legislation upon our statute books
making provision for a iepresentation of
six in the province of Manitoba. Borne
question has arisen as to whether the Paruinent of Canada has authority. %,

SENATE

appoint the additional number ef 2 for
which provision was made in the Manitoba
Boundaries Extension Act, passed ini 1912.
It is considered by some of the law officers
of the Crown that this Parliainent had
authority We malte provision for that increase cf numbers. However, others have
cast a doubt upon the exercise o! such authority, and it is, therefore, thought desirable toeseek Imperial- legislation upon
the aubject. No question can arise as te
the provision which already hias been made
for the appointment of six senaters for the
provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan,
respectively. When the North West territories were erected inte the two provinces
already mentioned, namely Saskatchewan
and Alberta, provision was made for a tepresentation cf six from each of those two
provinces, but inasmuch as Imperial legistation was thought desirable for the other
provinces, it wvas therefore considered
proper that the entire representation should
be included in this me'asure. AS te the
province of British Columbia, lion. gentlemen are doubtless aware, when the British
Columbia Act cf Union was passed. provision was made for only three Benaters and
ne further provision was mnade for an increaseç representation of that province in
this Chamber. As ail those Provinces have
sirnultaneôusly increased in population, and
as they ciosely approximate each other in
population, cf course ne question cai'
arise as to the reasonableness of the number which is being, given te each. It is
also provided that the clause% in tihe
British North- America Act which makes
provision for either three or six additional
senaters being appointed upon leave being
given by the Imperial authorities in the
case of an emergency be amended, and
that in view ef the extension of the numnber
and cf the creation et four groups, this
clause in the British North America Act
should. read "Four or eight," as the case
may be, instead of "three or six" as it new
resds. Provision is also made in the
address that each province et the Dominion
shial always have a representatien in the
House o! Gommons as large as their senatonial representation. The application of
this would immediat-ely be made te the
province of Prince Edward Island. That is
the only province whose representation lu
the Gommons bias fallen below that et the
Senate. As hon, gentlemen axe aware,
when the last Redistribution Bill was placed upon the statute book, the representation et Prince Edward Island was reduced
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

to three senators. Upon the passage of
this Imperial legislation, theref ore, the
province of Prince Edward Island would
be entitled to four. I might eay that this
was unanimougly TeCOmmended. by the
House of Commons at the time that House
considered the Redistribution Bill, and it is
of course done with the consent of that
House. Therefore, I move that a humble
address be presented to His Royal Highness the Governor General praying that hie
be pleased te place the eaid address before
His Majesty the King.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The request of the
Gommons was that we should fili up the
b tank.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If my motion
should carry, then the blank would be
tilled up as suggested by the hion, gentleman from Halifax.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The hion. gentleman lias referred to this address as being
pratically similar to the one presented te
the Hou-se on a former occasion, but which
did net go through because the Gevernment refused to accept the amati, and what
we considered on this aide of the flouse,
the very reasonable ameudment that was
moved te the address providing that At
should not corne into effect until- the terniination cf the present Parliament. My hon.
friend bias said nothing about that question.
1 de net know whether he hias considered
whether that amendment should be placed in the address at the present time or
not.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I presume hon.
gentlemen iltl see the errer of their
ways in adopting that amendment last
session, and consequently 1 make ne ref etence te it.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-We thought the
Government .might have conaidered the
inatter and seen the errer of their ways
in regard te the handling of the measure.
Sorne hon. gentlemen may consider that
this question ef increasing the representation 'n the Senate up te 104, as I think
is dene by this address, is rather a large
erder, and that some other way might
have been found of dealing with this questien. I think there is an opinion held in
the country to-day that the Senate, as i!
stands, is almost big, enough in point of
numbers for the population that we have
in this 'country, and we might have possiblv viewed the question in another light,
and considered whether we should have

MNARCH 29, 1915

nmade any arrangement for a reductien in the numbere; but I propose
later on, when ve go inte committee,
te propose an amendinent that the first
section et this. address, psragraph 1 te 6
inclusive, shall not take effeet until the
termination ef the nov existing Canadian
Parliament. Lest year my hon. friend from
De Salaberry moved an aniend ment te
this address. He is not present to-day, and
1 have net had an oppoitunity of speaking
te him te knew if he desires te take any
steps in regard te that matter. Bis axnendment last year dealt vith a very material
point, that ve are amending the British
North America Act ànd that, aocording te his
viev, it eught net to be done, except alter
consultation with the provinces. The point
is that vs are dealing with this amendinent
te the British North America Act without
consulting the provinceq and we are doing it
possibiy because this Parliament niay consider eue of the provinces should be dealt
with in a way that, possibly if ail the other
provinces were consulted, they ight net
agree te. Hovever, that arnendrnent Nvas
het carried last year. I only mention it in
case my hon. friend fromn De Salaberry
should want te bring it Up vhen vs rise
this evening.
Bon. Mr. Z--LORAN-The saine Bill vas
before us lest year, and con sequently- I
have the saine objection te it now. Lest
year I oppesed the passage et the Bill, net
because it vas designed te de justice te
the several provinces, but in order te prevent the Governinent frein obtaining an
unfair advantage by that Bill in the representation in this Heuse. If the Bill as
originally presented and draited were
passed the Liberals in the Senate ivould
be swamped to-day. That is plain English.
Hon. Mr. M-%cKAY <Cape Breton)-Would
the hon. gentleman say vhat he means by
being svaniped?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-By bringin.g in ten
or fifteen Tories.
Hon. Mr. M-NURPHY-Thqt Nvould net
swanzp the Liberais. They wouid stili have
a majerity.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-As long as it is in
the pover et the Liberal party teo prevent
that condition et things, it is up te the
gentlemen et the party te say that it shall
net be dons.
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Cape Breten)-The
Conservatives are swaniped in the Senate
nov, se that it veuld be siply *tit fer tat.
We are in a minority.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And that is where
we hope to keep you if we can, and it vili
he up te you to get out of that position.
The suggestion mnade by the *hon. leader
of the Opposition in regard te this Bill
is practically the saine in regard te
the Bill last year and which did not go
as f ar as I desire, on behaif of the Liberal
party i this Senate and the Dominion
cf Canada. The amendment asked that the
Governinent shall not have te nominate
these additlonal senaters until alter the
expiration et this Parliament. What does
thaît meanP Next month if Sir Robert dissolves. Parliament, and has the elections
in September or October, or any other
month, between the dissolution of Parliament -and the holding o! eaections he bas
the power and absolute right te fil1 al
offices under the Crown. The right ef the
Prime Minister and the power of the
Governanent ceases on the evening of the
general election. as vas welI laid down
by Lord Aberdeen. When Sir Char-les
Tupper vas driven froin power ini 1896,
he vas able te naine every efficer he wanted to appoint up te the date of the electien
He had three or four
in that year.
senatorships dangling in the air which had
been rendered vacaxit 'by the resignations et
Senstors Anger, Desjardins and others
holding thein for t *hese men if they.w ere
wounded. in the fight at that turne. They
were weundsd and driven frein public fite.
And what did Sir Charles Tupper want?
He wanted te have thein renominated in
their old places. Lord Aberdeen said, "Sir
Charles Tupper yeu have ne righ*t te fill
any position under the Crevai -nov that you
have been driven frein power,- thus niakîng
himuforever a niortal enemy of Sir Charles
Tupper. Hon. gentileman ought to reineniber the stery of the "nest ef traitors."
There vas no man i Parlianient et that
turne and up to the present vho spoke more
disrespectfully of the representative et the
King than the saine Sir Charles Tupper
when he reterred te Lord Aberdeen. Who
can contradiet. that. statement? Those vho
listened te Sir Charles. Tupper in the other
Chainbqr will remeinher the contempt and
disdain ih which he held the representative
of 'the King alter he had refused te sanctien the defeated leader's nominations te
fill places in the SenaLe, on the bench,
and in other offices. Nearly 40 recommendations passed by Order in Council vers net
sanctioned by the Gevernor General on the
ground that, alter the general electien,

SENATE

ho had no more power or authority to act.* these new positions creat-ed by this Bill
GovernButL up to the eve of the general elec- should flot be filled by the present
has taken
tion he was all rpowerful, he was abso- ment until a generai election
is given
lutely, and rightly he should be so. He place, or concurrent representation
to the House of Comnmons.
had the confidence of the people until that
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-In order to
confidence was taken away. What je proposed here. ie bo place in the hands of satis!y the Houge that my-hon. friend from
a moribund. Government the power of Victoria division (Hon. Mr. <Jioran) dos
nominating a number of senators which flot carry evfry member to the length that
they would have t.he right to do if vacancies he indicates, 1 desire to exprae my disoccurred. There are nine vacancies at pre- sent frorn the opinion which he declares
sent. Thbe Governmxent can to-day, or to- to be hie own andthat of the Liberal party.
morrow, or the day after dissolution, fill
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No more mine than
these places. It would be their perfect yours.
right to do go, but to give thern additional
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-I wiil not propower under this law, to put into this tend to speak for anybody but myself. My
Senate, 8, 10 or 12 new senators without hon. f riend from Victoria division objecte
concurrent representation in the House of o -giving the Government the right to apCommons, I say would be an outrage uPon point these new senatore which. wîll be
the people of Canada and a dast.ardly blow created by thie Act. On the contrary, 1
at the Liberal party. That is plain language would invite themn to do go. If the outand it is what 'I mean. I amn here to pro- going Government were eustained, it
tect the interests o! the Liberal party w~ithin would make no difeérence. If the Governthe constitution, but not beyond it. My con- ment were not sustained I would prefer to
frères rnay say, "Oh but that is partisan; we ffee a strengthening of the par ty which is
are independefit." When 1 look across the at present ini a rninonity and which would
floor of the flouse and see all the non- keep growing weaker, year by year.
partisan and independent there I amn
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Hear, hear. That
I lîke to follow tiieir
highly elated.
I amn wiIl go with the country.,
example and that is what
are
Hon. Mr. DAKDURAND-I believe that
my friends
o!
Borne
doing.
afraid that 1 rnay pase for a partisan, the nearer the partiee in this Ohamber
but 1 pase for a straight Liberal here ini approaches numerical equality in the
the Sonate and throughout the country, and divergence o! opinion which separat2s
jet that he well understood. I ehould like the parties, the botter it will be for
to know 'what Liberal from Vsncouver to the country, and we have been striving
Halifax will denounce Me for so doxng. 1 since 1 have been in the flouse to find a
travel undor no veil or cloak of hypocrisy- scheme by which appointment bo the Senate
straight goods ail the tirne. Bo that my might be, made in such a way as, not to
friend the enerny rnay know where I stand. nnnihilate the party in opposition to
6o far we have
1 won't knife hinm in the dark or attack the ministerial party.
upon a scheme
under the fith nib, as Sir John used not been able to agree
him
hold that if to bring about appointments to the
to say of his opponents. I
which would maintain a greater
this measure is to have the effect of giving Senate
parties. It
to the Governmeflt o! the day the nomin- equilibrium between the two
election struck me these 1.ast days that perhaps we
ation o! there new senators before
should make an effort while addressingday, ail right, they can have it as f ar as ourselves to the Imperial flouse ta suggest
it, but I say that it is
the, iaw will ailow
means by which the eystem o! fillingwithin our power, and it is our duty, to a
Senate could be bettered.
prevent the Government obtaining this vacancies in the
new senators without I make no dlaim to in!allibility, but if I
right to nominate
had time to prepare an addition to this
concurrent representation ini the Lower had
framed it on
House. That is the principle on which 1 resolution I would have gladly
entire Liberal the foilowing lines; in order to bring about
stand, and I know that the
party of this country and many good Con- the equilibrium between the parties whîch
servatives wiii say, -Cloran is night". Why my hon. !riend from Montreal fears so much
give increaeed representation here when the 1 would have maintained the right o! the
under the present
people are without it in the flouse #)f Com- government to continue
That je common sense. 1 eay that system of appointing- senators ta this Chammoins.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

MAROR 29, 1915

ber. I would have even extended the time
to the firet July, 1917. Elections may take
place in 1916. 1 would have ffxed the let
of July, 1917, as the date for the new
regime to corne into force, and I would have
declared that the Government should cease
appointing senators until each of the groupa
had been reduced to at least 18, in order ta
diminish the representation in thia chamber to 72, instea:d of increasing it above 100.
That ie why 1 would have asked the suspension of the right of the Government ta
appoint ta thie chamber after the let July,
1917. The main abject naturally would be
ta reduce the number of senators to 72. 1
have found after Bome research that when
the members of any upper- chamber exceed
80 we -are much above the proportion that
prevaile between the Lower House and
Upper Houee in other countries th.roughout
the world, except such countries as Great
Britain and Italy, where the number of appointments is unlimited.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Great Britain especially.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I have mentioned Great Britain and Italy as two of
them coming within my memory. 1 believe
there are rnany membere o! this Chamber
who hold this view and have held the opinion that the Senate should rather be decreased in number than increased.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Would the hion. gentleman be the first ta resign?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-When 1 have
finished my remarks 1 wîll give my hon.
friend niy opinion an that point. I would
add another clause to provide that, twenty
years thereafter the present Senate should
be dissolved and elected under a system o!
election by the provinces at large, and under
the principle of proportional 1epresentation.
The election of the senato'rs by each province, of the group of senators to whieh the
province is entitled by the electors ai large
throughout that province would have this
double effect; firet, ta force parties to select
men of sufficient stature te be seen through
the province, and thus to create a high
standard o! nominees for the upper Chamber. The second reason for my suggestion,
that the provinces at large should select the
senatare given each province, is that the
electarate would be so large that it would
eliminate the idea that the influence of
money ceuld have anything ta do witli the
recuit of the election. 1 would adopt the

praportional systemn o! representation because then each province would be sure to
have a fair representation during the number of years for which those senatars would
be appointed, and 1 would say 9 or 12 years.
This je the acheme which I would propose,
which, in fact, if I had some time I would
draft and attach to this resolution. It je
non-partisan. 1 would make an effort ta
even iip the parties before beginning the
election of the number of members cf this
Senate tbrough a suspension o! the right ta
appoint and I would leave ta the electarate
twenty years thereafter the right cf electing
the senators.
Hon. Mr. MlURPH[Y-ls there -a danger
in that schemne ta a sma&l province like
mine, when the reduction woufld reach
eighteen -that aur representation wou.ld be
eliminated altagether?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-If the number
of representatives .fromi the Maritime Provinces were reduced ta eighteen, for
instance, I would think that Prince Edward
Island would have to sacrifice one inember
out of the four.
Hon. Mr. MURPHIY-We niight-have te
sacrifice them ail if the number reached
eighteen.
Hon. Mr. DAIiDURÂND-This ie a question cf 'drafting the resolution in euch a
way as ta satisfy each province, and perhape dividing it by provinces instead cf
dividing it by groupe. The hon. gentleman
from Victoria division asked me if I would,
at the end of twenty years, suggest the dissolution of this Chamber. As I arn among
the few members below fifty-five years I
might be here at the time cf such dissolution. I euppose the majarity cf anembers
would net .be very mnuch affected twenty or
twenty-two years hence. However, if I did
move such a resolution, and the majority
reduced the time limit for the dissolution of
this Chamber, I would be ready ta go to the
electors cf Quebec and try to fiqueeze in
among them as representing corne portion of
it. I xnove in amendment that this resolution be referred ta the Committee cf the
Whole House.
Hon. Mr. ROCHE-I did net propose to
ad&ress the Senate until I beard aome cf
the revolutionary remarks made by my hion.
friend from De Lorimier <Hon. Mr. Dandurand). (X course we ail muest acquit
the Government cf having any intention whataver cf augmenting their numbers by any resohation tending towards the

SENATE

remodolUing or thé reformation of the
Senate. The House '-Of Cominons for a
number of years has had on the anvil
projects of various kinds for reforming the
Senate, always 'with the remote and
tangential intention or object of transposing the numbers. from one aide who aire
in -the ýmajority, te the other aide, and
giving t'hat aide a majority. 0f course,
that is not a party move or a party advantage. 1 would think, as an outsider,
an ordinary person; #iat there are in the
lieuse of Gommons and in the representatives of the House cf. Gommons, and the
system of elections of the House cf Gommons, plenty of subjeets on which they
could exercise themselves in Teforming and
purifying the House of Gommons, before
they attempted to cast out the mote that
is in the eyes of the Senate.
Some hon. GENTLEMýEN-'-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. ROCHE-Wlith reference to the
reduction of the Senate, decrease of numbers and alterations in its composition, 1
might refer te a litle niatter of history
which is in the minds, and perhaps in the
recollection, of at least several of the members of this House, and that was the
period cf Gonfederation. Many inembers
of the House will remember that there was
a considerable and lengthy opposition te
-the motter cf Confederation and the measure
of Gonfederation when that was subjected
to the people for their approval or disapproval. We remember that Sir Charles
Tupper and Sir Leonard Tilley uand, other
gentlemen addressed the inhabitants cf
Nova Scotia, and particularly the cîty cf
Halifax, qand 1 believe the samne movement went on in New Brunswick and in
the city cf St. John. The opposition w as
strenuous. A large number cf the people
-a xnajority cf the people, were known to
be opposed te Gonfederation. What was
te be done te influence the -people and to
induce them lo vote for Confederation,
especially in Nova Scotia ? Why, a
promise was made that the influence of
the Lower Provinces should net be
diminished at any time. Strenuous objections w'ere made in this ground, flrst of
ail, that the money provision, was not
adûquate, that the amount allotted te the
eastern provinces was net sufficient te
support their public werks and te provide
for their necessity. That was one premi.
nent objection, and I think that objection
bas been well verified and well sustained
in all the agitations which have taken
place by the provinces for inoreased inHon. Mr. ROCHE.

demnity, and the promises from time to
time. Secondly, the decrease of represen~tation in the lieuse cf Gommons whicb
w.ýuld inevitably result from the acquisition cf new territeries, making new provinces, and it was promised on that consideration that the resource and safeguard
againat that vies tha/t 'the Tepresentatiel2
cf the eastern provinces in the Senate
should not be diminished at any time, but
that. Vhey were te be in certain proportion
te the four provinces, and tbey should be
maintained -as a preventive cf the removal
cf the balance cf power iin t~he Gommons,
the popular Tepresentation, te the western
te
inevitably
whieh viere
provinces
be created. Now, hion. gentlemen, whereý
is the proposition te reduce the Senate?
Where is the proposition te alter the preponderance cf the equality cf the eastern
provinces by the admission cf new previnces Because every nevi province which is
întroduoed reduces the influence and the
power of the easiern provinces unless they
are propertienately increased, and that caniTherefore, tlue safeguard
flot be done.
which. induced a great number of the four
eastern provinces to enter inte this Confederation is te be destroYed. 1 am net mn
faveur of change; perhaps I arn tee old; T
do net see any advantage in a popular representation or a mixed representation- The
Senate vias created te conserve provincial
interests; that vis part cf the original
pact; it vias upon this that the Cenfederatien vias entered into and vie dare net disturb that lest vie have a revolution in this
country.
T he motion was agreed te, and the lieuse
vient inte Committee of the Whole on the
Bill.
(In the Gommittee).
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-lt is not my intention te detain the House verY long on this
subject, as not long ago 1 fully went into
what I would say on the present occasion.
This resolution is breught forth as a inodicum of justice, as far as my province is
cencerned, and la intended te safeguard
the other tvie Maritime Provinces from fallinga below a certain limit cf representation
which conditions, as they are in Canada
teday, might permit. As 1 8aid hast year,
I amn sorry te see the elements of politics
injected inte the discussion, and te hear a
gentleman rise and say that it is politics
and politics alone that suggests his attitude
toward the proposed amendment, and that
he would endeavor te prevent the resolu-

MARCH Q9, 1915

tion frorn beîng carried. To rny knowledge
this is -the first time ini any Rouse o!. Parliament of this country where a gentleman
has stood in hie place and proposeI an
arnendrnent having for its end -the keeping
down of the representation cf hie province.
That is the position the hon. leader of the
Opposition -occupies on the present occasion. This resolution, which was introduced a year ago, was destined to give the
province cf Britjiah Columbia immediately
six meïmbers. On that occasion he moved
a rider te the resolution, ini arnendrnent,
that that increased representation W0111(
net take place before two years, or until
the expiration of the present Par.iarnent.
Now, -as I say, this te unique, but I arn
not disposed te quarrel with him. He is
representing hic constituency as 1 amn representing mine; and this being a modicum
cf justice -we accept it as a compromise,
but in aocepting it we do not abate one jot
or tittie cf our rights to the reprecentation
of six which we were promised and believed
we had, but by a clerical error.were defeated from getting at Confederation. This is
net only for the protection cf Prince
Edward Island imrnediately but prospectively the other two Maritime Provinces are
Speaking for Prince Edward
affected.
Island, I accept it ars -a compromise, but 1
Klo n<>t feel that full justice has been done.
In every legisiation there mnust be give and
take, and in that connection we will only
have teo do the best we can until by some
turn cf the political wheel, or sorne turn
cf the diplomatic wheel, we rnay be placed
in a position wvhere we svill have full justice done-is at a future date. If gentlemen
from the West are disposed te vote down
legislation for themselves at the present
tirne, that is their business. I arn net representing the WVest. To a certain extent
Lam representing ail Canada, but I amn not
in a position te speak for the people cf the
West.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-When my hion. friend
takes the leader cf the Opposition to task
for voting against a measure te increase the
representation cf the West, I should like to
ask the leader cf the House how many petitions he bas received from the people in the
West for increased reprecentations in the
Senate?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That bas nothing
te do with itP
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Have the local Governnients been consulted?

217

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If my hon. friend
would read the statutes of Canada relating
to hie own province and the province of
Alberta, and which he strongly supported at
the time they were passed, he would find
that due provision was made in each province for the appomnternent of aix senators.
Hon. Mdr. DAVIS-Yes, but I was going to
tell rny hon._ friend that I have read this
resolution, or address, and when you corne
to make the three western provinces a division and give them just the samie representation that you are giving to the three amal
provinces down in the East, does my hon.
friend think that that will do ju-stice to the
people of the West?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If the hon. gentleman wants more I will support himP
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-No, I agree with my
lion. friend that there are toc many now,
but I don't think there should be any more
Senators appointed from the West, or any
other place, except te fill vacancies, until
the whole thing is taken up on sorne such
system as will satisfy the people cf this
country. By this resolution I believe you
are increasing the representation of the
four western provinces to twenty-four; the
province cf Ontario has twenty-four and the
province cf Quebec has twenty-four; thus
the four great western provinces are te have
the came representation as either Quebec
and Ontario or the three small1 provinces
down by the sea?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-There ic a great deal in
what my hion. friend from Delorimier said,
that the tirne iýs now ripe, or wilqI be pretty
soon, for taking up the whole eubject cf
senatorial representation. I think with him
that there are toc many senators now; I
think that five or six in each province, and
giving ail the came number, would be the
proper method, as in the United Statec, and
there would be more sense in that than in
the present jug-handled arrangement. The
best thing te do is te leave it alone at present. There is no outcry in the West for
an increased representation in the Senate.
They have asked for increased reprecentation in the House cf Commons but they will
not get it until after the next election. They
have acked for bread, and my friends give
them a stone.
Hon. Mr. PROWBE-I should like t e c
this resolution voted on, either for or
against the resolution. I speak for the Gov-

SENATE

ernment of Prince Edward Island and the
people that 1 represent when I say that we
do not now accept anu will fot accept this
i settiement of our dlaim for representation
in Prince Edward Island. Our forefathers,
the Fathers of Confederation, fought for six
long years on the one contention that we
should have six representatives, untfl aur
Dominion of Canada came ta, the little
island with the white flsg and conceded
those six meinbers. The Government of teday have acknowledged our dlaim by aîîowing us four, and we are only entitled to
three, we do not corne up here as serfs from
the little province on the pies of poverty or
being a small province; we corne here as
men to men, equal to any qother part of the
Dominion of Canada, clsiming our just
rights. We are not asking any favours; we
do not wsnt any faveurs, but we do dernend
our rights that were conceded to, us at the
tîme ai Confederation. I arn satisfied that if
the Government are in earnest in this and
want to appoint more senstors, there are
several vacancies now. I do not think the
Governrnent is in a hurry to appoint any
more senators frorn the West; if they were,
I think they 'would fIll those vacancies
which already exist. I would like, if it
were possible, ta have this resolution
printed in a different coloured ink on the
aunais of this hon. Houe in case there
might *be some imistake made at sorne
future date, and that we rnight be mis,understood, and that we acoept this as a
settiernent, and that it might stand as a
blot against the Goverameut and a* stain
agsmnst the .larger provinces until such tirne
as they are wîlling- to concede Prince
Edward, 'Jeland tho9e just rights to whîch
she is entitled.
On clause 2.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I desire ta mave as
clause 3 the follawing:
That the first section of this Act, paragraphs 1 ta 6 Inclusive, shal flot take effeet
until the teriffination of the-naw existlng Canadian Parlianeit.
I would draw attention ta the fact that
that clause is worded very much the same as
the clause w. rnoved iast year ta this very
sarne address, with the exception that as it
rends naw it would not apply to clause 2,
which is the clause dealing with the representation ai a province where the number
ai elected members je reduced, awing ta the
qualification for representatian, ta less than
the number ai senators. Last year the
clause, as rnoved, would have dealt with
the whole address. This year the clause, as
Hon. Mr. PROWSE.

moved, will deal with the first clause of the
address and not with the second clause;
that is the difference I amn now rnaking. 0f
course, hon. gentlemen will rernember that
there is a similar clause to this effect in
the Representation Act, which we passed.
lsst year, 1914; a aaving clause of that Act
reads:
This Act uhail take effect only upon the dissolution of the, present Parlia.ment .
otabymvgthsmed
n war
o thacth mvin ths aien en wa arei
e
ton ai the
Addree inAcf thea
ousios
c o h
to steRpeetto
af Commons.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But where do you
propose your arnendment should corne inP
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-As clause 3 of the
Address.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would like it
moved in the ordinary way. I arn waiting
for the motion.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I move that motion,
seconded by the Hon. Senator Power.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I propose to have
this idea. embodied in that Bill; I want to
place before the Houe for the last tirne
what I conceive ta be in the interest ai the
general public ai Canada. 1 rnay not succeed. The idea I waut ta have embodied
in this Bill reads as follows:
That the iproposed Increase of the number of
senators urider tutu .Act shail only talcs place
concurrently wîth the increased representation
in the Hou». of Commons.
Now, rny arnendment makes no mention
of dissolution of Parlisment, or any other
event. If the Government wants ta give increased representation ta the people af the
West it is within their power and their
right ta do so.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Not at ahi.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And there is na necessity for a general electian for two years ta
carne; so the Government, under the provisions af the statute ta-day, can to-marrow
give 'to those western provînceathe, increiased
number of senators which the Act ernpowers
them ta grant. As soon as they do that, then
the Governrnent should have the power and
the right ta increase the inumber of the senstars concurrently with that proper represeutation in the House of Commonis. I hope
the hon. gentlemen will seize what I
niean. I do nat want ta deprive the Governinent ai any fair advantage ai administratian in regard ta nomination ai senatars or

MARCH 29, 1915
anything else, but I ask thern to be f airer
te the people of the country. 1 ask the
Governrnent not to give this House a representation whioh the people have not got ini
the popular Chamber. Amn I right, or arn 1
wrong?
Hon. Mr, DANIEL-Wrong?
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-They have it in the
popular Chamber.
Hon. Mr. CLORkN-WhatP Why. the
increased number of senators is based on
increased population, and increased population gives tlhe popular Chamber mncreased
members or representatives. Now I say to
the Governrnent, increase the number of
your popular representatives according to
population, and then take the right to
increase the number of your senators. I
have no objection to the Governrnent
'taking every advantage under the census,
or any other law, to secure power for thernselves. I arn a party man, but nlot so
extrerne that 1 would be disposed to prevent rny enemy from getting any fair
advantage in a fight if hie is able to deliver
the blow; but the Government is holding
over the readjustment of representation for
the past five years.
Hon. Mr. POWER-.-Four years.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Holding over the
requisite reprezentation dernanded by the
constitution, holding it over for the past
tive years, and leaving hundredsa nd hundreds of thousand of people, if flot voters,
without representation ini the Lower House
as well as in this. The census was taken
four years ago, and here we are in the
year 1915. Why. the next census will be
taken before those people who have been
in the land for the past 10 years have a
representation. Why does not the Government get up and do business and give
representation te those people? I have no
objection whatever; on the - contrary, I
would urge the Governrnent to give equal
representation or proportional representatien in this hion. House. I stand here
the last tiane te say so, as I find it useless;
but I want to go on record as standing by the
rights of the people, and that they sbould
have ini the Upper Chamber a representatien which is net perfectly representative
in the Lower House. These are principles
which no sane statesman can contradict.
My amendment te the Bill is simply in that
respect that the proposed increased number
of eenators under this Act eau only take
place concurrently with the increased
representation in the House of Commons.

219

If that does not appeal to the common
sence, fair play and justice of the Senate,
then I will beave it te the country te
decide.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY (Speaker)-What is
the différence between that amendment
and the otherP
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The difference is
this: the amendment of the leader cf the
Opposition is that the increaaed. representation shall only take place after the
expiration of the present Parliainent. What
does that mean? I have been explaining
that for a.n hour this afterno<m and evidently His Hon. the Speaker has flot got on te it
yet. Wall, I will tell hima what it means
in two words. Ou Monday or Tuesday next
Sir Robert- Borden dissolves - the Houe;
dissolution of Parliament has taken place;
the elections will be held, say, in November
or October or Septemiber; -but Sir Robert
Borden, stili Prime Minister, Ïhaving the
right, the absolute sway of the destinies of
this country, can name ail -the senators under
this Act as well as fi11 the nine vacancies.
Now, what I want te aceomplish te prevent the Government having the power te
naine any eenstor after the general eleoton.
Do you understand.
Hon. Mr. LAKDRY (Speaker)-Yes, but
that cannot become law before it is adopted
by the Imperial Parleament.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-We do not know.
The Imperial Parliament ean do it by
wireless telegraphy, can do it in 24 hours,
or 10 hours. I want the geineral principle.
I want te give the Government the right,
up te the general election, te name everybody te public office under the Crown until
they are dismissed by the popular vote.
But I do not want to put it in their power
under this Act te name thc 8 or 10 additional senaters when I can oppose it, and
when the Liberal party should prevent it.
They have the right now, or after the dissolution, te fi11 the vacancies; but what I
ask is not te put in the hands of a Tory
administration the nomination of 8 or 10
senators when we can prevent it. That ia
plain English. If yon do not like it you
can go and ask the party that supporta it;
I arn done with.
Hon. Mr. POWER-We had a measure,
practically identical with this, before the
House last session, and we amended it just
in the saine terme as it is proposed te
amend this address now. We propose te
add a clause te the Bill which the Imperial Parliament is te be asked te pase,

SENATE

220

SENATE
and this we have a perfect right to do. from Hai.iax to place confidence in the
1
There is no reasen why we should depart good intentions of the Governrnent.
frorn the course which. we adopted last neyer place any confidence in good intenyear, the circumstances being the saine. tiens; I place confidence in f acts, and 1
be- delinIf this arnendrnent goes into eperation, hold here the Liberal party will
does
then no addition can be made to the num- quent and not fulfilling its duties if it
ber of een.ators until ithis Parliarnent ex- not guard agaînst ýûe Government increaspires; that is the great point, and 1 think ing the representation in this Rouse withit is a view that should commend itself Vo out concurrent readjustmrent of representaany independent member of this House. tion in the House of Commons. I stand on
There is no neczcssity that the representa- that principle, 1 stand on that basis; and 1
tion in the nominated House should be stake -xny political. reputation before the
increased, that a number cf gentlemen people of this country, and especially bewho do not represent anythmng except the fore my Liberal friends.
I would not Olame a Conservative party
wishes cof the Government should be introduced into Parliament long before the to-morrow if, aflVer dissolving Parliarnent,
members who represent the electors corne they should name ten or twenty (2orIs.rvain. Now it is cemmon sense and reason tives-that is, -if they are able te do it; but
to
that this House should not be increased what do our lukewarm friends arnount
until the House of Commons is increased, when iA cornes to getting votes throuv.ghout
and that is practically what the amend- the country? Nothing. I1 stand hiere to
ment means. I trust that hon. gentlemen mnake votes for my party and nothing else.
who voted for the amendrnent last year 1 have no interest in the matter. 1 do n t
wîll vote for the samne arnendment now. know who is going te be norninated and î
The littie variation in the language of the do not care. I do noV want te put shells :
amendrnent from last year is intended to the hands of the enemy by furnishin- 'bad
provide for the case of Prince Edward boots, shoes or binoculars. We have had
that without our giving them any
Island. Under the amendrnent that we enough oM
made last year, if the Government had ac- miore.
cepted it, Prince Edward Island would noV Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cannot permit
have been entitled 'to the oenefit of the this amendment to be proposed without
proposed Act until the dissolution of.-the stating, on behalf of the Government, why
present Parliament; and I suppose it weuld 1 think this address should be accepted as
net now either. Practically it is the saine it has reached this House fromi the Cointhing, but it is just as well Vo emphasize môns. This is a constitutional amendment.
the fact that there is no desire to deprive IV does not propose to do something new,
Prince Edward Island of the additional except as to British Columbia, and in ail
member to which she would be entitled justice te that province I challenge any one,
under the Bill; and I think the hion. gentle- and More particularly my hon. friend the
iman froni the Victoria division is Vo a cer- leader of the Opposition, Vo question in any
tain extent labouring under a misappre- way the justice which is proposed te be
hension as te what the motion really given Vo British Columbia in increasing its
means.
representation fromn three to six. Let us
Hon. Mr. CLORAN: I arn noV under a see if Vhis is an innovation which has been
misapprehension at ail; I arn under an inVroduced ýby this Governuient involving
I deny that
apprehension; 1 apprehend things that are any political consideration.
going Vo happen. and it wvill serve tlie this resolution in any way involves political
1V is purely a
Liberal party well right ii an heur after or party consideration.
Parliament is dissolved it happens that natter of legisiative enactmuent already
the Right Hon. Prime Minister cf this placed upéon the statute -book, a matter
country, nomimates 8 or 10 senaVors without in which we already have guaranteed to
concurrent representation in the House ef the provinces interested the additional repreCemmons. I pray God now, if this thing sentation which -they ask. Dealing first
is not carried through. that hie will do se, with Manitoba. I refer to chapter 32 of the
and hie will be very foolish if hie does net; statutes of 1912, section 7, which reads as
if we put it within his power he will be fellows:
within his right. But I hold that we have
The province shail continue te be represented
the power and we nave the right here Vo in the Senate of Canada by four xnembers, proattempt against misrepresenta- vided that such representation rnay, after the
block that
tien. It is aIl very fine for the hion. senater corr..l'etiofl of the decenniai census of June,
220

Hon. Mr. POWE1R.

MARCH 29, 1915
Hon. Mr. ROCHE-What about the guar1911. be fromn timne to trne increased to0 six by
1antee of the British North America Act.
the Parliament of Canada.
I need not point out to hon. gentlemen
the decennial census of Canaida was
taken in 1911, and- from 1911 down to the
present time the province of Manitoba has
been witbouit the representation ta whith it
*was entitled under this legiuiation now in
my hand.
thIat

Hon. Mr. WATSON-And deprived of fivo.
members of the House oi Commons.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That niay be.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Not against the law.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
is entirely mistaken, and it may be attributed to the fact that he has not read the
statute when he takes the position he has
donc in regard to his adopted province.
Manitoba is not entitled te any increased
representation in the House of Commons,
nor is any other province u! the Dominion
of Canada, until thc Redistribution Bill is
passed alter the decennial census is taken
and a dissolution o! Parliament takes place.
There is such a material and substantial
ditinction betwecn the increased representation in the House. o! Gommona and the
repr-!sentation in this Chamber that we are
discussing that he who runs may read, and
tha~t any intelligent student may easily
draw the distinction. Any one reading this
section can only interpret it to be a compact deliberately entered into and sancas
tioned by this House as well
by the House of Commons: by which. we
agreed immediately the decennial cansus
was taken, to give the province of Manitoba the increased represcntation'which we
in this statute provide. Will hon. gentlemen say that as to Manitoba such an amendment should be import3d into this address
and that we should listen te the polîtical
harangues that we have been subject to
to-day, that the Liberal party nmust not lose
its ascendcncy by reason of granting this
legislation which has alrea:dy becn guaranteed by statute? I think it stultifies the
Senate, it does an injustice to tha intelligence and obligations of the Senate tliat
we should have to lîsten to harangues caling with the losing of the ascandency of the
* Liberal party when Parliament is called
upon te give the effect to the guarantee
which it has solemnly placed upon the
Let us
statute book of this Dominion.
look at the other provinccs *and sec what
is said in regard te them.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED---We are 4ealing now with the statutes of Ca~ida which
have been deliberately and solemnly passad by both Houses o! Parliament without
any concfideration, such as have been introduced to-day having been imported into
them. In 1905, when the late Government was in office, my hon. friende -Whbo
arc to-day opposing this legislation, and
who are not only stultifying themselves,
the
but seeking to make inoperative
statutes which are upon the statute book,
placcd this provision in the Constitutional
Act of Alberta and in the Constitutional
Act of Saskatchewan. Be! erring te the
Act of Alberta we find this provision:
Trhe said province shall be represented In the
Senate of Canada by four members, provided
that such representation may after the cornplet;on of the next decennial census-which took place in 1911
-be from timne to timne Increased to six by the
ParHiament of Canada.

The same is to be found in the Constitutional Act of Saskatchewan, clause 4, reading precisely the same as the section ini the
Alberta Act. The lata Goverhinent placed
this legîslation upon the statute book in
1905; the present Government placed uppu
the statute book in 1912 the same provision
as te the province of Manitoba, and in
%discussing those Acts did any hon, gentleman have the temerity at that time to
say that this would not be donc until alter
a ganeral election takes place? I appeal
te hon. gentlemen, if the late Government
were in office to-day, having placed that
legialation upon the statute book and having a Liberal majority in the Senate, would
those hon, gentlemen have suggested that
this amendment must be mader Nay, I
say they would not have toerated it for
Thcy would have pointcd out
a moment.
the sanctity of the Acta o! Pariament and
the absolutc necessity of keeping good faith
with the provinces to which this Parliament ha,! agreed to give flhc increased
I1 say it does a
representation neccssary.
rank injustice to the Senate of Canada
with this legisiation upon the statute book,
to say that until a general election takes
place, until Liberals find whether they are
to be in power, you shail not give this increased represcntation to the provinces 80
entitled. It doca an injustice te the standing of this Ohamber, not only in the Paro! this country
liamentary discussion
but in the good opinion» of the public -%vhich

.SENATE

222 1

liament than as regards representation in
the 8enate.
B WELha
SrMA ENI
Ho
OEITa
AKNI
i
Hn
is a goad reason Wvhy the bon. gentleman
should uot Bupport the amendment.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-1, arn surprised
at the heat, with which my hon. friend, the
leader of the House, has spoken. It
seems to mie that the vast majority of
members of thia House who have liBtened
to him are sa near ta each other in the
drafting of this resolution that there is no
cause for any excitement. 01 course, if my
hon. f riend had addressed bis remarks to
the ultra partisan address we heard, and
which could perhaps be ca.lled a harangue,
if there is nothing derogatory in calling it
.such, of my han. friend frorn Victoria division, apeaking exclusively frorn a party
point ai view and for himself alone I cauld
understand bis raising his vaice abave his
ordinary tone. But it seems to me that
nothing bas taken place outside of the
speech ot my hon. lriend fromn Victoria division to excite the ire of my hon. friend.
How far are we spart? Here is clause 7 of
chffiter 32, 1912, concerniing the representainoMatbanthSet.
The province shalh continue to be represented
by four members, provided that auch representatlon mnay after the completian of the decennial
census in June, 1911, be from tIme to timne Increaeed to six by the Parliament of Canada.
If I read the clause which affect Alberta
and Saskatchewan, I would find exactly the
same wording. The clause reads:
The said province shali be represented In the
Senate of Canada by four mnembers.
I amn reading from 4-5 Edward VII,
chap. 3, clause 4:
fe
ersnainmy
Poie
htsc
completion of the next decennial census be
th pepleintresed n tatthe
niyopiiontha
respect were carried out than that the addi- fram time to time increased ta six by the Partions should be made to the Senate as pro- liarnent of Canada.
Upon this declaration ai Parliament, an
posed. *Sa far as I arn persanally concerned,
I desire ta say that my vote la not from Act is framed whichî is brought before us
any party stand.point, but because I believe in the lorm of an address ta the Imperial
appointment ai senators is subsi- House. What will the Government secure
the
diary to the representation of the people in by this Act? When will the Imperiai
the popular Chamber. Where the taking of Huse pranaunce itself? During the course
the census bas established the fact that the oi 1915 or 1916. My hon. friend does not
several Provinces, are entitled te mare pretend that befare the Act is praclaimed
members the increase should take place, as by His Majesty the King the Governrnent
early as pas&ible, and in respect ai that, the will be able ta act' We can only obtain an
appointmenta that would necessarily fallow increase ai the senators of this House
in the Senate should be made. But the thraugh the action which is now being
taking of the census, in my judgment, ia saught, after the Imperial House bas proif
absalutely mare important in respect ta the naunced upan it, and this is the fourth,
par- nat the fllth, session of aur present Parliarepresentatian in the other branrh ai

we seek. 1 ask hon. gentlemen to deliberately ask thernselves if Sir Wilfrid Laurier's
Government -had been in office to-day would
the arnendment that is now proposed have
been imported iuta the Âddress P The
Address woùld have ibeen presented to bath
Houses of Parliament just the same, as it
has been done to-day and hon. gentlemen
deep down in their conscience, know that
such an amendment would neyer have been
canceived, or discussed. This is all I have
to Bay upan it. This Government was authorized by the Kcets of Parliament to which
I have referred ta bring down this legisiation, and I say that the action of Parliament as deliberately and solemnly placed
upon the statute book is being defeated,
bath i the spirit and in the letter, by the
introduction ai this amendment which is
now being sought, and 1 in the name of the
Government and 8peaking- for the rights ai
those Provinces which are entitled to increased representation in this Chamber,
proteat against the amendment which has
been suggested. by my hon. friend the leader
of the Opposition.
Hon. MSr. THOMPSON-If I understand
the han. leader of the Goverument aright.
I think he attaches too much importance to
the taking ai the census. I do not concede
that the census is taken particularly for the
purpose oi adding ta the memfbexship of
the Senate of Canada for those several
provinces. As the hon. gentleman read it
to-day hé attached more importance to the
census being taken than ta the question ai
representation in the other branch of Parliament. I really have always understoad
that the ta'king of the census was întended
more ta affect the Commans than the
Senate, and it wauld be more important in

lion. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MARCH 29, 1915

ment. What is there te excite the ire of te me that ail ibis discussion is useless
niy hon. friend if this Ohamber declares talk, and that when 'we are ail bent upon
that these powers wilI be effective ai the doing the right thing the amendment should
termination of tbis Parliament' My hon. be accepted 'by the party led by my hon.
friend will recognize that tme powers friend in the spirit in which it is offered.
of this Chamber are concurrent and equal
The committee divided on the amendment
te those cf the House, of Commons, and
when we are sô near agreeing as te the which was carried on -the following division:
eff ect thîs .legisiation will have, I wonder
Contents, 27; non-contents, 16.
why the hon. gentleman does not accept
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I should like te refer
this small amendment, which will hardly
delay the action cf the present Government. to the last clause:
Why should the Government indicate its
Notwithstanding anything In thlm Act a proveagerness to appoint the suppleme.ntary Ince shall always be entitied te a number of
number of -senators? I k-now there are eight membees In the Rouse of Commons net lem.
or nine vacancies in the Sexiate which have than the number of senators representing auch
been open for a year or two, and they con- province.
This is not done in connection with Prince
tinue te exist. No haste has been displayed by the Government in filling those Edward Island, but I think it is a very bad
vacancies. It seems to me it is much ado principle and not in harmony with the conabout nothing. This Chamber agrees te the stitution as it was framed ai the lime cf
whole cf the address for an Act which is te Confederation. I desire te aay thal I have
be sought frorn the Iniperial Parliament,' nol accepled that clause as satisfactory. I
but says that il wvill corne in force at the remember very well, and the hon senator
We are from Hastings <Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell)
conclusion cf this Parliament.
very near the conclusion cf ibis Parlia- will remember, that when Confederation was
nient; if we were not at xvar we would he estabiished in public meetings we heard
expecting dissolution within a few monihs. the etalemeni thal even if the population cf
Being ai war, I suppose we are ail agreed,
a grealer proporpatriotically se, te defer the election till Quebec shouid increase in
tion than the population cf other provinces,
ibis ail-important matter is settled. Why
should my hon. friend not bow te the wil the province of Quebec would neyer have
cf this Chamber, and declare unanimousiy more than 65 members in the popular
that these powers shall only be exercisea House, but, on the other hand, the other
There provinces would be obiged te reduce the
at the dissolution cf the House.
may be another session and there may not. number cf their representatives in the
If this war ends shortly, as we ail hope iA House of Commons. If Sir George Etienne
is free te go Cartier were present te-day I think hie
wiil, the Government
The day it dissolves would take a position similar te mine.
to the people.
it has in uts hands these appointmenis.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-I hope the whole
so that nothing is taken away from the party
in power by this action. The date only is subjeci cf Maritime representation will net
fixed for the coming iet force cf the Act, be broughl up on this resehution. My hion.
and Parliament, in virtue of the Acts which friend slated that Quebec, according te the
my hon. friend has cited, which cover British North America Act, was te have 65
Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, can members and that i has no more now. If
f rom time to time increase the representa- il bas net any more now, by the additions
tion; ai one fell blow we give our friends in whieh have been brought te the province of
Quebec since the passing of the British
power the right cf appointing them ail.
North America Act in 1867, the additional
Hon. Mr. LANDRY (Speaker)-The bon. population which that increased territory
gentleman is generous..
bas given 10 the province cf Quebec bas put
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-We are not it in a position te se raise the unit cf reprenarrow xi our views. It seems te me the sentation ail over Canada that it gives te
action cf the Senate will be accepied as a the province cf Quebec a censiderable
liberal action. We offer ail that the Govern- advantage in that respect over and above
ment asks. We simply say il will become what it had ai the time cf Confederalion;
effective ai the termination cf this Parlia- because there ha no doubt in the world at
ment. We are in the fifth session, and after the trne cf Confederatien the province cf
ibis var is over my hon. friends can go tc Quebec did not extend furiher nortb than
the people the day t.hey please; se it seems the ridge which separated the waiershed cf

SENATE

the St. Lawrence f rom that running
New if we
bay.
Hudson
towards
are going to argue the whole suhjeet of representatiofl over again it
will take some time, and I 8houId consider
if my duty to take a hand in the debate
myseif, for I have been very much interested in this matter of Maritime representation, and in the other Bouse, when 1
was there, took a considerable part in arguing the matter, not alone as f ar as Prince
Edward Island was concerned, but as far
as New Brunswick was concerned. The
objection which my hion. friend makes ie,
I think, one that on more considerate reflection ho would not raise. The compromise, 'f you might cali it so, which is
made in this section te which my hon.
friend refers is one that may very weIl be
passed by this Chamber, as it was in fact,
I believe, unanimeusly passed by the House
of Commons. I was much interested in
reading the debates that took place in the
House of Gommons on this matter. 1
found the statement made by some of
those who had opposed the granting of
any relief whatever to t.he Maritime Provinces, te the effect that they thought it
was really the-best thing that could be doue
in justice to ail concerned. It would be
very easy for me, iD going over thie matter,
ID prove te this Bouse that the Maritime
Provinces have net been treated justly. If
you take the saving clause, as it was called,
in the British Nor'th America Act, it
was altered and its effect entirely done
away with by the ameudments made ID
that Act without the Meritime Provinces
b;eing consulted or their consent being
asked ID any portion of it or iD any respect.
It would be very easy ID go on and give
the arguments. I have been over them
many and many a time, and am convinced
that this clause of the resolution, is nothing
more than just. Take the Province of
New Brunswick, we had, 1 think, 15 members at the time of Confederation, we have
13 in this Parliament. At the next election
we will only have 11, and our representation in the Senate is 10. If the same
proportion of increase goes along over the
other parts of Canada our Provinces, being
surrounded by the sea, csnnot be increased
in territory as theirs have been. They are
circumscribed and I expect that the province of New Brunswick and probably the
province of Nova Scotia by the next decenniai census will have ID take advantagae of
this very clause in the Act. On due reHon. Mr. DANIEL.

flection when the hon. members from the
Province of Quebec, take, into conBideration the great increase cf territory which
has been granted ID themn without a murmur, although it affected the unit of representation, can have not a word ID say
against this clause bei.ng made the law of
the land.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY (Speaker)-I would
ask my hon. friend if he is very sure on
that last assertion he has made. 1 understand that Quebec having 65 members,
those 65 are based en the prin6iple ef
populat'on that o'd Quebec had, net the
new Quebec.
Hon. Mr. Daniel-I am absolutely correct.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I doubt that.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-I wish to remind
the Hon. the Speaker that there have
been two additions ID the province of
Quebec. It now includes the w.hole cf
Ungava, does it not P
Hon. Mr. LANDRY <Speaker)-Yes.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-That addition is net
included for the purpose cf representation.
but the first addition that ran up ID the
East Main river is included.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY (Speaker)-That is
the addition that was made in 1892.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-1897.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY (Speaker)-Because,
as Ungava is added now ID the province
cf Quebec, there is a restriction, and we
cannot count that population in fixing the
unit of -representation.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have always looked
with faveur upon that provision cf the
British North America Aot which provides
that Quebec shall have a fixed number of
65 representatives in the Bouse cf Commens, and that the other provinces shall
1)e represented in proportion ID the ratio
which their populations bear to the province cf Quebec. If it had net been for
that provision we should by this time have
had a Bouse cf Gommons cf probably 300
members, which is a rather genereus shlow.
ance for our population. I think the hon.
gentleman frem St. John rather mieapprehends the effect cf the addition to the
province cf Quebec. It is net provided
anywhere that Quebec shail have increased Tepresentation on account cf the
increase cf her territory. The province of
Quebec to-day is entitled te 65 members,

MAIM 29, 1915

just as vas the old province of Quebec;
and instead of Quehec gaining an advantage by fiaving Ungava and the internrediate region added to it, she has really
diminished her own representation.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No, no.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-No, no, not at ail.
Hon. Mr. POWER-She has dirinished
lier own, practically-I mean ber proporShe wiii lie ention of representation.
titled to 65 members, as' îhe has been in
the past. Those 65 members wiii at sme
fuiture tirne represent a considerably larger
population than the present population. I
do flot suppose that at the prement time
there are a thousand people, excepting Indians, living in the Ungava territory, and
how on earth the fact that Quebec bas
been awarded that territory can allée the
House of Corninns or the representation
of the other provinces, 1 do net underetand. It is a pity, and perhaps te be regretted, that any attempt should be made
te alter -the British North America Act vith
respect te the Tepresentation of any province; but hon. gentlemen will see that the
position of Prince Edward Island is difV
ferent frorn that of any o1ther province.
Prince Edward Island came inito the
union with the understanding that ahe
vas alvays te have at least 6 members.
The sme provision vas înade a b
British Columbia, but in the arrangement
'with Britishi Columbia this provision vas
inserted in the contract. Unfortunately,
ini the vritten arrangements vith Prince
Edvard Island this proposition vas not included. I think it vould net be very unTeasonabie if to-day the Government vere
te bring in a measure dealing with Prince
Edwa-rd Island, as if 4ihat provision had
been inserted in the original terms of
Confederation.
Hon. Mr. MURPHIY: Just one word.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-I am sorry the hon.
gentleman did net understand-my remarks.
1 vas not in any vay stating that
Quebec get more representation; vhat
I said vas that the increased territory
gave it an opportunity for increased populatien, and me the 65, divided into a rnuch
larger population, would enlarge the unit of
representation, and in that vay the representation of the Maritime Provinces viii be
decreased.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-The hon. member
fer St. John takes exception te the representation of New Brunswick diminimhing.

Well, why den't they increase in population. There is a lot cf hot air geing around.
I arn net talking from one aide or the other.
There is a local New Brunswick and a local
Prince Edvmrd Island, and a local Nova
Scotia, and the bishcps cf ail the churches
and the chief justices of ail the people, and
On a fev peopié.
the courts. On vhat?
They are able te taire care cf themmeives.
Living on fish as they do, they are capable.
It ie flot quantity that yen vant in the
House but quaiity. I do not care vhich
aide cf politics they are on, I believe the
beat men of the country should be represented, vhether they are Liberals, or Conservatives, or, like myseif, temperance iecturers-that is a good word. They are al
the tirne bringing up St. John or New Brunswick in forma pauperis. We are toid that
they do not increase. Why do not they?
Black foxes are 'increasing, and in Prince
Edward Island there are a great meny. I
was reading a little story frorn Gressner's
History cf New Brunswick, vritten in 1845,
teliing how the settiers came in. They vere
net in gilded chambers like this when the
people carne in vith a sack cf flour on their
back, vent up the rivera, and they made the
country -and did hard vork, good and soiid
mni. Gressner says that the great trouble
the settler had te deal vith vas vith the
black foxes that vere sc plentiful. Nov ve
are going riglit back te history, and ve
are inte black foxes to-day. What shall
we be inte to-morrov? I do not think there
sheuld be any iquails in regard to Maritime
Nev Brunswick
Province representation.
has thirteen nov; is not that enough? You
can net have one for every man, vornan and
chiid in the province. As for the Senate,
they have a very good and a very excellent
representation.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-Hear, 'hear.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I congratulate my
hon. friend from St. John; he has been a
real power in the Senate; and perhaps in
time conditions viii ameliorate, but I hate
te cerne here every session and hear themn
Let New
talking about New Brunswick.
Brunswick vin its vay like the West. After
ahl, the Quebec basis is the correct one; it
is 65 into the vhole population-a basic
representation. We have nothing te find
fauit with there. I hope my hon. friend
from St. John wýil1 take rny remarks pleasantly.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-I always take everything pleasantly frern the hon, gentleman.

S-15
SEVISED

EDON.Oi

SENATE
four occasions we had very prolonged and
elaborate dia',wssions in this Chamber as to
proposed changes in the method of appointing senators, and there has been a great
diversity of opinion on the subject. We
neyer carried it to any definite conclusion,
and I hope the hon. gentleman will not
press bis amnendment now, because it is
calculated to inmpede -the business of the
House at a time when that would be 'a
regrettable circumistance. The question as
to the reduction of the numbers of senators
is an important one and sbould be discussed
independentlr.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would point out
to my hon. friend that a very much more
serious consideration is that the proposition absolutely ignores the pact of Confederation, which makes provision for this
My hon.
representation in the Senate.
friend could not seriously entertain any
hope of such an amendment being considered by the Imperial Parliament without hoaring irom the provinces o f Canada
on the subject.
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, 'he-ar.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Certainl y no such
violent change should be made in the representation o! the different provinces in thîs
Dominion without such a proposed amendment originating with the provinces themselves.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I draw the atSubsectlon 7-After the tiret day of JulY. 1917, tention of my hon. friend to the f act that
the Governor General %hallnot suxnmon any per- my reduction would be on an equal plane
son to the Senate to reprezent any ane of the
while,
four divisions until the reprementatians of such and would maintain the equilibrium,
division has been reduced to twenty senators, in virtue of the measure which hie now preand thereafter no sppolntmert saah be mnade sents, it seems to me that hie would have
to the Senate whlch will give a larger repre- stili more cause te consuit the provinces, besentation to each group than twenty members,
or for the whole Senate a total of eighty mem- cause hie varies the equilibrium.
bers.
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-I would draw attenHon. Mr. DAVID-I would suggest to the
tion to the fact that the representation from
bon. gentleman to move that the cornmittee
might disappear altogether
rise and report progress and ask leave to sit our province
under his-scheme. Not only that, but repreto-morrowv morning.
sentation in the House of Commons from the
Hon. Mr. POWER-No. Let us dispose of smaller provinces might disappear, just as
thýe thing now. At this stage of the ses- it is now commencing, so that I do not
sion a motion of that sort, which is a dila- think, it would ever appeal to provinces
tory motion, should not be encouraged in simiilar te mine.
this House. With respect to the amendHon. Mr. McKAY <Cape Breton)-If this
ment whicb the bon. gentleman from De Locourse is persevered in, it is just possible
rimier thinks o! proposing. 1 should say in
whole Senate may disappear.
the-first place that it is hardly germane te that the
not
the question before the House. I do
Mr. MýcSWEENEY-It likely will in time.
think that Al is an amendment that is
Hlon. Mr. WATSON-The leader of the
strictly in order. In the second place, I
remem- Government bas just stated that it would
would say that that hon. gentleman
wrenchi to the B3ritish N~orth
bers as well as I do nmyself that on three or be a violent

Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I congratulate
him because he is one o! the real senators.
This is a .moribund Chamber, it bas becorne played out iso that it hbas to have
fresh representation which will give soul to
this honourable body.
Hon. Mr. DANDURkND-I amn somewhat
reluctant to allow this address te pass
without testing the opinion o! the Senate
as to the advisabi.lity of a permanent increase-lrom 87 te 102; and with the leave
of the honourable leader of the Government,
I would move this clause to ascertain what
the Senate feels over this permanent increase which is sought. Unfortunately. this
measure cames pretty late in the session,
but for all that, should not this Chamber
express its opinion if it feels strongly over
this matter' Now it looks queer that
we should vote an address asking for an
increase, and yet add a clause that I was
suggesting a moment ago-that from 1917 we
a>hould proceed to decrease even the figure
at which we are to-day. But I have not
objected to the tenîporary increase for the
very reason which I stated-that I feel that
when the new order o! things is heralded the
two parties should be on an equal plane in
this Chamber; and that is the reason why
temporarily I would have no objection te
this increase te 102 provided we added such
a clause as I have suggested. If I had a
seconder I would move now to add the following after subsection 6:

MARCH 29, 1915

Amnerica Act if the arnendment suggested
by rny hon. friend were carried out reducing the number of members. In regard to
violence, 1 think the legisiation he bas propoaed to-day and which we were asked to
paso, mighit b. so called, because you are
taking away the righta -guaranteed to the
different provinces under the British North
Amnerica Act.
Hon. Mr. L0UGHEED--No; quite the
contrary.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes, you are providing that the representation of the group of
lower provinces shall not be less than the
memnbera of this House. Now, I have no
doubt that what the member from St. John
bas said is correct, that by the time the neit
census is taken New Brunswick will have
to avail itself of the benefit of this representation, which has given them undue
representation.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is, in the
House of Commons.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes, iu the House
of Commons; that la the position, and that
is what we passed..
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-The Gommons agreed
to that.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I know they are
agreeing to that, but we are getting away
frorn the British North America Act. I have
a great deal o! sympathy with the ides that
this change in the representation should not
be made without a confereuce of the provinces.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Hear, hear, correct.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-This British North
America Act is not an Act for the guidance
of the House o! Commons or the Senate, but
is the coutract made by the provinces at the
time of Coufederation, and should not be
violated, and we are violating it in this
suggestion that is made to-day, and which
we have passed. I say I have a great deal
o! syrnpathy with the action taken by the.
representatives fromn Prince Edward Island.
I believe there was a mistake made. I believe it wvas intended that they zhou.ld have
a representation of six in the Houa. of
Commons, and neyer less, aud as far as I
arn concerned I would support that at any
time, and that it should b. incorporated
into oui legisiation. But taking New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, I say that in twenty
S-151

or thirty years' Lime one elector in New
Brunswick will be as good as two electormrin Manitoba or Saskatchewan or Alberta,.
where the population is increasing veryrapidly. It ta getting away from, representation by'population, the true principle thatwas adopted ât the time of Confederation.
So far as Quebec ia concerned, with 65,
members, it does not make any difference:
what the population was, for that is the
unit; but the dangerous part that I ses is
the getting away frorn this principle. I
corne irorn the province of Manitoba, which
on two or three occasions has bad to rely
on the British North America Act for the
rights of the province when legisiation was,
atternpted to be forced on the province by
the Federal Government. We resisted, and
Manitoba won out because sh. claimed her
rights under the Manitoba Act and the
British North America Act. I think we
ought to be very careful, and the Government ought to be very careful, in attempting
to interfcre with that solernn contraet that
was made, the British North America Act.
Every province of the Dominion sbould be
con sulted before there ia any inteirference
with the British North America Act.
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-There may h. a
good deal in the remarks of the hon. gentleman, but I think the provinces ought to
have been consulted before they added territory to MRiitoba and Saskatchewan and
Alberta.
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-Hear . hear.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Before they enlarged those different provinces o that their
increased population would affect the Maritime Provinces, -the provinces ought to have
been consulted, because Manitoba got an
advantage that it did not possess when it
was taken into Confederation. This disturbed conditions that were made at the
time by the British North America Act. The
member from St. John may b. right, but my
judgment is that New Brunswick is corning
into her own. 0f ail the provinces in Canada to-day, the condition in New Brunswick
is hetter than any other province that I
know of in the Dominion, and the Maritime
Provinces -feel less the depression of the
war conditions than the provinces that are
to the west of us.
Several hon. GENTLEMAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The hon. leader of
the Government has :very well stated the

SENATE
referms te be made!
fact that the British North America Act t hese matters, and in
arn very much Ebod knows they are numerous enough withshould not be trified with. I
America
surprised to find statesmen of the calibre of >ut attacking the British North
from De Lorimier standing in his tet. Let that Act stand as it is, and Engeur frienid
fer I feel -and know that
place in this Senate and,'without one min-I .and wiil approve,
weuld stand aghast
ute's notice, asking the Senate to pass s'u British statemen the Canadian people te
subverting the pio- at a demand cf
injurious a proposition,
a constitutional Act at every_ stage.
visions of the British North America Act. change
of Great Britain are
Evidently ail wisdom is not in one head. The statesmen
to change the representation ini ietter founded on constitutional, principles,
The demand
and practice than we are, and at
this honourable House contrary to the pro- powershand's turn we have te run over te7
every
visions of the British North America Act is a
te get them te
proposition that this House cannot enter- the Imperial Parliament
competent sanction a change in diaregard cf the ýProtain. At the outset, we are not a
the British North America Act.
body te change the provisions of the British visions cfwe do that, the more respect the
America Act. His amendment means The less
North
British Parliament and diplomatic circles
that the representation of the different secwill have for us. 1 hold that even under
tions cf the Dominion shail be changed, for
Bill, although my wishes were net
what purpose'--Simply te have a smaller this
102 te have carried, and notwithstanding the eloquent
membership; instead cf having
cf the leader cf the Government that
80; instead cf 80 te have 60. Well, there plea
harangues were constantly made againat
is ne st.atesmanship in the reduction cf
provisions cf the Bill, and that
numbers. There is statesmanship in get- certain
they should involve this and that, I say it
ting sense into numbers. The hon. leader
would have been se easy te put in two
of the Government was perfectly justified words in the Bill which the British Parliathat this proposition
when he pointed out
ment would have understeod-ne increased
ahculd net be entertained. This question of
representation in the Senate unless with
representation affects flot only this House or concurrent representation in the House cf
entire people, for
the Lower House. but the
That principle'would have
Gommons.
we are living under a constitutional Act gene straight te England and througli the
which te my thinkizig should be interfered British Parliament. But cf course we have
with as little and as seldomn as possible. On te depend upon the good intentions cf the
every occasion that some reform is wanted, Government and the good intentions of the
an attack is made on the British North Opposition. 1 hold that the leas we have te
America Act. That Act has done good ser- do in disregarding and trying te change
vice for the past fifty years, ai%1 it can do provisions cf the British North America
good service yet. The men who drafted that Act the better for Canac.a.
Act, who consolidated it put it on our
statute book forever and ever, were men of
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I find that my
wisdom and large experience; they were net suggested amendment lias not met with
subjeet te the flights of imagination 6f te- coneiderable support from the hon. gentleday and the wants cf to;-morrew. They put men who have spoken, and 1 shahl net press
down the basis upon which this natural it, but there is ne cause for any one te be
confederation of ours has existed, bas pros- scandalized. if 1 claim that an ail-round
pered, and I hope will exist and presper, se diminution be made when an aIl-round
that when we. try te disintegrate the British condemnation be made when an ahi-round
North America Act we are undertaking a increase is suggested. The principle of
task beyond our means and eur power. It proportionate representation underlies the
may be said that we are net the enly enes British North America Act, and I draw the
to be consulted in a matter ef this kind, that special attention of my hon. friend from
the entire people cf Canada must be con- Victoria division te clause 52, which wouhd
qulted in regard te changes in the constitu- even allew of one departing from the fixed
tional Act, just as they were consulted in 65 representation from the province cf
1865, 1866 and 1867 as to the provisions cf Quebec if Parliament saw fit te do se, prothe Act. And why should we, or the Lower vided the proportionate representatien was
House, or a legislature, or anybedy, attempt respected. The whole question is that of
te disfigure that Act when it took the preportionate representation, and 1 have
united wîsdom of the past te draft it and te felt that although many senaters cf ffils
base it on solid grounds? Hon. gentlemen, Chamber do net agree that the inatter
will soon
we ought to be very careful in regard te should be now taken up, the time
Hen. Mr. CLORAN.

MARCH 29, 1915

come vhen we shall have Wo reduce the
representation in this Chamber, and 1 viii
have Wo agree to a diminution of the 24
members coming fromn the province of Quebec whien the diminution takes place all
round.
Hon. Mr. BAIRD, from the committee,
reported the aouresa as amended.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved that the
report be taken into consideration tomorrov at the second session.
The motion vas agreed to.
CUSTOMS TARIFÉF ACT (1907) AIMDMENT BILL.
]REPORTED FROM COMIMTTFIE.

The House resoived itiel! into a Coinmittee o! the WVhole on Bill (No. 7.5), An Act
to amend the Customs Tarif! Act, 1907.
In the Cornmittee.
Hon. Mr. WVATS0N-I thought it might
be interesting for the înin.ister to state why
hie appiies the titie of tariff for war revenue, to this Bill, because I understood the
Minister of Finance c-tated. that every dollar
it vas costing Canada for the var hail been
borroved in England and apparentiy it vas
ruise is the interest
said that aIl vo vant Wo
on the money. The hon. gentleman might
expiain the titie.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I 'give greater
crodit Womy hon. friend's intelligence than
to fancy that the loan vhich is being obtained froni Engiand for the îrnmediato
expenses vhich ve are now making for oux
troops represents the loss Canada is suffering through th-is var. Canada is suffering
through this war in various vays, the revenue has dropped about 50 per cent.
Canada is .iabourisig under great eînbarrassment, through not being able Wonegotiate
its public loans in Great 4irtain as she had
done formeriy. She has had Wogo te the
rescue o! the different large undertkingq
of the Dominion which are being caxried
out relying upon the financial assistance
vhich this Government has given from
time Wotume and vhieh the Governnient o!
Canada must give for the purpose of keeping
them afloat. The Financial crodit of Canada bas to be maintained undor the most
embarrassing circumstancos, as my hon.
friend must knov, and this is certainiy a
var measure just as much as any direct var
measure that vo may pass to furnish
nioney direct for the purpose of sending
troops to England, 1 think my hon. iriend
viii appreciate the conditions.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Is the hon. gentleman
serions in that statement. He could not
bring down a boot black Bill vithout ealling it a var measure. Does hie think the
country is going to acoept any ineasure they
may bri.ng down because it is calied a vax
measure. The thing is absurd on the face
of ut, and the people of the country viii
flot stand for it. l[s it a war nieasure to pay
for the extravagance of the Government in
regard to its boots supply for the army?
WàlI it be a war measure. for this Parliament to pay the extravagant prioes for
motors, binoculars nd other necessaries of
the army? What does the hon leaderoe o
the Government taire us to bie, or what does
hoe taire the country to be to cali these measures var measures thinking thereby to
nbake then acceptable to the people? The
hon. leader is too vise, and too knoving,
Woimagine that that can be accepted. 0f
course it wiii be passed but it will not be
accepted. I protest against it and say that
the people wiii not regard these Bis as
war measures.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-J shouid dike Wosay
,that in my opinion -the war is a god.send
for 'the hion. gentleman opposite and for the
Government of the day. Everything is atthe vax, but the hon. gentleman
tributed Wo
must Ionow that if it were not for the contracts nov being let'by the aiiied forces,
Great Britain, Russia and France, in Canada, aggregating some one hundred and
twenty million dollars, that the country
and the Governiment wouid be in a much
worse position than they are to-day.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes,
about that.

no doubt

Hon. Mr. WATSON-But to eall this a
war measure simply means tha t the Government is taking advantage of the situation- for the purpose o! placing on th>people o! the Dominion the bighest protective policy ever inaugurated in Canada,
and they oould not do it with any other
excuse than that of a war measure. They
have taken advantage o! the .statute for
the purpose qf raising the duties higher
than we have ever had them in Canada,
on account o! the excuse of the war, and
with no suggestion made that it is only
be
temporary, that it is going Wo taken off,
remain there
and I suppose it viii have Wo
as long as these gentlemen are in power,
and that is vhat I object to. The people
o! Canada have no objection to paying the
iast dollar necessary for the purpose of

SENATE
prôsecuting the war te a successful conclu- ran directly into debt. I moved some years
of the
sion, but they do object te the Government ago in the House foi a statement
the time
impesing this high rate cf taxation on the expenditure on the militia fromwas large,
The amount
people which fails most heavily on the meet of Confederation. te show for it? We have
country, the agri- and what have we
important industry of the
cocked hats here, right and left, and we
cultural industry, and when we are told by have ail these men trained.
the Minister cf Finance that practically
net a dollar of the money raised by this
Hon. Mr, WATSON-Honorary colonels.
additional taxation is geing te defray the
expenses ei the war. We are berrowing
Hon. Mr. DOM VILLE-Where are al
one hundred and fifty million frem Great these people? For the sake cf argument say
Britain. Last year eur importe from Great that we drilled 45,000 last year and the year
Britain were about ene hundred and thirty before. How rnany of them have gone te
million. What are we doing? We are in- the front? I do not wqnt te take up this
creasing the taxation on British goods five question. The Government*is not responper cent. Five per cent on one hundred sible for the war, and I amn satisfied it is
and thirty millions weuld amount te about net responsible for the graft that has taken
six and a half millions, which would just place. They cannot be everywhere. It is
about pay the îliterest te Great Britain. In not the premier's duty te go down and look
other words, you are geing te tax the British at the beots that are furnished under
artisan on his goods shipped te Canada contract.
about sufficient te pay the interest on the
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-They should get somemoney te carry on the war, and yeu are
talking about loyalty and patrietism. As body else to do it.
has been said by other hion. members, you
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-They have a big
will net get the revenue-the member from
te examine
Ottawa made that statement to-day-be- staff there whose duty it is a beard .te
There is always
when you increase the taxation, the everything.
cause
One might always
goods are net imported and yeu cannet get deal with such matters. but yeu cannot
say there was celluuion,
the revenue. But in every case the manu- blame the Government for it, nor can yeu
facturer -in Canada i*he is getting the pro- blame them for the war. The country was
tection will tax the consumer, and for every geing behind.
I amn serry that my hion.
dollar that gees into the Government ten friend from New Brunswick is net here te
go te the manufacturer. This take up the cudgels for himself.
dollars will
New
as the worst legislation ever placed on the Brunswick is not suffering. I do net know
Statute bocks cf Canada, this high rate cf whether Prince Edward Island is suffering.
',taxation, when everybedy is crying eut for Nova Scotia is net suffering. Where is the
aess taxation. The suggestion has been wrong? The wrong is that the country has
mnade that the British preference is greater been boomed teo much. We have Montreal
by two and a hall per cent, but if you add with ail the bloated millionaires, and now
:sufficient duty against the British goods it we have a lot of them on their uppers
.Btops importation. What benefit is it -if trying to berrow meney.
They have te
.wou have taxed them eut of the market corne down te hard pan, like the people who
-entirely, and I dlaim you have taxed them first settled the country, and live within
.'put*of the market? Time will tell what the their means, develop the country, and net
.imports will be, but I venture to say that ask for false protection te raise the price cf
*under this taxation the minister will net articles se that they may place the meney
get much revenue, except the direct taxes in their pockets. Lt is a simple thing, and
Take a tumbler
on stamps, cheques, bills cf exchange, etc. has been dernonstrated.
-but that is another matter. Se 'far as the which cest $1 in the United States, on
cstoms is concerned, I venture te say there whîch there is 45 cents duty. That tumbler
will net be as rnuch revenue as under the sells at $ 1.45, but if the tumbler is manufactured in Canada, where does the 45
old system.
cents goP Lt goes into the hands cf the
Therefore we have been
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-My hon. friend manufacturer.
takes exception te the word "war." WVhat building up the manufacturers of this
difference dees it make what we cal it' country at the expense of the working
I do net hold the Government
I arn classes.
The Government want the meney.
I think our ewn people are
not geingu te find f ault with the Govern- responsible.
unment or praise the Opposition. Both sides just as responsible.
11,».

Mr. WATSON.

MARÇH 29, 1!)15

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We appreciate
that.
Hon. Mr. DOM VILLE-We must have
fair play. I was berri an Engiishman;' I
will die orie. Take the Patricias regiment.
How many Canadians are in it? In some
et the regimerits there are not more thari 6
or 8. We beau a lot about the United
Empire LÔyaiists. I am sick of it down in
our country-the blue blood o! the country,
and they will net go and fight.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-You have none
down there.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-You must spproach this matter ini a spirit of fair play.
This question should be approached with
care, and the people et the counitry should
have faith in any Government that may
hold office. But the question is what the
future et Canada will be, and how we wili
tex Canada, snd what puecautiens we
should take te put the country in a good
position.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The suggestion is muade
that this is a war measure, and it is on the
orders ef the day as if it were a war
measure.
Hon Mr. WÂTSON-It is in the Bill itself.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-It has been suggested
that it is only a temporary messure. la it
the intention of the Gevernment if Frovidence la good te them te continue this, or
is it onlly a temporary mensure?

:)31

gone so far as to give this increase in taxation and then calied it a war measure. It
is adi right to obtamn money for the war and
we will have te pay the interest, but
this taxation is for the purpose of
meeting the current demands on the treaaury,
I remember reading the Halifax platform.
It was great and wonderfuliy muade.
but it -has ail gone to pieces. I wonder
if the minister who was 50 good at shooting hoes in the Union Jack would flot
take a shot at the Halif ax platform and
finish it up. We were to have Civil Service Beform, the provinces in the West
were te have their lands handed over to
them, and ail that, but the polioy has not
been carried out. We were going to have a
reduction of expenditures. Now we find
increased ex penditure, and have te enact
a se cal-ed war measure te fill the treasury.
But I arn afraid it wiii fili the pockets ef
the manufacturers and wiii net. til the
treasury. If the Goverument wish te fi
the treasury they should impose an excise
duty, and tax everything the manufacturers
seli in this country. Let the treasury get a
part ef it. If you tai them 20 per cent
take 18 per cent excise duty, and you wili
have a revenue that wili be good for the
ceuntry. The present proposition is simpiy
for the benefit of the manufacturer.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 3,--"Additional duties of
Customs."
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-What is item 32M?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It simply means
ores and metais ef all kind. We strike eut
in the Act that particular item, ores and
metala of ail kinds, and we put in "29 and
3129-a. It is more for the purpose et covering the administration of the offce ti
determining grades and quantities of iron
ores. The amount of iron has te be determined. Now we charge 6 cents a ton
for that.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOOK-It is just putting
a duty on the iron ore.
Hon. Mr. LOUJ-GHEED-Yes..
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. DANDU.RAŽID-I suppose we
have discussed this measure simpiy for information because the Goverriment would
not accept any amendment to this Bill.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, just temperary.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I have an idea that the
friends et the Government, the manu-.
facturera, who are -a-busy lot et people,
and always sround loeking after their own
interestsand net atter the interests et anybody else. have mariaged te take advantage
o! the war te get the Minister et Finance
te boost up protection in this country. Protection lias neveu done any good for the
people generally in this country or in sriy
other counitry. WVe tried the National
Pelicy for nearly 18 years and duove nearly
everybody out et the country. Where oee
mari came into the country tan. left it. If
try it again you will puobabiy get the
-you
sanie resuits. I think if the Finance
Minister had been taken away where ha
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There m1ght be
could have breathed, freeh air anid been awsy
fromn the amoke et the facteries around some exception taken te the ISenate amendToronito anid other cities, he would net have ing, a Revenue Bill.

SENATE
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. DANJ)URAND-Because I unsaine strong representatians have
derstand
Bill No. 7, An Act to supplement the
been -made froin the French authorities revenue required ta meet war expenses.against what they believe ta be a wrong Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
impression af the treaty between France
The Senate adjourned until to-morrow
and Canada.
at eleven o'clock.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is as ta
sparkling wines. We have nat interfered
with the France treaty ifl any way. We have'
placed goods impoxted under the France
THE SERATE.
treaty in the exceptions that is ta say, the
Tuesday, March 30, 1915.
horizontal duty does not apply ta gaods
France treaty.
coming in. under the
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eleven
o'clock.
.Hon. Mr. DkNDURANiD-But an excise
Prayers and routine proceedingsq.
is imposed upon these articles which fal
under the France-Canada treaty.
CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS OC TUE
SENAI-F.
J¶an. Mr. LOUG-HBED--No, there is this
provision:
Hon. Mr. POWER, trom ttic Conimittee
that the follawing gaods on Internal Economy an'l Contingent AcPravided. however,
ceunts, presented their six,,h report.
shall be exempt from the faregoing provisions:
(a) goods admitted Inta Canada free af cusHon. Mr. DAVID-Will the lion. chairtoms duty under the provisions of sections 8 and 9 of the Customs Taritf. man ai the committee be kind enaugli ta
1907 ;
tell me whether the intention is ta take
(b) goods enuinerated In schedule C of the into consideration the actual situation in
Act, 1908.
French Convention
regard ta the translater and ta show that
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Is the hon. it is dangerous ta have only one man in~
gentleman prepared 'ta say there have not t~he translator's office? Mr. Demontigiiy is
been representations made by the French sick and has been replaced by a young man
authorities against what they believe ta be who is considered one af the tbest translators in Quebec. I ask the hon. gentlea violation ai the treaty?
man not ta forget that if we place only one
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not under- man in that position it vwill be impossible
stand so. I understand private parties have for h.xm ta do the work.
said the stamp duty on sparkling wines
Hon. Mr. POWER-WVe hope that the
would interfere with 'wines caming under matter referred ta by the bhon. gentleman
the French treaty, but the Gaverninent gave will be cansidered ity the committee ta-day.
full consideratian ta that.
and aur next report will probably finish up
that the
understaad the business. I do not understand
Han. Mr. DANDURAND-I
public business has suffered material]y
the Chamber of Commerce had drawn the
up ta date through the absence of the -transattention ai the Minister ai Finance and latoe. The cammittee -%ill take that into
ta the imposition af
the Minister ai Justice
consideratian.
stamps on certain wines which are not being
The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
in this country and which should
produced
unless should nat for.-Et that I made a recomnot be affected by the excise duty,
wh.ich was i-ethere were a similar article produced in mendatian te this Hause
ferred ta the committee a week aga.
Canada.
Hon. Mr-. POWER-Certainly.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I can say ta my
The SPEAKER-And I think it is due ta
hon. friend that the Governinent has given
repart an
every consideration ta the representation t.he House that we should have a
and cansider the that recaommendation before gaing further.
'which bas been made,
legisiation brought down daes not in any
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have etated that the
way interiere with the provisions ai the committee hope ta meet ta-day and deal
treaty.
with that recommendation.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I would ask the
cammittee,
Hon. 'Mr. MURPHY, froin the
chairman ai the comrnittee n4)t ta rush the
reported the Bill witbout amendment.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MARC-H 30, 1915

1
matter -but to have lie meeting to-morrow
morning. This is a voluminous report and
affecta the internai interests of the 'who]e
House. As far as I can gather traIn the
report, as read by the Clerk, I think thereI
are soine fourteen or fifteen recommendations. I cauld only catch one or tivo of
them. I should like ta see tlhat report in
print, and we canncst have the pr.inted report bltre to-morrow -morning. If thics
motion is pressed, I shall move in amendment that the report lie taken into cornsideration twenty-four hours alter it iis
printed. If it appears, when the report
ceomes up, tbat it lias not been prin-ted. anîd
distributed, I presume tlhere will lie ne objection te postponing its consideratiori. It
is nut usual te inter-pose iii this way in the
case of a purely formai motion, and hoit.
gentlemen mnust remember that there is sti:l
some hope that we may have a prorogatio'n
this week. It is important that the House
should be fully in posisession of the vI~
able information which the hion. g~entleman
will be prepared te subniit, and equafly desirable that we should have tiînt. te dispose of this matter belte prorogation.
The SPEAKER-I suggest that the lion.
chairman move that the conside.ation :4
the fiast report be fixed for the day atter temorrow, s0 that we en deal 'witiî the two
reports together.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Witli the permission
of the House I mave that this report be
taken inte consideratian at the second sitting of the Hanse to-merraw.
The motion -%vas agreed ta.
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY.
INQUIRY.
Han. Mr. MeSWVEENEY inquired et the
Gevernment:
1. What are the receipts from the Intercolonial
railway for the eleven months ending February?
2. Aiso, what are the disbursements for the
saine time?
3. Installation of block systein, St. John ta
Hampton, N.B., Moncton ta Painsec, N.B'.
Windsor Junction to Halifax, N.S.; were thc
tenders public or private; ta whom awarded, and
at what Drice?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers are
as tollows:
1. To January 31, 1915, $9,677,547.77; Felimuary figures net yet made Up.
2. To January 31, 1915, $9,760,638.1; February figures net yet made Up.
3. Tenders were invited by circular letter, dated September 26, 1913, te the Federal Sàignal Cempany, New York; Union

3witch and Signal Co., Moritreal; General
[ailway Signal Company of Canada, Lachine, P.Q.; Hall Switch, and Signal 0Cmýýaxy of Montreal. Tender was awarded ta
~fhe Union Switch and Signal Company.
Montreal, for the lump sumn cf $85,000.
TRUST COMPANIES.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK moved that an Order
of t.he Hanse do issue fer:
A return giving the names of the Trust companiez up to the present date who have cornpllsd with the requirements or clause 69 of
the Trust Companles Act 1914. and any correspondence connected tberewlth.
The motion was agreed to.
FISHERIES OVERSEERS, ilAYMENTS
MADE.
MOTION.
Han. Mr. COSTIGAN moved:
That an humble address be presented to Hie
Royal Highness the Governor General; praying
that His Royal Highness will cause to be laid
before the Senate, copies of ail letters betweeni
the minister of Marine and Fisheries or hie departmeflt and the âsbery overzeer, at Baker

lalce. in the province of New Brunswick. and
also copiez of aIl dlaim. made by the said fishery
overseer and the payments made thereon.
He said: In moving this motion I w0uid
cal] the attention cf the bon. leader of the
Goverament to the fact thai during the
session of 1913, 1 moyed two motione, but
received a Teply to only one of them and
tihat one within a few days past. I think
the hon. leader will remember that about
the time of adjournment, alter making my
motion, hie said that lie would have his
secretary send an answer to me at Edmundston, N.B. He told me, alter inquiry,
that hie had ordered bis secretary to send the
answers there, but I do not think they
were received there. One motion was in
regard to the fisheries overseer at Baker
lake,N.B.; the other was in regard te, the
train service of the mails tram St. John
te Ottawa and Montreal. The other day I
got a statement of the payments made te
the overseer at Baker lake. My objeet in
îneving for the full returns to-day is te,
know whether the same mile prevails in
the departmnent ias regards the overseers
which used to prevail there in the time
that Sir Charles Hibbert Tupper oceupied
the position of Minister of Marine and Fidheries, whieh was that each overeeer was
allowed a per diem allowance provided -lie
could furnish his canoe, and every day qie
would have ta swear to his diary showing

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If I thought my
where he had been employed. I think I
in desiring
called the attention of the Government to hon. friend was really serious
should
the fact in my stateutent hefore, that if to make a speech on this measure, 1
still prevailed, the Gov- be glad to comply with his wishes.
that system had
are many
ernment would have paid much less nxoney
Hon. Mr. POWER-There
to the overseer at Baker lake than was things to be done and I ar n ot desiroua
actually paid, because I think lhe was paid of makmng a speech.
1 have been doing
$250 altogether for the season. I do not that for many years now and I do flot feel
complain of wrong payments from the time keen abiout it, but there are two or three
*he was appointed, but I do complain of the observations that I think should be made,
The
faets that the certificate -was eigned by the which suggest themeelves at once.
inspector of fisheries of the province who hon. leader of the Government yestarday
lives, eomnewhere below Fredericton-Mr. assumed an air of virtuous indignation and
Harrison by name- who, to my knowledge, held up hie hands in holy norror, so to
was not qualified to sign any certificate for say, at the atrocioue .conduct of the Libthe overseer; and if the'overseer had been eral Administration, which had preceded
required to swear to hie accounts I amn sure the present virtuous Government, for their
that he would not have sworn to the etate- grose extravagance, and blamed themn for
nients certified by the inspector o! fisheries placing upon the shoulders of the present
already named.
Government and of the people of this
appreciate the country a burdan that wae quite intolerHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I
rernarks made by the hon. gentleman who erable, and he read from a rather ancient
has juet spoken, and beg to assure hlm authority a statement showîng how the
had
that everything that could be done has expenditure in various departments hon.
The
increased up to 1909, 1 think.
been done wîth a view to obtaininga the
cornthe
The returne of which rny hon. gentleman did not carry
return.
It will be rememfurnished by the parison any further.
speaks were
friend
at the
Marine and Fisheries DepartmQnt, and I bered that in 1909 this country was
was
amn informed by my secretary that on three top of the wave of prosperity. Business the
diiierent occasions they were either handed flourishing in ail parts of the country,
My hon. revenue, in fact, was too great, and everyto or sent to my hon. friend.
friend can very welr understand that in the thing was couleur de rose, and the hon.
If he had been
multiplicity of inquiries and motions for gentleman stopped there.
the Senate, it le very filled not with a dsasire to reflect on the
returus made in
.difficult during a session of Parliament to predecessors of hie Government, but with
secure all the information that the hon. a desire to inform the country, he would
It le my desire, have continued the comparison. He would
:gentleman may wish.
I arn not
however, that such should be done, and have brought it down to date.
if any oversight occurs with reference to going into this question at any kength, but
any of these inquiries or papers to .be in order to show how much sincerity there
brought down, I shall certainly welcome is in the protestations of the hon. gentleany rerninder that may be addressed to. man and his condemnation o! the predeI
me, either privately or on the floor o! the cessors of the present Government,
inquiries in accord- shall carry the comparisons a little further.
EHouse. I shahl make
I start with 1911-12; that is the last year
ance with my hon. friend's wishes.
for which the la-te Government were reThe motion was agread to.
sponsible, and I go on to 1913-14, and then
for 1915-16. Civil governiCUErTOMS TARIFF (1907) ACT AMEND- take the Estimates
ment in 1911-12, cost $4,774,678; that was too
MENT B.
much no doubt, but in 1913-14 these economnHon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the third ical gentlemen. who complain of the extravareading of Bill No. 75, "An Act to amnend ga;1ice of their predecessors, had a bill of
'The Customs Tariff, 1907.
$5,607,794; that is practically a million
and the Estimaîtes for the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I thought some f ur- dollars more,
place on this present financial year are over seven
ther discussion wouhd take
and a quarter
motion and I must confess I arn not pre- million. That .is two million
Adminpared to speak now. I suppose the hon. more than the extravagant Liberal
Government would not think istration spent in their last and biggest
lader' o! the
In
it advisable to postpone the third reading year. Then take the item o! fisheries.
1911-12 the country expended in connect!cn
-to another day so that I might be ready?
Hon. Mr. COSTIGA-N.

MARCH 30, 1915
In '1913-14, into power. I begin to feel a good deal of
with the fisheries $843,856.
$1,222,519. The Estimates for next year are sympathy for the people who have to foot
31,561,400. That is double what the previous those 'bills. Then take customs, 1911-12,
for
extravagant Government liad expended. $2,443,846; 1913-14, 33,849,983. Estimates
two
survey, 1911-12, S262,- the next year 34,215,000. That is nearly
Mines and geological
expenditure for
718; 1913-14, $470,5W6. The Estimates for the million more than the
current year are 3547,275, again more than 1911-12.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And less goods comdouble the «amount spent in the last year
of the late Administration. Immigration, ing in.
1911-12, 31,364,999; 1913-14, $1,893,291. For
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes, less revenue and
this year the amount is $1,875,000. Here you fewer goods coming in. Dominion lands; one
have an increase of half a million dollars would think that there was not much room
in the annual expenditure for immigration for a great increase there; in 1911-12 the exwhen, as a matter of fact, there are no immi- penditure was $2,277,099 ; in 1913-14,
grants coming in, or almost none. The $2,286,480. Estimates for the current year,
present capable and economical Administra- $3,475,000. That is nearly a million and a
tion are spending- haîf a million more than quarter more for the current year than for
the late Government spent to bring immi- the last yèar of the late Administration.
gnants into this country; they are not bring. Then post office, 1911-12, $9,172,035; 1913-14,
ing theni in; they are not coming. Really $12,822,058; for the current year $16,177,355.
the lion, gentleman might have reserved a That is an increase of seven and a hall
little of bis pious indignation for bis own millions in a short period of five years. 1
friends and colleagues. Then take the do not think I liad better go into the details
Indians. What do we find about the cost of of these things, but I just quote these figures
administering Indian affairs? WVe have no to ehow how unfair the hon. gentleman is.
more Indians in the country now than we 1 am quite eatisfied. if the hon. gentleman
liad three or four years ago. The Indian were making a statement before any large
population is- not increasing, but while the corporation in which he might be interested
Indien population is not increasing I as a director or otherwise, that hie would not
notice there is a verw respectable increase inake auch a statement as that. He would
in the expenditure on account of these carry his comparison up to date, and I have
Indie~ns. Like the immigrants, the fewer no doubt if the hon. gentleman were to do
Indians you have the more they cost. In what he really feels like doing, he would
1911-12 there was expended on Indians have given the House an honest statement.
nominally $1,756,565. In 1913-14, $2,182,470. 1 think it well to eay a word or two with
So that while ihe respect to the tariff. It muet be borne in
1915-16, 32,254,928.
Indians have diminished in number, the mind that there is a considerable amount
expenditure has increased by haif a million. of unemployment and distress in this counThere is ncthing sinail about thèse gentle- try at the present time. Canada is lîke most
men. It la not an increase of fifty or a other countries in that respect. Here are a
hundred thousand dollars; they deal in number of people who can hardly make the
nothing less than half 'a million dollars. two ends meet. Take out a very small
One would think that on a small item like .section of our population, and all the reIndians they might have been contentedl mainder o! our people find it hard enough
What
with a smnaller increase. Now the next de- to keep the wolf from the door.
partmnent is perhaps the champion depart- course would naturally be pursued in a case
ment, and it la the department where there of this sort by a Minister o! Finance bey-was rocim *to econoniize, a departaient where ing to find a mucli larger revenue than lie
the vo.rk 'was under the control of the Gov- should be called upon to raise? The flrst
ernment-the Public Works Department. In thing I think would be to curtail expenses.
1911-12 the cost was $10,344,000; in 1913-14, That has apparently neyer occurred to the
$19,000,007. Then in 1915-16-this la whên hon. gentleman opposite. The hbon. gentlethe pres-ent economioal Administration had man can shed tears over the extravaganrce
to refrain
got firm in the 8addle and knew what they o! his predecessors, but hie refuses
were doing-the estimated expenditure ls fromn making the expenditures immenselyI
made.
$22,351,000, whereas the extravagant Liberal greater.than they have ever been is a good
the hon. gentleman
Government haed only expended 310,344,000. am satisfied.
and he would not in any
There we find an increase of more than 100 business man,
came private business hie was concerned in follow
per cent eince the present Government

SENATE

the course that was adepted by this Gov- in that way we will, to a certain extent,
ernrnent. He would flot bave increased the close our market againat their British proexpenditure and refrained Irom curtailing ducta and cut dowu any little profit thatexpenses. The first duty of the Government ,they may have." This conduct of the Govwhen they found the 8hip of state was in erument.-protesting their extreme loyalty
rather a bad way would have ïbeen to take i to the Empire snd their desire to do everysail. Iustead of that, apparently the worse thiug they can to help the Empire, while
the weather got the more canvas they at the same time dolug their hast apparspread, and I arn afraid the ultimate resuit ently to shut out the goods comlng from
may be shipwreck. The first thing thtf Gov- the Empire-reminds me of a quotation
was
ernment should have done was to have taken of wh.ich hou. gentleman- who
in sail. Then they should have made such for some years my junior colleague lu this
changes in the tariff as would ha calculated Bouse from Halifax was very fond of
to bring lu revenue without unduly oppress- quoting:
ing the consumera. What did they do? For
Perhaps It was well to dissemble your love,.
instance, take au article like tea. There are
But why did you kick me downstairu?
a great many mildions of pounds of tes conI could imagine the average Englishman
sumed in this country, and ail the revenue addressing the Goverument of Canada in
" rom the small duty on tea would go into
that way-It was very well to dissembla
th treasury. It is a reînarkable fact wjth thair love, but they should not kick the
respect to a small duty on tea that it is Old Country downstairs in that way. 1
one of the duties which does not seern to wvas flot preipared to say anytbing. but it
niaterially increase the price of the article occurred to me that it was just as well
ta the cansuniers. You could put a duty of to express thase thoughts which came ta
five cents a pound on tea and probably get my mmnd. Thera are a good many others
in about two mil1ioix dollars, and it would that have occurred to me, but I thiuk,
not materially iucrease the price of tea to perhaps for the present, this will do.
the consumera; and, further, tea is not an absolute necessity of life, any more than beer.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Might I ha aiBut take the thini which are absolute lowed to add one ramark to this short
necessities of life. Take woollen clothing, debate -which bias taken place ou the Cuswhich we import from England. I called toms Bill which is now before us? It
the attention of the Bouse last year to would bear on the affirmation made by my
the iact that the lowest duty at which hon. friand the leader of the Government,
you could import British woollen clothing that the idea of the tariff containing favourwas 30 per cent, and of course in a country able traatment, in the way of reduction
like this, with a climate such as we have, of duty on British goods, was not of Libwoollen clothing is an al)solute necessity eral invention, but rather bore the previons
of life, nearly as much so as food. Now, mark of Conservative statesmanship. My
this Government, who are filled with love hbon. friand did state that the preferenfor Britain and loyalty to the Emipire, tial clause applying to British goods had
and ail that, what do they do? In the been suggested in a previaus Parliament *by
first place they go directly agailist the a Conservative member of Parliament. Now,
interest of the consumers of this country, there is no question that preferential treatnearly the whole population, by increas- ment to Great Britain's productions had
ing the duty on those British goods fromn often beau talked about by the Conserva30 to .35 per cent; and they seeni to feel tive party in the House, but 1 arn conthat thev have done the rig-ht thing-. But vinced that I will not be contradicted, either
what do the people of England think about by my hon. friend who leada this House
The people of England have ad- or by the hon. gentleman from Hastings,
this?
vanced this Goverument 150 millions of when I make the affirmation that the
dollars. The Government of England, wlîich policy of the Conservative party up to 1896
represents the people of England, are ex- on this question was to claimn quid
pending large sums in this cauntry for pro quo-reciprocal preferential treatment.
munitions of war and other purposes. Yet That was 'what Sir Charles Tupper, at ail
the Government practically say: " In re- events, speaking for the Conservatfve party,
turn for ahl that they have done for us asked and submitted and claimed from the
we will increase very considerably the duty Parliament of Great Britain. Naw I have
an the articles which they sell to us, and flot heard that the Conservative party up
non. Mr. POWER.

MAROR 30. 1915

ta date was ever ready ta give a preferen- grow in years 1 arn atlb more firmly conliai treatment in aur own .market ta British vincd of the correctness of that policy.
goodz without a bar-gain. without a quid But 1 lhink my 'bon. friend scarcely put
pro quo. 0f course tihis demand could b. the question fairly when hie allributed cermade by a party wyhich bas, happily, in tain remserks te .Vhe leader of the Governits opponents no one who vill think of ment in thia House. His etatement, if my
-accuaing haif ci Isa country o! being las memory serves me rigbt, was Ihis, that
loyal than itself; but it seems 10 me, ail when the first resolution offering preferenthe same, quite a humorous situation la tiai trade ta England was introduced *by
-find the Li-beral party- whidh bas always Mr. Fielding, il did not contain lbe preferbeen. supposed to be, according to state- ence ta England alone.
ments we have 'heard and writings we have
Hon. Mr. DÂNIEL-Hear, bear.
seen, less loyal ta the British Crowu. than
MACKENZIE
BOWELLthe Conservative party-giving Great Brit-ý Hon. Sir
ain a preferential treatinent without asking But that il vas extended to ail countries
which would adopt the saine policy that hie
.anything in return.
laid down. in bis tariff. In other wards, if
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The they
could corne down ta
hion. gentleman 'bas forgotten the history of duty tbey ehould have a certain ratio
the advantage.
of the country. Dees Îhe forget that his late
It was pointed
leader, and the present leader of th. Op- not only in tb. out ta themn at the lime,
House o! Gommons, but
position in the Gommons, annaunced bis
in the Senate, that the resolution neyer
policy in the. city o! London when in opposition, iby saying that if they were re- could be accepted by the Imperial Govturned ta power they wauld make an offer ernment, for the reason that the favoured
at once ta the Imperial Government for re- nations' clauses in their treaties with
ciprocal trade? He vent further and said: foreign countries would interfere with il,
-"What wlould resuit froin the fact a! «et- and so il turned out, although the leader of
ting a preference of ten cents a bushel on the. Government at that lime in the House
When the question
grain, on the production of the great West, riJiculed the idea.
if you couid «et your productions fnbl vas brought before the Imparial authori-England with that protection." That vas tb. lies lhey pointed out that il would b. a
doctrine laid down 15y bis own leader when violation, of lbe favoured -nations' clauses o!
in opposition; but like xnany other profes- those treaties, and il vas not until the
sions of opinion and declarations o! polioy abrogation of the Ireaties witli Germany,
made when i opposition, lhey forgot ail Balgium and other countries that Canada
about il, and it- is quite evident that my was able la carry out that poicy. I do
bion. friend bas also forgotten. In re- flot propose te enter mbt the question of
gard to bis reference ta me, 1 confess f rank- tariff j ust nov, although 1 sbould like very
ly that 1 neyer was opposed ta the preferen- muuh ta discuss the points raised by sevtiai treatment that was given ta Great aral of my hon. friends. I was very much
Britain. I staied on lhe floor of the 6enate amused by the remarks of my hion. friend
when Ibis question vas being discussed by from Halifax (Hon. Mr. Pawer). H. cointhe tlhen leader, Mr. Mills, that 1 vas ini plained af t1he increase of duties, upon the
favour of it, but being a proteetionist in articles that the general community conprinoiple, I desired that th. duties on lb. suma, and yet with bis next brealh h. aàother foreign goods sbould be sufficient ta vocated a duty upon an article which every
protect the interesits of Ibis country. I persan consumes, that is, tea. r7 only point
I
*know nmy bion. !riend froin Rideau (Hon. that out ta show bis inconsisitency.
'Mr. Edwards) laughseta that idea. I agree vith him on that point; 1 think tea
knaw w'bat an ardent free trader hie is, and is a legaitirnate article for taxation.
1 know from .my experience wiîh the bon.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-H'ear, hear.
gentleman that b.e is perfectly honesl in
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
BOWELthat; ail I asc from hin and others ia to
giv. me credit for tbe saine honesty o! Te& goes inta general consumption by
opinion. Having learned these things ta every one, and. a tax upon it woubd
e certain degree from reading many years h.e revenue producing. Free trade Engago tSi. editorials o! Horace Greely in the band pute a heavy. duty upon il,
New York 'Tribune, whicb used ta corne la and Ihere is scarcely a country iu the
mny 'office, I formed my opinion as a boy world vhich levièa duties that does nat imupon the question of trade, and I canfeas pose a heavy duty upan tea, coffee, and
I bave not changed thern since, but as I other articles that are universally required

SENATE

These are
and generally consumed.
articles on which taxation can be levied at
any tinie for revenue purposes, and repealed
without interfering with or disturbing any
industry in the country. Alter the Conservatives came into power in 1878 there was a
buoyant revenue, and one of the first things
they did was to remove the duty on tea. It
did not affect any industry, and it was
an article that went into cofisumption by
They also, reduced newsevery one'
paper postage. and many other things
that did not interfere with the general
industries of the counîry, as the revenue was
adequate without it. There are many other
things connected with this tariff with which
I could find fault and 'which I could
We ail have our individual
approve.
opinions upon the question of levying taxes.
Ontario imposes a direct tax of one mill on
The proevery dollar of land values.
vince of Quebec, if I understand their
policy, have gone further, and impose a
direct tax of one miii on the dollar upon all
assessable property, -no inatter what it may
1
be, whether income or real estate.
approve of the Ontario system, because it
would be leas burdensome upon men who
have smali incomes and are assessed for
personal property. However, I arn leading
mysell off a long distance beyond where I
intended to go. My intention when I rose
was simply te cail attention te the remarks
made by my hon. friend, who has evidently
forgotten what the professed policy of his
party was 'when they were desîring te
obtaîn power.
Hon. Mr. DANDUJRAND-I was simply
pointing out the difference between the
policy of the Liberal Government, which
gave a preference to England without
asking reciprocity, while up to 1896 the
professed policy of the Conservative party
was to make a dicker with Britain.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
wish te do it now.

BOWELL-They

Hon. 31r. POWER-I hope the House
will permit me te say a word on this
question from the historical point of view.
The hon. gentleman from Hastings, and
other hon. gentlemen who are pretty well
on in years here, will probably rememberHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do not
refer te that, because we are ail young men.
Hon. Mr. POWER-WeIl, 'I remember, at
any rate, whether the hon. gentleman is teo
young te have seen the thing or heard it.
The first tume that a practicable scheme
for a British preference was submitted to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWnIJL

Parliament was durîng the Parliament *that
lasted, I think, from 1891 te 1896, and it
was an amendment introduced by an hon.
gentleman from Prince Edward Island, now
Sir Louis Davies. He *introduced a resolution advocating, in clear-cut language, a
It was an
pref erence te British -gooda.
amendment te a rather vague motion that
had been made on the other aide of the
Although Sir Louis Davies has
House.
now passed away from the political stage,
stîll I think iA only right that credit for the
introduction of that systeni should be given
where it belongs.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bui
was read the third time and passed.
SEED GRAIN AND FODDER RELIEF
BILL.
Second Reading.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading of Bill No. 85, an Act respecting
Seed Grain and Fodder Relief.
He said: This is a Bill te give authority
to the Governor in Gouncil te make such
provision for the purchase, sale and distribution, during the year 1915, among
farmers and settlers in the provinces of
Alberta and Saskatchewan as will meet the
requirements in those provinces for seed
grain, fodder for their animals, and other
relief. Unfortunately, during the summer and
autunin of 1914 the settlers in the southerly
parts of the provinces of Saskatchewan
and Alberta sustained a very serious crop
failure, the result of whieh was that there
was widespread distress and destitution in
those sections of the two provinces. It
became at once necessary for the Government te intervene and te render theni that
assistance which would ut least ameliorate
the unfortunate conditions te which they
Consequently, the
had been subjected.
Government assumed the Tesponsibility of
furnishing relief te those settiers, and
furthermore found that it would be absolutely necessary that seed grain should be
furnished, not only for -the section of the
two provinces to which I have referred,
but for other sections of the same provinces. Not only was it necessary for that
purpose, but it fuTther wa.s desirable for
other puTposes, namely that the farmers
and settlers of those provinces should be
in no way hàndicapped in their farming
operatioris during the present year. I need
not say te hon. gentlemen th-at there was
a widespread feeling that there should be
a determined effort made, in vidi of the
calamitous war now exiýsting-, for an in-

MARCH 30, 1915

creased production in the Northwest to furnishers of supplies, or by builders, as
meet the food requirements of Europe. the case may be, a lien is given even as
That movement found expression in ail against a first mortgage to the extent of the
parts of the West and through aIl parties improvement which has been made upon
who were dnterested in the West. The the mortgaged property. It nianifestly will
farmere represented by the Grain Growers' be in the interest of mortgage holders that
Association-.of the West, and the manufac- this seed grain should be furnished to the
tureTs of Canada, came together in confer- farmers of the West. There is nothing more
ence and discuesed ways and means, by calculated to depreciate the value of farm
which some apecial effort might be made property than to have it uncultivated, and
on the -part of the settlers, to cultivate an this must necessarily ensue from the inincreased area of their lands, to adopt ability of a great number of the farmers of
more advanced farming methods, and in the West to secure seed grain except some
a word to produce an increased crop inl such assistance be given them as is procomparison 'with ot-her yeare. Now, un- posed by this Bill. Consequently I think
fortunately, to meet that 'situation it b e- it wiU not be controverted that the security
came necessary for the Government ta of first snortgages will be enhanced rather
corne to the relief of those settiers. 1 think than depreciated, notwith standing -the interhon. gentlemen will agree with me when position of the Governînent in taking a
I say that in view of the unfortunate con- first lien for sucli advances as they make.
ditions which had arisen, and in view oi With these few remarks I move the second
~ ~ Bh
the requiremcnts which present themil
selves to-day, it is for Canada to mneet the readi ng o h
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I think that we
as we
food situation of the Emipire, so far
can possihly contribute thereto. 1 would add should ail agree that the Government in
that the Governments of Alberta and this matter is right in doing ail that they
Saskatchewan have entered into an agree- can to assist the farmers throughout the
ment with this Governrnent wherehy legis- country to increase tlîeir. production as
hypsil
a
hsya.Ia
lation will be pasd giving -the Dominion mc
rn
Grovernment a first lien upon the patented much th ey p ha tsibe can his ye
Gomrsaverment i. rethg
that the
lands in these proviiices for such advances nigts
of"seed grain and relief as may be made by zgththearesrevylreyte
ie only
the Government. As to unpatented lands backbone of the country, and ithat it to help
will he unnecessary befor: the right that everything should be done
legislation
them to develop the country. Yesterday I
eov
o
issane ptensinasmuch as the
of the Governernment has control of those lands. Bome pointed out that the policy Tariff Bill was
criticism bas been -made by the loan com- ment with regard ta the
panies of the Dominion, that thi-s legisla- rather along the lines of restricting protion is unwise, that it should flot be passed, duction, but to-day the Government are ceriniasmuch as it gives a priority to the tainly trying to do what they can to helpGovernment over first mortgages and first the farmers who are subject ta a condition
charges al-ready registered upon those of things which, especially exists in the
lands; but this is not the introduction of WVest, and is very nmucli to be regretted. I
any new principle. That principle is ai- should like to point out to iny hon. friend
ready recognized in aur statutes, and by that in this Bill tnere no time lîmit with
recent and former legislation ivhich we regard to this question. The other day in
have passed upon the same êubjeet. discussing Bill No. 78 on the Bank Act a
In 1908 the Government of that day tirne limit was fixed, and it was enacted that
came to the relief of the settlers no nioney should be loaned to the farmers to
grain, enable theni to purchase this seed grain
seed
of
furni-shing
the
in
similar alter the lst of August. It may be possia
involving
legaisiation
and
principle was adopted by the provinces, in bie that the Government have considered
Saskatchewan in one way and in Alberta in that it was not necessary to place a time
another, but the general principle was the limit in this Bill, and also that there wvas
same. 1 have already alluded ta the fact considerable difficulty in deaiing with the
that We have recognized this principie in question in that way. The remarks of the
other departnients of legislation; for in- hon. leader of the Government, as I understance, the provinces, which have jurisdic- stood them, were almost entirely confinea
tion in such matters, legislate as to liens ta the question of seed grain, and he did
upon property whereby if ixuprovements not tell us what was to be done about the
are made upon mortg-ag«ed lands 1'v 4'ý9 grain that was required to leed the farmer's

SENATE

flon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They will be
stock. The qnestion was raised in another
registered in the Land Tities offices in th3
place sto the amnount of feed that w*as to respective districts in which. the lands lie.
be given to each f armer in order to
enable bum to keep his stock in
Hon. Mr. BELjOOURT-But what is the
to the document by which this is done in t1.e
to do work
fit condition
best advantaie. Possibly when we get into two provinces?
committee the leader of the Government
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If my hon.
will be able to give us a more detailed statefriend wàil look at schedule 2 of the Bill on
ment as to how this is to be carried ont,, and
that eaeh Provincial
to what extent the fodder supply to the page 3 he will find
On this question ol Government undertakes to protect and
fanmer is to be given.
for seed grain.
liens, 1 presume the Government have legalize the boans
BELOOURT-In the sanie way
adopted the proper course to proteet theniHon. Mr.
selves in a matter of this kind, but we may that it is done in the provinces?
a
find that the farmers will be. placed in
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
.position where tbey will have to look to
help them in the matter
Wo
the Government
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-But what is the
of grain. The Government will have a first means adoptedP
lien on the land, and the banks will have
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There will be an
an unregistered lien on the crop; therefore
entry made against the lands upon whicli
the farmer will not be able, if I nnderstand
seed grain bas been advanced, as to
the situation rightly, to go Woany one else the
and as to the
financial assistance, should the aniount of seed grain
in order to get
in charge in favour of the Government by
he be in a position of requiring money
advances for seed.
any shape or forni to help in regard to the reason of the
business. I presume that this
rest of bis
Hon. Mr. BELOOURT-WVhat I want to
matter bas been carefully considered by the know is what is the means in force now in
Government, and that tbey have concluded the province.
tbat it is the only way they can deal with
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There is a law
it, but 1 think that the position I have
ta be passed.
pointed out is what ý.ill be the resuit of this
legislatioii.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-But the Governthese
leader ment will undertake to legalize
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Will the hon,
put a question to loans in the sanie way as is done in the
of the House allow me Wo
I was curions to&Lmow how
province.
him? The first clause says:
that is done.
The Governor In Couneil ehould have power to
provide for the purchase, sale, and distribution
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It will be done
during the year 1915 among such farmers and in this way; in 1908 the provinces place6d
of Alberta and
.uettieru in the sald provinces
legisiation upon their statute books making
Sazkatchewafl as apply for the saine.
of boans for
Does that apply only to those who are provision -for the registration Alberta borIn that year
actual farmers and settiers, or to those wbo seed grain.
Government, for
would have the Intention of heing, farmers rowed froni the Dominion
a specific
the purchase of seed grain,
and settiers?
ameunt bearing interest at five per cent,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They must be and that province then placed upon ils
farmérs or settlers; they must have land, statute books legisiation giving to the
must be settled on land.
province a first lien for snch seed grain
the
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Although 1 intend to as was furnished by the province ta
So that I présume the
when I move different farmers.
treat that question to-morrow
the
my motion, may I ask the hon. leader of legisiation that will be adopted at
the House whether the Government has present session of those two legislatures
the sanie bin2s as
,.considered the question of adding to the liat will be somewhat uponin 1908.
the legislation passed
those who intend to become settlers in any
part of the country, not only Alberta and
Hon. Mr. WATSON-It wonld be well
Saskatchewan, but other provinces, and to get some inforipation as to the quantity
,especially on Government land?
of seed grain likely to be reqnir8d, befodder
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-W-hat are the cause ontside of the seed grain and
provinces by which thes8 relief has been given in other ways r ameans in the two
ferred to here.
liens are regîstered?
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK

MARCH 30, 1915

241

cf one' per cent upon the average note circulation cf the bank. It is aiso proposed
te tax trust and boan companies upon the
gross amounit of income. That tax will represent one per cent upon the gross ainount
cf interest, the property cf the company,
from loans and investmnents in Canada, and
inoome, other than interest on bueiness
transacted in Canada. It is aise proposed
te place a tax on certain insurance ceinpanies otiher Vhan life upon net premiums
cf one per cent, likewise a tax on cable and
telegraph companies equal to one cent upen
each despatch or message other than trust
despatc'hes or messages originating at each
sucb cempanies' respective offices in
LOUGHEED-Approximately et
Canada, and transmitted over the cernhas.been expend«J.
dollars
panies' bines. It applies te railway and
was agreed to, and the Bill vessel tickets, and other taxes for whichi
second tiine.
provision is made in the Bibl.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I will get the information for my hon. friend, but I understand the maximum quantity to each
settler is 400 bushels.
Hon. Mr. WATBON-But there is relief
in addition to that.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I amn unaware of
any limitation being placed upon the reIt would have to be governed absolief.
lutely by the local conditions which would
pressent themselves.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I mean the quantity
that bas been given up to date.
Hon. Mr.
three million
The motion
was read the

JUDGES' ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND PLEADING.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading of Bill No. 93, An Act to ainend the
Judges' Act.
He said: This Bill proposes an amendment to tihe Judges' Act. It is made in
pursuan-ce cf a request by the Government
~of Alberta that provision should be made
for the appointment of three additional
district judges; also by the province of
British Columbia that like provision should
be made for one judge in the Cariboo
district. As hon. gentlemen know, the
Dominion Governmerit carnies out the
behests cf the Provincial Government as
to the appointment of judges, the FMserai
Governinent of couree making n-~inýiiations
under whatever !egielatie«n is pa-sed frono
time to time .by the provinces te m.eet the-r
judicial necessitieà.
The motion %vas iigreed te, ariil the 131.
was read the second iMe.
WAR EXPEXOTTURFiS BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.

The House resolved itself into a Committee of the WVhole on Bill No. 76, An Act te
supplement the revenue required te meet
war expenditures.
(In the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This is a speciail
war revenue measure. It is proposed to
impose taxes upon certain institutions. For
instance in the case cf banks, upon the
average amount cf notes in circulation there
w.ill be imposed a tax equal te one-fourth
S-16
RE I5ED

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I notice this Bill
is desig-nated as a special WVar Revenue
Bill, but mry hion. friend has net said that
the taxes will 'be taken off when we came
te the end cf the war. I do net see anything in the Bill which provides for that.
Po'ssibly by the time whien the war is
over the Governanent rnay consider that
t1his systemn cf taxation ie so much preferable te the aystem that they advocated yesterday in the Tariff Bill, they may tbink
it 'better * for the country than the other
system. It is, -of course, a greàt advantage
i~n that the Gcvernment know that aIl tihe
taxes go te the Government, that the people
do not have toe pay indirectly a tax which
does net go inte the hande'of the Government. I think llhat hon. gentlemen cf this
House .mig4ht not agree with the ides that
increased, postage is a good tax even in the
case of war. It is makina it rather more
difficult for people, who ;'osibly have net
any toc much cf this world'-s goods, te keep
up correspondence, and is reverting to a
system that we hoped we had done away
with years ago. I remember the time when
in this cou.ntry the rate of interest was neduced, and the people then thought as I
think, that it was a great advantage te
them. 1 want te br.ing to the attention of
the hion. leader of the Government
another peint that was naised in the other
House and possibly he niay be able later
on te give us some information ajout it.
It was pointed oidt te me that the questiel
was asked cf -the Ministen cf Finiance in
the other House if the tax on receipt8
would apply te co-operative societies in
Quebec and Ontario. It is pointed out that
these societies represent a large number of
EDITION

SENATE
On On clause 5, aubclause 2:
people and they have tried for several years
from the Dominion Governnow to obtain
2. Every cornpany, other than a ife Insurance
ment -the rigbt of lbeing rec'ognized by legis- ,ompany, a Company transaoting marine insurance. a fraternal benefit soclety and a purely
lation froni th-is Parliament but although
conipany iicensed or registered or otherthey have made -several attempts to get mutual
wise authorized to transact ln Canada or ln any
far no4t suc- province thereof, the business of Insurance
this legisiation they 'have so
ceeded in obtai-ning .1t, and they think it is shall pay' to the mînister for the Consolidated
cent upon the
ra1ther a hardship-not that they are un- Revenue Fund a tax of one perCanada on and
the fiax, but tihat they should n~et premtums recelved by It ln one thousand
-willing te pay
after the fiast day of January.
-be ibrought under the sanie condition as nine hundred and fifteen.
the banks and trust companieis and other
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Will that tax en
cornpanies thst are handling money, 'which
froni 1his Parlia- net premiun3 in certain insurance cernhave received legisiation
pandes have any effect upon the prarniuxns
ment.
charged to the insured?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Other 1than life
du these eo-oper'ative societies require in
insurance. It does not apply to life intlheir legislation?
surance.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-They want te get a
The subclause was adopted.
special Bill.
Hon. '.Ir. BOSTOÇK-Çan, the hion.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-For
-leader of the Goverrnent say why the first
what?
part of the Act is left open as to the date
Hon. Mi. BOSTOCK- For the purpose when it cornes into effect? I presumne it
of giving theni proper organization. and does not corne into effeet until the Bill is
recognition.
sanctioned, but ini the second part -it states
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If they are not trhat it shall corne into effect on the l5th
an insurance company or not a hank they April, 1915. Is there any reason why part
would net corne under the Act.
of the Bill should corne into force at a difpart?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They ferent date fîorn the other
under apeedal Acts of ParMr. LOUGHEED-The fiast part
Hon.
are eil operating
liament.
would at once corne into operation. the
being given, and the other of
Hon. Mi. BOSTOCK-As I understand Royal as-sent be postponed until t>he date
the situation at the present time, they are course would
mentioned.
real]y not under any legislation.
Hon. '-Ir. BOSTOCK-I do mot quite te
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They
what the object of that provision i.s.
ought te be.
Hon. '-%r. LOUGHEED--The first part.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOGK--They might alrnost
can be nmade irnmediately enforceable,
be Gaid to be doing a legitimate business i
the other parts an
the eyes of the ]aw, but they are doing a w-hereas with regard to
for
-whih is very rbeneficial to the elaborate systern had to. be adopted. For
busàness
very the purpose o! caîîying it into effect.
people o! the country, and the people
to be engraved. My
much appreciate the figures given showing instance, starnps have
with which.
t¶he way their busfiness is growing, and hion. friend wvill see in part two, that we are
a hardship on we are now about to proceed,
these people feel it is rather
the
them that they should be placed in that dealing with companies over which
Goveîrnent lias not exceîcised the saie
position.
control that they have over the insurance
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-W-hen we corne co nipan ie s
deals
to subsection 2 of section 5, which
The clause was adopted.
with that class of companies, we oan diseuEs the scope of the posif.ion.
On clause 9--railway and other tickets:
H3n. Mi. BOSTOCK-I al-ýo think it
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Could
woird be intieresting il the leader of the the 'lon. minister tell us why people travelGovernment would give us an estimate of ling on passes should not pay the waî tax
the aýmount of money the Gevernment wil! as well as anyhody else? I see no reagon
b-2 ab]e to raise under this Bi'!.
why hon. gentlernen like ourselves. who
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-About eight mil- have passes under tlhe law, should not be
lion dollars. That is sirnply an estirnate. char.ged this war tax as wehl as parties who
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCKL

1

MARCH- 30, 1915

purchase tickets. If we had power te
amend the mneasure I would inove an amnendrnent te that eflect, 'but flot having the
power &Il11 can do je te cail attention te it.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The bon. gentleman
Ïhae done his duty.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
going te the train, holders of passes ceuld
go te the ticket office and pay their five or
ten cents.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-Let the hon.
gentleman from Belleville try it for a year
and then report te ue.
On clause 12--stamp duties on cheques
and certain other instrumente.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOÇK-Wauld bliis clause
cover co-operative societies?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This clause refers ta banks. It must be a oank under
the Bank Act, and thase societies would
not corne under that designation.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-They would corne
under the expression ««Any other body corporate."
H-on. Mr. LOUGHEED-Are they bodies
corporate?
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-It rnight corne
under No. 4, perbape.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If the cornpany
sets as a private banker, it certainly 'would
b>e subjeet -te the tax.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-They %would
not exist unless they vere corporate bodies.
Ho)n. Mr. BOSTOCK-They cannot geL
l-egislation.
-Honi. Mr. BEIQUE-They are bodies corporate by virtue oi eome private Act, but
I do not think they would faîl under subsection 3 or 4 of section 12; because they
do not receive money which je repayable
,by cheques. lt only refers to rnoney deposited by corporations wihieh carry on a
Lbanking bueiness.'
The clause vas adopted.
On subclause 7:
7. Every person who Issues a cheque payable
at or by a bank to which there le flot aMlxed

an adhesive starnp or on which there la flot lm-

pressed by means of a die a stamp of the value
of two cents shall be lhable ta a penalty flot
exceeding flfty dollars.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Oan tihe bon. leader
of the Governrnent tel] us whether we vwiil
require t'a put two stamps. on letters or
post carde?
S-16à

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Two separate
stamps.
The clause was adopted.
On subclause 9:
9. Every person who signe a receipt for
money paid to hlm by a bank chargeable against
a deposit of money ln the bank to bis credit
to whlch there la flot affixed an adheslve etarnp
or on which there la flot Impreseed by means of
a die a etarnp of the value of two cents shall
be liable to a penalty flot exceeding ft3y dol.
lams

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I do not eee
any stamp on chequies deposited, i post
offices. Ie it the intention te levy a tax
on cheques mnade against those deposits?
Hon. Mr. LOLUGHEED-By subelause 4
of clause 13 it is provided that a postage
staxnp shall be affixed to a postal note.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I amn spealting
of the poest office savings bank.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, apparentfly
not.
The CHAIRMAN-There ie no cheque
issued in that case. It ie sirnply a requisitien.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-There vould be a
etamp on the receipt.
Hon. Mr. BOYER-With regard to the
starnp, ouqd any starnp be usoed, provided
it vas a Canadian stamp?
Hoa. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand se,
but there 'will be a war stamp .prepared in
addition.
Hon. Mr. BOYER-Shall we bave te carry
Lwo diflerent stamps, a postage stamp and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The postage
etarnip rn.ay be used in &orne cases, but we
will hbave in any event a stamp te distinguish between the ordinary postage ràtes
and the var duties which have been inposed.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY (Speaker)-Supposing
I write a letter and place a two-cent starnp
on (the latter, and there is a wai stamp in
addition, 1 ceixld put three one cent atampe
on. the letter instead of a two-cent stamip
and a war stamp.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That je what I
undeistan d.
Hon. Mr. BOYER-The ordinary Engli-sh
starnp bears the words, -postal and ini.and
revenue." It 'je ueed for postage or for any
of the purposes set out i this Act. Sup-

SENATE

posing you are out in the country and want
to get a cheque and you do flot happen to
have a war Etamp, what is going Vo happen?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-An ordinary
starnp will do. This has noV been framed
in a oast-iron way. Regulations will have
to be prornulgated by postal auth-orities
as to how it may be best enforced.
The clause was adopted.
H<>n. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Is it underetood. that all these war taxes will be used
for war expen&es or wil they go into the
general fund o! tiie Government, andi be
usesi for other purposes.

solidated revenue of Canada, or a specil
fund.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cannot say as
to how it wi1I be credited in Consolidated
Revenue Account.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE--Should there be
some provision as to what fund it wiUl form
part of? 1 amn speaking subject to correction, because I have not looked into the
point, but I understand it is the practice
to state *that it shall torin part of some
fund.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon. gentleman will find a reference to that in the begainni ng of section 3 of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR, from the Comrnittee,
reported the Bill witihout arnendment.
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock
this afternoon.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As I understand.
the returns 'will 'be kept separate. Just as
Vo what war purposes may mean I amn not
preparesi te say. lIt is a very general expression. The object is that this additional
revenue should be raised to meet the exSecond Sittiug.
traordinary expenses which have -been creto the war conditions.
ated owing
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Thre.e
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-It is very im- o'clock, p.m.
portant that the country should know if
Routine proceedings.
this great amount of special taxation imposed t.o-d.ay 'by this Governuient on the FIRST, SEOOND AND THIRD READINGS.
country. will be used solely for the war, or
Bill (D-1), An Act for the relief of Edith
is to be used also for election funds?
Marguerita Lyons.-Hon. Mr. Taylor.
HRom. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not think
Bill (E-1), An Act for the relief of Charles
we wiIl use it for election f unds. We wil Isaac Alexander.-Hon. Mr. Derby5hire.
look to some other source for that.
SENATORIAL INCREASE.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I ask the leader
PRIVILE)GE
,of the Government because the Governxnent
îs borrowing money for the war, and it is
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Before proceeding
important for us to know.
with the Orders o! the Day I want to cali
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-l will give my the attention o! the House Vo a staternent
hon. friend the most satisfactory assur- that appeared in the rnorning Citizen toance that it will not be applýied for election day. In a promineij.t position in the'second
oolumn of the paper there appears this
purposes.
notice:
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The Finance Minister expected t<> raise eight millions Iby Refused increase in senatorship. Liberals
thia tax, and I -have no doubt at aIl he would wait until after election.
And then the paragraph reads:
can figure on that pretty accurately, be,cause it is a direct tax. You geV the money.
In the Senate yesterday. on the Governrnent's
The total money provided for the war proposai to increase the Senate mernbership to
to 24 rneinamounted to one hundred and fifty million, 104 by bringing the western group
bers, Senator Bostock, Opposition leader. offered
and this amount wiIl more than psy the the sarne mnendrnent as Iast year-that tha.intotal interest on that. Why not drop the crease in membership ls not to take place tili
Bili .provid.ing for an increase o! 7j per tifter the next general election. or at the sarne
tirne that the Conunons redistribution cornes
4cent on the tariff?
ýn~to effect. The arnendrnent was carried by 27
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-When the war to 16.
is over we wilI consider that.
What I want to, point out to the House
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It is usual in al is that this report is absolutely wrong
Aots designed to raise a revenue to state Hon. gentlemen on thîs side of the House
-whether it shahl form a part of the con- who voted in favour o! that amendrnent
Hon. Mr. BOYER.

MARCH 30, 1915

did flot refuse the increase in the iembership of the Senate, neither did they suggest in that amiendnîent that the matter
shouki be held until after the next election.
The report is entirely wrong and uiisleading. When newspapers take -the trouble
to report the proceedings of the Senate 1
do not think they ought to mix them up
and issue tb the public a false report -such
as this.
Hon.. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In
what respect is it-wrong?
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I thought I mnade
it clear. In the first place we did not Tefuse the increase in the senatorships; and,
sec<>ndly, the amendiment does not put off
the appointmeuts to the Senate, in the
event of ils býin - aecepted, until after the
eeetion. The arnendment was to the effect
that the appointinents should not be made
until the end of the present Parliainent.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-In regard to that, I
amn glad to knowHon. Mr. POWER-Order; there is nothing before the -House.
Hon. 3Ir. CLORAN-Nothing
House?

before the

Hon. Mr. DERP.YSHIRE-1 think there

is quite a lot before the House-the increase
of senatorships.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Are there no remarks to be miade on the suýbjetP
The SPEAKER-No, no discussion.
Hon. '-\r. CLORAN-I vas going to remark that the paper was perfectly wel
justified in saying what it did, that the increase in seBnatorships should mlot take place
until after the election.
O'NTARTO BILINGUAL SCHOOL
QUESTION.
DEBATE RESUMED.

The Order of the Day being called:
flesumIL!g the further adjourned debate on
the motion nioved by the Honourable '-%r. David,
seconded by the Honourable Mr. McHugh:
"This House, without derogating fromn the
principle of provincial autonomy, deeis it proper
and within the lirnits of its powers and jurisdiction and in pursuance of the object for which
it was eetablislied, to regret the divisions which
seem to exist among the people of the province
of Ontario inu connection with the bilingual
school question and believes that it is in the interesr o- tle Dominion at large that aIl such
questions should lie cansidered on fair and
patriotic lines and settled in such a way as ta
preserve peace and harmony between the ditferent national and religious sections of this
country. in accordlance with the views of the

fathers of Confederation, and with the spirit of
aur constitution," and the motion of the Hon.

ourable Mr. Bolduc, In s.mendmnent, seconded bY
the Honourabie Mr. Pope,
"That this House, withaut derogating tramn the
principle of provincial autonamy or suggffletg
In what manner any province should. exercise, 1te
powers in matters of education, deems it proper
to regret the existence In any province of Can-

ada of divisions in cannectian with bilingual
schools or other national or reiigiaui) questions,
and believes that it

in In the intereet of the

Dominion at large tluat ail such questions
shauld always lie considered on fair and patriotic lines and settled In sucli a way as ta pre-

serve peace and harmnony between the different,
national and religlous sections of this country,
and in accardance with the letter snd spirit of
And also, the motion of the
aur constitution."
Honourable Mr. Power, In amendîment to the
aînendment, seconded by the Honourable Mr.
Derb~yshire:
"That the said amendment lie amended by
striking out aIl the words therein atter the
words ' this House ' and substituting therefor the
following: 'while it believes it is in the Intereat
of the Dominion at large that aIl questions as
ta which divisions exist among the people of
any province should be considered on fair andi
uatriotic lines and settled in suchi a way as ta
promote peace and harmony between the ditterent racial and religiaus elements of the
population, is of opinion that, inaâmuch as the
subject of education la one of hose by the
Britishi North America Act, 1567, committed ta
the provinces, any suggestion volunteered by

the'Senate as ta the manner In which any
province should exercise its power would lie
contrary ta the spirit of the constitution and
calculated ta IntenEify and extend any divisions
of feelings that now exist.-

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hon.

gentlemen, I need scarcely say that 1 very
nîuch regret that questions of this kind
should be brought under the notice of the
mlembers of this House, for the reason that
in niy opinion they neyer resuit in any good.
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hiear.
Hon.' Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They
will be misapprehended by those who have
taken an interest in the discussion on this
question which has agitated the people,
particularly of Ontario, and ln the city of
Ottawa especially. 1 neyer suspected for a
nmoment neither do I think any other genitleman present would attribute ta the lion.
gentleman who moved the resolution, any
ulierior objeet, politically or otherwise.
Those who know him would give him credit
for beîng honest in any statement that he
might make. but notwithstanding that, the
fact that a very strong feeling exists in the
community, not only in the province of Ontario but in other provinces, upon the
question which we are now about to conaider, makes any reference to it by a legislative body like the Senate of Canada mis-

SENATE
statesunderstood, no matter how honest may be a straightforward, well-considered,
manlike view of the whole question. In
the gentleman who brought it under our consideration. True, he miay disavow any in- that statement he gives a distinct and positention of creating a difficuity, but the very tive opinion that there were and are ne
tact that an opinion is given by the Senate legal rights te use the French language
ef Canada upon the question wîll, 1 in the province of Ontario. In the legal
repeat, be miacontrued; I confess also advice-that is in the lawyers' advice-a
that when -I read the first motion different position is taken. 1 cencur in the
placed upon the notice paper by my one and I -have very littie faith in the
bon. friend, I was very _much surpoeised other, and 1 think I may safely say, if a
nt the position he had taken, knowing that layman were te venture an opinion upon
he was an advocate of provincial autonemy this question, that ini any case which may
and provincial rights, par excellence, hav- cerne befere the law lords cf the Privy
ing fought in committee in this House for Council in England, bis firat opinion will
provincial rights. with him a number of be sustained, and that money wili be thrown
times. However, at the instance of his away in eontesting the inabter. In referwas pre- ring te the discussion itself, I desire te
1oileagues an amended motion
sented te us, not of se drastic a character say that ne objection could possihly be
as the first, but stili objectionable. WVetaken, in my mind, te the tong which charthen had a third motion by my hon. friend acterized the speeches which have been adte my left here <Hon. Mr. Bolduc) still less dressed te the Senate upon this question,
Yet the objection existed and I take this oppertunity aise te say that
objectionable.
that it was an intimation-flot enly an inti- I have read with great care and attention
mnation, buit a request-on the -part of the the speech made by the Premier of Quebec,
Senate to express an opinion upon the ques- when this question was breuglit before the
to, Quebec Leg-isiature, and aithougli disagreereferred
have
I
which,
tion
that is, the establish.ment of bilingual ing with him in the conclusion te which
achools in the province of Ontarie. he came, I read it with pleasure because
No matter how honest our intentions, any iit indicated a spirit cf fairnesa and treated
position the Senate may take on this issue the subject in a manner te which I think
is sure te be misunderstood. 1 listened ne oe could object. It was in striking
with great attention to the many quota- contrast te the inflammatory harangue
tiens made by the hon. gentleman from which was delivered by the younger man
Mille les from the opinions of Sir John w ho intreduced the question. I know that
Macdonald, of myseli, and of others upon when the hon. senater from Compten called
the question that agitated this country attention te the views cf one gentleman,
some years ago, but 1 failed, either in listen- my hon. friend whe sits opposite me said
ing to him or in reading his remarks after- that he had supported the Conservative
wards, te find a single sentiment in any ç.nrty at the last election. That is enly
of his quotations which warranted the con- an evidence te my mind that that gentleclusion that any legal rights te use the man bas had some lucid moments in bis
French language in the schools of Ontario life, and there is ne telling what may be
existed, or that any riglits were given te the resuit. If lie lives long enough he
that race te use their language either in may hold saner views than lie has done in
the courts or elsewhere in the province of the past when dealîng with public quesOntarie, though that impression existed at tions affecting the whole cemmunity.
that time and also exists at the present
day in the minds of some people. Then nHon. Mr. DANDURAND-It may please
comes the question as to whether consti.
man is stili supporting tihe Conservative
tutionaiiy such rights exist. I hold under
Quebec Legisiature.
my hand a very clear and distinct state party in the
on that question
ment of the constitution
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-And outside,
which was delivered by my hon. friend tee.
firom Ottawa. I hold aise in my hand his
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No,
opinio'n befere the courts ef justice, and
how we can reconcile the ohe with th( it would not relieve my mmnd, because I
my own opinions cf gentlemen who
other is somewhat difficuit for me te under -have
t have such extreme views as lie lias exstand. I fully concur in the statemeni
made by him in the address he delivered ir ipressed and who change se rapidly as lie
in that
the city of Quebec. To my mind that wa~ sdoes, but se long as lie continues
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWSJLL.

MARCH 30, 1915

course I would comrnend him for better
sense now than he ihad originally. I desire to put my bon. friend who has just
spoken, right upon one point, I quoting
Regulation 17 affeeting bilingual sdool
in the province of Ontario, he spoke of the
public sehools as separate echools and
Protestant schools.- There is no oeparate
Protestant school ini Ontarjo, except achoels
establisbed *by private individuals.

could between the separate and public
schools. It is true the case was carried into
the courts afterwards, and the courts decided that there was no power given in the
statutes to'justify the course they bad pursued. I merely mention that fact te show
the good feeling that existed there ini spite
of agitators and those who talce extreme
views in this matter. I can give as strong
testimony as te the good citizenship of
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Tbere are sepa- those French people as the hon, gentleman
who bas spoken se eulogistically of them.
rate Protestant schools in Ontario.
In our own county we have a French settleHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Let ment: they have their separate schools, andme finish.
Where there are separate I neyer heard of them quarreling about
schools established under the law as it their language or anything else. I have
exists there, they would nôt ho called Pro- seen it stated in newspapers in Qnebec that
testant schools, but that does not apply certain clergymen had laid down the printo the point to which 1 desire to cail hie ciple that if a boy was not educated. in bis
attention.
The deduction drawn by my own language he drifted away from the
hon. lriend from that â'ause refers exclus- church. In the county where I live notbing
àvely to the bilinguial sehools so far as of that kind bas occurred. Take the townthey were affected by Regulation 17. Let aship of Hungerford with a strong Protesme say on behalf of the separa-te schoots tant population. The reeve o! that township
of Ontario, this seems to be a question of for many years was a Frenchman named
language rather than of Teligion in the Gabourie. Two-thiTds o! the population o!
schools, although the question of separate that' county were Orangemen. They neyer
sebools bas been brought in and discu-ssed asked the reeve wbat church he attended.
from the time that the motion was made He was a liberal man and attended te bis
umtil the present time. Since the law was business. Just so long as inflammatory
passed establishing sepa-rate sehools in the speeches are kept away from the people
part of the country in wthich 1 live, there there is no difficulty and they live in barhas been no difficulty in carrying them mony. The hon. gentleman from Rockland
out. I had the honour of being the bhead (Hon. Mr. Edwards) read a quotation from
of the common and publie sehool board one of the Toronto papers, controlled by. a
for a number of years where separate personal friend of mine whom ho knows as
schools, high and grammar schools existed.» well as I do, and no more generous hearted
We neyer had any difficulty. If any littie man exists in this country, but that gentledifflculty presented itself in the carrying man bas very strong views on this question.
out of the separate sehools, in the collec- Ancther thing I deprecate is tbe introduction of taxes and so on, we always
tion of inflammatery newspaper articles. I
yielded and neyer had any trouble. It has know it bas been done witb the very best
been the eame in reference te taxation. intention, but if you want a sample of such
My hon. friend from Halifax called attention to the fact t-hat a question might arise articles I have enough before me to keep
in the province of Ontario as to the pro- me reading until to-morrow morning. As an
portion of taxes that should be paid by old newspaper man I keep these extracts. I
a corporation, the stock of which was held could give extracts from Quebec papers,
by separate school -supporters and by com- but- I sbould be very sorry to insult the
mon school supporters.' That difficulty did Frencbmen here by supposing that the
arise, I admit, but how vias it settled P writers represent the views of their fellow
I refer to a case that c'ecurred in the AI- countrymen. I have already referred to the
goma district, in whic'h -a difflculty as to legal point, but wbat are the f acts. Wbat
the proportion of taxes colleetéd on aý bas led to tbisP IL you turn- te the judglarge
pulp mill, a portion of the mente of the courts of the province of Onsupported
the tario, you will learn from them the cause of
stockholders of whieh
separate
schools and a portion the what bas taken place, particularly in Otpublic schools. Those two bodies met tawa, and for the information of those who
and did net have any quarrel, and have not taken the trouble to read it, I
came to mutual arrangements to divide shail quote one or two extracts from which
it in as nearly a proper proportion as they we will learn pretty nearly what the conduct

SENATE

245

of the representatives of the French supporters of the separato schools in the city
of Ottawa lias been. I arn referring exclusively to the French supporters of
the separate schools who have fallen out
and dîffered from the other supporters of
the separate schools. From what 1 read and
what 1 have learned there are two classes
of separate school supporters in this city.
In giving judgment in the case of which my
hon. friend from Ottawa bas soine acquain-

rageous appointment of Protestant inspectors.
If need be I myself wiii cause the children to
leave the schools if an inspecter insiste on wishing ta make hie visite." (Translation as sccepted at the trial.)

Now, that is the position i which the
judge found the school management in
the city 'of Ottawa, and 1 should like to
ask any French gentleman present who
holds strong views upon this bilingual
question whether he would justify for a
moment the conduct that is here pointed
out, as that of the trustees or of the clergyI find the followingtance,
man who writes a letter protesting against
entering their
inspector
Without, however, attempting or desiring to a Protestant
of the uchool
make an exhaustive it of violations
the chilif I mention schools, and threatening to advise
law, it may conduce to clearness
in which I find violations en- dren to leave the school if a -Protestant ina ftw instances
-spector dares to put his face in the schools.
tablished by the evidence:
1. The use of French as the language of com- Now, this is the position in whîch you find
as
munication and instruction beyond formn 1,and
affairs in this city. Bear in mind that
a subject of study for more than an hour a day
the consent of the chie! thare is neither law, nor usage, nor conin a clas room without
inspecter.
stitutional right cornpelling the Ontario
2. The employment of unqualified teachers.
Government to establish bilingual school&,
3. Obstructing the inspectors in the'discharge
settiers in the provof thedr duties and preventing in spection o! the ilor lad the French
ince of Ontario any right whatever t.o iiischools.
4. Wilful failure to keep the schoois open dur- sist upon their language baing taught in
ing the time prescribed by iaw, and in fact the schools in any way until the l7tli regucloslng themn and keeping them c]osed at -and
That regulation was
after the commencement of the school year lation was adopted.
attempted Wobe put in force for the reason
1914-15.
5. WilfuIly omitting to properly equip and that children of French parentage who probcarry on the schools by the employment of ably liad not a knowledge of the English
qualified teachers, and on the contrary disAt
misslng from the achooli twenty or more satin- language when they went to school, and
was feit that they should have an opporfactory, competent. and qualified teachers.
Note. Want o! means cannot be Invoked as tunityat least of beginning to learri the
The department specifically English language through the teaching of
a justification.
agrees to make an adequate supplementary grant
to any difficulty in the case of English-French their own language, as I presume, by exParagraph 15 o! instruction 17, plaining to them in English their differachools.
August 1913. This was not applied for.
ent words and sentences which they would
G. Deflant refusai to conduct the schools ac- repeat in French.
Now, lias tTlat been
or submit to the regulations. and
cording to law
se forfeiting or suspending payment o! their such a biig-bear Wothe French inhabitants
share of the Government grant; and by publica- of Ontario as has been pointed out? Read
tion o! their resolutions and declarations, f0- the opinion of the Roman Catholic-Bishop
menting discontent among the school supporters
who is a Frenchrnan,
and encouraging the insubordination of the of TIimiisk'amiing. Ont.,
as 1 should judge by his name; he points
pupils.
out clearly that there is no difficulty with
I shail not go into the other issues, but
that 17th regulation governing the separate
these are sorte of the reasons whicli led the schools of the province of Ontario; and 1
judge to render a judgment in favour of will take the trouble of reading it to those
those who protested against the conduct of of you who have not seen it published in
the trustees who had conducted their busi- the newspapers.
ness in the nianner hie indicated. Thiat is
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-What is the narne
not ail. The clergy in once case hiad to lnterfere in this inatter la order to assist in of the Bishop?
creating trouble and difficulty. Thie judge
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-I wvilI
says:
give you that when I corne to it. In
One gentleman, whoae position would argue the course of a recent pastoral letter Bishop
wisdom and mitigatlon, unfortunately not In Latulippe, of Timiskarning, declares that
'lAs priest o! the
evidence rnodestly writes:
is no friction between the English and
parish I have charge of these familles and their there
interests, both national and religious. The wish Frenchi-speakinga Catholies of his diocese;
of the parents, as le my wish, ls that French be that bilingýual schools. provided they are
taught in our schools to our chiidren as here-. well organized and efficiently encouraged,
tofore. I protest against the unjust and outHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWrELL.

MARCH 30, 1915

do fully as good work as the all-English
schools, ani that the resuits of the departThe
mental examination prove this.
Bishop says in part:
Bilingual fichools Doing Good Work-No
Friction in Timiskaming Says BishopOttawa Citizen, March 24,.1915.
In the course of a recent pastoral letter,
Bishop Latulippe of Timiskaming declares that
there la ne f riction between te English and
French-speaklng Catholica of hie diocese: that
biÂnguai schools, provided they are well organized and efflciently managed. do fully as
good work as the aUl-English schools, and that
the resulta cf the departmental examinations
prove this. The Bishop says in part:
"We muet not terminate this pastoral without congratulating our parishes of mixed
nationalities on having cerne te a good understanding on the burnirg scheol question t'iua demonstrating that by exercising a little Christian
charity, the niost thorny problems may be
solved without forcing any one te sacrifice his
Ir.teresta.
WVitliout doubt both aides were obliged te
sacrifice something. But is flot peace worth a
thousand timea more than aIIy advantage gained
at the risk of trampling on one's brethren? And
la flot sacrifice an essential condition of communal if e? Frorn even two persans dwelling
together under one roof, as well as from several
nationalities living In the sme country, do flot
justice and loyalty exact tilat ne oe sheuld
reserve ail the space fer bimself, but rather conaider, net only the rights of others, but their
suaçeptibillUes even te. a slight extent? .And,
after ail, are these sacrifices intelerable? Dosa
anyone really believe that billngual schoela, If
well organized and well conducted, are leua efficient than those where one language only ie
taught? These who have any deubta on this
subject should vîsit Our schoola, and they weuld
be convinced that both our French-speaking and
our English-speaking pupils are keeplng up
strictly -te the Ontario Education Departmient'a
curriculum. Up te new, at least, the official reporta of the results of the departn1 ental exan,àinstion.5 as pubiished in the newspapers, have
always vindicated the geod opinion we venture
ta express on the efficisncy of our bilingual
schools.
Who la te bring ibis war te a close, net only
the war devastating Europe. but aIse the war
that la sapping the atrength of aur Ontario
Catholios? Had the Government of our provInce meen that Cathelios were a unit In demanding redresa for the fathers of familles hurt In
what they hold moat dear by the aIl tee famous
Regulation XVII, It would long aince have set
things righ."
Are not these true Christian sentiments
uttered by that bishop, and if lis advice
*iad been fellow-ed, il the separate school
trustees of the city of Ottawa had acted
upen the principles laid down by the yenerable clergyman there would net have

been the difficulty whichi now exista. Let
me go a littie further. In the province of
Ontario an interview has been held with
Father Burke, formerly of Prince Edward
Island, I believe, in wvhich he has ex-

pressed sentiments almost of the same character within the last few days, and those
who know that gentleman, as 1 have known
him for a great number of years. would
neyer accuse him of saying or doîng anything that he considered detrimental to,
his Ghurch or his creed. In that interview,
on the 27th of this month, Rev. Father
Burke said:
There ban been toc much discussion of the
educatienal trouble by pamphlets, demagogus
and politicians who mix lt ail up te suit their
ewn littîs narrow views and loac sight of publia

Interest.
I may say that the Rev. Dr. Burke is
the Editor of the Catholic Regîster. He
adds:
The situation bas been toc much disturbed,
and tee much discord created at such an Inopportune tinte as the present. Tbere has been
disputing as te the number of schools affected.
Some say that Illegal conditions exist, and others
that they do flot While the people who have
stirred 'thinga up ferget that such Important
mattera are better arrangeI by negetiation.

That is correct, and that, wsas the principle that was advocated by the hon. member for Halifax when he was interrupted
by the hon. member for Ottawa (Hon. Mr.
Belcourt) stating that applications had
been made repeatedly to the Ontario Government. It is true that representations
had been made to the Government of
Ontario upon this question and on the
difficulty that existed in this part of the
province; but the Government was approached in such a manner as te, render it
impossible for any self-respecting people to,
listen to the complaints presented in a
manner so ebjectionable. My hon. friend
(Hon. Mr. Belcourt) shakes his head.
1
will net say exactly that they complained
te the Government in the same manner
that they would ialk te the people of the
city, but ihe same spirit prevails in t.bemna spirit of'dictation.

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-No.
Hon.,tSir MACKENZIE B OWELL-A determiaion te show that they would net
act in accerdance with the requirements, cf
the Ontario Education Department; hence
I de net at ail wonder that they received
ne encouragement. But as Father Burke
says, if the Government had been approached in the preper manner, as they
are approached on other questions, and as
the bilingual question was approached in
the beginning when they passed that resolution te enable the younger children te
begin te learn English through their own

SENATE

,tice. I wish te pay xny respects te =ny hion.
friend from Ottawa for a few moments on
that question, for to my niind he grossly
insulted-I arn using a strong word-some
20,000 or 30,000 inhabitants of the province
I shall cail his attention te
of Ontario.
what I mean by that. I'nierely mention it
now as indicative o! a society and a party
te which I have belonged since I was of
age, knowing them better, 1 think, than my
hon. friend does, and knowing better not
only their habits but the opinion they hold
in reference to the other portion o! the coinmunity. I do not desire te continue this
discussion longer, further than te deprecate
the agitation o! questions o! this kind,
BOWELL-I which. must and will o! necessity create disHon. Sir MACKENZIE
speak from long experience in this matter. content and inharmony among the people
Perhaps there is no senator in the House of the provinces. I know that the desire
who has, experienced personally greater of the Ontario Government is to make as
,difficulties in connection with this separate efficient as they possibly can the public
school question than 1 have. Had rny hion. schools of that province, and they can only
friend from Lindsay <Hon. Mr. McHugh) do that by insistîng that quahified teachers
been present. I had intended to read him a shaîl be employed and properly paid,
littie lessom from the remarks that lie made, which, so far as this city is concerned. lias
but 1 do not desire to discuss this question not been done, and it is here that diffii.n his absence further than to say that if he culties have arisen te a greater extent than
-will take the trouble te study thie rise and in any other portion o! the province of
progres8 of this separate school question, Ontario. There is a great deal more that
he will not give all the credit to the Frenchi- I could say, but I do flot propose te
Canadian people for the rights and privi- continue.
leges that they enjoy in the province of
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Go ahead, you are
Ontario on the question of separate schools.
him that Sir John A. doing well
History will teach
Macdonald and Sir George Etienne Cartier,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE .BOWELL-I have
two Conservative leaders, are entitled to as
signed by N. A.
credit, if not te more credit, for the this to say: 1 find a letter
much
to the Roman Belcourt commenting upon the expressions
granting of those privileges
Morphy at the
Catholic population of the province of used by or attributed te Mr.
Ontario than any other two men that ever banquet given by the Mayor and Corporaattempt to govern this country. The very tion o! the City of Ottawa to the Orangemen
Mr.
law te which my hon. friend from Halifax a short time ago in the Union hotel.
called attention when I made a little cor- Belcourt--excuse me for calling his name,
rection of hîs statement in reference to the but I am speaking o! him personally nowBill which was introduced in 1863 by the says in a letter to the Journal:
late Sir Richard Scott, was voted for by alIn your report of the proceedings of the
of
language, I venture the opinion that there
would not have been the difficulties that
'have arisen on this question. One thing I
will say on behalf of the people of Ontario
-and I speak more particularly of the
Conservative portion of them-that if in
any judgment that is rendered by the Law
Lords of the Privy Council they point out
%bat the French inhabitants of the province of Ontario have rights which have
been denied them, the party of which 1
lorm one would grant every concession that
the constitution gives them.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Hear, hear.

-rno.st every Conservative representative

the province b! Ontario, led by Sir John A.
-Macdonald and others; and as I have
pointed out on the floor of this House when
that question was mooted before, by every
Orangeman present at the timýe. .1 arn
speaking of -what I know, and on a former
occasion I gave the naines in the division
Iist, showmng that, with one exception, the
whole of the Orange representatives of the
province of Ontario who held seats at that
time voted with Mr. Scott on that motion.
Yet we hear constantly attributed to that
portion of the Protestant community feelings and opinions that they' neyer entertained and neyer exhibited in their pracÉon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Orange Convention now being held In Ottawa
you stated that Mfr. Morphy, M.P. had *"Quoted
Senator Belcourt by saying that the greatest
*enemy to their French cause was the EngIishspeaking Catholies." I have neyer anywhere at
any time said or wrltten anything of the kind.
The statemnent attribuied to me is wholly without any foundation whatever.
When it was represented to me that such
an expression had been used by the hon.
Senater from Ottawa. I remember saying:

'*Are you sure that Mr. Belcourt made use
of such an expressionP I know Mr. Belcourt very well, and he is a courteous gen*tleman. I believe he hias very strong views
*upon this question of the bilingual schools,

MARCH- 30, 1915

yet I scarcely think he would be fool enough without interfering with the rig-hts and
That is the principlft
privilèges of others.
to use, an expression of that kind."
Then the hon. gentleman in his letter goes on which I have acted.- It neyer offended
me to be called a "French mouton."
on to say:
I know I followed *my leaders at that time, Sir
Not only have I flot made it, but
that the allegation it contains Is untrue. It In- John Macdonald and Sir Etienne Cartier
flot a fact that the greateat enemy of the until the time of their death, on that and
Frenchi language or the Frenchi cause lias ever other quèstions, and I look upon their
been or la now the Engliah-Mpeking Catholice. policy in governing this country, difficult
Iffr. Morphy knows as well as I do who that
greateat enemy la. I-Ila brother Orangmen will as it is to govern, composed as it ia of
bardly thank him for the attempt to deprive two distinct races and two distinct creeds,
them of what constitutes their principal occupa- as the only course that could be pursued
tion and their chlef glory as well, which la
Bo long as we pursue that
that of being the most constant and greatest successfully.
policy, juat so long will this country
enemy of the Frenchi Canadien.
On behaif of 20,000 or 30,000 Orangemen prosper; but if wa have -demagogues agiin this country I desire thus publicly to tating the people, raising racial and religirepudiate in the strongest possible language ous, animosities, we will begin to degenerthat whjch has been attributed to them by ate as a people and as a country. I have
spoken thus plainly becausa I have had
the hon. gentleman in this letter.
a good deal of experience in the political
Hon. Mr. POPE-Hear, hear.
life of this' country and because I desire
I ta resent the insuit that bas been thrown
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL: And
say more than that; I say you can study the at a body of men that I know do not depolitical history o! the province of Ontario serve it.
and of the party that he condemns se
Several Hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
strongly and fail to find any act of theirs
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-It is not often
that justifies that condemnation and insuit that I trouble the House by raising a
to that large body of men that 1 have point of order, but 1 do on this occasion,
quoted.
for the reason that I have read the resolution that is before the House very careHon. Mr. POPE-Hear, h ear.
fully, the amendment thereto, and the
.Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have amenA¶ment to the amendment, and I fail
gone through a similgr ordeal mysei. In the absolutely to find wherein the amendment
elections o! 1863 I was denounced, throughIf my hon.
amendment amends.
out my whole constituency as a "French to the who moved the amendment ta' the
friend
mouton." That was the slur that was amendmentthrown at every Orangeman and Protestant
Hon. Mr. GLORAN'-You cannot make a
that would not join in the cry againat
Frenchmen and their religion. The leader of speech on a point of order.
the Liberal party (Hon. George Brown) deHon. Mr. EDWAEDS-I arn speaking to
nounced us as having sold ourselves ta the thse point o! order.
If my hon. friend
Frenchmen, and as - moutons." Well, I who moved the amendment ta the amandamn very good mutton mysel!, I confess that. ment was consistent he should have adI hold my own strong views upon religiaus dressed the House not on the meritd, but
points as well as any one, but I recognize on the right of this Senate ta deal with
this fact, that under the British Crown and the question.
He departed, however, and
in a British country we recognize the right discussed the whole question.
of every one to enjoy the liberties guaranteed
Hon. Mr. POWER-Why did not my hon.
to every citizen by the constitution. We
to frigînd raise the point o! order thenD
recognize the right of every individual
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I happened not
enjoy his own language and his own reJigious b:elief without interfeSence; and that to ba present, or I certainly should have
is one of the reasons that makes Great done so.
Britain so strong a power as ahe is in the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is toc late now.
But while that is s0, therfe
world to-day.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Oh, no.
is no reason why my hon. friend should
surrendar his own opinions, or that 1
Hon. 'Mr. CLORAN-Oh, yes.
should surrender mine, so long as wc
Now, an
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Oh1 no.
recognize the right under our constitution
If a substitute
pleas-i amenUment must amend.
to freedom to think and. act as we

SENATE

of the resolution nullifles, then we should
vote straight on the amendment to th-,
amendment and not as we are ask-ed to do
on this occasion. 1 submit that the amiendment does nlot amend, and I invite yon

It practically
to scrutinize it carefully.
uses the *saine language, in a somewhat
different 'way, but it does not amend.
Therefore, Mr. Speaker, -I desire your
ruling as Vo the question which I have
rgised.a
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I desire to join in
supporting the point of order which has
just been taken, not only for the reason
whieh ha.3 just been mentioned, but for
Oncî
three or four additional 'reasons.
reason is that there is a preamble embodied
in the motion, which is contrary to our
rules, which state that no motion should
contain -a pream-ble. The second reason
is because on its face it appears to be
based on the erroneous assumption that
the motion sought to be amended voluntýers a sug-gestion as to the manner
in which any province should exercise its
The mopowers-which is not the case.
tion songbt to be amended says this:

ner in which any province should exercise Its
power would be contrary to the Constitution and
calculated to lntensify and extend any divisions
of feelings that now exist.

How can this House say that the motion
which ia sought to be amended is contrary
to the spirit of the Constitution when the
enacting part of the motion is this:
This House belleves that It la In the Interest
of the Dominion at large that ail such questions should ai'ways be considered on fair and
patriotic lines and settled Ini such a way as to
preserve peace and harmOny between the different national and reUiglous sections of this country, anid in accordance with the letter and
spirit of our Constitution.
The amendment moved by the bon. gentleman froxn Lauzon <Hon. Mr. Bolduc),
demandes wht An expression of opinion
that this question could be settIed in accordance with the letter and spirit of the
con stitutiîon, and the hon. gentleman froin

Halifax suggests that this is contrary to
the spirit of the Constitution. The lion.
gentleman will see that it would be a very
serious error, inasmuchi as it would be
very illogical, to adopt a motion of that
kind. The last ground to whieh I desire
to cail attention is that it is contradictory
Witlhout deroga±.ing front the principle of in its terms, the first portion embodying
provincial autonoeny or suggesting 'in what the very principle whidlh is sought Vo be
inanner any province shbuld exercise Its powers denied biy the last portion. I have only to
In matters of education.
cail attention to the first portion o! th-Well, i3urely the assumption as contained motion of the hon. gentleman froin Halifax,
in the motion in amendment, as moved by whîch reads as folows:

*the hon. gentleman from Halifax, assumes,
House belleves it is Ini the Interor is. based on the assuxuption, that this estWhiile this
of the Dominion at lêrge that ail questions
contained in the motion sought to as to which divisions exist among the people of
is not
Another reason why the any province shouid be considered on fair and
be amended.
to
motion is out of order is this-betcause the patriotie lànes and settled In such a way asdiflbatwefn the
expression o! the belief that the ques- promzte pence and harmony
terent raci il and religlous eleenents of the popution refered to should be settled in ac- lat on, Is cf opinion that for the reasons mencordance with the lettiýr and spirit of the tioned it would be contritry to the spirit of the
Constitution cannot be contrary to the spirit constitutien.
o! the Constitution. 1 will cal] t~he attentioni The amendment commences by expressing
of the hon. gentleman to this fa-et, that hisý the very opinion whàch is sought te be demotion in a.mendment commences by say- nied by the last portion. It seems to me
ing:
the motion should be declared out -o! order,
this House believes it is in the interest and Ihope the hon. gentlemnan from HaliW'hile
of the Dominion at large that ail qust;oi,'s as to t ax, for whom ail the members o! this
the people of any House have the greatest consideration-as
which divisions exist among
province should be considered on fair and we -look upon lhim as being a parliamensuch a way as to
patriotic unes and settled in between the dif- tarian of large experience and as guiding
promote peace and harmony
ferent racial and religlous elements of the po- us in a large number -of these matters-will
pulation, is of opinion that, inasmuch as the szee that it wculd not be creditable te the
s ubject of education ls one of those by the
worded in
British North Âmerica Act, 1867, commltted to S-'enate to entertain a motion
the ternis of this motion.
the provinces.
This is the preamble:
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wish to say a word
Inasmuch as the subject of education is one first with respect Vo t)he point of order
of those by the -British North America Act, rais-ed by the hon. gentleman from Rock1867, committed te the provinces, any sugges- land. That hon. gentleman's, point o! order
to the mnant2on volunteered by the Senate as
Hlon. Mr. EDWARDS.

MARC'H 30, 1915

was that my amendment is not an amendment at ail, inasmuch as my amendment
proposes to wipe out the conclusion of the
original resolution and the first amendment,
and to substitute something altogether differeut. I think that point of order is not
well taken. The original motion proposed
that the Senate shall express a decided
opinion about the diffieulties that. now
exist in the province of Ontario, and any
amend*ment says we have no business to
talk a!bout it, and that we ahould say
nothing about it. That is about as decided
an arnendment as you could very well
faney. With respect te t>he point of order
r-aised by the hon. gentleman frein De
Salaberry, I do net think it necessary te
argue the case very much. Unless one
used a microscope he cou!d hardly s-ee the
peint. What is the position? First, the
original resolution, teo which my hon. friend
fmm De Salaberry saw ne objection, was
'«that this Houze, wittiout derogating from
the principle o! provincial autoneniy," and
s-o en-that is a preamble just as much as
the statemient in the arnendmnent is a pream~ble. The amendment is that « it believes
it is in the. interest of the Dominion at
large," and the other one says that "witheut derogating from the principle of provincial sutonemy." -The two are on the
saine Unes. While I thimk we should have
due regard te order here, I do no't tfbink
that 'what one cannot help regarding as
frivolous objections, should be allowed te
interfere with the firee course of discussion.
The SPEAKER-In erder that the decisien
whieh I arn called upon 'to giv-e. may be
better understood, I arn obliged to condense
in a few words the tenor of the motions now
before the House, se that the end which. ia
sougaht te be attained by each of them may
more readily be grasped.
The main motion, the one moved by the
hon. senator for Mille Iles, asks this House
te declare that it is.within the lixnits of its
jurisdiction or of its powers te express its
regrets on the divisions which seem te exist
in the province of Ontario in connection
wi;th bilingual qc-hool.s, with the hope tihat
these difficulties may bq settled in peace and
harmony and in accordance with the spirit
eof the Constitution.
The metion in amendment, the one moved
by the hon. senator for Lauzon, asserts
that this House, without suggesting te any
province what rights it possesses in matters
cf education, believes it is its duty te express the wish that a-I difficulties in con-

nection with the bilingual achools or other
national or religions questions be settled in
peace and harmony and in accordance with
the letter and spirit of the Constitution.
The difference between these two mnotions is that the latter does not assert the
juriadiction cf the Senate, nor its powers
in school questions, and does not point out
the province of Ontario as being the seat of
bilingual difficultieq.
In short, the motion of the bon. senator
for Lauzon la a more expanded declaration
aiming at ne particular prov-ince, and in
which great care is3 taken net te assert what
may be the powers and the jurisdiction cf
the Canadian Parliament in that connection.
SLet us see now what is sougbt by the
motion of the hon. senator for Halifax.
Taking the conclusions of the main motion and those cf the motion in amendment,
it presents them as the preamble te the
expression o! opinion which is sought fromn
this House, and this opinion is that the
British North Arnerica Act, having coinmitted questions o! education te the provinces-whatever opinion may be held ini
the Canadian Parliarnent-it would be contrary te the spirit cf the Constitution and
caiculated te intensify any division cf feeling that new exista.
Having established the nature and the
range cf the motions now before the House,
the question arises whether the sub-amendment is in order.
Firstly, in what does iAamend the amendment? It dosa net amend the amnendment
in this sense that, similarly to the amendment, it asserts the necessity foir this House
te declare that any school difficulty be
settled in peace and harmony and in accordance with the Constitution. All this portion cf the sub-amendment, beîng a repetition of what is already included in the
amnendment, cannot be consîdered as an
amendment.
There is one peint, however, where the
sub-amendment differs entirely from the
amendment. It la when it as"s the House
te assert:
1. That the British North America Act has
committed te the provinces alone the
settlement o! difficulties in school niatters;
2. That any suggestion cf the Senate-even
if within the limits cf the powers comzinitted
te the provinces-would be centrary te the
Constitution and calculaýted te create stili
deeper divisions.
This double assertion is contrary te the
letter and spirit o! the Constitution and con-

SENATE

tradicts the principles set down in the first
part of the suh-amendinent.
It -also contradicts, in the rnost striking
manner, the conclusion of the amendment
which, in order to obtain a settiement in
peace and harmony, precisely invokes the
spirit and the letter of the Constitution.
For that very Treason, the sub-amendnient
becomes 'an expanded negative.
Parliamentary jurisprudence is explicit
on this point.
-May (page 293)- in bis classical work on
parliamentary 'usages, thus expresses bimself:
"The Spea1 or bas Plic rul d that an ,mezLdment that was marely an expanded negative or
o haýrwis Irregular ln form, could not be propos--d frcmn the chair."
In Peel's decisions, we read on page 9:

The SPEAKER-A point ef order 'bas
been raised claiming tbat the sub-amendment was flot ini order. 1 bave ruled that
the point of order bas been well taken and
declared tbe sub-amendment out of order.
I did se in a etatement 1 prepared myseif,
because -my attention had been called to
the poin*t of order. When a point of order
is raised and I bave ruled it eut of order,
it is xny duty to give reasons. In this 1
have ruled the point of order 'well taken
and 'ruled tbe amendnient eut of order.
The question is sball the decision of the
Speaker be sustained P
The Senate divided on the question and
the decision ef the Speaker was reversed
by the following vote.
Contents, 21.
Non-contents, 31.

"A mere n-gative caLnnot be moved as an
The SPEAKER-The decision ef the
ainiendxnent. A proposed amendment which la
mnerely an expanded negative in another form, Speaker is reversed.
is flot in o.-der."
Hon. Mir. CLORAN-In venturing te conIn Denison and Brand's decisions, we tinue this debate under the circuinstances,
find, on page 9, the following doctrine:
I do so wi-th some apprehension in regard
"Amendments In the nature of substantive te the way my views may be accepted, esresolutton and not of ,rnendment ta the reso- pecially -by this House. but 'with very
lution before ithe House, cannot be put.'
littie apprehension as te how they will be
The motion ei the hon. senator for Hali- accepted by the cominunity at large, befax, not amending 'anything, simply be- cause the views I may be called upon ta
cernes wha is called a motion intended give expression to in tbis debate will
to be substituted to a regular amendment, spring from a source of sincerity, truth
that is te say, a parliamentaxy tactic te and justice. I 'have no other consideration
deny te this House the obligation of pro- in view but the welfare of this country,
nouncing itself on a question that bas been not as when we were discussing war
regularly submîtted to it. It is in reality measures, from a material point of view.
a substantive 'motion, in no way an amend- This debate involves the moral, mental and
ment, and consequently cannot regularly intellectual welfare of the community, and
on these grounds 1 consider this debate
be moved.
For ail these reasons, and under the is more important and of more moment
authority of parliamentary jurisprudence, than the question we were discussing as te
1 declare -the sub-amendment moved by whether we should have 7J per cent on raw
the hon. senator for Halifax, te be of the geads or made up goods, or 5 per cent
nature of a substantive motion and that increase againat the British workmen or
These questions are very
manufacturers.
consequently it cannet be moved.
It is flot an aniendment, but a mere sub- important in themselves, when we consider
stitution wbich is proposed. This sub- the material prosperity ef the country. It
stitution is net in order because it is a is net always pleasant te talk te an assubstitution and is preceded by a pre. sembly that is net interested in the quesamble, and finalIy because it merely seeks tion before themn It is much more unta negative what it asserted in the amend- pleasant te bave that assembly abuse its
privileges by interrupting the Speaker.
ment.
Its very nature excludes it from per- What I have te say to-day is net for the
missible amendments. Therefore, I think instruction and conviction of hon, gentlemen here, but fer the benefit ef my cernthe point af order is well taken.
patriots throughout the Dominion, wbether
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have the honeur in Ontario, Quebec or elsewhere. If I canta appeal from the decision of His Honour net speak te hon. gentlemen here, I can
the Speaker.
speak over their heade te tbe people ef the
The
Dominion, and that is my privilege.
The members being called in
The SPEAXER.

MARGH 30, 1915
observations that I have to make on this
question arise from the debate Iargely based
on personal, political. and historical points
cf view. My first personal observation in
this debate was the fact that ail the
champions, able as they were, who chamnpioned the rights of the French language
ta fair play in this country, spoke not one
word cf French, except two Acadiams, the
hon. gentleman from Antigenish (Hon. Mr.
Girroir), and the hon.' gentleman from
Here is a
Shediac (Hon. Mr. Poirier).
question for the champions of this cause,
which affects the vitality of the race from
ail points of view, religious, social and
material, that net one cf them used that
great old language cf Mirabau, Lacorderie
or Racine. What is the object cf learning
French if you do net use it on a historical
occasion and in the forum cf the nationP
I think they have weakened their case in
surpressing their tongue on the floor of this
honorable House, and I give ahl praise and
credit te the two Acadians, who are not
interested in this matter, who have free
scope for their tongue in their eastbound
provinces, who raised their voices in the
Parliarnent of Canada in the French ianThey are to be
guage on this question.
commended for their attitude. I thmnk the
hon, gentleman from Rigaud (Hon. Mr.
Boyer> made menti4n cf the fact. He congratulated the member from Antigonish
for having spoken in French. This feature
will necessarily appeal ta the people
I have often
throughout the province.
advised niy French Canadian frienda in
the House te speak their native language
in this Ohamber, and te demand the constitutional rights, which nobody can deny,
but many of thern to-day have disappeared
Tbey are
from the Parliarnentary scene.
new in high positions throughout the land,
and they have often teid me they would
like te speak French, but when they taik
in that language the Chamber is emptied,
and there is nobody te listen te tbem. I
say te them, "That is the very time and
reasen you should insist upon speaking
your language in the House."
When a meniber speaks on the floor cf the
Gominons or in this Chamber àt is net for
the purpose cf making votes or changing
any member's conviction; hie speaks te the
country ever the heads cf the Commons and
Seîiate.
A member would be a fool te
elaborate bis subject simpiy in the desire
or hope te secure a vote ef one or twe meinbers in either House. Public men should
address tbemselves through the medium cf
this Chamber and the Gemmons te the country at large. I have said te my French

friends: " Do that and respect will be paid
you You will force those people who do net
understand French ta learn it. Talk the
maternai language, the language cf the constitution and do net bide it simply because
half a dozen members in the House do net
understand it. The people of your province
and the'Dominion cf Canada wiil understand it." My mission failed; it had a littie
succeas for a while. There was an attempt
in the Lower House ta speak the language
of the province cf Quebec. but it iacked
courage. Perseverance was wanting, determination gave out, and the resuit is that in
botb Chambers cf tbe Dominion cf Canada,
French is suppressed by the Frencb members themnselves, and net by act cf Parliament or by 'any hostility of the people cf
the country.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. GLORAN-That is one cf the
observations whîch I bave te make during
the debate. Arn I right or wrong in placing
it before this lion. House and before the
country? 1 cannet be wrong-, because the
observation is based on facts whicb are indelible to-day in the records cf the country.
Another observation I was obiiged ta make
was on the point raised by sqme of my
coileagues.in regard ta the rights cf education-religious and state rights. This ta my
mind is net a difficuit problem ta soive, but
certain people whose experience cf lîfe and
education is limited, whose commerce with
other nations and other peoples bias been
limited, do net very readily understand it.
Parental authority is supreme in ail matters
cf education, when the parent is able and
willing te give educatien te the child. In
case of the parents' incompetency or unwillingness, the autherity <ails into the
hands cf those who iih have te look alter
the welf are of the child. The child lias te
accomplish two things in this world, first
bis salvation from a religious or spiritual
point ef view, and then te secure for himself
his physical necessity by the sweat cf his
brow. A child, from, the moral, spiritual
and religious point of view, falls into the
hands cf the spiritual and religieus authorities, ne matter what or who they may be.
If the child be a Hehrew, the Hebrew father
and mother n)ust see that hie gets religieus
education according te the tenets cf their
religion. I go se far as te say that if a
child be a pagan or heathen it is up te the
father te see that hie gets the necessary
moral education according te bis ligbts and
according te the natural lights. If .he bie a

SENATE

Christian, whether on the Protestant or
Catholic aide, At f ails to the authorities of
these branches of the Christain faith te, look
after the moral and religious welfare of that
child. As to the physical requirements of
the child, if the parent is declared incempetent or unwilling, just as the Ohurch bas
the rigbt of seeing after the moral and religious welfare of their children, ao it
becemes the duty of the state to, see that
that child is fairly, if niot fully, equippqd
for the burden of citizenshîp.
Thus we have three authorities-parental
authority, when it is competent and willing;
religious authority when it is net, and civil
authority, which bas the right te, step in
and take the place of incompetency or unwillingness. Certain clerics want te dlaim
,entire control of the education of the child,
but there is nothing in Christ's doctrine to
give them that power, because Christ himself said, " Give unto God the things that
are God's "-give unto God the religious and
moral life of the child-" Give unto Caesar
the things that are Caesar's "-give unto
the State a sound mind in a healthy body,
for that is what the State requires. There
is no question that parental authority in
regard te education begins and ends with
the competency of the parent te educate ita
child. But take nine eut of ten of the
fathers of this cou ntry, what do they know
about practicai business, science, finance,
-the arts, trade and commerce, militarismunfortunately for peer Canada militarismn is
becoming one'of our new subjects. Is the
Ch'urch geing te give them education in
militarism, in finance, in trade and commerce? No, it is up to the State te give
them that education. This is in accord with
Christ's doctrine-'that the things religious
go te God and things material and of the
State go te Caesar. That doctrine cannot
be contreverted. 1 have heard hon. senators
as well as celebrated agitators declare-what has always rankled within my breast
-that if a language was lost by a people
their religion weuld go the same way
and be swamped by infidelity or other means
of corruption. They based their dlaimn for
attachment to the faith on language, but
there was ne principle more faise than that.
1 object te religion that bas to exist, or
dcaims existence, only on account of
language. Christ neyer taught that. Wé'
take our religion from men of different
races-Syrian and Greeks, who composed
the disciples and apostles. Religion knows
ne language, and any relig-ion which has te
Mon. Mr. CLORAN.

depend for its existence 1f-pon language is
a fallible thing, and goes te the ground in
a very short time. Those who preach that
any particular language is necessary for the
conservation of the faith in any church
preach a false doctrine and are false
prophets in their own country. The Scotch
people have loat their language, but there
are no firmer believers in Christ through
the Catholic Church than the Scotch. The
Irish people have conserved their faith in
the Cathoiic Church and in Christ as He
taught His religion not enly in their own
country, but are just as staunch adherents
of Christ irom here to the Antipodes as
when they talked the pure Ceitic language,
if net stauncher.' These instances show that
those agîtators who make such a dlaim are
a menace to the community, because they
raise false issues and put religion on a
ground that crumbles like dust. Another
point, which is probably the crucial point,
and that affects this question at its root, is
the argument that the elementary educatiou
of a child is to be accomplished by the socalled dual language. As a victim of dual
language instruction, 1 may say that it has
taken me ail my life te correct the errors
into which I was led in regard te my
maternai language, and I have not accomplished the task yet. The elemnentary educatien of the child, to be effective and satisfactory, must be given in one tengue and one
tongue only, the maternai. tongue. That
statement rùns ceunter te the dlaims of the
agitator and of those who want education
to be given ini two languages. -Take a class
of 20 or 30 young German children and try
to inculcate the French language into them
through the French tongua and you miss the
mark; you will not develop the brain of the
child and yeu will net teach him any
language. Take a class of French children
and attempt to teach them the ARC and the
the English
French grammar through
language, and you will make a mess of the
undertaking, for it is impossible to arrive
at resuits. A child bas to be taught his
elementary prînciple of education through
his maternai tongue, whatever the language
be. This question of bilingualism has
broughit about a situation of things that
should not exist. Bilingualismn is a misnomer; a thing that leads on a false scent.
I arn a victim of bilingualism; I amn not
able to speak perfect English after 55 years
of hard work;'and it is due to bilingualism.
If I liad got ny education in the Eng-lish
langauage I would net be obliged td resort te
French idioms and French words te express

MARCH 30, 1915

my ideas. I arn a living exampie cf what it
means te be educated in a foreign tongue,
and my 'education has coat me over 27 years
cf my life, and I arn stili at it trying to
learn the English language. At one time 1
think I knew the French better than I did
speak
that I cean
English, s0
the
froin experience and saine knowledge cf
what a child bas ta go through. Âfter all,
it is the aid stary-no man can serve two
Each
masters, much less can a child.
language has its own merits, its own use,
its own resaurces, out any -tudent cf mundane affaîrs knows that the English language is par excellence the language cf
trade and commerce, the language cf business, the language cf practical politics as
developeui in the United States, Canada
and England. The Ei.glish language is a
requisite fer ail people %~ho want te trade
and do business. I have been brought up
in the French language frein my youth.
It is the language cf polite arts, the Ianguagae cf love, the language cf poetry, the
language cf dipIoniacy, controlling- the entire world in its dciiberations, in ai courts.
royal or otherw'ise, in ail functions, scientific or othervise. Where there is a meceting or a gathering cf men froin ail nations
of the earth, the predominating language
is French. No one in Canada will refuse
a fair footing te tha t language unless he
I
wants ta be'short in his education.
cannat conceive that any sensible man or
any governinent-municipal, county counci], provincial or federal-would undertake
ta say te any citizen cf whatever nationality, - You miust net learn French; you
Canada is toc
cannot learn French."
broad for that; but unfortunately many
Canadians are net industricus enough to
learn that language, and colleges and
schcols are prone te teach the dead languages rather than this living- language
It
which is cf value at the present day.
is officîally recognized throug-hout this Dominion in ail federai appointinents and
federal courts and offices, therefore I wouid
advise Canadians te learn that language
and give it te their children. That is the
line cf attack they should follow and they
would profit by it as wouid their children,
and finally this Canada cf ours would profit by it and we would have no
more talk cf the French language
or any other language. Let the fathers
and the mothers follow that uine cf
education, and see how much good will
redound te this country which to-day
is split up on this question. The French
S-17
REVISED

Canadians of Quebec, and even the representatives of the province of Quebec, would
rather speak English than their own
tongue. We have evidence of it here in the
Senate. They pick up English as fast as
chickens pick up grain, and our English
students pick up nothing; that is where the
French Canadians have the advantage over
the English-speaking people, nat oniy of
the province of Quebec but of Canada at
large, and that is one reason why I appeal
to fathers and mothers and educators of
the children of Canada ta teach their chiidren French instead of Latin, Greek, Hehrew, Spanish or any other oid language.
Give them the language of the day, the
language of the country, the language cf
mutual intercourse between ail the peoples
cf this country. Is nlot that a fair appeal
te make ta, the fathers and mothers cf this
countryP 1 think it is. The agitaters on
this question are unconsciously drivinghome a wedge that may split the national
fahric. I do net refer te the commen
people, but te a few ix3terested agitators,
men looking for jobs in the Governinent,
or Governinent attorneys wvho are -paid
large fees, and so on, members cf school
boards that are unfit for their jobs. I say
ta those people, you are drîving a wedge
into the national fabric which may split
it, and 1 caîl upon you for a hait.
Why, this agitation bas already affected
the very existence cf the school systemn in
Ontario. Ottawa is the enly place in this
province where trouble arises and in this
city this year the taxes on over one million
dollars worth cf property have been transferred from the separate te the publie
schools. WVas that clone on the ground that
the contributors of these taxes became antiCatholic or anti-religieus? XVas it clone te
hurt the separate school systein? No, this
transfer cf vîe1ues frein the ýseparate sehools
te the public schools was caused by the
bungling and wasting of money on educatien as administered by the separate school
board for the rpast ten or twelve yeaTs. The
agitation is having a very dire effeet on
the separate school systein, because that
systein cannet exist without rnoney derived
fromn taxation. Let the trustees beware, and
spend ne more cf the money of the people
foalishly, as they did iast year. No later
than Jast night at the separate -chool board
meeting what happened? There wvas a littie
dispute on between the board and the Provincial Legisiature; a school board of sixteen members appeînted and paid the "expanses of six or seven members ta go te
EDITION

SENATE

Toronto and confer with the Ontario
There was no necessity
Governnient.
for such an' expensive delegation, because
each man who took the trip allott--d
Ail it would
to himself thirty dollars.
coist him for his railway fare an1 two
heurs' stop in Toronto could not be
more than $15. A return ticket casts $12.85,
and you can get a square meal for fifty cents.
That was a case of extravagance. The cost
of that trip would have paid for one or two
good. teachers in thc district. And then we
find the-ame school board voting $350 last
night for an adding machine. What use is
an adding machine to a school board? I
thought the adding machine was in the topknot of the pupil. in my time ail our calculations were done in the brain. This shows
what an incapable lot of schoolboys these
separate school trustees are. They are incompetent to calculate money, although they
-are quite able ta spend ail the money they
can lay their hands on. These agitators
ought ta remember that the people of Ontario have been very sturdy friends of the
minority in this province. They ought ta
remember that the greatest mnen that have
held the destiny of this province in their
banda for thirty-five years have risked
everything to safèguard the rights and
secure the privileges of the Catholic minorThey
They seem te forget that.
ity.
seem to forget that from the time of Confederation the separate school system was
endorsed and placed on the statute books
for ever. They seem to forget that the
Mowatts, the Frasers, the Hardys, the Pardees, and the Rosa' risked many a battie
in the political field for the sake of the.
minority in that province. They give them
no credit for that, and they risk their
political lives on many a battlefield. I do
not know if there are any senators present
who remeniber the awful contest that raged
over this school question from 1882 to 1887
between the present Chie! Justice, Sir
William Meredith, one o! the ableat
brie!
a
hield
ever
that
men
from a constituency in Parliament backed
the Toronto MUail and his opponents. Anybody having any historical knowledge of the
task accomplished on behaîf of Catholie
education in the province of Ontario would
neyer raise a finger against that province.
During all these 35 years I must give credit
te the Liberal party for having maintained
the riîghts of the minority. They were the
on]y ones that could do so, as they were in
power for 35 years. But I must say that
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

when these battles occurred there was many
a Conservative backing them in their palicy.
Otherwise they would have been beaten, because at that time every Grit did not vote
Grit, nay more than they did in the last
election wken the Papal cry was raised.
Many a Grit voted against his party on religious grounds then, and Mowat would nlot
have remained in pow'er 35 years if he did
not have the backing of good solid ConBut tha agitators forgot al
servatives.
thia. Remember that these rights o! the
minority were always held, and there was
no question of either the German. French
or English language. It was a question of
nîaintaining the rights of the minority. 1
arn going to ask a serious question, because,
after ail, Regulation 17 is the basis o! the
present agitation; it ia the one upon whichi
flie minds of big men in high places, church
and state, are divided. Is Regulation 17 a
violation of the rights of any minority in
Ontario, as covered by the constitution ai
the Dominion of Canada? Who is prepared
ta say that it is? That is a straight and
plain question that everybody ought to be
able to answer for himself.
1 will allude ta a-nother local matter
whîch does not broaden the debate,
but which inay excuse the remarks
made. by speakers in this hon. house,
or by writers in the public press, or
speakers on the public platform when discussing the question of education. Ia it true
that, the Ottawa Separate School Board,
which is the main cause o! the trouble, is
unfairly composed? Is it true that the position of the Ottawa Separate School Board
up ta ten years ago was about equally divided between the English and French. la
it true 'that the equality o! representation on
the Board at that time, wbich had done
gcod work, was upset by the late ArchbishQp
of Ottawa. la it true the cGmpasition o! the
board ta-day is.an injustice ta the people
o! Ontario, paying the largeat amount of
taxes ta the separate schools and sendinu,
the lesser nuanher of chiidren. Is it trueŽ
that owing to the condition o! thing-s a Jarge
number of separate school supporters have
transferred their taxes !rom the separate
school board ta the public school board? Is
it true that the English-speaking minority
under the juriadiction or control o! that
board are not satisfied 'with their representatives? la it true that in separate
is
trustee elections advantage
sc1-obo
taken of the duaýl note ta put aside
the real representatives o! the Engaii

MARCIJ 30, 1915

speaking minority to take on representatives
who are rýupposed to be in sympathy witb
the majority? Is it true that the beginning
of this trouble was some eight or nine
years ago when an understanding was
reached by the separate school-board, that
each faction of the minority should have
eight representatives on the board and that
that understanding was accepted by the
Why
late Archibshop and -guaranteedP
was that guarantee set aside and the
agreement abandoned?
Gonming to the subamendinenýt, I voted
against the Speaker's ruling. Although
I arn not who¶ly *opposed te the subainendnient, I do not like the way
things shape in regard te thaît matter
1
in a free Parliament such as ours.
was surprised that the hion. senator from
Russell the (Hon. Mr. Edwards) shou]d
have coiiseiited to play the part he did in
that transzaction. This honourable House
lias debated the sub-amiendxnent of the hion.
.2entieimn from Halifax for some time.
There waS no question of order ra.ised. 1
feIt that it w~as too late i.n the day to rule
out free discussion on a tecin-ical point
of order which was an afterthought, and
probably dralted hy the men who drefted
I do flot like these
the amendment.
things and will * not stand for them.
1 Jike free discussion. The hon. sen&tor
Irom Halifax asks this honourable House
to s refuse recognition of the demand of
the hon. senator ,frorn Mille les (Hon.
Mr. David) on the ground that Parliament has nothing to do with the question
I agree with him there.
of education.
As a matter of principle anA doctrine there
is not the slightest doubt-about that, but
when the hon. senator from Halifax asks
this Chamber to disavow and disallow
both amendments on that ground I say
lie is not the proper authority to ask the
When the
House to do sucli a thing.
Home Rule resolution was brought betfora
this Parliament in 1882 by our esteemed
colleague from New Brunswick, Senator
Costigan, hie was the very one to risa in
this House and tell us, in spite of the
objections raîsed at the time, that the
Senate and House of Gommons, comprising the Parliamant of Canada, had no
riglit to lay at the foot of the fhrone its
prayers, or its advice if you want to put
it that way, for justice and fair play to
the Irish people at the hands of the
The speech is in
British Government.
the debates of 1882 and hon, gentlemen
Although Parliament may
can read it.
flot have a constitutional right to decide

a public question sucli as this, there is
nothing in the constitution to prevent
Parliament or -any public body from discussing any question and giving advice
thereon, or making a prayer that their
views may be entertained. Parliament is
not prohibited by the constitution from
making 'a declaration on any question. I
remember the debate in 1882 when Sir John
Macdonald andJ bis active colleague, Sir
Mackenzie Bowell, John Costiïan, Hector
Langevin, and Sir Adolphe Caron carried
the day in the House o! Commons, -and
the motion was passed calling upon the
Queen, and through her calling upon the
British Parliament, to, grant a measure of
home rule to Ireland. That was doné under
Sir John Macdonald. In 1886 history repeated itself, but this time mucli ag-ainst the will
and against the grain of Sir John Macdonald
and lis colleagues in the Cabinet. We
tried to get Hon. John Costigan to move
again in 1886 resolutions of a similar
character, but Sir John Macdonald would
not permit it, and Messrs. Costigan and
Caron would flot listen to it, notwithstanding the fact that the occasion was more
opportune in 1886 than in 1882. It was more
propitious because at that very* moment
Gladstone -had introduced bis Bill in the
British House of Gommons, and was about
to carry it, but owing to certain influences
it was flot put through. It was about the
time of the Riel agitation.
There was a
tremendous figlit in the country over the
hanging of Riel. The Orangemen were up
in arms against the French. This issue of
to-day is a smail matter conipared to the
flght'of that day between the Orange and
French elements. What happened'
The
Legisiature of Quebec was in session, the
Ross-Taillon Governnîent had in their Cabinet two nien named Flynn and Lynch, one
of whom afterwards became Prime Minister
of the province and the other a judge in
the Superior Court of Quebec. I give these
facts, because I ivas editor of a paper called
by some the Fenian org-an, but which was
the Montreal Post and True Witness.
It
was suggested to the Ross-Taillon Government that they should subrniit a set of resolutions commending- Gladstone for his
action in introducing a home rule measure
in the Britishi Parliament, but the Tories,
taking their cue from Ottawa, would not
have anything ko do with it. Then the hion.
leader of the Opposition, Mr. Mercier, who
six months afterwards becanie Prime Minister of the province undertook to place the
resolutions before the House, and the argu-

SENATE

ment was raised that Quebec had nothing consent to direct th e attention of the Queen
do
Wo with the matter, that it was flot with- and the Government of the day to the fact
in the jurisdiction of th4 provincial legis- that it would only be fair and right, accord"on
lature, and they gave us ail that bluff the ing to the wording of this resolution to a
samne as t¶hey are giving it to us now, and fair and patriotic grounds,' to give of selfThe Quebec littie island over the sea a measure
Sir John wouid flot do it.
provincial juris- government., To my mind, that was a
Tories said it was beyond
When Mercier serions undertaking in the history of pardiction. What happened?
the resolution before the House liamentary government. It was serious,
brought
no right to
there was an immediate scurry of the Cab- because this Parliament had
of Parliainet ininisters to a eouncil meeting, and a dictate or to advise the Mother and with
task,
revoit was prociaimed by Flynn and Lynch. ments. It undertook the Her Majesty the
They were asked by the Prime Minister what result?-that from
"'what are you going to do about itP" And Queen and from the British Governiient,
Canada wvas
they eaid, -We will give our answer on the the Imperial Parliament, on that occawhen the resolutions are thanked for its message sent
floor of the House
established in
introduced." The council broke up, they sion. That is a precedent
in which a precedent
came into the Chamber, and Mercier and the most formal way
a parliament of
James MeShane proposed a resolution as can be established-that
by Mr. Mer- free people can undertake to inexpress an
they had a right to do, backed
regard to
cier, and wvhen it came to a vote the Prime opinion or pass resolutions
efrofheppl.i18.ou
Minister took, one side and bis twvo min-th
tvere
their answer prayer and our hopes and our advice
isters, Flynn and Lynch, gavend t ws cr-set aside; the British Parlianicîît did iivt
otig fr
by te rsoutin,
advisable or necessary at the tinie
n t~a a-demi
byoing fort tapiihe resolution,
on
Thiiecreluion h to grant the mneasure of relief asked for
wrie.re to Gadspene
n h behalf of the Irish people. Political eveîits
el
secoe ireadi of ase Biled.
developed, with changes of Governmnent,
seon eingi ofcoc ti e Spakrleh
h and in 1885, when the late Gladstone was
pakrlf
h
sxococ
Cthair.
Minister of this great Empire, lie
Chair.Prime
undertook, on behalf of the dominions over
AFTER RECESS.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN resumed his speech. the seas, on behaîf of the Scottish people,
He said: If I amrn ot mistaken, when the who were a unit in favour of home r¾ile
bouse rose foi recess I was dealing with a for Ireland, on behaif of the Irish people,
and
very historical question and the riglit of a on behaîf of conciliation and union'
or a representative body to pass peace within the Empire, to introduce his
Parliament
upon measures and questions not within measure of home rule or self-government
Then came another opportheir jurisdiction or under their control. for Ireland.
To support my contention I recalled the tunity for the self-governing colonies of the
fait that thirty years ago the Parliainent of Empire, and not oniy those colonies but
Canada advised another Parlianient in foreigan mtates, to express their views wNit1h
a
regard Wo matter of very serious and grave regard to the situation; and in IS85 and
The Parliament of that day, 1886, when Gladstone undertook to introimportance.
led by Sir John Macdonald and duce that measure in the face of centuries
which was
by our honourable and venerable colleague, of objections, he was hailed as a champion
Sir Mackenzie Bowell, decided that Parlia- of human rights, not alone within the
ment could take action in the way of Empire, but ou-tside of it. The stately legisadvice, in the way of prayer, in the way of lature of New York was one of the first
hope, and that action wvas taken, not in among many to send a message of congraturegard to any unimportant body, but ini lation to that statesman who bas had no
regard to royalty itself, and the Imiperial equai since the days of Pitt. Now, imagine
Parliament of Great Britain, Ireland and a foreign legislature interfering with the
the Empire. In 1882 the Canadian people, affairs of another; but they did it on fair
through7 its Parliament, undertook to pass and patriotic grounds, on the ground of
Gladstone was most
resolutions invoiving a prayer, a hope, an common humanity.
advîce that should he laid at the foot of the thank-ful and grateful for the expression of
.
throne and communicated to the Imperial
New York legfislature
Parlianient sitting in London, and that on opinion passed by the
dutv
absolutely foreign to the in 1886. Then after that it became the
a question
and the of Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the
domestie politics of this country,
were not
Parliament of that day obtained, both in other overseas dominions-they
the Lower bouse and in the Upper House, called overseas dominions at that timie, but
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

ý1 ARCH 30, 1915

simply and purely littie colonies ignored
and despised in London thirty years agoLo strengthen the hands of Glacktone ini his
attempt to get this Bill of relief put
through the British Parliament. What happenedP An appeal was made to the Federal
Geverninent of the Dominion. Sir John
Macdonald was then Prime Minister. He
declined to take any positive action in the
inatter. His colleague, one of bis mest able,
fair and fearleas colleagues in that Cabinet,
is now here opposite nie, Sir Mackenzie
Bowell. When the Federal Government declined to take action in the matter steps
were taken to have it brought before Parliamient anyhow, and I remember well the ccasiiTïn when Edward Blake, the leader of
the Opposition, was interviewed on the
mîatter and said, " Sir, I have been approached by niany authorities, by many
orffanizations in Canada with regard to this
miatter, but 1 have net yet felt it my duty
te introduce resolutions cf that kind."
BWake, one of Canada's noblest sons, especially frem the point cf view cf intellectual
ability and conscientious manhood, trying
te help Canada in the path not only cf prosperity but of virtuous citizenship and ci
honest governinent, when I put the situation
before him, simply answered this, - I shal]
give my answer te you on the floor of the
House at four o'clock; be in the gallery." 1
was in the gallery at four o'clock and I received a message frein Blake saying, " I arn
going now te rise and propose resolutions
net asking for home rule-it was granted by
the Prime Minister of England, at least
brought im-I arn going te move that this
Parliament cf Canada extends its congaratulatiens te the Prime Minister cf Great
Britain in regard te this measure." That is
what hie did. Then Sir John Macdonald and
bis Cabinet saw danger ahead. Would they
oppose the motion? They dare net de it,
although there was much in their faveur te
dare te do it, but they did net feel theinselves strong enough te oppose the motion
at that tirne. Amendnîents were prepesed
frein the Government side of the House te
kili the motion, by havîng it sent te the
Speaker ef the House, wlio had ne authority
in the niatter whatever. The resolutions te
bie of any e!! ect, should be communicated
directly te the Gevernment cf the day, or te
Heu Majesty at the turne. If my historical
niemory dees net give way I believe the
arnendinent of the Governinent was carried;
it wvas a half-way measure. That is anether
incident in four or, five which gees
that
this Parliament can
te
show

deal with questions outside its jurisdicunder
its
control.
tien
and
net
Need I cite ether examples? I shail do
se for the benefit cf histery. Quebec is a
province salmost tetally strangers te the
[rish cause or te British enactinent, a
province with a 'population nîne-tenths
Freneh, yet one man, Honere Mercier,
against the Prime Mînister and feur of bis
celleagues, bad the Parliament of Quebec
endouse the position taken by Blake in this
honeurable House. In their sympathy for
people looking fer rigbt and justice they
passed unanimeusly resolutions similar te
those passed by the Parliament of Canada.
Is that net anether argument against the
amendinent cf the lion. gentleman frein
Halifax? When Sir Oliver Mowat, champion of the rights of the rninority ef Ontarie,
eho fought successfully fou these uighits,
was approaclhed and asked te introduce
sinîilar resolutions in the Oontario Legislature, was bis answer a negativ-e one? 1
pgfy a tribute te bis memeory as being a
champion of justice and right wliere the
poor were concerned. He passed sirnilar
resolutiens in the Ontario House. They
were transmitted te Mu. Gladstone, and I
arn proud that ini this great debate in
Britain, Gladstone quoted verbatim the
reselution passed by Quebec and appealed
te English, Scotch and Welsh te folldw the
example cf the French people cf Quebec.
"Tyte be fair and"jusý-t" were the words
ifGladstone in rneving the second reading
if that Home Rule Bill. His words appear
ini the English Hansard.
WVhat greater
autherity do we want in this honourable
House te ask that the nighlts or privileges
of people wbe are oppressed s'iould bie
respected. Weuld te God that the prayer
of the provinces of Quebec and Ontarie, and
the supplication of the Canadian Parliament, and the Parliaments of Australia and
New Zealand had been heeded in 1886. If
they had been heeded we would net have
the scene in the Britisli Isies of an Empire
livided against itself in the year 1914, and
would have had ne open rebellion in the
months of June, July and August last. There
weuld have been ne smuggling cf guns and
ammunition inte the hands of these people
te fight the Governinent because the Governnient was puepared te do what Giadstone
had proposed. There would be ne necessity
te answer the Bonar Laws, the Causons, the
Seeleys in England, or the Sain. Hughes in
Canada in regard te rebellion and revoit
against the British Goveuniinent.

SENATE

262

tirades, or ail the harangues,In June, July and August last, when the by ail the glad the hon. leader of the House
Kaiser thought -fora moment that rebellion and I arn
word last night-which we have
was rife -in the British Isles, that England used that o4à this question. They do not
itseif, he said: "This is listened to
was divided against
convince me that any constitutional. wrong
the psychological moment. England will have has been committed against any part of the
enough to dlo to put down this rebeliion, and population of Ontario. 1 was not convinced
I shall conquer France if.England does not and arn stili not convinced that any concorne into the war, therefore let war be de- stitutionai wrong was cornmitted by the
clared,- and it was deciared by the Kaiser province of Ontario. -But once the question
under the impression that the British has been introduced it mnust proceed and
Empire was diviv'cd. There is no other ex- we have to solve it one way or the other.
pianation for the declaration of war. He I do not understand that regulation 17,
thought that a certain portion of the British or any regulation passed by the Ontario
Empire was in open revoit under the See- Government, tends te the strangulation of
ieys, Carsons and Bonar Laws of England, anything. The province of Ontario has a
and Sarn Hughes of Canada. The Kaiser did duty te perforrn towards itself and towards
not cou.nt on the fidelity and the devotedness the people which it governa and represents,
of tihe Irish people to the Crown, and on the and that is te see that a full, fair and coindeciaration of war Redmond said to Prime petent education is given every child. That
Minister Asquith, on the floor of the is the duty of the State, and .1 hope as far
House: -"Take ail your soldiers froin as rules can be made that this object has
Ireland, we shall defend it alone." These been in constant view by the governing
facts appeai to me very much. They art powers of Ontario whether Liberal or Conthe underwork of the whole miserable, and servative. The point tried to be mnade out
damnable war that is going on. -Neyer by the agitators and which they want irnwouid the Kaiser have undertaken this war pressed on the publie mind, is that a cerwere he not convinced that rebeliion was tain language, German or French, say the
rife in the British Isles, and by whorn? By French language, has equal rights and
the so-called Loyalists, the'so-called De- privileges with the English language in the
fenders of the Faith, and the open Bible. province of Ontario, just the same as the
And what do we find,? We find the Irish English has the sme rights and privileges
people as a mnan standing by the Crown, with the French language in Quebec. That
and I arn glad te say te-day the Hon. -Prime is a dangerous theory te propagate. There
Minister of England, Mr. Asquith, found is no doubt that ini the province of Quebec
that the Irish people were going te be just the two languages are constitutionally
as f aithful to him as they are te the Crown. officiai; one has the sme rights and privi-The -Irish people ask for no favours, ask leges as the other. That is guaranteed by
for nothing that i.s not in accord with j ust- the constitution. When you corne to the
ice, right and truth. We have a right to ex- province of Ontario, Maniteba or any other
press our views and send thern to Engiand province there is no esuch provision in the
te the Prime Minister, that he may con- constitution, except that the French langtinue in the path that he bas marked out uage shahl be co-equai with the Enghlish
for hirnseif and the great Liberal party of language in ail courts under Federai jurisLet him not be diction and in the Parliarnent of Canada.
the British Empire.
daunted or hindered by Bonar Laxvs, Car- Beyond that the constitution does not go,
sons, Seeleys, or by some men here in and why should agîtators try to make the
people believe that in Alberta, SaskatcheCanada.
All this springs frorn the very fset wan, Manitoba or. elsewhere the Frencb
that this Parliarnent and the provinces language is on the same footing as the En.of Quebec.
of Canada, and the Parliaments of the iish language is in the province deal with.
is the point for statesmen to
overseas dominions, have sent to England Thatnot lead the public astray when the
Do
their goodwishes, their prayers, hopes and constitution is against you. That is what
advice on the settiement of the great Home is being done, and it is a misfortune for
Rule question. So in regard te this matter, this young country of ours. There is one
on these grounds, and in lieu of these bis- easy way of getting over it for ail provinces,
toricai facts, I cannot accept the arnend- and that is to teach the children the French
ment. I was of the opinion that the language insteaa of dead languages. There
moment was not opportune for the intro- is a lurking danger in this question.
I may say there is no greater friend of
duction of this question ini the House. Why
vas I o! that opinion? I was not convinced Canada than 1 amn. 1 have been brought up
1,6n. Mr. CLORAN.

MARCH 30, 1915

263

MARCH 30, 1915

203

here and love niy country; no one can love it.
better. 1 want to see it united and prosperous. We are a diversity of races, and who
can deny that a day may corne when Germans, Poles and other people whom we
invite into our midst will become numerous
enough to exact a provision for the use of
their languages, as is done to-day in Ottawa
city and one or 'two other places by the
French minority. There la no disrespect
intended, no strangulation- of the language
in Canada, but we have to maintain the
provision as enacted in the constitution, and
any one who goes beyond that leads the
country astray.
The point lias been raised here by
hon. mewnhers in regard to
several
separate sehool inspection. 'I may be built
of different dlay from that in the ordinary
Christian, but I know and feel and can
accept Christ's doctrine whether it cornes
from a black man, a yellow man or a white
inan. Christ instituted no differences in
race or language, and I would just as soon
hear Mass celebrated by a negro as by a
white man and more so, because then I
would be able to say Christ's religion is
progressing. Why do I say this? Simply
to state that school inspection under the
State sbould not be governed by colour,
race or creed. The State is responsible for
the competency and ddequacy of education
in the school. It is the responsible party.
Therefore, to niy mind whether the inspecter be a Hebrew, a Pole, a Frenchman, an
Irishman or a Scotchman makes no difference so long as hie has a capacity for hie
iwork, and is of a character required by the
State, an honest, honourable man, se that
I feel that when the inspection of the
separate schoois here and elsewhere was
prevented by certain authorities, they were
on the wrong track. The inspecter is not
called into the school to inspeet the
niorals or religious training of the children.
He is there to see that the child is
properly and fully instructed. He is there
to see that problems of algebra, multiplication, substraction and addition tables
are well carried out by the scholar.
That is his business, and, aiso to see
that the child is provided with sufficient
conifort to attend school, withi sufficient
apparatus to enable him to learn, and
especially to see that hie or she who is giving instruction is competent to do so. That
is the work of the inspector. He bias absolutely nothing to do with the inspection of
the religious or moral tendency of the dhild,
and if the State undertook to do that I
would lie the first to rise and say. -"No, keep

on your ground, you have got enough of
it, leave the moral and religions to the
spiritual. authorities; they can do the
inspection with regard to those matters."
The State hias no right to interfere in mattara of conscience, which. means moral and
religions matters. It is the riglit of the
State, and nlot only the right but the duty
of the State to see that each child is adequately equipped ta carry the burden of
ci.tizenship when hie Jeaves school.
This plan of education puts me in mind of
an old maximi laid down by a celebrated
Roman philosopher, or the poet Virgil,'"Timeo hominem unus libra"-the trans-la,tion of which is -J fear a man of one
book." That line bas been doing service
for the past 3,000 years and is as true today as it was when it was enunciated. The
philosopher was wise; what did lie mean
hy that? He did. not mean a student or
sdholar or professor who hiad a sma.ttering
of several books, nlot abMe to cornprehiend
the full .meaning of whiat lie %-as smattering;
but the philosopher said, "Oh, a man who
understands and cornpreliends and is able
ta analyze one book, that inan I fear.'- Let
that be the qmotta not only for childr 'en but
for young ladies and young boys and
married women, too, instead of reading ail
the -filthy trash that is thrown at them over
couniters i-n book-stores and elsewhere. ,I now have a word ta say in regard
to this bilinguai question which I1 am
awfnly sorry to have to put before
this Hoiuse and before the country1
Owinq to this bilingua.l agitation
have been a spectator of sorry scenes and a
hearer of deplorable sentiments. It is hard
te say, but it is lime to caîl a liait. I have
heard, and heard with reprobation, counsels given irom the altar to the people In
the church -and outside, to have no intercourse with other people unless they speakyour language. This is an awful situation
to contemplate. To my mind it is undliristian in the first place-I would not say,
Catholic, Protestant or anything else; it is
inhuman ta tell one man to have no intercourse with another unless lie speaks your
language; and that has heen done openly,
done here in the city of Ottawa, lias been
preadhed fromn the altar. 1 cail the attention o! the hierarchy to the case and if the
hierarchy bas not power enough here at
home to. settie or put an end to that disgrace and that outrage upon civilized life,
then the question, if it cannot be sel4tled
at home, can be settled at Rome. I arn
treading on grounds that are truc, but that
wili not cali the beniediction of certain

SENATE

people down on me, but rather the malediction; but I have been accustonied to malediction. I have. had maledictions from the
altar and the pulpit through the W*hole of
my political life, and I am still here, thank
God. I have lost elections through pastoral letters issued by the late Bishop of
Ottawa making, it a mortal sin to vote for
me. Oh, the facts are there, and yet I amn
told not to talk about it.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-That is all
bosh.
-Hon. Mr. CLORAN-What is ail bosh?
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETT-What you say.
Hon. MNr. CLORAN-Do you deny it?
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Yes.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Then I refer you to
Canon Philip.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Oh.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I refor you to the
other parislh priests in the county of
Russell. I defy you, and 1 give you the
authorities.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Letit alone.
Hon.-Mr. CLORAN-Leave it alone? That
is what I tried to stop. 1 knew I would
cail down .the maledictions of certain
people.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Nobody talked
about that.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No, but I am talking
nbout what is going- on with this .question.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-This is not the
place to discuss that.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Wlière will we discuss it? In a corner? I think the place to
discuss these questions is the open Parlianment; open in the minds of the people.
This is a thingu that involves the national
safety, and this ' is not the place to discusa
them? What does the hon. senator mean?
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Because you are
accusing those who cannot defend themselves.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I arn giving you
living witnesscs. 1 have very littie more to
say with regard to it.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-You have said
tcoo much already.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Probably I have, for
you;-I have said enough to satisfy rny own
conscience. It is truc, and you cannot disprove it. I amn opposed to the amnendment
o! the hon. senator from Halifax on the
grounds which 1 have given-ithal any repr-eHon. Mr. CLORAN.

sentative body, has a right to express
an opinion. As far as the ameudment to
the main motion is concerned, once it is
introduced it must'go on. The amendment
to the main resolution does not to my mind
involve any sacrifice of principle, or the
application of any principle, or the endorsation of any principle. Trhe prayer in the
amendrnent is to ail governments in this
Dominion of Canada to act on f air and
patriotic Unes. I would submit that instead of the word "patriotic" it shouid
be that ail goveînmenta should act on
fair and useful Uines."
Hon. Mr. BOYER-We have had a rather
stîenuous day, havimg sat from Il until 1
and as it will take us some time to digest
my hon. friend's harangue as he calîs it, 1
beg to move the adjournment of the debate
until Tuesday next.
Several hon. MEMBERS-Hear, hiear.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I have no objection t.o
the adjournment, but not until Tuesday
next. 1 hope that the House will flot consent to that.
Hon. Mr. BOYER-I cannot be here tomorrow; Monday is a holiday; Friday is a
holiday; Saturday we will not sit.
Hon. Mr. OHOQUETTE-Surely the hon.
gentleman is not serious. I quite agree that
it may take a day or two to digest the speech
that we have just heard, but I think by
to-morrow we wili have had an opportunity
to think over it and then continue the debate. This is a question on 'which we should
corne to a decision. It is xiot fair to the
niover of the motion or the amendments to
let these three motions before the Housp
remain on the orders without a decision.
Hon. gentlemen ought to stand like meni
and say tûey are for or against them. That
is the stand I take. I do flot ttnkfl it is fair
to the senator. It would be a joke, a farce,
to adjourn this debate till next Tuesday.
Those who oppose this motion sincerely
have a right to place themselves fairiy before the country.
Hon. Mr. BOYER-My motion is hefore
the bouse. It is my privilege to move it.
Il I amn defeated so much the worse.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I move in amendment
that the debate be adjourned until tornorrow. I think on a point of order my
hon. f riend has already spoken and he cannot make that motion now.
The SPEAKER-The hon. member can
speak since the motion of the memnber for
Halifax has been made.

IIARCH 30, 1915
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, to extend
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I.suggest that ino!
otfa ving the adjourniment o! the their charter powers.
debate until te-morrow morning at il o'clock
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-But that cannot
that it -be adjourned until 3 o'elock. Even be done by the Superintendent of Insurance.
then yeu wiI1 noV have reports of tihe
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Under, this Bill
debate. They are ail after my speech;
they %vantta digest At. They cannot digest it will.
it on cod liver oul.
Hon. Mr. BELOOURT-T arn afraid I do
The Speaker then put -the amendment not u.nderstand this Bill at ail.
te adjourn the debate until to-morrow,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If my hon. friend
and declared that in his opinion the yeas wihl read the section lie will see that inbeing called stead of coming t.o Parliament for a special
had, it. The yeas and nays
for, the amnendment was declared lest on a Biu and asking for an extension of timeetanding, vote, yeas 18, .nays- 22. The main usually for two years, as we give it.-a
motion to -adjourn the debate until Tuesday company would have a righit, under this
next was then adopted on a vote o! con- Bull, ta go to the Superintendent of Intents 24, non-contents 16.
surance and upon the payment of $100
EXTENSION 0F TIME TO INSURANCE secure the right ta extend their time until
after the next session of Parliament.
COMPANIES BILL.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Mv bon. friend
T.N CO.MMITTIEE.
and myseif are not at one. As 1 understand
The Houise resolved itself inte a Corn- it, the license is issued by the Superinimittee of the Wliole on Bill (79) An Act to Vent of Insurance if the cemnpanies comply
authorize certain extensions of timie to In- with the provisions of the Act. A license
.is not issued by Parliament. Parliament
surance Comipanies.
has nothing to do with the issuance of
(Ini the oniniittee.)
licenses. Parliarnent prescrîbes in the Act
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I do not under- the conditions under which the license may
stand Vhe necess.ity for this Bill. I was not issue, and on those conditions being performed a license is issued by the Superinhere 'when it was read the second tirne.
tendent. 1 cannot understand it at ail.
Hon. '-%r. LOUGHEED-The attention of
Hon. Hr. LOUGHEED-I arn speaking of
the Department oi Finance had been called
to the fact that there were certain out- companies whicIr have noV completed their
standing insurance charters for whicb a organisation and have not paid in the neclicense had noV been issued on accounit of essary amount under the Insurance Act for
their net having made the necessary deposit the purpose of obtaining a license.
for the purpese of gettin., a license, and it
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I understand new.
was thought at this partîcular tirne that a
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I arn noV -sure that
general Act authorizing an extension o! the
time might 'be passed, and thns obviate the the Act is so worded as to carry eut that
necessity of those companies corning to Par- object. I have not looked into the question
liarnent for special legishation te extend the and do not desire to express an opinion, but
glancing et the clause I arn in doubt. It
tirne.
may be improved, and we will see if it can
Hon. Mtr. BELCOURT-Then the effect o! be at the third reading. Let me cali the
the Act will be that certain insurance cerný attention of the honourable leader to this.
panies which are not entitled te a renewal
1. Any Insurance company whose power to
of their license because they have flot ceinfor a license under the provis'ons ef '*The
pleted their deposits, will bc entitled te go apply
Insurance Act, 1910,- will expire before the end
'without their license.
on and do -business
of the next session of Parliament may obtain
ne, they must an extension of such PowerHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Oh,
pay a certain fee te the Governrnent, and -To apply te the extension of the license?
the Superintendent oi Insurance -will have
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, not the exthe right Vo extend the tirne fer the payrnent tension of the lîcense.
ei the deposit until after the next session
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The issue o! the
-of Parliament.
license?
Hon. AIr. BELCOURT-That is, extend
Hon. Mr. LOTJGHEED-Yes.
the tinie for Vhe payrnent o! the fes enly?

SENATE

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-But if the charter
has expired-I would have to refer to the
Insurance Act-what I arn afraid of is that
it is stated in the Model Act which is
annexed to the Insurance Act, whîch 1
have not got before me at this moment, that
the power of the company will lapse by the
expiration o! a time stated in the Act. If
it is so, then this could not prevent the
lapsing.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I will direct the
attention of the Insurance Department to
the point and I will not take the third reading to-night. I move that the Committee
rise and report the Bill.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Do I nnderstand my
hon. iriend will deal with that question
on the third reading'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes. if there is
anything in it. I will look into it in the
meantime.
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR, fromn the Comiinittee,
reported the Bill without -any amendment.

CRIMINAL

CODE AMENDMENT

BILL.

IN THE COMNIITTEE.

The House resolved itself into a Comxnittee of the whole on Act (74), An Act to
axnend the Criminal Code.
(In the- Committee.)
On clause 2,
2. The Crirninal Code, chapter 146 of the
Revlsed Statutes of Canada, 1906, is arnended
by insertlng the following section rnediately
jatter section 75:"7a. Every one is gulity of an indictable
offence and lhable to two years' irnprisonment
who incites or assisîs any subject of any foreign
atate or country at war wlth Hia Majesty to
leave Canada, If the clrcurnstances of the case
do not exelude the possibillty that assistance
Io the enemny ls an intended object in his so
leaving Canada, and If such inciting or assisting do not amnount t0 treason."
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Would it not be better

cence. It seemns to me it is very desirable
legisiation. If a citizen of Canada assists
a subject of a foreign state or country at
war with His Majesty to leave Canada for
an unlawful purpose he wlll have the opportunity of showing that he did not do At
for that purpose. and he may excinde by
his evidence any such presumption.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I do not -want to
be hypercritical, but this seems to me to be
very extraordinary, perhaps flot the provision itself, for I quite see the necessity
of sometbing of that kind, but the language
used is going to be very perplexing to any
judge who has to interpret that law. If I
had to interpret that on the bench I do not
know what I would do; I would have to
cali in experts on language, grammar, dictation and everything else.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What would my
hon. friend suggest to meet that situation?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I do not know; I
think it would take me sorne time to work
out the tangle; I do not think I could dn
it while on my feet this time. Why is it
necessary to say - If such inciting- or
assisting do not amount to treason "?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Because that is
another offence.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Then why is it
necessary to mention itP
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is less than
treason. It might be treason felony, but it
creates an offence which is not treason, a
lesser offence than treason.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I quite follow
that, but even at that I do not see any
necessity of adding that phrase.
Hon. Mr. BIEQUE-That part of the
clause would be clear enough. I thought
the hon. gentleman was directing attention
to words which I fail to apprehend the
meaning of. What do these words mean:

of the case do flot exIf
to insert the word "knowingly" there? It clude the circumnstances that assistance t0 the
the posslbllity
seems to me that is pretty stringent. A man enerny is an intended objcct in his so leaving
might assist without knowingc it, and be Canada.
liable to imprisonment for two years.

Hon Mr. LOUGHEED-The necessity for
this amendment has grown out of the pro.
secution of a case in Toronto which came
before the Chief Justice of the Exchequer
Division, known as the Nerlich case. Hon.
gentlemen will see that the onus is placed
upon the person assisting any subject o! a
foreig.1 state or country at war with His

Hon.

Mr. LOUGHEED-If

his conduet

excludes the possibility of such assistance
to the enemy, then he is not guilty; but
he must by evidence exclude that possibility. That, when you consider it, seerne to
me to be faîrly simple, that is to say, the
charge is laid against the person charged

n ith a particular offence, then the onus is
on him to show that hic conduct exeludes
Majesty, to leave Canada, the onus being the possibility of hic having any such ohupon such a person to establishi his inno- ject in view.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MARCH 30. 1915

267

circumHon. Mr. POWER-Tbat is a very un- unsatisfactory. You say, " If the possi.
stances af the case do nlot exclude the
-usual sort of provision.
bility that assistance to the enemy is an in*Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is an unusual tented abject in sa leaving Canada". what
*affence.
condition of things would exclude the possiHon. Mr. POWER-I do nat know whetber bility that assistance ta the enemy was the
an interpretation that .rnight be given ta this iiztended abject P This proposition ai praving
-clause has occurred ta tbe bon. leader ai the a negative an the accused is a most unusual
flouse. - Suppose that a party ai Germans- course to iake in British law, criminal law
as tbey are the people we are at war witb particularly. If there is prima facie evidence
just now-bad gat inta Canada, and that that the abject of the party is ta lend assist-these Germans were discovered, and our ance ta the enemy that is enoùigh. But yau
militia chased them with fixed bayanets, cannot get any case where the circumstances
would it nat be proved that tbe militiamen exclude the possibility that assistance ta an
-were inciting and assisting the subjects ai enemy is the intended abject ai his s0 leava foreign state ta leave the country? The ing Canada. The German wha is bere and
*circumstances ai tbe case would nat excuse »*ha wishes te get away may nat let the
-the possibility that tbese .Germans were Canadian knaw what his intention is, but
'being assisted out ai the country. The hon. his intention may be ta get back ta Ger-gentleman had better be careful.
many ar go ta the United States and tell
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED: If the judge ad- lies an behaif ai Germany.
ministerîng the Act had the sense af bumor
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.-I certainly can-with which my lion. friend is seized at prethe
witb it not appreciate the position taken by pro-sent, I could understand his dealing
hon. getlem~an in regard ta this
in very much the saine way, but I think the
clause at ail. .1 thought it was so
prasecution ai a cbarge ai this kind would pased
than that we]1 recagnized that giving any assistance
assume a mare seriaus phase
ta an alien enemy-that is a zubject ai a
wbich. my han.-iriend attributes ta it.
fareign cauntry at war with Canada-was
Han. Mr. BEIQUE-Suppase that any an itself se manifeat an act approaching
party were prasecuted under this clause ft tree.soei that there wou.ld be na question as
-would be open for hlm-ta dlaimi that bis ab- ta the culpability ai the persan so inciting
ject in inciting the persan ta leave the coun- or assisting the silien enemny -ta leave
try was an accaunt ai tbe condition ai the Canada. 'Ihen the question arises, recagfamily af that party in Germany, and be nizing that this is an offence, it becomes
-would be entitled ta ask for a commission merely a matter ai evidence rather than
-for the purpose ai praving that. It seems ta of the offence. I't merely makes provision
me it wauld be defeating entirely the abject for establishing a charge against the per-of the clause if we adapted a wording ai that san accnsed. It throws the anus af proof
]ind. It is toa elastic.
upon him. It seems ta me that bis conduct
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can may bon. must exelude the possibility-and those are
iriend suggest anything mare appropriate? the words used-of bis having Teloniously
committed ithe act.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Better reserve that
Hon. Mr POWER.-It is an exceedingly
,clause.
arbitrary and tyrannics.l enactment.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-AIl right.
Hon. Mr. BELODURT: We ail agree with
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I understand it
iareigner what my hon. friend bas said. But wbat
has been made an offence for any
with reference to
wbose country is at war witb Canada ta lias occurred in Canada
at
I believe ta-day that no aliens? Take thase tbat are interned
leave Canada.
is in Canada Cochrane, not really prisaners but under
Austrian, German or Turk wbo
can leave the country under any conditions, military surveillance, and cannot leave tbe
,whether it is avowedly for tbe purpose ai country. No foreigner who is in Canada
hielping the enemy or not. I tbink tbat is to-day oan leave the country without an
the case tbis is intended ta caver. Why not exeat. Is that nat sufficient? If that
make it an offence for. any one ta assist or party tried ta leave Canada lie is liable to
incite any subject ta leave Canada, etc., criminal prasecution, and il anybody assists
hlm ta leave Canada, -lie is subjet ta crimand strike out the following wards.
wbat I said
this clause becomes mnalprasecution alsp. I repeat
Hon. Mr. POWER-If
vèry a moment age. if the lion. leader simply
law I thinli its operation will become

SENATE

provide that every one is guilty of
an indictable offence who incites or assista
any subject of any foreign state or country
at war with Great Britain to leave Canada,
and let the section stand at that, it will
answer, but if he adds to it the legisiation
will be destroyed.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is the very
difficulty we are up against. That throws
the onus on the prosecution.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-No, it is a question of facts, if ha incites or assists.
Hon. Mr. IOUGHEED: Then would not
the onus be on the proaecution to establiah
that? The presumaption of law is that a
party charged is innocent until he is proven
guilty.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-No, this is the
bald f act."whether with a g-ood intention or
bad intention does not miatter. The fact of
inciting any person is an effence.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But you have to
prove the off-nce.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Yea.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-And the motive?
Hon. Mr. BELÇOURT-No. That he is
an alien and somebody has aasisted him in
leaving Canada.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I quite agree if you
,strike out two or three %vordsyou can make
At ail right.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If those words are
left in the clause it wvi.il be an irnpossibility
to secure a conviction, because ýt would be
open to the accused to merely show that
there was a possibility of his aasiating the
allen for another purpose than helping the
enemy. Suppose the accused la prosecuted
under this clause what tvill prevent hlm
summoning the person that is assisted to
show that he assisted him to go to the
States or any neutral country not at war
with Canada, and that lie assiatei hlm for
some other reason than helping the enemy,
and if you give him the righitot establish
that you wou:id have to give him the opportu.nity o! adducing evidence.
Hon. Mr. BELOOURT-How is the judge
going to decide what the poasibility is? I
move to strike out ail the words after
"Canada "
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I prefer to have
the clause stand until I set the 'Minister of
Justice.
Hon. Mr. BELCOUF.T.

Hon. .Mr. BELCOURT-The hon. member
will submit the amendment to the Minister
of Justice?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I will. I miay
say the amendment would leave the law
as it is to-day. It does not remedy the difficulty that arose in the case to wvhich 1 refer.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I read the Nerlich
case, and I doubt if this clause will solve
the difficulty which arose in the trial.
The clause was allowed to stand.
On clause 3.
3. The following section is lniserted immediately after section 436:
"«436a. EvEry person Is gullty of an indictable offence and lialle to imprisonmient for
two years. or to a fine flot exceeding Oive
thousand dollars, or to both Imprizonmient and
fine, who knowlngly selis or delivers, or causes
to be sold or delivered, to His MaJ"stY or to
any officer or servant of His Majesty, any defective military, militia or naval stores off ariy
Icin'd or description, whether Euch stores are
for Bis MaJesty In the riglit off His Government off Canada, or In the right off any otlier
vway
of His Majesty's dominions, or who in any
commits any act off dýshonesty, fraud. or deception upon His MaYfsty or an,.% off His Maiesty's officers or servants in connection with
the sale or lease or purchase or delivery or
manufacture of zuch mllitary, imIhitia or naval
stores.

Hon. Mr. BOYER-Could not this clause
be made to date from the beginning of the
war? Judging from the evidence before the
Public Accounts Committee, certain frauda
have been perpetrated upon the country.
The defence will be that those frauda were
conimitted before the law wvaa enacted. Today we passed a BiHl with a retroactive
clause.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I should think when
the minister was amending the Crimiinal
Code-that fearfully and wonderfully made
document-that he migaht have deait with
that subject.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-A proposition
such as that juat made by the bon. meniber
would be perfectly outrageous in the eyes
of our brothers. The idea of making a muan
a criminia] by ex post facto legislation
is abaurd.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Does the hon. nierber not think that the impriaonmient should
be for longer than two years, and the penalties for a larger amount than $5,OOOl? 1
should think the imprisonment should be
fiv'e years and the fine $10,000. 1 think, the

MARCH 30, 1915

offences which have been exposed recently
in the other branch o! Parliament are worse
than treason.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-On the other hand
there is a variety of offences provided for
by this section and some of thern might
be trivial. Take for instance the sub-clause
-"Orwho- in any way commits any act of
dishonesty." That rnight not be a serious,
matter.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think it will do as
it is.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The word "such"
in the latter part o! that clause should be
struck out. The Law Clerk cal"ed any attention to it, and I think he is right.
Hon. 11r. BELCOURT-I think we should
retain the %vordin the clause.
Hon. '\r. LOUGHEED-Then it is confined to what is already enuxnerated, and it
is very desiable it should be extended.

committed and does flot at once inform His
Majes.ty. then hie could be punished. The
effeet of using those words would be that
the direcV,.r may oommit the offence but
if he tells about it ' he would flot be
punished.
Hon. Mr. BELÇOURT-Those words are
connected with what precedes.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
will see that he rnay not be a party but hie
may know of it, and he might purge himsebif ot that guilty knowledge.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-WVill this be retroactive?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Will the Government
be able to get alter those gentlemen who
may be shown to have committed offences
against this country? No use locking the
door after the horse has been stolen.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It would be a
most extraordinary thing to niake a crirninal
Act retroactive.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The frauds which.
have been perpetrated have been the cause
of the introduction of this clause?

Hon. 'Mr. BELCOURT-It is restricting
it if you take it out.
Hon. '.\r. LOUGHEED-No, the word
-such" restricts iL ta such muitary stores
as have been described. If you strike iL out
it applies to al] military stores.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think iL would be a
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I arn not a lawyeri
mistake ta strike it out.
but could a person be prosecuted under
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then we will this measure for an offence committ-ed,-a,
rnonth ago?
leave it.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
The clause ivas adopted.
The clause was adopted.
On sub-clause 2.
any offence referred ta in this section
2. If
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-What was the object
ia committed by a body corporate. every direc- of cutting out clause 357a as it appears in.
tor, officer, agent and Enxplayee of such body
corporate who bas knowingly taken any part the House of Commons Bilh?
or share in such fraud, dlshonesty or deception.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It was struck
or wha knows or had reasan ta suspect that
such fraud, dishanesty or deception would be out by the House of Comnions. I cannot
or was being commltted, or knaws or had rea- give any information with regard to that.
son ta suspect that such fraud, dishonesty or
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I1 think that clause
deception bas been committed, and does flot at
once inforni His Majesty thereof, shall be liable should be embodied in this Bill.
as well as the body corporate ta the penalties
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then the hion.
impased by this section in ail respects as If
such offence was committed by said directors member had better give notice.
or other persons, and every such bady carHon. Mr. DAVIS-I -ive notice that toporate, director or other person convicted of
such offence shall be thereafter incapable of niorrow I will move that the following
contracting witb His Majesty or with any of clause be added to the Bill:
officers or servants or of holding
His Majesty's
any contract or office with, froni or under hini
or theni. or of receivirig any benefit under any

contract s0 made."
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-This clause states
that il a direetor, officer or agent of a body
corporate knows or has any reason ta suspect Vhst fraud or dishonesty wa.s beingc

«357a. Âny person who sells or agrEes ta
sell land or any interEst in land ta which he
knows he bas flot a good titie free tram encunibrance. and receives the purchase maney
or any part thereof and without lawful excuse
does flot apply the moncy so received by himn
in procuring a good titie or in reduction or
d!scharge of encumbrances against the saJd

SENATE

lan.d or interest in land. is gullty of an lndictable offence and liable to three years' imprisonment.
" 2. Wbere such sale or agreement for sale
le made by a body corporate, every director,
omfcer, agent and employee of the company
who knowingly takes part In any offence within
the provisions of this section shall be liable to
the penalty hereinbefore prescribEd."

On clause 5.
1150b. Any person who niakes or causes to
be mgae any change in or suppression of the
titie, or the naine of the author, of any drainatic or operatic work or musical composition in
whlch copyright subsists, or who makes or
causes to be made any change In such work or
composition itself wlthout the written consent
of the author or of his legal representative, In
order that the sanie -may be performed In
whole or In part In public for private profit,
shaîl be guilty of an offence, and shaîl be
hiable on sumnlary conviction to a fine not exceedlng five hundrefi dollars, or, in the case of
a second or subsequent offence. either to such
ulne or to imprisoniment for a terrn not exceeding four months, or to both."1

Honi. Mr. LOUGHEED-In introducing
this Bill I pointed out to-the House that
an amendment to the criminel law against
the infringment of copyrights was brought
down to this.House from the Commons in
1908, and my recol!ection is that the amendmonts were stricken out of the Bill. The law
of copyright in Canada bas been in a somewhat different situation to what it bas
been ini Great Britain and -the United States,
and it becomos û question for us to conaider whether we shall enforce by the
crimine~l law the infringement of a foreign
copyright.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Is that a Canada copyright?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, it bas relatior.
to foreign copyright: At the presenit time
the owner of a copyright in the United
States, or the owner of a copyright in Greai
Britain or in any foreign country would
h ave the rigbt to corne tb Canada and makE
use of the machinery of our civil courts
to restrain any infring-erent of those copy
rights.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Can lio get
copyright, by application in Canada, foi
a dramatîc or musi-çal production? 1 do nu
understand why, if hie could do so, it wouk(
not be like the Patent Law. If hie rould go
a copyright in Canada I do not see whi
hoe should not do it.
Hon. Mr. LOTJGHEED-In 1869 thi
United Statos passed a copyright Bill ofi
very wide description, but retained in i
1Hon. M~r. DAVIS.

the old clause about manufar-turing in the
United States. In 1911 the Imperial Parliament passed a copyright Act which consolidated the wbole law of copyright, at the
saine time extending it, and under this Act
the self-governing colonies were given very
wide powers of registration. Honourable
gentlemnan willdoubtless rememiber that for
many years the Overseas Dominions were
deprived of passing copyright legislation as
against Imperial legialation. The Imperial
Parliament cl'aimed to control -exclusively
the Law of copyright throughout, the Empire, but that situation was changed in 1911.
Great Britain passed its own copyright law,
leaving to the Overseas Dominions the right
to legislate upon the subject themselves. In
1911 the then Minister of Agriculture introduced a copyright Bill ivhich was read a
second time, and was partly considered in
committee, but was not further proceeded
with, nor bas the Governrnent since that
time reintroduced the measure. The result
is th-at the law in Canada reinains unchanged, although Parliamont has, now,
power to legislate when it sees fit. The
situation would ho this: that if a person ini
Canada took out copyright hoe would not find
upon the Criminal Statutes of the United
States any legislation that would be reciprocal with this which we have proposed unleas hie went too the Uni'ted States. took out
bis
published
and
there,
copyright
copyright within the boundaries of th.at
country. 'Âne question is as to whether we
shaîl adopt a policy of placing upon our
Statute book a criminal restriction that
would not be found, say, upon the Statute
Books of thbe United States with referenceto a Canadian copyright, because the operation of this law will be chiefly to the advantage of the United States' copyright
owner. 1 do not express any opinion one
way or the other on this part. 1 arn trying
to put hon. gentlemen in possession of the
facts as closély as I can. The question of
copyright bas been an involved subject
Canada for many years. We have beeni
-in
legislating ýor 25 years on the subject without yet being able to determine what w'e
should do or how far we should go. Our
tposition bas been nebulous up to the
present time, and the question is whether
we shall give to foreign copyrights the advantage, not only of our civil courts, but
of our Criminal courts, in enforciiig their
rights against the people of Canada when
Sthere is not to be found upon the statute
ibooks of the United States reciprocal legistlation sucb as they expect us to pass.

MARCH 30, 1915

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Would the hon.
gentleman state what is the position between Great Britain and the United StatesP
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I could not say
whether Great Britain has the xnanufacturing clauses in its legislation the saie
as in the United States. My impression la
that it bas, however I arn not positive on
that subject.Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I want ta take
issue on some statements my hon. friend
has just made. The international convention at Berne to which Great Britain subscribed bas been held by the court of appeal
of the province of Quebec to be binding
on Canada, and a party sued under it for
violating a copyright n'as condemned by
the superior court.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Not criniinally.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No, but he was
condemned civilly. The question arises
should we strengthen and protect the
rights of the parties who, under the Interconvention at Berne, have rights
-national
here recognized by the civil court? Should
we strengthen that right by making a penal
offence of the violation of the copyright.
M.y hon. friend hjas treated the question
exclusively froin the Ujnited States point 01
view. I want to draw bis attention to the
fact, that the plays that are rnostly presented in Canada corne frorn Great Britain
and France. Thousands of thern are played,
and the reason 'wby this enactment should
be adopted by this Chamber, as it bas been
adoptféd by the House of Gommons, is that
civil recourse is absolutely illusory.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You can get an
injurictioli.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-BeCause of the
fact that the owners of the comedies and
dramas are across the Atlantic, a suit by
an allen is surrounded witb rnany conditions-at ahl events in my province-which
represent difficulties to be overcome anc
and delay to be met, sucb as the procuring
of a power of attorney and the giving of a
bond to guarantee coats.
The trespassers know ail the tricks o:
the business and they hold in utter conternpt tbe rights of the authors. The owners
of theatres who are systematically violating
tne law replace a plaý' each week an(
against a single itheatre owner for-ty suit
would have to be taken each year
If a suit is taken and a judgrnent obtained
after a delay of three to six nionths, the
owner bas transferred bis lease to a prête
nous and nothing is found upon wbich t(

collect the judgrnent. Âgain the title of the
play will be altered and the play iteelf
disfigured and in order to establish the
violation oi the copyright a shorthand
writer will bave to go and take down the
wbole play before risking a suit.
Thouisands of drarnas and cornedies are
played every day under such conditions
tbrougbout the land with impunity and
Canada's fair *name is beld in conternpt in
European intellectual centres.
In a book published in Paris, in 1910 "La
propriété artistique et littéraire" by Léon
Poinsard who is the assistant director of
tbe International Bureau for the protection
of the inteïllectual and arti§tie copyright at
Berne, speaks of Canada in the following
terrns:
Unhappily the dimeiulties and coas of procedure give but an iI]usory protection. The
intellectual property is very little respected in
Canada in spite of the efforts of an important
group of men who place Justice and equity
above prejudices and private interests.

In order to secure the authors in -their
rights a penalty rnust be irnposed against
those wbo despoil them.
Such bas been the action of rnost countries.
It will suffice to narne Great Britain, France
and the United States. -,
There is a civil recourse against one who
crosses the property of his neighbour even
if be does so without an evil intent. It
suffices that be does trespas >s against the
wiil of the owner of the land and there is
also a penal action against birn. Should we
hesitate to edict a penalty against the man
who deliberately appropriates unto hirnaclf
the property of bis neigbbour and uses it
for bis ow-n private gain to the damage and
loss of the owner?
This offence is a serious one in all countries, and it eeerns to me that it is time
that Canada sbould move in this matter.
British authors are complaining, F.rench
authors are cornplaining and it is not a
srnall matter. Thousands and thousands
-of plays are being stolen throughout the
whole o! Canada without any proper protection being given the authors, and I tbink
we owe thein sucb protection as will be effective. For thi8 reason I intend to vote
for this legislation, whicb my bon.. friend
seema to support with a very faint beart. I
jdo so witb e11 the more vigour because simSillar legislation was brought before this
Cbarnber in 1909, I think, which bad been
drafted by Sir Allen Âyleswortb, and it happened that the laVe Sir Richard Cartwrigbt,
led the House, wasabsent at the mo-who
ment when the Bill came to the Senate. I

SENATE

and that
had been given no explanation as to the ýssociation to which I refer, Montreal, they
Torand could iiot aLre actually represented in
reason for the legisiation,
at- >nto, Ottawa, in fact in ail the chties of the
defend it properly, though. it was not
)Fonion, and ýhat 4therefore they have the
tacked very violently; but as there were no neans of protecting their property, so that
reasons given why that.degaislation
sufficieint
think they are en'titled to as much
should pass, those two clauses now before I o flot as tihe hon. xnember has stated.
~yrnpathy
the House were dropped. I feel a certains E{owever, I have an open mind on the
share of responsibility in the f act that this question and I would like to be iniformed
legisiation was not put on the Statute Book as to the statement which bas been mnade
in 1909 or 1910, and for these reasons I by the_ hon. mem-ber, a.s to whether there is
think, that the explanations I have given like legisiation in Great Britain, in the
to this Chamber willeatisfy the majorityJ States, in Belgiunn, in tihe different counof members who are within rny hearing and tries of Europe. It would go a long way
that 1 will support this legisiation and ask to satisfy me as to the propriety of
that it be votecl.
putting this legisiation on our Statute
If there is no such legisiaHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-So that there may Books.
in the minds of hon. tion, then I would expect that the
*be no misapprehension
gentlemen, I might say that I informed tne Association through wbich this ConreMinister of Justice when t-his Bill was put gress that the hion. member lias
I had an open -mid on ferred to was held, who have taken the
in mny hands that
this question cf copyright and tha-t I woulJ means of protecting authors of books or
not consider myself coinmitted to the musical compositions, would take silcb
clauses until I heard the discussion in the action as would tend to the adoption in the
of like leiSenate upon the subject, as to what course different countries concernied
pursue in regard to, these proposed lation. Otherwise I think it would be
I should
placing Canada at a disadvantage if we put
amendments.
on our Statute Book a clause of that kind
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I think the hon. when Canadian owners of copyrights would
leader of the Governinent is to be com- not have the saine protection in Europban
mended for having very frankly invited us countries.
to consider the important question which hie
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Somebody.has to
has raisel.
begin.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The Berne ConvenHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I arn under the im- tion was representative of a great number
pression that the hon. gentleman from De- of different countries, and At was the resolorimier exaggeratesl the situation. I hap- lution adopted -by themn which led te the
pen to know that of late years an associa- adoption of the Copyright Act in Great Brittion of artists and writers, bias been formed ain and in the several countries concerned.
in Europe, and that they are, represented I think we shiould proceed in the same
in Canada by Canadian agents who are the manner so that we would have legisiation
guardians, and very strict guardians, of of the same nature in the different countheir rights. In Quebec, Montreal, and other tries concerned. 1 invite the hon. member
cities, if any reproduction is made from any to let us have the text of the legislation
copyrighted books in a newspaper they are which is actually in force in European
caUed te accounit immediate',y; therefore 1 countries.
do not think there is the dang-er that bas
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I was in the
'been mentioned by the lion. gentleman, that
Comnmittee in the other 'House when the
on account of distance thieir'righlts niay bc
question was discussed, and 1 myself reali
viodated without giving theni an oppor(after it had been cited from the Statute
tunity of having their re-course.
Book of Great Britain), Chapt. 46, Article
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-W iii the hion. 11, of 1 and 2 George V., of whieh this pregentleman allow me to draw his attention sent enactment contains the essence. New
to the fact that the case lie mentions of the Zealand on the .22nd Novemiber, 1913.
reproduction of books or novels in neývs- adopted a similar Act.
papers is not covered by the legislation?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-A simi'ar Act to
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE--I know that, but I w-hat? WVhen -my hon. friend speaks of an
say that the authors of dramnas,' or operas. Act what does hie mean by that?
or of musical compositions forml part of the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

MARCH 31, 191523

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-An Act making
the violation of copyright a criminal offence.
In France the penal code, articles 428 and
429, is to the saine effect, without withdrawing the Civil recourse which articles
1362 of the Civil Code éives. The United
States have adopted, by Ohapter 320, an
Act te amend -the Acts respeoting copyright,
'wW.eh makes -the violation of a copyright
a penal offence. Those are the citations
-which were miade in the'other House, and
1hi'ch I take from page 263 of the Hansard.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does my hon.
friend know whether they rwould extend
to the infringement of foreig-n copyright?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I have not read
the Statute cd the United States, but I have
.read the Statute of Great Britain, 'Which
bears exactly on the matter which is now
under discussion.
Hon. Mr. CLOIIAN-Do 1 understand
that the Parliamient o! Great Britain makes
it a crime for any of its stibjects to infringe
a copyright of a foreign country?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Yes.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Then the British
Parliament has done an act which is not
consonant with fair play and justice.
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURÎAND-I would not cal
it a copyright of a foreign country; it is
an internatiSnal copyright, to whîch all
the countries of the world have adhered,
and Great Britain has adhered, and has
bound Canada, according to a judgment of
the Court of Appeal written a few'years
ago.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That I take most
eerious exception to Great Britain cannot
bind Canada to anything by its legialative
acts, copyright or otherwîse. You rnay have
ail the Berne Conventions and all the Berne
Congresses in regard to international law,
but they are of no avail unÉess sanctioned
by actual legisîstion of this Parliament. Hasthe Berne Convention been sanctioned and
endorsed and adopted by the Parliament of
Canada? I ask the lion. leader of the House.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-NIo, Canada is
not a party to the Berne Convention.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Have any regulations
or conventions adopted by that congres
been endorsed and put into our legisiation?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Well, if they have
not, they are a mere scrap of paper, and

'273

I do not see how any Canadian judge could
hear a case based on a foreign law as
againat a citizen of Canada. The thing is
absurd; the thing la unnatural. If the conventions of the Berne Con-reas had been
accepted by the Parliament o! Canada and
put on our statute book, then the citizens
of Canada would be liable; but to stand up
liere in a free parliament and ask Parliament to be dominated by foreign influences,
whether sanctioned by the British Parliament
or not, is beyond my comprehienalon. It
is belittling the standing of the Canadian
people. If a copyright is taken out in
France, or Germany, or Italy, or Spain, and
they want that copyright protected, let
themn corne over to Canada and take out
copyright here; otherwise this Parliament
lias no right, no power, to condemn either
civilly or criminally a man who undertakes
to reproduce a play, or a novel, or any of
the subjects coming under the copyrighlt.
Foreign laws have nothing to do with Canada unless .sanctioned, endorsed and accepted by this Parliament; and I really cannot
understand the force of those demanda that
Canada should recognize foreign legialation
without being officially accepted here in
Canada.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In the absence of
such information as would be desirable, I
move that the committee rise, report progresa -and ask leave to ait again.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL, from the Committee,
reported progress and asked leave to sit
iLgain at the second session to-rnorrow.
The Senate adjourned until Il o'clock a.in.
to-morrow.

THE SENATE.
Wednesday, March 31, 1915.
The SPEAKER took the chair at Eleven
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
PURCHASE 0F TH-E NORTH RAILWAY.
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE inquired of the
Governrnent:
1. Has the Government of Canada purchased
or taken over the undertaklng known as "~The
North Railway"?
2. If so, when, for what price, and upon
what ternis?

s-Is
REVISED EDITION

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers are:
1. Yes. That portion £reom Montreal to a
juncture 'with the Transcontinental railway.
2. Agreement was signed December 23,
1914, and cheque was issued December 24
fir $250,000, the compaxiy undertaking to
settie ail outstanding dlaims and turn over
ail information relative to surveys and al
field notes, plans, etc., in connection therewith, together with office furniture, instrumEnts, etc. The company had a subsidy of
$6,400 per mile: this su.bsidy upon transfer
to the Government, lapses.
THE OCEAN LIMITED TRAIN.

The SPEAKER-They can be voted on
separately.

Hon.
not the
cannot
during

Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
-rule of the Senate previde that you
introduce the same subject twice
the same session?

Hon. Mr. POWER-That rule applies to
Buis only. It does not apply te resolutions
or motions.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
object of this change, then, is te_ put
motions of any chara.eter, so far as reconsideration is concerned, in the same position as Bis.

INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-We have a rule

Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY inquired of the by virtue of which a resolution may always
be reconsidered, or a Bill until it is disGovernment:
When they will inaugurate the train called posed of, but this proposed aniendrnent

the *"Ocean Lirnited" running between Halifax

does flot affect that rule.

and Montreal?
The first paragraph wvas adopted.
Hon. Mr. LOTJGHEED-It is intended
On the second parag.raph.
that the train called the Ocean Limited,
running- between Halifax and Montreal, will
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I have already
be restored May 2, 1915. So that honourable objected to the termn of seven days provided
gentlemen fromn the Maritime Provinces for in the paragraph. I move to substitute
returning home after the prorogation of 5 for 7.
Parliament may possibly have an opporHon. Mr. POWER-1 accept that arnendtunity of travelling on the Ocean Limited.
THE -BULES AND STANDING
0F THE SENATE.

ORDERS

ment.
The amendinent was agreed to.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE moved that the
paragraph be further amended by striking
Hon. Mr. POWER nioved that the two out "two-thirds" and replacing it by "majorMOTION.

following
adopted:

Rules

or Standing

Orders

be ity."'
Hon. Mr. POWER-That would never do.

25a. No question or amendment shall be proposed which is the same in substance as any
question or amendment whxch, during the samne
session, bas been resolved in the affirmative, or
negative, unless the order, resolution or vote on
such question or amendment bas been rescinded.
25b. An order, resolution or other vote of the
Senate may be rescinded; but nio such order,
resolution or otber vote may be rescinded unless
seven days' notice be given and at ieast twotbirds of the senators present vote in favour of
Its rescission: Provided that, to correct irregularitàes or mistakes, one day's notice oniy
shahI be sufficient.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I

amn disposed

to favour the two-thirds majority, because
after the House has decided *any question
it would flot -be conducive te good leg-isiation to have the decision reversed

hy a

majority of iess than two-thirds. There
would be no end to discussion of any question if, by obtaining the presence of two
or three senators who were absent when
the Senate voted upon it, that decision

couid be oeversed by a bare majority.

He said: The first part simply expresses
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-T-he generai rule
the par]iamentary practice. We discussed
the matter referred te in the second para- of Parliament is that ail questions are

graph at some length and perhaps the House
will pardon me if I reserve wvhat I have to
eay until some objection is raised.
The SPEAKER-I suppose we should
divide-these paragraphs.
Hon. Mr. POWER-No, they should go
together, because they depend on each other.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.

decided by a majority.

Take the case that

my hon. friend has just suggested, where a
decision has been rendered on a question
in the absence of seme senators who, if
they had been present, vould have decided
it the other way. W.hy not, after giving

due notice, take the sense of the inajority.
A decision rendered by His Honour

MARCH 31. 1915

the Speaker yesterday was reversed by
a -majority of the Hous then present, I amn sure if there could be
a reconsideration of that vote ta-day, it
would be reversed. I mention that as an
instance illustrating why it would be unjust to require a two-thirds majority to
decide any.question. A question cornes up
and snany senators are out of the House,
not expecting a vote to be taken upon it,
and a decision is rendered by a bare majority of the senators present, which might
not be a -majority of the whole House. If
five days' notice could be given that the
question -would be recansidered, every senator would have -an opportunity to hbe present
and record his vote, and. we would there
have t.he sense of the rnajority of the House.
Should the former decision be reversed, it
would be evidence that it was flot the view
of the rnajority of the House. Is flot that
a better way to ascertain the real opinion
of the House than to require a two-thirds
inaiority?
Hon. 'Mr. DANIEL-I think that sonie
such regulation as proposed by this motion
should be adopted by the Senate. The hon.
gentleman who has just spoken says that
'the majority should rule. So it should.
But what xnajorityP I take it the majority
to rule is the rnajority of the whole Senate.
We shôuld legisiate, in sa fax as we are
able, with a view ta have sorne llnality to
the decisions of the Senate, and therefore
we should not abjeet Ioa a two-thirds majority to reverse a decision of the House: or
if yau object ta that, then it would be better
ta require a mnajority o! the wliole Senate.
On rnany occasions, perhaps, that would be
a far larger vote than a vote af two-thirds
present. I arn quite satisfied to vote for
the resolution as it stands, and ax-oid the
possibilty of the Senate one day passing
resolutions and the next day rescinding
theru..

ing to rescind or change the opinion o! the
House by a majority vote. We do ou.r business according ta the' printed notices of
the House. We have our bill of fare and
the gentlemen who are not here should not
complain if things to which they object
happen when they are not liere.
The amendment was declared lost on a
division.
The main motion as amended was agreed
to.
The SPEAKER-Do I understand now that
a decision on any question niay be rescinded
at any time'
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes, with five days'
notice.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill No. 93, An Act ta amend the Judges
Act.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
Bill No. 76, An Act ta supplemient the
revenue required ta meet War Expenditures.-Hon. Mr. Lcug-heed.
BRITISH NORTH AMERICA ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
ÂSfENDMENT CONCIJRRED IN.

The Order of the Day being called.
Consideratian of the message from the Bouse
of Cammons requesting the Senate ta unite with
that Bouse in an Address ta Bis Majesty the
King; praying that he may be pleased ta give

hi. consent to subrnlttlng a measure ta the ParDiament of the United Klngdam ta amend certain provisions of the British North Amnerlca
Act, 1867. etc., as arnended in Commlttee af the
Whole Bouse

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.-Before proceeding with -the resolutions with respect to
this measure, I beg ta move the arnendrnent
o! which I have given notice. Hon, gentlemen will renernber that the six clauses
preceding the arnendment, are xîot to corne
into effect until after the life of the present
Parliament expires. I propose ta add the
Hani. Mr. WATSON-I would just say to following-:
xnv hon. friend behind me (Hon. '-%r. ChoNothing herein contained shall affect the
quette) that there is no possible chance o! powers of Parliament under the British North
the House beinga taken by surprise on the America Act, 1886.
In 1886, Imperial legislation w-as obtained
original motion being put, becaiise it is an
the Orders of the Day, and we have the giving authority ta the Parliamient of Cannotice, and if those gentlemen who do nat ada ta appoint senators ta territory nat inattend the duties o! the bouse, and corne cluded in any o! the prýovinces. There are
here some deays a! ter the business has been no representatives in the Senate representtransacted by the senators who remain ing such territory but it is thought that the
here, and then ask to change -the verdict of Imperial Act which is naw proposed, rnight
the bouse, they should be penalized in by implication repeal the legisiation o! 1886.
some -way by ,providing lor a two-thirds I will read ta hon gentlemen the clause
vote. You might get a snap verdict in ask- which will be affected, which is as follows:

SENATE

The Parliament of Canada may from time to
time make provision for representations of the
Senate and the House of Commons of Canada,
or either of them, of any territories whieh
for the time being form part of the Dominion
of'Canada, but are not Inciuded in any provInce thereof.

That is to say, the Parliament o! Canada would have autharity under this legislation to appoint a representative to this
Chamiber, as they have done in the House
of Comnmon., for the Yukon territory or
for any o! the unorganîzed territories. I
mnay say to hlon. gentlemen that there is no
present intention o! doing so, becauje there
would have to be an Act of this Parjianient,
but the Imperial Parliament hac giveni to
this Parliament authority to invok?: this
legislation should it be recessary. It is
not desira;ble that it sbould be rsýpcaled by
way of implication or bave doul>t thrown
upon it; hen4ce I more that tle1 reolu)'itions
:be not now finally Tead, Out t iat thu\y be
anîended in the mariner indcatert.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Posýi!blv tht action
to
taken by the Senate last sQe;sioii -%wa- the
advantage of the country, inz±sin'icli as the
address, as brought down ;ast year, was
exaetly on the same Uines as the ore brought
down this year, and if the ixotlaniationi cf
*my on. friend thal we wouidJ have Tepealed the Act of 1886 is correct, pcssi-bly
the delay that has been caused by the
action we took -was to the beneit of the
country and the Governiaient.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It wa.3 probably
providential.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOC-It will alsoz eul
u;ure time Io
in Ieaving it open at s''n
effect this division into iour groups of 24
that we understand wilI be the res;ult o! thýc
action that is now proposed to be t3ken.
&ome hon. GENTLEMEN--No.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK- -In the future, if
action is ta:ken under thi.- Act, o! courQe
it rwould. increase the nuituber and it. -would
interfère -witb these four groups of '24, and
that is m'hat I desire to point out.
isznot tlie inHon. Mr. LOUGHEED
tention to repeal any part of existing legislation.
1Houn. Mr, DAVIS-Do I under-tand the
hon. gentleman to say that the Governrment
cou-Id appoint a senatur to represeni the
Yukon?
Hon.; Mr. LOUGHEED-I said alithority
was given by the Irnperial Parliament, subject te the legisîstion by the Parliament of
Canada, te appoint senators and niembers
Bon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

ocf theHouse of Gommons for territory not
within the iboundary of any o! the provinces.
Hop. Mr. DAVIS- They cannot do it
until they glet 1egislation?
Hon. M.r. LOUGHEED-No.
The amendment was agreed to.
Hon. -Mr. LOUGHEED-I beg to more
that a -messague 'be sent to the House o!
Gommons that the Sena-te bias passed the
said address with two amendments to whicb
they desire their concurrence.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I hoipe that
this address returning to the Gommons will
give opportunity to the newspapers to correct their misrepresentation of the vote and
t'he effeet of the amendment which the
Senate made. A telegram vas sent to al
the Gonservative newspapers to the effeet
that the Senate had voted in aiendment
to bring- this resolution into effect only
a!t-er the general election. We ail know%
that that was not the case.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
is the difference.
Hon. Mr. DANDUBAND-The difference
is considerable. If that had been the action
o! the Senate no appointment could have
been made until alter the general elections
and under our amendment an ap'pointment
may be made the day after dissolution.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
is iby the Governor in Gouncil.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The Governir
irn Gouncil.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Squipose the Liberals are successful at the next
election you 'have made revision that vou
cen repeal these Orders iii Council, so that,
it is about as broad as it is lon.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-This is the firSt
time that I have heard o! a senator being
appointed 'by Order in Council under the
siganature o.f the Governar General and
that snch an trder could be cancelled. My
hon. f riend has had longer experience in
these inatters rthan I have, but I surinise
that such an appointee would be careiul
to take the oath of office and qualify.
Hon* Mr. DANIEL--My hon. friend is
mistaken when hie speaks o! senators beingappointed by the Lieutenant Governor in
Council. If he looks at the Act hie will find
that senators are appointed directly by
the Governor General.

MARCH 31, 1915

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The Governor
General bas no right to appoint a senator
except under the advice of bis Council.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-The hion. gentleman
is a lawyer, but I would refer hlm to the
British North America Act.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I would refer
the hion. gentleman to his own leader, who
will tell him whether the Govexnor General
can dlaim to supersede the authority of the
Council and appoint a senator to.ý this
Chamnber without its advice.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-I have no dou'bt the
Governor ln Council recommends the appointilent, but at the saine time, according
Vo the reading of the law, the appointmýent
is made directly by the Governor General
as the representative of the Crown.
The motion wvas agreed to.
LAM-\BERT DIVORCE CASE.
ORDER POSTPONED.
The Order of the Day being called:
Consideration of the Twenty-first Report of
the Standing Conimittee on Divorce, to whom
was referred the petition of Cecil Howard Lamnbert, together with the evidence taken before
the said committee.-Hon. 'mr. Ross (Middleton).

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I wish to say that,
while ahl these cases have gone through this
year very rapidly, and I have taken 110
exception to any of thern, yet there is a
lirnit to, ail things. I have niot seen the
evidence in the two cases that are to corne
before the House Vo-day .As a inatter of
fact, one Divorce Bihl went through the

other day, and 1 did not get a copy of the
evidence until after the report had been
I want to be able to read the
adopte d.
evidence in these cases before the coinrnittee's reports are adopted in the House.

I arn given to uniderstand on g-ood authority
that tliere is absolutely no evidence in the
I do flot propose to allow
Gordon case.
these Bis to be railroaded througuh the
Senate.

Hon. -'%r. TAYLOR-The evidence lu this
case is printed and distributed, and the
hion. gentlenian %vill find it in bis box.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That is exactly .the
case. Lt is in rny box niow, and the hion.
hon. se-nator wants us to adopt the report
Nvithout giving us an opportunity to Eee the
evidence.

Hon. '-%r. TAYLOR-I inove that the
order be discbarg-ed, and that the order be
placed on the Order Paper for to-morrow.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-We had three sittings
yesterday, and we will likely sit until 10
or Il to-night, yet I arn asked to sit up
ail night to read this evidence.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yov
can read it in half an hour.
The motion was agreed to.
GORDON DIVORCE CASE.
ORDER POSTPONED.
The Order of the Day being called:
Consideration of the twenty-second report of
the Standing Committee on Divorce, to whurn
was referred the petition of Albert Edwin Gordon, together with the evidence taken before
the said corm-ittee.-Hon. Mr. Ross (Middleton).
Hon. Mr. DOMVILL-The evidence in
this case has not been distributed.
Hon. Mir. MURPHY-The evidence in the
Gordon case was very flirnsy. Every mcimber of the Senate should have an opportunity of reading it, and I ask that the
Order of the Day be postponed until next
week.
. Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I understand that
there is a lot of evidence in this case, and
I think it is absurd to ask us to read it in
a short time.
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-I want to cail the
hion. gentleman's attention to the fact that
on Saturday we will have, a short session.
This Gordon case should receive serious
consideration, and I ask to have the motion
amended to read Tuesday.
Hon.,Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn not as seriouii-y concernied about this case, as I arn
in any step being takeu thiat wolild seemingly have the effect of unfairly defeating
the action of the Divorce Conmittee. This
eomrnittee have given their best attention t.: the inany ci-es which came before them. When the hion. gentleman from
Prince Edward Island stated that because
hie dropped into the committee room on
some occasions and from what hie heard
considered the evidence flimsy, and therefore the case shouid be postponed until
Tuesday-a date when possibly prorogation
may take place-I protest, as a member of
the comrnittee against this unnecessary
delay in dealing with the report.
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-I protest against
the imputation that it is my intention to
defeat the Bill. I wish to see the Bill corne
fairly before the House. 1 arn not a lawyer, but rny opinion is that the evidence
is flirnsy. Lt would require a littie stronger

8NATE

-eceived ail the orders, but I understand
t here was no limit placed on the price these
nerchants might charge the poor people who
,ot the relief, and who wiIl, at a later stage,
iave to pay for it. They had to take it at
any price they were charged.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not think so.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Was there any safeguard the people in that regard?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand the
SEED GRAIN FODDER RELIEF BILL. prices charged for commodities furnishied
were revised by those who had charge of the
EPORTED FROM THE ÇOMMITTEE.
distrihution of relief.
'The House resolved itself into a CornHon. Mr. DAVIS-What ahould be done
-mittee of the Whole on Bill No. 85, An Act
in a case of that kind, if tbere are two or
respecting Seed Grain, Fodder and other
more stores in the village where the relief
relief.
is to be given, these people should go around
(In the Commit'tee.)
and submit a list of what they wanted, or
what is proposed to, be given, and the
'On clause 1:
There
have pover lowest tender should be accepted.
-1. The Governor ln Council shall
that case, but
to provide for the purchase. sale, and distribu- would be some check in
tion during the year 1915 among such farmners where they are told to go to a certain store~
and settiers in the said provinces of Alberta and .-et $40 worth of goods, the poor settler
and Saskatchewanl as apply for the samne, of
get $20 worth for bis $40 if
iseed grain, fodder for animais, and other goods would probably
by way of relief, in such quaritities and upon the profits were anything like we hiear about
I4uch terme as to the taking of security for the in commiîttees in the other House.
repayment of the cost oot seed grain, fodder, and
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Is the amount that
other goode by way of relief so supplied, as
shail appear necessary, or proper.
is distributed as relief charged up ag-ainst
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Could the hion. tise person who gets it?
leader give us any idea how much money
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I so underis to, be expended under this legislation' stand. .I would refer my lion. friend
Hon. Mr, LOUGHEED-Yes, the total to the *memorandum b.etween the Govexpendîture will be about ten and a haîf ernment of Saskatchewan and the Domillionf; in the vicinity of three million for minion on 'the second page, and lie
will Vhere see what has rbeen agreed
relief, and the balance for seed grain.
between the provincial treasurer of the proHon. Mr. WATSON-Could the lion. geni- vince and the Minister of the interior, first
tleman tell us what system bas been adopt- " that the Dominion Government will undered in regard to the relief?
take the distribution of seed grain, and relief
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cannot exactly other than seed grain, to homesteaders on
The patented and unpatented lands alike, and
indicate that to my hion. friend.
Mounted Police were charged with report. in accordance with their necessities, and
ing ail cases of want, so far as tbey could within the area descrihed as the drouthpossibly >ascertain , to officers at different strieken area,- etc., and the subsequent
points, and these officers were charged with clause in this provision as to how that lien
furnishing people wbo -%ere in wvant, such will operate upon patented lands and as
relief as they required. I do not know that against mortgagees.
any liard and fast system ivas adopted.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-There is really no
'1?here must be a certain amiount of latitude
charity. None of this money has been disin such cases to aid settiers under the unas charity.
fortunate conditions that were so prevalent tributed
±hroug-hout those provinces.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understandi not.
I understand, without stating it with any
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I understand that
that owing to the wide
parties were giv'en a free hand, where this great positiveness, of want, the systemn was
area of the district
relief wvas aiven out, to go to storekeepers
of these settiers securing their
aud give orders. 0f course. the storekeepers adopted
stores, or as
my lion. friend's party requirements fromn their own
-who wvere in liue with

evidence, in mY view. to grant an applica-ion for divorce, than seems to satisfy my
bon. friend.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-There is no possibility
of proroguing next week.
The SPEAKER-The motion is that this
report be taken into consideration tomorrow at the second- sitting.
The motion was agreed: to.

Hon. :Mr. MUTRPHY.

MARCH 31, 1915

near their own vicinity as possible. That
was adopted as far as possible.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I have heard that
the distribution of relief took somewhat of
a wide scope and without any particular
authority. I do not know whether I arn
correct, but I understand there is a bunch
of accounts, $800,000, sent in, without. any
knowledge as to how the money was distributed, but it was ail done-by some immigration agent in the West without any
authority.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Who is head of
the Immigrant Branch in Winnipeg?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Bruce Waiker.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand
znost of the work has been done under his
He was an appointee of the
supervision.
late Government and one of its stalwart
supporters, still we have had confidence in
him to carry out this scheme of assistance.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I understand that
last f ail, when an election wvas talked of by
somie of the hon. gentleman's coileagues, one
of them went west and practically told the
people they could have everything they
wanted ont there.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That has been denied over and over again.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-And this gentleman
was instructed to distrfbute charity to the
extent o! 5800,000 wîthout people knowing
anything about it.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Was there not a limit
to the amount to be given to each famiiy?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It was just the
immediate needs of the family.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-And that wili bie a lien
on their propezty wqhen they get the patent.
It was giv-en as a boan not as a gi!t.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
DAVIS-If the Government were
Hon. M.Nr.
to loan them $40 they would be muchi better
off because they wouid have the money.
When you give them *an order on the storekeeper for $40 they do not -et value.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They were not
bound to takze the order we gave them.
DAVIS-That was a poor way
Hon. M-Nr.
to assîst theni. If it were charity I couid
understand it. You have to give them the
rnoney; you have to give it to the storekeeper; if you had done that they could

-

bave got value and c>mpetition and then
You 'have simpiy allowed
pure-hases.
political -friends to prey on those poor people.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-What proportion
does the local Government bear of the cost
of distribution?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The local Government agree to bear the expense of the
central distribution office at Winnipeg, and
of the offices connected therewith for distributing the grain and fodder in connection
with patented lands, and their Government
further undertakes to protect the liens for
seed grain and fodder for animais upnder the
provisions of this Bibl.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The Federal Government undertakes to dispense the relief on
unpatented lands,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, the province
would not have anythinga to do with unpa-tented lands. They have no supervision
over them.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-It seems to me it
would be much more satisfactory if the one
Government, either faderai or local, had
undertaken the distribution o! ail this relief,
because the hion. gentleman knows the mnen
with the unpatented land, and the home-.
steader are ail mixed UP ini the one district
and you have two sets o! offices.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The province
simply acts within its jurisdiction with
respect to patented lands.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. MURPHY, from the committee, reported the Bill without amendment.
THE PRINTING 0F PARLIAMENT.
FIRST REPORT 0F THE COMMITTEE
ADOPTED.

Hon. M.r. DERBYSHIRE prez-ented the
first report of the Joint Committee on the
Prin-ting of Parliament. He said: About
98 per cent of the applications for documents have been rejected, and only about
2 per cent have been printed, so that we
have been cutting down the expense lately.
We have recommended, tha:t only one copy,
in place of two, shall be sent to each member o! Parliament and senator, and that
the secretary will send a duplicate card to
members, se that the miember cani return
one-haîf the card, stating whether he requires eopies, of certain documents in the
future. Under this system. if members do

SENATE

flot desire documents they will not receive tiern. We are going to get it down
to a fine point 'next year. The trouble is
that in another place tîhey moved that rule
74 be suspended, and the documents be
printed in quantities -at once. So that it
passed the. House of Commons, and the
printing is ordered over the heads of the
Printing Committee. We had the Speaker
before the committee this morning, and
he àgre ed, as far as he possibly could, not
to bave the rule suspended, and that any
order for printing should corne before the
cortunittee, and we s'hould have control.
We are -in hopes of cutting expenditure
down next year and saving one hundred
thousand dollars.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn very much
pleased to hear it. 1 did not know the
committee's report emnbodied that conclus ion.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-That cornes ini
another report.
Hon. ',\r. POWEl-It is a step in the
right direction, and I hope the cornmittee
wîll persist in their good work. I think
they ought to submit such work at the
next session o! Parliarnent as will save,
flot one hundred thousand dollars, but a
million dollars.
The motion was agreed te.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill No. 87, An Act for granting te His
Majesty aid for militia and .naval defence.
-Hon. 'Mr. Lougheed.
Bill No. 95, An Act respecting certain
of Domninion notes.-Hon. Mr.
issues
Lougheed.
Bill No. 105, An Act to amend the Governrnent Railways Act, and to authorize
the purchase of certain railways.-Hon.
Mr. Lougheed.

That the said ruling be flot accepted by the
Senate.
The questÀon of concurrence being put there-

on.

The House divlded, and the namnes being
cafled for, they were taken down as follow-

"«Contents -- that is that said ruling be
accepted-"« 21; Non Contents, 31, so it
was resolved in the negative." That is, as
every hon. gentleman knows, directly contrary to the f act. The way in which His
Honour put the question 1 amn not finding
any fault with, and I wjsh it to be understood that I amn not in any sense criticising
or finding fault with His Honour's action.
The question as put by the Speaker was
" That the decision of the Speaker be sustained,- and that was the one as to which
the affirmatives were not equal to the negatives. I suppose it is unneCeSsary to say
that this entry will be corrected in the
Minutes. If iA is necessary, I shall move
that the Minutes be corrected so as to show
whiat actually took place. The hion. the
leader of the Governmient will second that, 1
presunie.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I think what my
hion. friend states is correct, that is how I
understood it. I remember the motion of
His Honour the Speaker was that the rulingc be sustained.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Surely there is no
question about the fact.
The SPEAKER-As the hion. gentleman
says, the motion I put was that the ruling
be sustained and it is entered here that
the ruling be not accepted.
-Hon. Mr. MURPHY-While His Honour
the Speaker is looking up the record I beg
to call attention to the tact that one namne
appears as voting both ways, -"David."
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-One
should be "Davis."
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock
*to-day.

AN ERROR IN THE MINUTES.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Befdre the bouse adjourns there is a matter to which 1 wish
~Second Sitting.
*
to caîl attention, and I particularly ask
hion. the leader of the
the attention of the
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
It will bE*o'clock.
Goverrent to this matter.
remernbered that yesterday aiternoon 1 waE
Routine proceedingas.
regretfully compelled to appeal frorn a de.
cision of His Honour the Speaker, and thal
0F SENATE EM-%PLOYEF.
rny appeal wvas sustaîned by a vote o! 31 LRESIGNATION
thii
1.NQUIRY.
to 21. When I look at the Minutes
rnorning I find the follo'wing:
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think it is proper
The Honourable Mr. Power appealed to th, at this stage to ask if His Hon. the Speaker
Senate fromn the ruling off His Honour thE haS received a communication frorn one of
Speaker.

Hon. '.\r. DERBYSHIRE.

MNARCH 31, 1915
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL-There is nothing
to discuss; the resignation is before us.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I inove in arnend-ment to the motion that this matter be'
taken up concurrently with item 5 in the
report of the Cornrittee on Internai Economy.
The amendment was declared losi, and
is the original motion was agreed to on a
division.

the staff tendering his resignation as a
clerk. This matter cornes up in our report,
which is on the Order of the Day, and I
have reason ta think-that the gentleman
concerned bas sent in bis resignation, and
it would be niuch better to amend the report iby saying that his resignation bas
been accepted.
The SPEAKER-I do not
time for that yet.

tbink

it

Hon. Mr. POWER-I tbink tbat is a proper inqUiTy.

THIRD READING.

Bill No. 79, An Act authoriz ing extension
The SPEAKER-lt is an inquiry on your of time to Insurance Companies.-Hon.
part.
Mr. Lougheed.
The SPEAKER presented a letter from
CRIMINAL CODE ACT AMENDMENT
the Clerk ai the House tendering the resigBILL.
nation of Adolpb D. Caron.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-Daes
it require a motion that that resignatian
be accepted? It vould be better as suggested hy the chairman of the committee,
'that tbe committee should accept the resignation, I move that the resignation ai
Adahphi D. Caron he accepted.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I second tbe motion.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Is this the same
youngc gentleman -wbo is mentioned in the
report ai tbe Committee on Internai Econamy? If so I tbink the matter shouhd
stand until we came ta that item.
Han. Mr. POWER-Na, tbe Senate can
accept the resignation.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-The report ai
the Commiittea an Internal Ecomy No. 5
says that the servi-ces ai Mr. Caron be dispens.ed with, and I would like ta bave tbe
inatter stand until -we carne ta that item
in the report.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The han. gentleman
can diseuss it just as welh naw.
CHOQUETTE-There can be
Hon. M-Nr.
no abjection ta waiting until the report 'bas
been considered. Surely this motion is nat
go ing ta be 'pressed before the report is considered. I see na reason why the time ai
the House should be taken up discussing
this matter twice.
Hon. 'Mr. WATSON-When the ban. senator for Halifax inquired, be was told by
His Honour the Speaker that it was not ithe
proper time or place ta deal -with the matter. There is a motion befare the Hause,
and it shouhd be disposed ai.

REPORTED FROMI COMMITTEE.

The House resolved itself into a Committee of the W-hole on Bill No. 74, An Act ta
amend the Criminal Code.
Hon. '-%r. DANDURAND-We were discussing the copyright hast evening w'hen
the committee rose. If the House is agreeable to zny suggestion I wauld ask that theorder be discharged, and that it be placed
on the 'Orders af the Day for to-morrowmorning. That would give me more tirne
ta prepare the information I arn desirous
of presenting.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Ina2much as the
Order Paiper is rather short of business, I
suggest that we dispose of the other clauses
of the Bill this aiternoon and ahlow the
copyright clauses to stand until to-morrow.
On clause 2:
2. The Criminal Code, chapter 146 of the
Revised Statutes of Canada, 1906, la amnended
by inserting the following section immediately
alter section '75:
Il75Sa. Every one la guilty af an indiotable
offence and liable to two yeara' imprisonment
who incites or assists any subject of any forelgn atate or country at war with His Majesty
to leave Canada, if the circumnstances af the
case do flot exelude the possibility that asistance ta the enemy is an intended abject in his
sa leaving Canada, and if such inciting or assisting do flot amnount ta treasan."

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Han gentlemen
wiih remember hast night it was considered
that the latter part of the clause alter the
word " Canada " seemed somewhat Obscure. I have taken the rnatter up with
the Parliamenta'y Counsel and he bas suggested an amendmnent ini lieu of 'the language suggested hast night and which. reads
as folhows:

SENATE

282

the possession of a man ooming from St.
Pierre-Miquelon, he mnay have tao prove haow
it came into his possession.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Do I understand
that a iman accused of -having committed
treason should present 'bis defence ta that
Hon. Mr. POWER-That is about the accusation as early as possible in the trial'
same thing.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There seems ta
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If we strike out be some nisconception as ta this. If we
ail the WOrdg without substituting any- strike out those wards and leave the clause
thing, then we nonstitute an offence which. as suggested, we would be creating an ofsnay be an offence technically, but rwhich fence unknown to the Iaw, and mig'ht bear
inay not -be one in substance. It seems ta very unjustly on many innocent and deIt might !ne a commendme the additions -as suggested will complete serving persn.
the definition of the offence, and at the able act for some one ta assist an alien ta
same time throw upon the accused the leave Canifda. . There is no law against
anus of showing tbat he bhas nat cammitted that at the present time, except by proclamation.
the affence with which he was charged.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-There ought ta be.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Under British law
is supposed ta be innocent beevery man
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Criminal
fore he is proved guilty. This proposition Code makes provision under section 74system of
is sirnply uprooting the whole
and 'this is the closest approach ta the ofcriminal law in Canada, which is one of fence in question-that it shall be an act
the best systeins on earth. We are asking ot treasan ta assist any public enemy at
the man ta prove h.is innocence befare the war with His Majesty by any means whatCrown proves he is guilty.
ever. The phraseology is broad.
Hon. Sir MÂCKENIE BOWELL-If the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And it is go-od.
bon. gentleman will consult -the C-ustains
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We 'have ta de,and Inland Revenue Acts he will find that
since -the
if a man is accused'csf having violated the fine this particular offence which publio atwar bas boeen obtruded upan the
is ta show that he is nat guilty.
law he
tention. An alien sxJbject in Canada xnight
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That iEr another rea- wish ta go to the United States for the purbe
son why that prineiple of Iaw should not
pose of living with his family, or assisting
W]yerated in this country. Why ,should the his family, and might receive assistance
Government caîl upan a man ta prove his tram some one in Canada for that purpose.
innocence befare the state bas pTaved his Such an act as that which I have just autguiltP I arn simply registering a protes3t.
lined would -be an offence under this Bill,
MACKENZIE BOWELL-I ar, provided we strike out the words which we
Hon. Sir
imonly cailing- attention ta the statement the discussed last night, and it seems ta me
hbon. gentleman made, that no such law perative that we shauld define what conflot
existed. If the lion. gentleman will consult stitutes the offence. The affence is
that 1 amn right.
in assisting an alien subject whose
simply
the law he -will sec
country is at war with Canadata leave
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is the rnost non- Canada, but the motive or abject which the
sen&icûal provision ever placed in the persan extending such assistance bas in
statutes.
view in so doing- constitutes the offence.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I amn quite ini *There,fore, it would camne within this class
accord with the hon. gentleman froni Vic- of case wvhih I have described in 'the arntoria Division in opposition to that clause *endment, namely, that the persan accused
It is cantrary ta ahl principles of British?a nay prove that assistance to the enerny
could not passibly have 'been intended, and
law ta say that a man -accused of
should prove his innocence. Th4 that such inciting or assisting does flot
crime
hon.- gentleman tram Hastings has studiec amoun't ta treason.
the Customs law, but there is a great dit e Hon. MT. POWER-I do not sec that this
ference between suoh, a case and the aon suggested aniendment makes the slightest
s
we are dealing with now. 'When a man i. echang-e in the meaningc af the clause. The
his possession h
caughit with the goods in
d clause in the Bill whi4ch we differed about
may 'be asked ta prove that he bas pai Il is:
'the duty on thei, or if liquor is found ix
IlStriking out that part of clause after the

word l'Canada" in the.twelfth line, anid inserting the folowing words:
Unieis the pereon aocused can prove that
amistance té the eflemy could not possibly have
been intended, and provlded that such inclting
or assisting do flot amount ta treason."

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MARCH 31, 1915

2.
283

flot exIf the circumnstances of the case do
clude the possibility that assistance
enemny la intended.

Hon.
crime.

Mr.

LOUGHEED-That

any one who acts, incites or assists any
to the one te leave Canada who is not provided

is

the

Hon. Mr. POWER-The circumstance
.xnust exclude the possibility. The amendment says: "Unless the person accused
can prove that assistance te the eniemy could net possibly have been intended," whidh is the same thing-plus
ou change, plus c'est la -même chose. I do
not say this would cover the whole ground,
but if the hon. leader of the Gevernmenit
-wilI make il read this way I think it will
be better: " Unless the person accused can
prove that assistance te the enemy 'was net
intended." If he proves it was net intended that weuld be sufficient. I meve it be
amended 'by inserting the words: "Was net
intended " after the vord "enemy."
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-WVhen we were
discussing that clause last night 1I suggested it would be perfect legislation if we
stop at the word " Canada "--every foreigner whese country is at war wîth Canada is
prohibited from leaving the country.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would net say
the proclamation goes as far as that.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-That is my recollection e! it.

with permission.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It amuses me to see
the position this.hon. Senate and Parliament har, 4aken with regard te a war measure.- I. al this a war -measure. We have
s0 .much charity and consideration for the
aliens whlo are at 'war with Canada that
we want to help them. I would Iike te imagine the Kaiser standing up in the Reichstag and listening to members cf that body
demanding protection for Englishmen or
Irisbmen. .Here
is the Senate actually
asking for protection on behalf of the German Empire. That is the effect cf it when,
you look closely inta the facts, and the
people cf Canada know it. This law says
that it must .be proved that he is leavingnet with the intention of fighting against
the British Empire, %but going on a peaceis
fui mission. I put no trust in the declaration cf any foreigner, ne matter hoW high
he may be in social or eVher positions. As
the hon. senator for Ottawa has said, if
there is some unebjectiona:ble object in
view, why not say ta these people that they
must go ta the judge cf the district and
obtain permission ta leave the country. 1
remeinber stating in Âugust last, ten days
alter the war broke out, Vhat ne man should
leave tb.is country te join the ar.my of the
enemy, and if he did se he, should be shot
if he tried ta return. Thaît declaratien did
net meet with the approval of certain members of the press in the West whicli are, 1
think, centrolled by German interests.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is hew it eug'ht
te be.
Hon. 'Ar. BELCOURT-It is contrary ta
the laws of Canada for a foreigner whose
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Carried.
country is at -war with Canada te leave the
country. If such a loreigner la going ta
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-What is carriedleave Canada he must get an exeat.
Yeu cannet suppress *this discussion by
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My recollection saying "'carried." I say that the suggesis that the proclamation provides that an tion made by the hon. senator fromn Ottainterned allen enemy cannot leave Canada wa is well 1founded and should -be accepted.
without an exeat.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-The enly ebjecHon. Mr. BELCOURT-No foreigner tien I find with the clause is the first words
whose country is at wear with Canada can of the amendment: - Unless the person acleave -vithout permission. This law 15 in- cused can prove." I quite agree with my
tended te prevent any one from inciting or hon. friend frein Ottaiwa that we should
assis'ting- a foTreigner te leave Canada. Un- drop ai in the clause aflter the word "standless the person who is leaving Canada has ingu." By doingy that you will create the
obtained permission he la doing- semething offen ce.
agaainst the laws of Canada.
Hen. Mr. LOUGHEED-By doing what?
lion. Mr. CLORAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-By taking eut
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-If you add te a]1 the werds after ",Canada." Then the
law will stay as it is now, and it will be for
that the words whic'h my hon. friend pro- the Crewn te prove criminal intent.
poses you simply destrey the legîslation. I
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I do net agree
would lîke te see a provision which would
make it illegcal and su!bject te a penalty fer with .my hon. friend. If this phrase is

284

SENATE

that he has
struck out and the Act sirnply remains as tion to satisfy the authoritiesupon the perwe have it naw in the first part, "Every a right ta leave. It ail turns
the gist of the
one is guilty of an indictable offence who mission to leave. That is who wishes to
Crown Attor- whole thing and the person
incites"- etc., then once the
ney establishes the fact that assistance leave can get permission.
- uthwte
o.M.LUHE
wvas given, or incitement had been made, the
thow the
germissoUe
rf LOUti
on. o
case 'would be coxnplete for the Crown. and
etngpriinbfrehycn
I say iny 'bon. friend is in error becauseanso
We say any one has a right
the Crown would. simply be limited ta estab- leave Canada.
ta leave Canada provided
thie fact that there was assistance. to assist an alien for the purpose of assist-lishing
hie is not doing it
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Every transport- ing that alien subjeot ta help the enerny.
ation company would thus be liable for asHon. Mr. BELCOURT-MY hion. friend
sisting an alien enemy to the boundary.
mysoif do not agree upon that point.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-That is quite and
Hon. Mr. ROCHE-I think nothing ought
raised as ta the
right. The question was
the protection any
proclamation, and I 'will 'read ta the coin- to be done ta remave general law. There
what that proelamation provides subject enjays under the
mittee
is enaugh attempt ta prove criminality
for:
any such law. I know that conThat ail persans in Canada, Germnan or Aus- withaut latitude aughlt ta be given ta the
trian or Austrian-luflgariafl officers, soldiers,
or reservists who attempt ta leave Canada.
All subjects off the German Empire or off the
Austra-Hungarian monarchy in Canada wvho
attempt ta leave Canada, and in regard ta wiiam
there is a reasonable ground ta believe that
their attempted departure is with a view ta
assist the enemy. and
off the
Ail subjecte off the German Empire or
Austro-Hungarian monarchy in Canada engaged
or attemptîng to engage in espionage or acts of
a hostile nature, or giving or attemptlng ta
or
give Information ta tbe enemy, or assisting on
attempting ta asslat the enemy, or who are
reaisonable grounds suspected of doing or attempting ta do any such -acte; be arrested and
detained.

siderable
Governinent in detaining or arresting- suspected persans in war turne, but the legislature -ought ta be careful in interfering
with the protection which is thrown around5
with
acquainted
Everybody
civilians.
Iri-sh history knows how such righlts and
powers have been exercised against civilians. Every protection which the law gives
to the private individual should be conserved, and before a civilian is charged with
a cri minai act h e should be protected, and
his rights, privileges and immunîties ought
ta be preserved. My haon. friend Hon. Sir

has stated a parallel case,
Now if any such persan wishes ta leave Mackenzie Bowell,ta state. a case where the
ail hie has ta do is te go and I amn gaing
Canada,
exercised an arbitrary authorta the praper authorities and submit Governinent
and ity and campelled an innocent individual
his case, and obtain permission,
right ta the possession of arneither he nar the transportation cern- ta prove bis the excise or custois authoriliable if lie abtains permis- ticles. When
panýy will -be
against a persan, the burden of
sien.- Whether permission is got before the ties proceed upen the individual charg-ed.
proof rests
prosecutian or after the prosecutiani. it
is very oneretis. I
would be a complete defence. I take it and that sometimnesof injustice in my own
view is ta pre- want to cite a case
that the abject we have in
was perpetrated by saine
vent anybody leaving Canada for the pur- knowledge wbich in the departient of the
of assistinga the enemy.' It is very of the underlings
pose
when hoe was 'Minister of
easy for anybody who -wishes ta leave lion. gentleman
I had advanced saie .money
Custains.
it.
Canada without such intent ta prove
upani a number of cases of oilclath which
Hon. Mr. LO17ITGEED-We have net yet liad been passed threugli the customns by
anything in the Bill about assisting the the party who had irnported theni. They
were ail of ane kind and could net be disenerny. That is the offence.
the other. The cusHon. Mr. BELCOURT-I understand tinguished one frein
ta pretect persans toms officiais found that duty had nat been
my hion. friend wishes
paid upon the grass arnount. These very
who wish ta leave.
an were iniffrenc isarticles I advanced the money did net reHon.Mr.LOLGEEDThe
cluded, but the Customn Huse
ifeec
EDT
re
ineton.
on.
the full amount of duty upon ail the
in te itenton.ceive
persan se articles of ether shipinent, and they were
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-That
ernissarios cf
assisting bas a complete answer if the confiscated, and ene of the
swear
who is leaving Canada is ýn a pesi- 1the Governiinent took the trouble te
persan
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

NIARCH 31, 1915

that these articles were im.ported and had
not paid duty, and that I knefw they vere
smugg1ed ânto the country. Being en
offieer of the Crown, flhey belîeved. lm, and
I lest my money, and the Government confiscated these articles and put into the
public revenue part of the noney that
,was filched from me. The liberty of the
subject should not be infringed upon and
the underlings of the Goternment and the
hired spies who niay find out sorne case
and bring a man up and levy blackmail
againat him should not be encouraged and
we should in every way protect the righits
which the subject enjoys under the laws of
England and the laws of allegiance to the
Sovereign.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If any of
the irnported packages were nlot enumerated in the invoice, the law declares, without any intervention on the part of the
department, that they were absolutely f orfeited. I do not know the circumstances,
but I amn sirnply stating the law.
Hon. Mr. MeSWEENEY-The whole shipment should be forfeited.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No, no,
not the whole shipment, only the articles
that were not enumerated in the invoice.
Whether that was the case or nlot, I do flot
know, but I think if the matter were properly investigated such would be found to
be the fact. If the hon. gentleman would
like to have the matter inquired into, let
him move for a return although it may
have happened about thirty 3rears ago if
there is any decision renderd by me I yenture the assertion that lt, was correct and
according to law.
Hon. Mr. ]ROCHE-The lion, gentleman
had the law on his aide.
The CHAIRMAN-This discussion is not
relevant.
Hon. Mr. BEIQU-I should like to inquire frorn the leader of the Government as
to what his interpretation is in the proviso which says that -"unless a person can
prove that assistance to the eneiny was not
intended." Is it assistance by the person
accused or by the party who leaves the
country?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-By the person
accused.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It la very ambiguous.
It does not appear that what is contemplated la assistance by the person accsued

or by the person leaving the country.
that should be stated.

And

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It la stated.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It says that unleas a
person can prove that assistance to the
enemy vwas not intended. Does the hon.
gentleman mean assistance by him to the
enemy?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, assistance
to the enemy by the alien subject, because
there would be no presumption that a parson in this country was rendering- assistance
to the enemy.
Hon. Mr. BEIQU[E-I quit*e agree with
the hon. gentleman <Hon. Mr. De Lorimier)
that it would not be proper to strike out al
the words after ."Canada," because then
the Crown would be bound to prosecute a
riurnber of parties who might ha innocent,
and there would be no ineans of relief. We
inuat bear in mind that we are not dealinL,
here with the party wvho la leaving the
country. If we were, 1 would sug-gest tha.t
he. be not allowed to leave the country
unleas he obtains a permît; but we are dealing with a man who may assist a person to
leave the country, and ha may give the
assistance without realizing that he is doing
so, or ha is doing so in such a way as to
creata an offenca, and therefore, if At is
proper to make it a criminal offenca on
his part, At is but right to give him an
opportunîty of explaining his conduct and
sqtisfying the Crown that no offence was
intended by the party ivho is leaving the
country.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-This is a great inprovement on the clauses as printed. My
apprehension la that this may allow any
accused person to geèt out of it very easily,
disposed to take issue on
but I amrn ft
that.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-On reflection I
must say 1 would not be satiafiad with
What has
what 1 proposed last night.
been aaid since has convinced me that it
would not be proper to have a prosecution
the
giving
withoùt
kind
that
of
accused an opportunity of showîng that
he was innocent. What brought that home
to me more particularly was the statemeant
with regard to the transportation cornpany; that opened my mind as te the
falseneas of the position I took last night.
There is one point as to which I do net

SENATE

so cl--ar and plain that there will be no
need of interpretation and explanation.
The duty of the judges is Wo apply the
law as passed by us.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Four lawyers here and
they cannot agree.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Yes, the brightest
geniuses in Canada, some from Quebec,
some from Ontario, and others fromn the
Maritime Provinces and they cannot agree
on the wording of the clause. You make
yourselves ridiculous, and I have been told,
s0 by the judges on the bench.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-It is part of the
game.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-When advocating a
certain case for the Crown or agaînst it I
have been told "vour lau' does not mnean
anything; it is up to the legislature to niake
it clear ." Whiat perplexes nie-and I hope
this will appeal to the Ex-Prime MINinister of
Canada-is the tender care we exercise aiid
We
the charity we feel for the eneniy.
take to our hosomi these citizens of a foreign country at w-ar with Canada and the
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I thought the British Empire.
hon. gentleman from De Balaberry suggested
The CHAIRMÂN-I would caîl the hon.
that it was the person leaving the country. gentlernan's attentionHonl. Mr. LOUGHiEED-No, it is the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The chairman bas no
person who incites or assists.
right to interfere.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-The hon. gentleThe CHAIRMAN-The hon. gentleman is
man fromn De Salaberry suggests that we not speaking to the clause before us.
should show that it is only thé party who
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Is the hon. chaîirman
is leaving that has the intention of doing
the judge of that?
something hostile.
The CHAIRMNAN-Yes.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The bon. leader of the
House taid it, was the intention of the
lion. Mr. CLORAN-I say the cha irmiani
accused that was to be consid2red, and is no judge because I arn speaking tri tie
1 said that it should be so stated.
clause.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-This is an object
The CHAIRMAN-Speak to the clause.
Just imagin3 a body of
lesson to me.
H-on. Mr. CLORAN-It is up te the chairlegisiators divideJ. on a simple question
man to have intelligence enoughl to uiiderof the construction of a clause which is
Wobe inserted in the Criminal Code. Here stand it. I am speaking to the clause and
are the brightast geniuses in the land 1 arn saying that tîjis Parlianient bas no
of
divided on the point at issue. M'bat about right under this Bill to protect the enemyv
the poor judge in the -country? If theýse the country.
hon. gentlemen cannot get together on the
The CHAIRMAN-Go on.
qu8stion, how do you expect the judg-es of
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have a rigit- to
the land to. get together on the interpretation and application of the law? What speak and neither the chairman nor the
can stop mie. I aiii
is the use of placing on the statute-book a hon. gentlemen opposite
talking on behaîf of the British Empire.
law so involved that even gentlemen of
th_- House do not understand it, and then We are establishing a new principle in the
expee-t the po-or country judge, or even the administration of justice and what is the
enlightened judge in the Supreme Court Wo new principle? Under the present Crimiinal
interpret and apply it? Make your laws Code of Canada, brought over from England,
Hon. .Mr. BELCOUERT.

agrae either with him or the hon. gentleman who has just spoken, and that is
that the provision must be himited,-unless
the person can prove that assistance to
the enemy could flot possibly be intended.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We are striking
out the words "could -not possibly have
been" and inserting the words "was flot."
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-It would, be
provide that the guilty intention,
wrong Wo
or the intention to do harm, is limited
to the person who is leaving, otherwi8e
if you put those words in you would have
this anomalous position, that a person
inciting or assisting with a guilty knowledge, or the intention of helping the enemy
could get off. He would say, "WVell, there
It is true I
is no offence against me.
kn3w he was going to help the enemy, but
you have Woprove intention on the part of
the man who is going, and not the man
assisting. That is the last thing- we want
to do.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is th~e person
in Canada who would be accused.

,%fARCH 31, 1915

.

287

MARCH 31, 191~
287
contention was - Well, they went ta the
a man cornnits a crime-murder, theit, rabbery, incendiarism, or sornething ai that United States; they are not going ta Gerkind. A complaint is ladged and a warrant many," " tbey are flot going ta Austria ta
" They are
is issued for bis arrest. In the case ai theit fight the British Empire."
the ofiender is brougbt before the courts ai simply strange&s, tbey helong ta Italy ox
the county and the polite question is put Roumania," and that is the defence put up
tao him, "Are yau guilty ai having stolen by those.men. Under this clause these men
$5,000 or $100 fram this persan or that in- woulcf be perectly iree ta do what they are
stitution." The answer of- the accused is doing, sexiding mnen o>ut of Canada aver ta
yes or no. If be says I ain guilty, the work Austria, Hungary and Germany ta fight the
ai the Crawn is done, and the judge applies British Empire, and the law says, well, if
the law -and imposes the penalty prescribed. yau can prove they had no intention of
If the accused says "I amn nat guilty," it is going there, ail right. The only praoi is
up ta the Crown ta prove that he stole tbe that they leave for the UJnited States, and
money and thus cammitted a crime against when 'there they are free ta go elsewhere.
the law. When the Crown has cornpleted Cases ai that kind have occurred in the
its proof, then it is tbe right ai the accused city of Montreal, where passenger and
ta prove that hè did flot steal the money. It steamship agents have gat numbers af men
is all a question ai proal; there is no pro- to leave this cauntry under false pretences,
vision in any clause ai the criminal law, and they are going ta be encouraged and
cavering any crime sgainst the crirninal la,
protected by the provisions af this clause.
wherein it is enacted that you are guilty Yau are dealing with a question beyond
af an offence unless yau can prove your yaur, shall 1 say, comipetency, because *most
good intentions. That is absurd. If the hon. genflemen have not been in the
clauses nowv before the House were added criminal courts in this land, and do not
ta ail the clauses ai the Criminal Code, what know how the law is administered, or how
wauld it amaunt ta? It wauld be simply the bench bas ta deal with these questions.
the annihilation ai the criminal law. I say, inake your law s0 clear and distinct
Suppasing it was provided tbat a man who that a judge will have no difficulty in applytook another person's goods ta the extent ing the Iaw. I agree with the hon. member
af $100 sbould be guilty ai a crime unless lie from Grandville <Hon. Mr. Chaquette) and
did it for the benefit af same other party Ottawa <Hon. Mr. Belcourt), men who are
or without the intention of stealing: tbat brought up in this line ai business, and who
proposition is absurd an the face ai it. Thisý ought tc, be informed, that the first part af
The
clause under discussion says that a man is the clause is ail that is necessary.
guilty unless he can prove that it was nlot other part is simply a German provision
his intention in leaving the country ta put in by some German spy in the Governassist the enelny. In a case ai this kind ment, and is against the fundamental
-what has the Crawn ta do? All the accused principle of the Criminai Code. I arn
has ta do is ta say " I did nat leave Canada sorry to have to inake these remarks.
-te go ta Gerrnany tao fight the British but the situation farces nme ta do
I arn here in the interests of
Empire." Every persan accused wvill swear Sa.
that, and what are you going ta do? Would Canada and the Empire, and I will affard
yau trust them? No, trust none ai themn. no protection ta the enemy under any preIf a fareigner wants ta leave Canada under text. Intern ail fareigners until they are
stress ai war, let him go before the praper able ta prove their right ta leave the
authority and prove his case befare he country. I trust none ai thern.
leaves, and not prove his case when he is
The clause was allowed ta stand.
arrested. All he has ta do is ta swear - 1
Hon. 'Mr. I)AVIS-I wish ta inove that
did nat leave Canada far the purpase ai clause 357a as it appeared in the Carnnons
fighting the British Empire." He would be form be reinstated in thîs Bill. It was
a foal if he sware ot.herwise, sa that the struck out in the Commons. It reads as
pravisa in this law would be an absurdity fallows:
and shauld not be accepted by the Parlia3. The following section is inserted Imninement ai Canada. Iu Mantreal cases bave diately after sectian 357:
'357a. Âny persan who sells or agrees ta sel
been before the court where labour agents,
any
travelling agents, and athers have sent a land or flot a interest in land ta which he knowF.
good titie free fram encumnbrance,
he bas
mnan acrass the barder ta the United States, and receives the purchase maney or any part
and when these agýents -%vere arrested their thereaf and withaut lawful excuse does not

apply the money so recelved by hlm In lJrOor djscharge
curing a good titie or in reduction
of encumbrances against the sald land or inIndictable offence
tereet In land, la guilty of an
and Hiable to three years'orIniprisonnment.for sale
agreemnent
"2. Where such sale
la made by a body corporate. every director,
efficer, agent and ernployee of the company who
i<nowingiy takes part In any offence within thse
provisions of this section ahall be Hable ot the
penalty berelibefore prescribed."
ln our country-and I -arn sure there is
any arnount of people have suffered froni it

-ibt lias been a habit of people to get a
piece of land, *rnake a &amailpaymrent on
it, and then seil iportions of it, ansd pocket
the proceeds, and after a while people who
hold the encurnbrance against the land take
-possession of the land, and the purchasers
of the lots are sîvindled. If a person lias an
encurnbered piece of land and selîs any
portion of it ail hie hias to do is to take the
money hie receives to assist in paying off the
encumbrance, and lie is free f rom the provisions of this clause. There is more necessity for this provision than for the two
provisions respecting copyrighlts. In the
other case we are protecting foreig-ners, and
in this case we are protecting our own
people.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I rnight say that
every consideration was given to this clause
when it was proposed in the Hou se of
Commons. It was introduced by Mr. McCraney, the rnerber for Saskatoon, and
upon the fullest discussion taking place in
the House, it was ascertained that, wvhile
the object was cornmendable the Bill could
not be practically applied. For instance,

early days rnost of tise town sites were
owned by the Canada Northwest Land Co-pany, and there were ]and bond issues
against these lands, and only agreernents of
sale were given to the purchased. In due
course when the purchaser made his payinents, and sometirne atter hie cornpleted
thern, a .release was obtained from the
trustees who held the lands in trust for the
bondholders, and a good titie was made. Of
course abuse hias arisen as to putting lands
on 'the rnarket by parties subdividing thiein
into town lots and selling thern without any
guarantee behind thein, without credit,
without responsibility, so to speak, and
therefore were unable to make good titie to
purchasers upon completion of payrnent.
Thiat is the difficuity that confronted the
Commons, and I arn informed the promotor
of the clause, Mr. McCranev, saw it woffld
ftot be feasible to give practical application
to the idea lie had in view, and the cliiistz
wvas withidrawn.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Another very
serious objection is that if ail the rnoney
corning in under these ag-reernents mitst be
ap.plied to completing the titie, it would prevent the using of that money for the purpose of irnproving the property, which manifestly would flot be a desirable thing.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS: They neyer use any of
the money that cornes in to improve the
property. If a rnan sels a horse that lie
hias no titie to, he will be put in jail. If
hie selîs anything that does not belong to
hirn, hie is put in jail. Why should these
loan companies and rdilway companies wlio
railway cornpanies, trust companies, loan carry on high finance be ailowed to do
cornpanies and other large corporations that sornething which an individual cannot do?
had lands, and not had clear title, the lands If these high finance companies seli soniebeing covered say by land debentures or thing to the public and put the money ils
other encumbrances, would thus be pre- their pockets and have bonds againist thie
cluded frorn selling those lands. The object property, I do not think that it is lionest.
which tise promotor of the Bill had in view The ordinary farmer goes to a railway
was a very laudable one. Nobody could or loan cornpany, buys a farrn, and they
question the desirability of crystalizing it take his rnoney and put it in their treasury,
into law if it could be done in a practical but they can give no title to the property,
way, but my hion. friend can uncterstand because there are bonds against ït. He lias
that lands owned by very responsible parties to stay on the.-land. and hie rnay improve
who are quite capable of gîving tities, nîay it, and perhaps they can never give hinm a
be placed upon the mnarket, and yet owing title.
Nobody should be allowed to sel
to certain charges against the land, such for anything that hie can not give a titie to,
instance as land bonds, and other chrrges nor should a railway corporation, a trust
of that kind, it would be impossible to make company or a bank. I claini this is good
,any disposition of the property. They *legaisiation.
would be brought with-n the Act. Perhaps I
a
is
.Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-There
could better cite by way of illustration the
difference between a man huyiig
Pacifie Railway which imarked
case of the Canadian
man buying a piece of real
originally issued land bonds. M\y lion a horse and a
estate.
friend will doubtless remember that in the
Hon. Nir. DAVIS.

MARCH 31, 1915

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I cannot see it.

Every one is guilty of an Indictable offence
and liable to a penalty net exceeding $100 and
costs and In default ef payment te imprisen-

no nient, etc.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I think that ail discussion on this clause should be omitted
from the debates unless we reject the clause.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I neyer heard of
The committee divided on the amendto chattels, but
any means of resting a titie
if a inan buys a piece of property, and if ment, which was rejected on the folhowing
he wants to know that- the vendor has a division:
good titie, there is a way of finding that
Contents, 13; non-contents, 13.
out, but if I own a horse and somebody
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I ask for a recount.
else tries to seli it, it is a crimînal offence
to seil chattels belonging te other people.
The CHAIRMAN-There can be ne rehave
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-If you seli chattels count after a decision and members
that do not belong to you it is an offence, leit the Chamber.
and if you seli real estate that belong-s te
The cenimittee divided on the motion for
another.it is ne offence.
the adoption of the clause, wvhich was reon the following- vote:
Hon. Mr. POWER-I propose to vote for jected
the aniendrncînt moved by the hon. gentleCont-nts, 13; non-contents, 13.
maxn froîn Prince Albert. If the lion. memHon. Mi. LOUGHEED-That would mean
ber in thxe otixer liouse wlio introduced this
8,
not to press that the other clauses following, viz, 6, 7,
Bill concluded thiat it was wiser
which are cenditional lipon 2-99a, necessarily
the mieasure, 1 do not think w~e should
faîl with 229a. I move that these clauses
attenipt to contravene his wishes.
be stricken eut.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I do not think the hon.
The motion vvas ag-reed to.
menîber whe introduced the Bill had anyThere
its withdrawal.
thing to do with
Hon. Mr. POWER-The chair-man asked
was an outrageous lobby put up by the a question as te whether it is desired that
Canadian Northern and loan cempanies, the discussion on clause 5 be reperted, and
and that is the reason the Bill was with- the hon. gentleman from Victoria division
drawn.
seemed te thînk we could net avoid reporting it. The hon, gentleman should underHon. Mi. CLORAN-Hear, hear.
stand that le, like any other lion, gentleHon. Mi. DAVIS-A committee was man, is amenable te the eiders of the
selected by the House of Gommons to bring Senate. I meve that the debate on clause 5
down certain amendments te -the Crixnina] on this Bihl do net appear in oui debates.
I presuine some of the leadingt
Code.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-When I made the
lawyers in the House of Gommons were
selected on that commîttee. This clause suggestion n few momients ago I anticipated
ivas iinserted, and it was cut out because that the amendment weuld net carry. 1 did
there was a lobby ag-ainst it, and it is net suppose for a moment this House would
these lobbies were reject a clause of thiat description, but it
pretty near tirne
stopped.
has dene se, and as the House is of that
see
The motion wvas lest on division: Con- opinion, I weuld rather the public would dewlîo was the cause of the clause being
tents, 10; non-contents, 14.
feated. I arn in faveur of the clause, hewOn clause 5:
ever, and I do think there was language
5. The following section Is inserted imme- used that should net be published.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-There
way of resting a titie to a horse.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Yes.

is

diately after section 229:.
*229a. Every one is guilty of an indietable
offence and liable te a penalty net exceeding
one hundred dollars and costs and, in default
of pay ment. te imprisonment for a termn not exceediuiq two nmonths or te impriseninent for a
term net exceeding twelve mon-tbs, whe Is an
inrnate of any cemmon bawdy lieuse."

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Abeut five minutes
ago the hon, gentleman fiorn Portage la
Prairie was prepared te have the debate
struck from the report because lie hoped the
clause would carry, new the clause is net
carried and he asked that the discussion
Hon. Mi. POWER-I move to strike out le placed on recerd.
ail after -229a", and insert in lieu thereof
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I arn net asking.
the following:
S-19
EEVI5BD EDITION

SENATE
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Did my hion. friend
say what the rate would bie?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbat will ble deHon. Mr. WATSON-No.
termined iby the Imperial authorities.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Where is the consistThe motion -was agreed to, and the Bill
ency of the position taken by the hon. gen- was read the second time.
tleman froin Portage la PrairieP 1 say
DOMINION NOTES BILL.
whether this clause is passed or not, the
people o! the country are entitled to have
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
every word pronounced in this Senate given
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
ta them, whetber it be good graminar,
broken English or broken French. Our de- reading of Bill No. 95, An Act respecting
bates are reported for that purpose. I amn certain issues of Dominion notes.
He said: Under the legisiation passed in
speaking here, not so much for the benefit
of hon. members, as for the benefit of people Augu st hast, authority wvas given to the
Government of Canada ta issue Dominion
outside the Chamber.
notes for certain eniergency purposes that
The motion was agreed to.
inight arise. The Governinent since that
Hon. Mr. Daniel, iromn the conimittee, tinie, on account of the legisiation which
reported that they hiad made some progreas wa passed iii the first session of 1914, by
of
with the Bill and asked leave to sit agaain. %,ýliel they vere to guarantee the bonds
the Caiiadian Northiern Raihway, and which.
iii who]e through the present -%var have not
WAR APPROPRIATION BILL, 1915.
been negotiated in the markets of Europe,
SECOND READING.
issued to the coimpany ten million dollars
Hon. ',%r. LOUGHEED moved the second in Dominion notes takiing as security therereading of Bihl No 87, An Act for grant- for the securities of this company guaraning te His Majesty aid for naval and mili- teed by the Dominion Governiment to the
tary defence. He said: The object of this par value of twelve and one-hall million
Bill, known as the War Appropriation Act, dollars bearing five per cent interest. There
1915, is ta give authority te the Government was likewise a grant te the Grand Trunk
ta expend $ 100,000,000 on account of the Pacifie of $6,000,000 of Dominion notes upon
war. This may ýbe paid out o! the Cousoli- a hike security of seven and one-hald mildated Revenue Fund as provided -in section lion issued *by that company. The ques2 of the Bill. This, I mighlt say, is in addi- tion bas arisen as to whether the legisiathe $50,000,000 voted by Parlisanent tion of last August authorized the Governtion Wo
in the August session o! hast year. It is con- ment to make these advances in this partemplated that this amounit shaî-l hae ad- tieular way, and this Bill is confirmatotry
vanced out of the xvar fund of £350,000,000 of what the Governmient at that time did.
sterling wvhich bas been raised by the
Hon. 3vMr. BOSTOCK-My lion. friend
Imperial Government. It is proposed that refers te the advance to the Canadian
this boan shahl represent in cost ta the Gov- Northern Railiway made under this legiserniment o! Canada wha{ever it rnay cost the lation. If I understand rightly the questions
Imperial Government.
in thiis House a short
that were~ answeret
agco, this advance only covers what
Hon. Mr. McNiSWEENEY-What is the in- time
xvas necessary te assist the conipany up
terest? Is it 3J per cent?
no inforof thie year.
LOUGHEED-I cannot say at to the end to whether it We have necessary
Hon. MINr.
-%ill be
as
present.niation
any way ta assist the company hater on.
present.in
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-It is 41 per 0f course, I presumne uinder existing- conditions it was necessary for the Governcent.
did in order to
take the
Ho.M.LOUGHEED-The present boan mient ta both the stop they NorthieTn and
Canadian
assis t
nls
pnte
rbd
o n Mr.
the Grand Trunk Pacifie in the 'way miy
norkebin sbspercrient uonteEns
on. friend 'has stated. Il I remamber
~ pa a
markt i cet bn.
Hon. Mr. SWEENEY-The interast on rigahtly, this money is supposed ta be paid
this loan is hess than that. This will cost on the lst May this year. My lion. friand
the Governinent of Canada the sanie rate bas not stated whether that is hikely te <be
that it has cost the -Imperial Governinent carriad out, or whether thiis arrangement
viii 'have ta ha rane-wed in order ta, assist
for the loan o! the 350 million pounds.

.Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The hon. gentleman
bas no objection.

Nr. 'WATSON.
Hon. -.

APRIL 1, 1915
theni further. Possibly my hon. friend can taking therefor the bonds of the two coingive us some information as to whether con- panies guaranteed by the Dominion Govditions in the financial m.arkets of the 'world ernment. I cannot speak as to any resince this loan was made have irnproved serve against the 10 millions to which 1
sufficiently to allow these cosupanies meet- have just referred.
ing these payinents when they fall due.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-The Finance
Witb regard to this question of the new Minister said there was $1,200 000 of a gold
issue, I think the information the oompany reserve -against that 10 million.
had some short time ago was that the GovHon. Mr. DANDURAND-That bas been
ernment might find it necessary to provide for an increase o! the note issue fromn but recently accumulated.
fifty to eigbty miillionçs. 1 pregume from
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-It is accumuwhat my hon. friend said, that the Gov- ]ating every day. 1 presume.
ernment does not consider it necessary at
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I find my hon.
the preserît time, and that 'we should lbe
in a better position financially than we friend is riglit. I find that a gold reserve
would have been if the intention o! the of $1,200,00 has been placed against the
Government, as expressed in an Order in 10 million dollars which '%vas issued for the
Counicil, had been put into effeot. If I retirement of treasury bis.
understand the situation aright we now
The motion w~as agreed to, and the Bill
have a note issue in this country of fifty was read the second and third times, and
million dollars of 'which 25 per ce-nt
passed.
is secured bv a gold reserve, and that
The Senate adjourned until Il a.m. toleaves us Nwith a note issue of $37,500,000
against whichi there is noG gold reserve ilorrow.
and which is a non-secured note issue.
The anîount of the note issue in the years
when the late Government carne into power
stood at 20 million dollars, with a reserve
THE SENATE.
o! 25 per cent, which. left 15 millions at
Thursday, April 1, 1915.
The
unsecured.
that tiîne which .was
since
country has progressed very materially
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eleven
that time. Later on, before the late Gov- o'clock.
ernment went out of power, they raised
Prayers and routine proceedings.
the note issue from 20 million tq 30 million
dollars. Last August, on accounit o! the CIVIL SERVICE AND THE BILINGUAL
condition of affairs whichi was brought
SOHOOL QUESTION.
*
about by the wvar, we raised the issue froin
INQUIRY.
30 millions to 50 million dollars, at which
I unDderstand the issue is now to remiain. -My Hion. Mr. LAVERGNE inquired:
hion. friend lias flot said wvhether there is
1. Is the Government aware that Mr. J. U.
any gold reserve bcing accuinulated for the Vincent, the author of a political pamphlet,
purpose of retiring this !urther 10 million ia employed iii the inside Civil Service of Candollars which we are dealing with in this ada as Assistant Deputy or Deputy Minister of
Inland Revenue?
Blili.
2. Is the Postmaster General aware that
Hon. '%r. LOUGHEED-The 10 million
dollars of Doîninion notes xvas issued for
the purpose of retiring 8.1 million dollars
mnaturing iii treasury bills in Novemiber
last, the balance to be applied to maturing obligations and contin.-encies. It Nill
thus be seeni that we have reduced our
obligations by practically the arnount o! the
issue whichi Ne have made o! the 26 mil.
lions, namnelv 10 million dollars that hias
been applied towards the retirement of
treasury notes and maturing obligations,
and 16 millions to the Canadian Northern
railway and the Grand Trunk Pacifie
S-19i

His MaJesty's postal service is being used by
the said Vincent for the free carrnage of sald
pamphlet and other similar literature sent out
by him?
3. Is it the intention of the Government or
the Postmaster General to allow to the said
Vinceut the free use of the postal service for
the carrnage of the said pamphlet and literature?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-M-%y hon. friend
*has included in this question both the Gov*ernment and the Postmaster General, and
1 have only the a.nswers of the Postmaster
General to the second and third questions.
They are as follows:
2. No.

SENATE

3."The Deputy Minister of Inland Revenue, like ail other public officiais, is governed iby the regulations govetrning the
franking priviiege and the Postmnaster at
Ottawa lias full instructions to see that
the regulations are not violated.
Hon. Mr. LAVERGNE-Is Mr. Vincent
emnployed by the Government? That question is not answered.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-For the satisfaction and ease of mind of my bion. friend, I
-would say there is a gentlemian of that
namne who is an officiai of the Government.
THIRD READINGS.
BUi No. 85, An Act respecting Seed Grain,
Fodder and other relief.-Hon. Mr. Loughieed.
Bill No. 87, An Act for granting to His
Majesty aid for Military and Naval defence.-Hon. Mr. Louguheed.
CONTINGENT

ACCOUNTS
SENATE.

0F

THE

MOTION.

Hon. Mr. POWER rnoved the adoption of
the seventh report of the Committee on Internai Econooey and Contingent Accounts.
He said: This report appears at page 368
o! the Minutes. I may say that the opinion of the sub-committee in the first instance was that, there .was no niecessity for
any of the changes, that things îniight bave
been ieft just as they were, that inasmuch
as the vacancies occurred at the close o!
the session there was no absointe nccessity
for filling the vacancies at ail, but then,
having regard to the recommendation of
His Honour the Speaker. and thinking
that possibly soine occasion ight arise
when tlie work of the Senate migbht be disorgandzed if the cbief transiator ývas taken
iii, the comrnittee desired to inake the reconimendation in the forni in which it
now appears. We recommend that Mr.
Trudei's resignation be acceptcd and that,
De
M-Nr. Montigny be appointed chief translator at the saine salary hie is re.ceiving.
Sorne lion. gentlemen were of opinion that
Mr. De Montigny should receive the saiary
that Mr. Trudel -las been receiving, but
there is not anyt.hing in the Civil Service
Act, or any other place that I know of,
Mr. De
which rendors that necessary.
Montigny's saiary bas been încreased considerably sinco hle entered tho servi-ce of
t.he Senate and he will receive, I think,
an addition of $100 this year, and it ie
thQugbt that next session, 'aftcr we shahl
have had a trial of Mr. De Montigny as
Hon. Mr. LOITGHEED.

chie! transiator, if it is desired to do something -speciai for bhim. we oan act in the
niatter.
Then as to Mr. Benoit, he is classified
already in the House of Commons and his
classification under the Civil Service law
is not -aitered by his coming in here. I
do not know whether we -have the right to
or not, but the comrnittee took the risk of
recornmending that instead of coming in -at
$1,600, which is hais present salary, his initiai salary in our service shall be $1,800.
I do flot think it necessary to zay anything
further.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-The report had
botter be adopted itemn by item.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I dislike to interfere
with the report of the conîrnittec, and I
think that iny past conduc.t bias shown tbat
.i seldoni bave donc so. On the other hand,
whii I see a nîistakie is made and an iiijustice donc, I do neot feel like standing
st.ill without comnenntin., on what I believe
to bc a inistake. I disagree Ni-ith tbe
reasons given by the hion.* gentlenman froni
Halifax in support of the report. Lookingnow to that portion of the report in regard
to Mr. De Montigny, hie is one of the best
einployees of the Senate. He is a mnan of
'high attainments and u. fine scholar, knows
bis language to perfection, and possessos
also a thorough knowledge o! the Engiish
languago, and is as weli prepared as any
man can hoe to performi the dutios entrusted
to lm, and I be-lieve I amn not wrong when
I say that hie bhas perform-ed bis duties
thoroughiy well. I fail to sec wvhy, in tho
case of an oniploye such as hie is, we shouid
dopart f rom the rules which 'have been
solemniy adoptod .hy this 'lin. House. In
1913 this bon. House decided that the miles
mhichi wcro obtaining in the House of Comnons ,.Iould be appiied to this House as
f ar as ornployoos were conccrnied, and that
the employees of this House should be paid
the saie salaries as are paid te, such cmployoes in tho House of Commons. That
wvas adopted, and I refor to the Journais o!
the Snate for 191M-, p. 549 and following,
The inatter came on the recommendation
oi the Speaker on the 5th June, 1913:
The Speaker of the Senate has the honour to
reconrnend the adoption of the report of the
Clerk of the Senate hereto annexed, and
That the classification and organization of
the etaff of the Senate adopted by the Senate
on the l3th day of May, 1909, *be cancelled;
and that the classification and organization as
set forth in the attached schedule be adopted
in lieu thereof, to take effect frorn the lst of
April, 1912.
Hon. Mr. Landry.

Speaker of the Senate.

APRIL 1, 1915
fro-ni the Position taken by the hon. gentleman who bas just addressed the House.
The Civil Service Act does flot fix the salary of the individual employee but it fixes
the classification in respect to individuels
in the matter of promotion.
The chie! transistor Trudel, who bas just
The Order of the Day being read for the
consideration of the recommendatIon of His vacated the position, became permanent in
Honour the Speaker, that the classification and 1895, and was made chie! transiator in
organlaation of the staff of the Senate adopteu 1909.
He continued at a sal-ary of $2,200.
by the Senate on the 13th May, 1909, be can$2,300, ini
celled, and that the classification and organi- He had. $2,300 in 1910. ini 1911-12
zation as set forth in the attached'achedule to 1912,13 $2,300; -in 1913-14 te date which.
his rEcornmendation of this day's date be my hon. friend referred to at the last day
adopterl lI lieu thereof.
ai te session, a classification 'went through
The Honourable Mr. Thonipson moved, secthe House w'hich gave hi-n an advance of
onded by the Honourabie Mr. Yeo.
$500, and made a new classification for
That the said recommendation be adopted.
The Honourable Mr. Choquette, In amend- hini. 1 do not hold that no chief translater
ment, moved, seconded by the Honourable Mr. 4could have that class-ification unless proDavis,
in the proper way under the Oivi4
That the word "not" be Inserted before the moted
word "now" and the following words be Service Act.
added at the end of the question: "but that It
Hon. CMr. BEIQUE-What class does the
be amended by placlng Mr. A. Garneau, clerk
of French Journals, and Mr. W. J. O'eell, chief translator oc'cupy?
assistant clerk of stationery, In the second
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-The class that, he
division, subdivision A."
With leave of the Sexiste the said motion, occupied when he was chie! translator was
in amexidment, was withdrawn.
subdivision A o! the first division; he was
The question being then put on the main
by the action of
motion. the sanie was resolved In the affirma- placed there in 1913-14
this House, as we have prcrmoted individuel
tive, and
Orderefi accordiligly.
servants of the House on the staff e! one
I repeat that titis action of the Senate division or another. That absolute]y doe
'was for the purpose o'! determnining that the not fix for ail time, apart fromn the action
sanie rules which were applied by the o! the Governor in Couneil, who may -be
House of Gominons should be applied to placed on the staff. Mr. De Montigny is relike employees o! the Senate.
ceiving $2,400-two .bundred more than the
Now, dealing- with thte employees of tite chief translator received 'Wvhen he was nmade
class which I bave mentioned, 1 fail te chie! translator of the Senate, and I want
corne to the further te say that my remembrance of te
seef how thte committee ce
conclusion that a departure -should be mnade reclassification is not that we ado>pted enwith rezard to the salary of Mr. De Mon- tirely the achedule of the other House in
tigny. 1 fail teo see how iL can te legally respect to salaries, because that -was elinidore. If yoeu will refer te the Civil Service inated.
¶'he motion wh.ici hs ibeen reAct vou will see that the salary o! each ferred to passed the House because of the
class o! employee is determined by that Act; lateness ci! the day and I moved its adoptherefore, the moment the committee plares tion -when I had net read or understood
De Montigny in a classification, the~ that it changed the classification. I do
M.Nr.
salary fixed by the statute is the salary hie not hesitate to say that in moving that
shall Teceive, and it is flot wvitîhin te power resolution for the adoption of the report,
of the comrnittee to say that hie shahl be or the recommendation, 1 inisuniderstood
paid any other salary. For botit these its contents. I *had not supposed that by
reasonz. snd for te reason that iL would tat action w'e were adding $500 to the
be contriry to law, and for the reason that salary, and I go furtiter and say that action
it -ivould he, in my humble opinion, an in- was not in accordance with the Civil Serjustic-e, I beg- te ineve that the words in vice Act, but it was done and it took effect.
.the clause 'be amended by striking eut at But now we are dea]ing with a gentleman
the enid thereof, the following- -words: "At who comes in bhere; I do net question bis
the sanie salary he is at present receiving," ability. He was satisfied to -ive us his
so titat the law will apply and the report services te the extent of his ability, for
will read. that Mr. De Montigny be, ap- $1,900. He has been -with us since 1910-11.
pointed chie! translator.
SinceB that date we bave added to his salary,
Hon. -Mr. THOMPSON-Befere te -mo- so that he receives this year a salary of
the titie
tion is put, I desire te say that I differ $2,400. We are sîmply giving hini
Then the classification is to be found
among the classifications of the French
translation hranch, and ail the different
classes of the Senate with the salaries
mentioned. Then if hou. gentlemen will
refer te pages 526-7:

SENATE

oi! chie! transiator, and later, it will be
proper ta place t.his officiai of t>he Senste
in another class if we so desire. But we areI
acting entirely in Uine with the action of
thia House in the past ta place an employee
in another division, because we have not
reolassified them, excep'ting we -made lii
chie! translator and it does net follow under
the Act theit 'lie rwould get the salary that -ielonged ta, or was paid the gentlemen who
have beld that position formerly. I think the
Senate is treating Mr. De Montigny fsirly
and justly. I understand that hie did the
whole of his -work last year for less money,
and we are snaking him chie! translstor
wit.h $100 added to bis salsry. Under these
eircumstances, the Senate should sceept
the repart o! the committee, who have gorie
carefully inta the matter. We have desît
'with it in a manner ta serve the interest
of the Senate and witli a desire ta do justice!
ta ail persons interested.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Sonie
years aga the Senste established a certain
classification for its officiais. If the position ta which this gentleman lias been promoted places him in a class whicb entities
him ta a certain salary, I see no reason
why he should not accept the minimum
salary of the class ta which hie la pro.
moted. I do not argue that we have not
the power ta appoint a man at a lower
salary, but the Senste in the past having
adopted a rule and classification attaching
a certain salary ta a certain position, if a
gentleman who ia qualified ta fill that
position is promoted ta it, why should hie
iiot ,receive the minimum salary o! that
class P I lay tha-W down as a principle.
Otherwise we liad better repeal the classification altogether and leave it open ta the
Senate at any tirne ta fill vacancies and
pay any salaries tliey please. I amn, therefore, dispascd ta vote for the motion o! the
lion. gentleman fromi De Salaberry. I h-ave
heard it stated-I give no opinian mysel!
an the question-that the gentleman -wlo
is promoted to this position is well qualified for it. If lie were not w'ell qualified
for the position of chie! transiator, lie
should nat be appointed. Having been appointed, I 'think, that lie ouglt ta receive
the minimum salary attached ta the class
ta whicli lie bias been pramoted.

chief transiator belonged was flot discussed. We had sat to a late hour, and
the chairmian said that we could examine
into the salary question more closely next
session. That question of the absolute
right of a party who is appointe d to a
position in a certain class, being entitled
ta the minimum salary which that classification calîs for was, I confess, not faken
into consideration in the committee. I
may say that most hion. gentlemen have
but the vaguest. idea o! the qualifications
that are needed for sucb a position. If
hion. members will permit mne to cite my
own experience, I may say that I was
obliged at one time ta do some important
translation. With that experience I understand the difficulty of obtaining a translator possessing the necessary knowvledg-e
of the two languages ta make a perfect
translation. I was in Paris with Mr. Fielding, the late Minister of Finance, in January, 1909. Official correspondence was being exchang-ed between hlm and the Frencli
Government bearing on the Franco-Canadian treaty, and on an amendment whielh
m~as heing discussed at the time. I remember passing the whole of New Years'
Day and the next day wrestling with documents which I had ta translate from English to Frenchi and from French ta English. We could not find a translstor in
Paris at that moment, snd I confess I ws
very far from being satisfied with My
wvork. A few mocnths afterwards when I
saw it in print amongst ýthe officiaI
I then realized the diffidocuments.
culties of the art of the transistor.
things
hardest
of the
is ana
It
So
ta inake a faultless translation.
that in sppoiriting a chie! translatai
for the Senate one must not imagine that
every individual out af the ten first men
yau may ineet, wlho hiave gane throughl a
classical course, caut be a good translator.
The finding of a man who passesses a familiarity with. the genius of the two languages,
is one of the grestest difficulties to be met.
WVe are fortunate in hiaving a very camipe.
tent chie! transiatar in the persan of Mr.
De Montigny. Having made a classification
of aur staff in 1913, are we nat bound by it
as long as that classification stands, and
should we not allow the minimum sumn mentioned in that classification?

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-In this dis.
cussion -we arc lsying aside the rule which
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I mave that the deused ta bind *us, of not .referring in the
House ta wbat takes place in committee. hate be adjourned until this afternaan. I
When the question came up o! fixing the have samething ta study before making any
sslsry, the matter of the class ta which the remarks.
Moen. Mr. THOMPSON.

APP.IL 1, 1915)
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-This la a clear
matter and a question of law. 1 do flot see
why the amendment of my hon. friend
from De Salaberry could not be accepted. He puts the question most clearly,
and 1 do flot see how we can refuse it. The
committee has reported that a certain party
has been appointed chief transiatar. What
have we to do with the salary now? As
the hon. gentleman from De Salaberry said,
the salary is fixed by the House.
Hon. Mr. POWER-No, it is not.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-The hion, gentleman froni Halifax having voted for that,
I do not see wvhy we should take the time
of the House to discuss it. I have only
tt. refer to thec Journals of the Senate at
page 51 to See ail the classifications and
Ï.o see Mr. Trude] down at $,400 as being
the miiinimumi zalary of a chief translstor.
That is the classification. Is it possible,
after a mani is appointed to a position at
the salary fixed hy law, to go autside of
the law and set illegslly.
Take as an illustration an appointment to
a seat in this Hanse. The law says a senator shall have $2,500. The law says a judge
shall have so much salary. Suppose -the
Governor in Cauncil were to appoint a senatar at a salsry of $2,000. Would that be
legal' I contend that that is a parallel case
to this. The indernnity of a senator is fixed
by law. A judge's saiary is fixed by law.
WVhat power lias the conmmittee of the Senate
to say that salaries for certain positions
which are fixed by lsw shall be subjeci to
change in certain cases" I do not dweli on
the injustice of the miatter; I say it is absolutely illegal.
Han. Mr. POWVER-I hiave looked up the
report adopted on the 5th June, 1913, and I
do hlot find that there is anythi-ng in that
rep)ort which requires this Senste to place
the chief transistor in aîîy particular class
or to -ive Iiiii any particular salary. The
Speaker subiiits the classification and organization, and it is fixed by certificate of
the Clerk of the Senste. I shall just read
the clerk's certificate. He says:

aries whIch are pald ta similar menibers of
the staff of the 1-louse of Commons.
I have the honour to be, air
Your obedient servant,
Samuel E. St. Onge Chavleau,
Clerk of the Senate.
That does not say that our employees shall
be ail paîd at the same rate as those af the
House of Commons where the work is about
two or three times as hard, and furthe-r, that
action of the Senate does flot tie our hande
to-day. I desire .particularly, as showing
the interpretation that was put on the
statu.te at that time by his hon. the Speaker
and the Clerk of the House, ta show that in
this very classification, submitted by his
hon. the Speaker on the recommendation of
the Clerk ai the House with -respect to this
very officer, F. G. B. Trudel, division 1-A
he is appointed chie! French transiator at
a salary of $2,400.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-If
the hon.
gentleman wvill glance at the top of the colunin he will find that is the actual salary.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It seems ta me that
it is just as well ta be frank about this
matter. Whenever any question cornes up
here which affects in the slightest degree
the pecuniary interests af any af aur French
<Janadian employees, every hon. member of
that race is ready to defend it.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I would ask the
hon. gentleman if he can cite me a case
when any one of another race is treated
improperly, that we do not raise aur voice
on his behalf whether he be a Scotchmnan or
an Irishnian.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have the floor, and
I arn simply giving my impression. I have
neyer shown the slightest prejudice against
our French ernployees.
I have defended
them on certain occasions whien they were
attacked, and have always tried ta see that
they got fair play, but I mention this as a
remarkable fact in natural history, if you
can put it that way, that w'henever it is a
question ai any eiiployee w-ho happens ta
be a French Canadian, froni the higliest
officer down ta the junior page, you w~ifl
find that hon, gentlemen who speak the
French lang-uage line up in support ai the
proposition that the appointee should get a
better salary.

Referririg ta a proposition made by yourself,
dated the ZOth of March, 1912, for the reclassification of the staff of the Senate, but
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Order, arder.
which the latter thought best at the tiane to
postpone ta the present session of Parliament,
Hon.' Mr. POWER-I have the floor.
I would respectfully auggest that such a reclassification of the staff be now made 'wlth
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I rise ta a point
the view of bringing the salaries of some of
lis members more in harmony with the sal- af order.

SENATE
Subdivision B, conslstlng of the lesser techThe SPEAKER--A point of order is nical and administrative and executive oflcer,
*raised; will the Hon. Mr. Power take his lnoluding the chief cqerks flot holding office
seat.
and not eligible for subdivision AL
3. The second division shall conslst of cerHon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I protest against tain other cleroe having technical, adniiniswhat has been said. I arn willing Wotake trative, exécutive, or other duties which are
Iess
but
same character
the part of the French people on every of thé and responsibLhityas, than, ofthose Importof the
ance
occasion, but last year I voted in f avour fIrst divigion. This division shall be divided
of a gentleman who is not French-I voted into subdivisions A and B.
that his salary should be increased.
4. The third division shall conslst of the
other olerks in the service whose duties are

Sorne hon. GENTLEMEN-la that a point copying and routine work, under direct superof order'

The SPEAKER-I should like to know
from the hon. gentlemian the point of order
he raises.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I wish Vo put
my hon. f riend right.
Hlon. Mr. POWER-I wish it Wo be distinctly understood that I arn not finding
fault with our French Canadian colleagues.
Hon. Mr. CHÇrQUETTE-Then why do
you say so?
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-I have not said so. 1
said it struck me as a curious fact in
natural history.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-What has natural
do
history Wo with this?
Hon. Mr. POWER-Hurnan nature, then.
I cannot
1 do flot care how you put it.
help expressing xny admiration for the
manner in which our hon. friends stick
together.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I arn glad to
find that the hon. gentlemanHon. Nir. POWER-I have the floor, and
the lion. gentleman, who has been a
Speaker of this House, ought Vo know
better than to continually interrupt me.
Having relieved miy mind by making that
observation, I wishi to go on aad point out
that there is nothing in the law, nothing in
the Civil Service Act, which says that our
chie! translator shaîl receive any particular
salary.

There is nothing- which says he

shall belong to any particular class. Section
5 of the Civil Service Act of 1908 says:
5. The

inside

service

under

the

deputy

heads. exciuding messengers, porters, eorters
and packers, and such other appointments and
eniployments in the lower grades as are determined by the Governor in Council, shali uu
divided into three divisions.
'. The first division shahl be divided intoSubdivision A, consisting of officers having
the rani. of deputy heads but flot being deputy heads administering departrnents, assistant deput3y minister, and the principal technical and administrative and executive officer&
Hon mr. CHOQUETTE.

vision, of lésm Importance than that of thé
second diivsion. This division shall be divided
Into subdivisions A and B.

We have a riglht to assume that Mr. De
Montigny cornes from that class. The committee have done their best, bon. gentlemen, to make things right. If the House
chooses to think that this report should not
be adopted, of course that is a matter in
the discretion of hon. gentlemen. The coinnîittee have been trying to economize a
little, and to manage the business of this
Ilouse, which is the business of the country,
to the same extent as a man would
manage his own private business, and I do
flot think we should be discourag-ed in the
way we are.
Hon. Mr. TÂYLOR-I arn a member of
the committeei and we discussed this
matter fully. I explained that I f elt I was
a trtistee of the people, and had a right Vo
look to their interests and to see that the
It was the
money was not squandered.
opinion oi some inembers that there was no
necessity for an appointment of this kind,
and that it could stand over until the next
I suggested, in the interest of
session.
economny, that this service should be put
up to competition, and that we should call
for tenders for general translation and the
translation of the Debates. I ani satisfied
we could save a largýe amnounit of nioney by
so doing. I was opposed to the adoption
of the clausein comnîittee, but finally we
agreed to the report and that we should
support it in the House. It is the duty of
the House to accept the report of the comiiiittee. Personally, I feel like moving that
That
the clause be struck out altogether.
wvas my view in the conmittee, and I
would prefer Wo have sortie other hon.
senator move that, having agreed in comrnittee Wosupport the report. It was generally understood that we shouki ail stand by
the report o'f the comnmittee. At this time
if we cannot save a
wve should see
few thousand dollars of the country's
mney, ani we should, before next session.
I
advertise for tenders for this work.
believe we would get it don-- better than

IPRIL 1, 1915

it is done at the present tirne. We should
eall for tenders for reportin.- and trnlating the Debates.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I think wa must
ail agree that the discussion which has
taken place during the last hall hour is
one which is in every sense of the word,
If on evary appointvery regrettable.
ment of an officer we are going te raise
passions in this House, I do think it is
WVhy was this classificato be regretted.
tion made in the other House and in this
Hause, except te avoid discussions such
as we have had here this xnorning? Are
we always going ta haggle, bicker and
barter every time we make an appointment and see if we ea get. an employee for
$50 or $100 less than we have been payingP
It is most unseerniy that the Senate of
Canada shouid spend heurs ai its time in
solemnly discussing huckstering about
something in a spirit which wouid hardiy
Why was this
be worthy oi the mnarket.
classification made if it was riot for the
purpose ai avoiding this very trouble?
Every tirne a question cames up in the
Houa. over the appointment ai a doorwe have this
keeper or a charwaman
trouble; I repeat it. is regrettable, net only
because ai the character ithe discussion has
taken this niorning, but on general prinThe Senate ai Canada might amciples.
ploy its time in a better way than in discussing these littie things.
Hon. Mr. GORDOIN: Aiter iistening te
the Speaker this rnorning, the natural conclusion would be that this House is cernposed ai Frenchmnen, Englishmen, IrishI arn here in this
men and Scotchrnen.
House as a Canadian, and te cansider
every question that compa before us frorn
a Canadian standpoint.

is not in a Position to, throw money away
at this time.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. GORDON-We sholild try to
conserve our resources, aven if li is only
My opinion is that *the committee
$100.
should treat, this generously, and should
ba satisfiéd with the recommendation which
For my part, I
has been brought in.
arn perfectly satisfied With the recommendations of the committee.
The SPEAKER-The amendment la that
ail the words in the second clause be
struck out after "translator."
The motion was deciared iost.
Contents 21, non-contents 30.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I think it wouid be
desirabie that the debate that just took
place on this question, in which insinuations have been made that are net exactiy
palatable te sorne senators of the Chamber,
should be omitted frorn the debates. The
officiai reports are quite long enough, very
few people read them, and the report of this
discussion should net be printed.
Hon. Mr. POWER-There was nothing indecent.
CRIMINAL

CODE ACT AMEN]JMENT
BILL.

N COMMITTEE.
House resaived itself into a ComThe
mittee of tha Whole on Bill No. 74, An
Act ta arnend the Crirninal Code.

(In the Comrnittee).
On clause 2:
2. The Criminal Code. chapter 146 of the
Revised Statutes of Canada, 1906, is amended
by inserting the following section immediately
after section 75:
'«75a. Every one Is gullty of an lndlctable
offence and liable ta two years' imprisonment
w~ho Incites or assists any subject of any foreign state of country at war with His Majesty
ta lea've Canada, if the circumstances at tne
case do flot exclude the possibility that assistance to the enerny is an intended abject
in his se leaving Canada, and If such inciting
or assisting do net amount ta treason..

Som2~ lion. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. GORDON-We sheuld know
no nationality, ne race or creed.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Good.
Hon. MNr. GORDON-I anii sorry that any
persan should intimate that the senators
ai this House deal with the questions that
corne before thern otherwise than in the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-So that we rnay
Looking at the matter gao through this somewhat more methodicalpublic interest.
frorn that point of view. and purely as a iy than we have been daing. I move the
matter ai business, I say the inan wharn adoption af the second clause as arnended.
the camrnittee having recornrended te be
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Was it net proposed
chief transiator is being put there an the
be insalary wvhich was given ta hlms predeeds- that the words -"by hirn " shauld
when hie took the office. The country serted?
sor

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to meI
unnçcessary because the clause only deals
with the action of the particular person
who assists or incites, and there could not
be any presumption that any other person
was intended.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have given some
consideration to this clause, and I must Bay
that, from the nature of the.subjeet, I arn
flot in a position to suggest any improvement. It may be difficuit to administer the
law in practice, but I fail to see how the
wording could be improved, except that I
would ask the hon. gentleman if it would
flot be advisable alter the word " Canada"to add the words - without the consent of
the Çrown."
Hion. Mr. LOUGHEED-That would
throw the duty on the transportation coinpany. before transporting an alien to the
boundary line, to secure the consent of the
Governrnent. This is intended to cover a
class of cases in which the Government
would have no knowledge as to what is
taking place. The circumstances would
bring to the attention of the Government
that certain assistance was being extended to aliens, and the charge is then laid.
I think it would destroy the eff ect of it.
Hion. Mr. BEIQUE-You are creating an
offence. It is not the intention to create a
an offence in any case where the subject of
a foreigu state at war with this country
leaves Canada with the permission of the
Crown.

lion. Mr. LOUGHEED-Oh, no, because
otiîerwise, .althoughli e would be leaving
Canada with the leave of the Crown, anybody rnight take proceedings against him
or cause hiru to be arrested.
Hion. Mr. BELCOURT-Jt seeins to me
there ouglit to be a safeguard of that kind.
Take the case of a transportation company.
A person miglit be leaving without any
intention of assisting the eny, or he
ight have permission and stili intend to
assist the enerny.
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED-No question could
then arise.
Hion. Mr. BELCOURT-Even then we
wvould have to establish the fact that hie did
itot intend to assist the company.
The clause as amended was adopted.
On clause 4:
4. The following sections are inserted imme-

diate1y- after section 508:
Hlon. 'Mr. BOSTOCK

Il OSa. Âny person who, without the written consent of the owner of the copyright or
of his legal representative. l<nowingly performs
or causes to be perforrned in public and for
private profit the whoie or any part of any
dramatic or operatic work or musical composition in wblch. copyright subsista, shall be
guitty of an offence, and shall be lable on
summary conviction to a fine flot exceedîng
the case
fifty dollars, or,
two a hundred and subsequent offence,iu elther to
second or
of
such fine or to Imprlaonmient for a term flot
exceeding two months, or to both.
Il508b. Any person who inakes or causes to,
be made any change in or suppression of the
titie. or the name of the author. of any dramatic or operatic work or musical composition
in whiXth copyright subsista, or who makes or
causes to be made any change In uuch work
or composition Itself wlthout the written consent of the author or of his legal representative, in order that the samne may be performed
in whole or in part In public for private benefit,
shail be guilty of an offence. and shail be
hiable on suxumary conviction to, a fine flot exceeding five hundred dollars, or, In the case
of a second or subsequent offence, either to
such fine or to Iniprisonmfent for a terni not
exceeding four months. or to both.

lon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand the
H
hion. genitlemanl froin De Loriailer hias sorne
amendinent to move to 508?
Hion. Mr. BOSTOOK-I was going to propose an amendment to the first subsection
of section 4. After the word-" subsiEit" in
the 26th line, the words -in Canada"
should be inserted, and the same thing in
the next subsection, line 34.
Hion. Mr. POWEl-It strikes me the
amendaient proposed -by the hon. leader of
the Opposition would emasculate the Bill.
As it is now. where copyrights exist in
Canada the whole 'Popyright is protected.
Hion. Mr. LOUGHEED-Not by the crimmnal lawv.
Hion. Mr. POWER-Thesle clauses were
intended to protect outsiders.
lion. Mr. DANDURAND-There was an
error in the rninds of lion. gentlemen which
m-as created. 1 arn afraid, by the hion. leader
of th(, Governiient and myseif. We treated
these arnendments to the criminal lawv as if
they hiad for their sole object protecting
foreign copyrights. There are two arnendthe criminal law for the
ments of
of giving increased. protecpurpose
tion to the copyright holder who has
conforrned to the Canadian law, and to any
other, who, in virtue of treaties or of future
(anadian legislation, inay have copyright
in Canada.
lion. Mr. BEIQUE-It i s important that
'vo should know what is the feeling in other

APRIL 1, 1915
ta 600 francs and. to the seizure o! the proceeds.
Art. 429. In the cases set out In the four
above articles sucb proceeds shahl be banded
over ta the owner ln order ta indemnlfy hlm
as far as possible, against the loss he bas susThe balance of the damages due ta
Hon. Mr.. DANDURAND-Clause Il of talned. the whole of the said damages, If there
hlm, or
the Imperial Copyright Act of 1911 reads as has been no sale of the confiscated -goods or
selzure of the proceeds, shall be assessedl lu
tollows:
the unati way.
If any person knowinglyThe United States have as weIl a penal
for sale or hire any infringing
(a) makes
copy of a work in which copyright subsista, or Act againat those who infringe the copy<b) oeils or lets for hire or by way of trade righting in one form or another. New Zealexposes or offers for sale or bire any lnfring- and -has enacted summary remedies for
Ing capy of -any such work. or
(c) distributes lnfrlnging coptes of any such the protection of copyright in IV George V.
work either for the purpose of trade or to 1913. The New Zealand law is similar ta
such an extent as to affect prejudicis.liy the the Enghish Act.
Germany bas also a
oivier of the copyright, or
penal Act against piracy. It was asked whom
(d) by way of trade exhibits lu .public any
will these clauses protecte They wiIl proinfringizig copy or such work, or
(e) imports for sale or bire Into the United tect ail1 parties *who have either proteaKingdomn any infringing copy of such work,
tion by registering in Canada, or other
He shall be guiity of an offence under this
who, by virtue of international
Act and bie liable on summary conviction to parties
a fine flot execeeding 40 shillings for every treaties binding Canada, niay have copycopy deait with in contravention of this sec- right in Canada. The question has beon
tion, but flot exceeding fifty pounds in respect asked, since the United States have not
ta the samne transaction, or in the case of a adthered tai the Berne convention, United
subsequent offence, either ta such fine or ta
iniprisonmient with or wlthout bard labour mur States, could the copyright holder en.force
a termi fot exceedlng two manths.
these rights under the United States copyIf any persan knowingly makes or.bas In bis right. I say no, he could not. He bas
possession any plate for the purpose of mak- no privileges in Canada. A United States
ing Infringing copies of any work ln which
copyright subsista, or knowingly and for ins copyright holder who wants ta proteet bis
private profit causes any sucb work ta bie per- rights in Canada will have ta con! orm. to
formed Iu public witbout the consent of the -Canadian copyright.
He wiIl have ta,
owner of the copyright, be shaîl bie guilty of print bis book in Canada and have it
-an offence under this Act, and be liable on
suiumary conviction ta a fine flot exceedlng registered. under the Canadian copyright.
litty pounds. or. ln tbe case of a second or Otherwise he would have no standing in
subsequent offence, eitber ta sucb fine or ta Canada. There is the same*recipracity for
impriso'hcllt with or without bard labour.
a Canadian in the United States. He is an
lor a terni fot exceeding two rnanths.
the same plane. If he wants ta prateet
Tiien I shall refer ta the French law.
bis work in ine United States, he bas ta
Art. 425. Any publication of wrltings, musi- have it reproduced in the United States
cal compositions, sketches, pîctures, or of any and reg-istered there.
Sa that we are on
other production being partly or in the whaie perfect equality with ail other nations who
in print or engraving, made ln breach
either
af thie iaw~s and regulations coacernlng. the have nat adhered ta the Berne convention,
counitries which were parties to the Berne
Convention. I understood the hon. gentleman was prepared to show that in Great
Britain they have an Act which is practically on the samne lines as this.

Iwhich

right of ownership of authars, la an Infringeis under the forai of a treaty bement of copyright and any such Infringement tween nations, and which has been superis a misdemeanour.
seded or coùipleted by the Berlin convenArt. 426. The sale of iufringing copies, the
adhered,
importation into France of works which after tion, ta which Great Britain has
haVing been printed in France were pirateu but she bas adhered ta it without binding
abrond is a misdemeanour of the saine kiud.
the Dominion, and since that Act was
A-rt. 427. The penalty against any persan
passed by the British Parliamnent it is
guiity af such infringemeut and against the
themselves ta declare
importer is a fine of from 100 ta 2,000 francs. left ta the Dominions
and against the sellers of from 25 ta 500 whether tihey wiUl adhere ta any internaThe seizure of infringlug copies shail tional arrangement such as the one called
francs.
be ordered as against the importer and the the Berlin convention. This legisiation bas
seller. The plates, casts and matrices of the
nothing ta do with any country which. bas
counterfelted goods shahi also be selzed.
Art. 428. Any dîrector, entertalument man- no treaty arrangement with Canada.
ager. company of players wbo dbali cause ta
appreciate the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-d-i
bie performed in bis or their theatre, dramatic works in breacb of the. laws and regula- explanatians winch have been given by the
tions concerning the right of ownership of the hon. gentleman and, as I stated yesterday,
authors shall be hiable ta a fine of from 50

SENATE

if it were shown that the countries Mwhich

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I

do not, ap-

were parties to the Berne convention had preciate the value of the argument of My

made it an offence to infringe upon copy- hon. friend. The first clause reads as folrights, it would go a long way towards lows:
Âny person 'who, without the written consatisfying my mmnd on the subject, and I
the copyright or of
do not propose to raise an issue. I a%~ sent of the owner of knowingiy performs bis
or
legal representative,
satisfied on that head, but I caîl the atten- causes to.be performed ln publie and for prition of the hon. leader of the Government vate profit the whole or any part of aLny
compoto the vaat difference between the clauses dramatic or operatic work or musicalshall be
ln whicb copyright subsista,
as drafted in thia Bill and trie law as it sition of an offence.
guilty
stands on the statute book in England, or
What is the part of this clause to which
which bas been read by the hon.
France,
my learned friend takes exception?
gentleman. I cail attention to the very imHowx Mr. BEIQUE-"« Or eny part."
portant tact that it la necessary for the
creation of an offence, that there be an inHon. Mr. DANDURAND-Then you would
fringement o! the rights, whereas here, freE,( any one who would aubstitute a part
with the wording which bas been adopted. of a drama of three acts?
it is not necessary that there should be
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I do not object to
any intringement, because we are using
words which. are altogether too wvide, " Or the words ." and any part," provided you
the name ot the author of any dramatic or have the words - constitutes an infringeoperatic work or musical composition, etc." nient" after the word "part."
I venture to say there are many parts which
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I do not know
are common propertPy whi<h cau ibý -used by where that leads us to.
anybody, and with this wording you make
Hon. *Mr. BEJQUE-You will not deny
it an offence to use any part whatever.
Surely these words should be stricken out, that there are in works things that are
work
and we should. aubatitute, as in the Eng- common property, but it is the whole
which forms the copyright. By bor-rowing
iish Act, the worda "« as will constitute an
ininfringement of the rights of the author." onily part of it yo>u Mnay oonst-itute 8n
fringement, 'but it will not be an infringeHon. Mr. BELCOURT-That would spoil ment if you bor-row some part of it. You
can borrow from ahnost any work some
the whole Act.
part without constituting an infringement;
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Does the English that is the point to which. 1 amn calling atAct not go that far?
tention. Whether it be a large or amali
borrowed, it must constitute
.Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I do not under- jart which is of the right of the author;
an infringement
stand se. If yeu strike out the words, " or otherwise you could flot expect that it
in part," it would destroy the whole value would be an offence.
of the measure.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is se seifLOUGHIEED-If the word evident that I wonder why it should be
Mr.
Hon.
infringement"- were used that would inserted.
have a well-established legaal definition.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The insertion of
lion. _Mr. BEIQUE-That is my sugges- these three words atter the word - part
lt
should -"constitute an infringement.tion.
seems to me that woluld be declaratory or
Hon. _Mr. LOUGHEED-After the words explanatory of what we have in vie w. 1
private profit"- wc might add -"any in- miove the adoption of section 508-A as
fringement of any dramatic work, or know- amnended by adding three words after the
in the 24th line, and the
word "part"
ingly infringes."
Canada " after - substitutes
words "in
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-There would be in the 26th line.
ne infringement supposing no changes
The motion was adopted.
were mîade whatever.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In section 508-B
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If any part that 1 -move that the words "in
Canada " be
was copyri,"hted were used, that would be inserted after the -word "subsists."
an infringement. It seerns to me it would
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-It is a disbe a more suitable word to use than " in
flgurin, of the -word.
whole or in part."
Hoii. Mr. BEIQUE.

APRIL 1, 1915

The Senate adjourned until this afterHon. Mr. POIRIER-Putting in the word
"Canada"- will nuilify the object we have noon at 3 o'clock.
in view. In France and Belgium there are
Second Sitting.
ovr50,000 dramatic authors recorded.
Their work is for the benefit of troupes or
The Speaker took the Chair at Tliree
private parties. Many of these are not o'clock:
in Canada, but they are regisregistered
Routine proceedings.
tered in the oid country.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If they comply GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS ACT AMENDBILL.
with our copyright iaw they are protected. 1MENT
SECOXD READING.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-"Constîtute an infringement" would be sufficient. We ini
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
Canada should fali in line with other civil- reading of Bill No. 105, An Act ta amend the
ized nations and protect copyright property Government Rail,.avz-' Act and to authorize
as we do patents. We are quite behind the purchase of certain railways. He aaid:
other countries. WVe are stili hanging on to It is proposed to authorize the Governor in
the Convention of Berne of 1886. Since that Council ta construct. purchase and ]ease
time there '«as a convention in Berlin in such roads as inay be necessary to operate
1908, and one in Engliand in 1911 in wvhich with the Intercoloiiýa! railway systern. It is
most civilized nations tookz part except proposed that the Governnment should have
Canada and the South African colonies. We power ta acquire, subject ta subsequent apshould corne in line with other nations and propriation bv Parlianient, roads icas than
give protection to those '«ho create works 1)00 miles in length, and the construction of
of imagfination and see that their works are roads up ta 25 miles in length. For the
not pillaged. I think "infringement" is acquisition of roads that exceed 200 miles in
sufficient without having the 'ývords "iji iength, -and the construction of roads W'hich
Canada" inserted as proposed by the amend- exceed 25 miles in length, an appropriament.
tion must be first miade by ParliaThis Bill makes further proHon. Mr. BELCOURT-I shouid like to ment.
call attention to the fact that this clause vision for the purchase of two particular
508B provides that people who make, or roads, one .being the railway known as
cause to be made, any change will be guilty the International raiiway, extending from
ocf a eriniinal offence. Not the simpie fact the Intercohonial railway at Campbeiiton ta
of making a change in the solitude of my St. Leonard on the St. John river, a dislibrary and leaving it there would constitute tance of about 112 miles, together with the
roliing stock and the real and personal proan offence.
the
Honi. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, you have ta perty ci every description owned byhein.road. In the ineantime, this road is
do it for private profit.
operated .by the Government. The purchase
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I think you should price is ta he $2,700,000. Pending the apcarrv it a littie bit further. There must be propriation by Parliainent of the purchase
publication.
money, it is heing operated at a rentai of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You would not be $90,000 per annumi pavable in equal haîf
yearly instalmients. The other road which
doing it for private profit.
has been acquired by the Government, and
Cdause 508B, as amended, was adopted.
whichi is being- operated in connection with
Mr. WATSON-I intend ta znove the Intercolonial raiiway,is known -as the
Hon.
for the resto ' ation of clauses 5, 6, 7 and 8 in Ne Brunswick and Prince Edward Island
this Billl and 1 give notice that I shall do Raiiw'ay, extending from the Intercoloniai
raiiway at Sackville ta Cape Tormentine in
that an the third reading.
the province of Newv Brunswick, a distance
suggest of about 36 miles, together with its branch
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would
to mny hion. friend from Ottawa that hie give lines, telephione instruments, rolling stock,
further consideration ta the suggestion that real and personal property of ail kinda and
lie has made before the Bill is read the descriptions. The cast of this road wihl be
third time, and if there is anything- in the $270,000. In the nieantime, i l being handed
point hie makes we can correct it.
over by the comnpany on an interest basis
Hon. Mr. DANIEL, from the Committee, of 4 per cent per annuni from the lst
The Government, thereof Aujgust, 1914.
reported the Bill with amendments.

SENAT E

fore. seek authority under this Bill fot only
to acquire those two roads for- the consideration which 1 have already pointed out, but
generally to acquire other roads, or to construct roads as îndicated in the Bill, in connection with the Intercolonial railway
system under the ternis, conditions and restrictions provided for in the Bill.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-If 1 understand,
it is only railways that are tributary to the
Intercolonial railway.
Hon. '-%r. LOUGHEED-Yes.

a clause whàch empowers the Government.
id I understand it aright, to purchasing a
road of less than 200 miles without it being
nccessary Io corne to Parfiament te have
the azreement ratified. 0f course t.he
amount csf money required for the purchase
of the road bias te be placed in the Supply
Bill, and to that -extent At must be ratified
by iboth Houses of Parliament; -but if it is
not brought in as a separete measure, iA
dees not put the Senate in a good position
to discuss the question. The hion. leader
of the Government bas not given us any
very distinct explanation as to why the
Government have considered it necessary to,
enact the first clause of this Bill.

Hon. Mr, CASGRAIN-Because ain idea
prevails that the. Government intends to
.buy some other lines not at ail connected
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We have aswith the Intercolonial railway, and on the
other. side of the river. I think it is just siimied that Parliament would be prepared
as well to dispel that ide.t. I know myseif to ratify what the Gevernment lias done
respeeting t.hose two roads. It is very dethat it is net so.
sirable, however, that Parlianient should
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-This Bill, or sonme- niake a declaration as to what authority
thing of a similar nature lias heen hefore the Government has in reference to the
acquisition of roads that are to be operated
tliis Hlouse on a former occasion.
in connection with the Intercolonial railHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
way. WVe have mnade provision for two
Hon. 'Mr. BOSTOCK-I rnay say the Bill classes of roads, one of wihich the t-%o
bias been considerably improved in its forin roads ýmentioned would fall within, namely,
since it first appeared in this House. The authority :-being vested lu the Goverunent
first clause deals with the question of em- te acquire that kïud of a read suhject Io
powering the Minister of Railways to pur- an appropriation being -necessary for its
chase a road of less than 200 miles in length acquisition. Then there is the larger class
without coming to this Parliarnent for any of undertaking, existing roads -exceeding
special legfislation te ratify the arrangement 200 miles ïn length, and roads 2,5 miles in
that rnay be made. We discussed that ques- lenzth to -be constructed. Id is considered
tion in this House before, and on a former undesirable that the Goverrnnent should
occasion an amendment to the Bill was enter upon the responsibility of negotiating
made. The Government having done what for the acquisition or underta:king the conthe Seitate on former occasions suggested struction of that class of road without first
I
they should do in every case. 1 do not see obt.aining- authority -droni Parliamieut.
why they seek a general powver when they have pointed out to the House the distinchave inserted in the Bill the particulars con- tien bet.ween the two classes of undertakcerning the actual roads that they propose mngs for W'hich we have made provision ini
the Bill.
to purchase.
They put before Parliamient an agreeHon. Mr. BEIQUE-May I ask why id.
niîent, aîid now they coine and ask that should flot apply to a railway exceeding 25
special agreement to be ratified. They have miles? Why make the distinction between
donc that in the case of the International 200 and 25 miles?
Railway in New Brunswick and the New
Brunswick and Prince Edward Island RailHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In the roads of
way. I do flot quite see, therefore, why 200 miles, -e are dealing with an underthey thought it necessary to have the first taking- now in existence. We can purchase
clause of the Bill giving them this general 25 miles subject te ratification by Parliapower. If they can do it in the case of nient, -but we could not enter upon the
these two railways -why not do it in the constructien of 25 miles -without permiscase of other railways when they found it sien. It may be that a road already connecessary to buy them? This first clause struicted and in operation in connectioni
was, 1 understand, amended to seme ex- wibli the Intercolonial railway is not such
tent in the House of Ceanmnons, and this a serieus undertaking as one th-at would
House ought to give some considerationi tei open up new territory. The Pardiament cf
Hion. Mr, IOUGHEED.

ARL1, 1915

Caniada sliouid have soinething to ray as
to the construction o& ne-w roads, but -as
to old roads that are manifest]y feeders of
the Intercolonial railway, the responsibility is of entirely a different character.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-This Bill only
deals with the Intercolonial railway. -It
do
has nothirig We with the National Transcontinental railway?
whatHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Nothing
ever.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Will the Government tell the country what it means by
New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island,
where il the connection?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED- You will see the
connection in schedule B of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN--I think the Governnîent should give thd information whien
it is deinanded.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have given it
already.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Whiere is the connection between New Brunswick and Prince
Edward Island?
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-The water.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is quite liquid.
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-The New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island railway
connect at Sackville with the main line
of the Intercolonial railway, and it is tW
form a connecting link with the two systeins and the new car ferry which wvil
bie completed next year.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-If the Senator who
represents Prince Edward Island is satisfied that this railway scheme -is going to
benefit the island, I have nothirig more tW
I do not think they connect very
Say.
well together except over a vast expanse
1 arn of the opinion that the
of water.
Government should bie ernpowered to acquire roads already built that connect with
the Intercolonial railway, but why should
they 'be given poxyer to construct new
branches? We are prepared to stand by
the 'Maritime Provinces in their poverty
and distress, but why shoulid we give
paiwer to ithie Government *to construct
new branches that would ba alniost as useless as the ones already constructed.

and I should like tW refer to
chapter 25 of that Act which. was assented to on the 4th of May, 1910. A long debate took place in the Senate upon the
propiriety of giving the Government that
After that discussion had taken
power.
place, and after the Bill lied been reported from the committee, we surrounrJed
that power with considerable safeguards.
If I arn not mistaken, we added to the
Bill a clause stating that no such lease
should be signed until it had been submitted We Parliament for its ratification.
But we went much further, and I direct the
attention of lion, gentlemen to the f act that
the vast niajority of this Chamber was
supposed te be in sympathy with the Government of the day. This Chamber went
xnuch further and added:
railway,

Provided that no such lease shall have
any force or effect, nor shali any such railway be entered upon or operated by the Governmnent of Canada until such managing
boardThere wvas then. a inanaging board for the

Intercolonial Railway-and the said chief engineer shall have approved the ternis and conditions of such lease
having regard to the benellciai resuits therefrom to the Government railways, and untit
the Pariament of Canada han first ratified
such lease.
2. The sald board shall, in their report to
the minister recornmending the lease of any
lin. of railway,(a) give their estiffnate of the cent of such
lune, and such Information as they are able to
give of th.e moneys received by the company
owning the line from the sale of bonds or by
way of bonuses or otherwise;
(b) state the then present equipment of the
road, together with the average rate of freight
and charges tor passengers on the samne and a
comparison of such rates with those charged
on the Intercolonial railway;,
(c) the total receipts and expenditures for
three years last past:
(dI) an Estiniate of future receipts anci expenditures in the event of the roa-d being
leased as a branch of the Intercolonial railway.
Now, this wvas the part which the Senate
of Canada played in safeguarding the interests of Canada in the leasing of those railways. 1 feel quite proud, and I tbink that
any one who reads this resolution-whîch
is only siniilar to other leislation to the
credit o! the Senate-will find that we discharged our duty fearlessly and independently at that date.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The GovernHon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
mient already has the right, hby the Act
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-A similar Bill
of 1910. to lease any or ahl of these branch
feeders of the Intercolonial was brought i n hast year by the prescrit
lines that are

SE-'%'.\TE
amendment which we
Government to go one stop further-to aP- very conservative
iii the interests of Canada, and in the
propriate a right to purchase. hy order in niade
interests of the proper administration of
counicil, dines of railway whichi wero less affairs by the two branches of Parliament.
need to
than 200 miles in length. I do not
This Bill is presented to the Senate. I
emphasize the fact that a railway 199 miles admit that the Government, or the Hlouse
quite a number of millions of Coinmrons, bhas gone a certain way
long represents
of dollars;'yet the Governiment was sirnply towards mieetinga the objection that we had
askmg1 that -it be authorized by order in to adoiiting this legisiation last year.
It
counicil to bind Canada- for th-e purchase lias added this proviso:
in the
of branch lines of the Intercolonial
Provided that no contract for the construchands o! independent companies. and to tion of a line of railway exceeding 25 miles
country to the expondituro of in length shall be entered into, or the purcommit the
millions and millions of dollars. WVell, wliat chase price of any such railway or other work
until after a surn of money for the
did this Chamiber do? It said that the con- be paid, has been appropriated by 1'arliament.
put-pose
be ratified by Parliarnent.
tracts must first
[t acoes without saying that whatevcr conThe Senate, liaving a majority which wvas
into, if no
supposed not to be in very warmr syrnpathy tract a Govcrnmcint enters for the payo! the day because ioney is voted by Parliament
witb the Governrnent
or purchase of a railvay. the Governo! its present constitution, said that it mient
la without power to carry on that conshould not go as far as it liad gone in 1910 ment
that
with tract. Yet there is here an affirmation the
-%when the inajority was in synipathy
the contract wvil1 not be binding until
the Governinent.
lias been appropriated by ParliaWVe simply nioved an aniendmient to pro- moiiey This is a long step towards satisfycontracts mnust first ho tient. just demands of this Chamber, that
vide that those
This wvas voted ing, the
ratified bv Parliarnent.
Parliamnent should retaini a certain control.
upon, and the Government refused to I beliere it is not absolutely satisfactory to
In the game of
accept our amendments.
the Upper Chamber, for the simple reason
politics, what did we see? The Conserva- that we may practically abridge our right
tive organs representing throughout the to express our disapproval of a transaction
length and breadth of the Maritime Prov- whien submitted to
The
Parliament.
inces that the Senate had killed the Bill Government will have to come before the
to buy
which empowered the Government
House o! Commons to ask for money to
those railways. It was a dishonest argu- carry out the contract.
But, as my
ment. No one would stand up here and say hon. friend the leader of the Opposition
of the
that it was an honest statement
bias said, it can be put in the Supply
situation. Nevertheless that argument was Bill, and then what wilI happen? 0f
The telegraph wvires were kept bot course we could discuss the intrinsic
used.
for 24 hours after we took that stand, valivo o! the contract, but if this Chamber
libellîng the Senate, affirming that we were should disapprove the action takefl by the
partisans and hiad coinrnitted a partisan Government. its only recourse would be to
act. I ask my bion. friend opposite to comn- reject the Supply Bill. I draw the attenpare ,the stand that w"e had taken in 1910O tion of my bon. friend to the fact that this
and the stand we took st year. Why wvas is not special 1egiglation to affect certain
this amendiinent refused by the Governdone within the next twelve or
ment? We bave heen told that the Min- acts, to bc months, but this is an Act to
withi twenty-four
ister o! Rail-ways was niot in syrnpathy
go on 'the statute book forever. I arn speak-*
this Act, did not want to buy those
in the interests of the authorbranches, that the represontatives in the in. geiierally
Men
Provinces were ity and jurisdiction of this Chamiber.
Cabinet of the Maritime
wvill corne and go: governents wvill corne
favourable to the purchase or lease of those
still be there, and I
feeders to the Intercolonial railway, hut and go, but this Act will
general interthat the 'Minister of Railways wvas very speak, in consequence, in the irrespective o!
made an ests of the Senate at large,
glad to ho able to say, "I bave
offer to huv or to bease those railways, but the fact that Liberals rnay sit to the right
this Act
the wicked Liberal rnajority in the Sonate or the left of the Speaker, because
wvas in the %vay and preventod mie froin will have to be applied whenever it may
Thiat is whiat we heard -all please the Government to include in a
doing so."
round this building, that the Government supply «Bill a certain arnount of rnoney for
hiad done tbe nice act towards the Mari- the purchase o! one o! those branches. I
time Provinces, but evaded the responsi- 1VOUld suggcst to my hon. friend, the leader
bility by sirnply refusing to accept that of the Governrnent whio, beside being a
Hon. Mr. DA-'NDURAND.

APIRIL 1, 1915
Minister of the Crown, is a member o! this mnust drop politics out of this. I arn not a
Chamber, and as such has the obligation, politician, I arn a statesman. Whether we
it seems te me, jointly with ail oCher mern- are in power or out of power we have a righit
bers, of safeguarding the autherity of titis to certain consideration. I arn not a supChamber that he shouid consider the porter of the Governrnent. Liberais and
amendnient which I would make te this Conservatives are alike interested in this
matter: they want to see those roads
Bill. Aiter this previso:
acquired »and bui¶lt. I could narne a whole
ProvIded. further, that ne contract for the
construction of a une of rallway exceeding lot of thern.
twenty-five miles In length shall be entered
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Has the aetion
into or the purchase pries of any such railor other werk be païd until after a surn of the Senate last year prevenled the Govway
of money for the purpose bas been appro- ernrnent from entering into the two conpriated by Parliament.
tracts which are now subrnitted t<> us for
1 would add the foilowinga:
endorsalion P
The appropriation for such purpose t0 be by
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-It evidently did.
ýýpecial Act.

If this amnendmenl wvere made, whenever a Goverliment asks for money to meet
the oblimaîions entered into in connection
wvithi the rnurchazu of one o! ltose railways,

il wvouid have to ititroduce speciai legislalion, anul couid not include the itein in the
Thet lthe Sonate
Geiierai Sttpply Bill.
Mwould r- za:xî tl'.e righit of pasi. on this
detuani indlep(ndùet of the Suppiy Bill,
and would relai its futll righit to exercise its
authority aS a'second Chamýber. Otherw'ise
the oblig-ations wvouid be upon the Senate, if
it strongly f elt ltat the contract was objeclionable, to rejeet tbc whole Supply Bill. I
feel that on this inatter I arn simply voicing
the sentiment which should animale every
member of the Senate, and would rely upon
lte Govterninent and its iniediate friends
o! this Chanther to dlo one-fourthi of what we
did iii 1910 towards our own frîends in

powecr. and tîtus sifeuard complelely the
rIitz oi tii Chiaber in discussin.g freeiy
righlt to deal with any
a1nd in r-otigour
siielh important iiteasure on its mnerits,'
becausze iii tltiS malter wve are dealing in
'Now~ if the Governmient, afler
millions.
exaînininz tiis sutali amnendment wvhich I
sugegest. ret ise to accept il, 'tîten the Senate
1iuSî deýide whelher il wvili insist uipon the
aniendtne'nt. or rely upon it to deai wilh il
w-henlever it contes to us in a Supply Bill,
cosequenees.
tor Col
w itholut

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No, you have
evidence to the contrary in your Ilgnd.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-The hon. gentleman's attitude towards those two comnpanies is adverse to the Maritime Provi nces.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No, flot at ail.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-We have in the
Maritime Provinces railways that the Government of Canada neyer contrihuted a
cent towards. They were financed by the
local Governrnent trying to develop the
country. Any arrangement that can be
made whereby these railways will contribute to te earning power of the Intercolonial railway will bie helping the people
of this country. I do not know anything
about the legisiation of 1910. 1 arn iooking
at to-day and the future. The Governrnent
show every disposition te do something to
facilitate the development of the country
through these branch lines, which are not
able to take care of themselves. They were
built largely by private means, and we are
asking the country to do something to help
to 'work out the destiny of the Ma.ritirne
Provinces. I would just as soon vote for a
Conservative measure to-rnorrow as for a
Liberal measure if il was a good one.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Hear, hear.

Honi. Mr. DO'MVILLE-I have listened
Hon. Mr. DOM VILLE-I amn niot bound to
wvitlt a great deal of adtmiration to my hon. any party leader; I arn working for the <whole
frien1d's speech. He is a ciever man, but I country and for the Maritime Provinces.
would rentind Iiinii that titis is a Maritime We have donle our part in the past, and we
Province question, and not a Quebec ques- are not suffering to-day. WVe are doing well;
tion.
the farmers are making money, and we are
have flot ail happy. We are only asking that we .
r.DANDURAND-I
Hon.
treat 'ed il from that point cf view but frorn should be helped in sornething that is
a higher point o! view.
necessary for the developrnent of the counDOIMVILLE-That higher point try. What difference doffs it make what
Hon. M-Nr.
Governrnents
o! view killed these roads last year. We Government is in power?
S -2)j
REVISED EDITION

SENAÎÈ

appeax and disappear. 1 have the happy
record of outliving thern ail since New
Brunswick entered the union. My hon.
Iriend on my left (Sir Macke.nzie BowelI) and
myself are the only two that are left of the
1872 members. I arn not here.representirig
the lower provinces only, but I arn here
The
representing the 'whole country.
Liberal party balked this Bill last year.
There is no use denying it; they balked it
and t.he Government of the day did not
accept it because of some amendrnent that
I do not understand. The question may
corne up as to whether tLhe Liberal party
are going Woplace an impedirnent in the
way of passing this Bill that will risk its
being carried out. We have ail considered
the Northwest; we bave helped them, but
we have not been very lucky in the Maritime Provinces. In a great niany years we
have only had one knight, as against ten
or twenty appointed from other sections of
the country, but we are a demo-cratic
people, and ail we want for New Brunswick
is a chance ta build up the trade of the
country. Any hon. gentleman who knows
anything about a railroad. knows ithat it
cannot be operated properly umless it is xn
good shape, and it will not help to create
trade uniess it is run in a proper way. We
dernand that these branch lies shahl be
placed on such a basis that they can be
worked satisfactorihy, so that the trade of
the country will grow. If they are put in
proper shape the country -will develop. I
believe the Intercolonial railway and the
Government will not lose anything by passinga this measure; I believe it will assist
the Intercolonial railway in a great many
ways. I cannot folhow rny bon. friend
le
when h speaks about the protection of
the Senate. The Senate is not here to
throw out this, that or 'the other Bill because the majority may be on orne side or
the other. The Senate should be a patriotic
body.

DANDURAND-Hear,
Hon. M-Nr.

hear.

Senate
Hon. Mr. DOM VILLE-The
Thay
shouhd have statesmanlike views.
should not look at the history of the past,
but they should look to to-day and the
history of the future, and should ask what
effect is this Bill going Wo have on the
Why shouhd the hands of the
country.
Governnment be tied if they are willing to
bring in this Bill to hehp develop the
country? Why should they not be given
a chance to carry out this mneasure? My
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE.

hon. friend says it will last forever on
the Statute Book, but 1 say that is not
the fact, bacause if there is a change of
Governrnent to-rnorrow the new Goverument might consider it advisable to arnend
this Bill. 1 do not think my hion. friend
has doue full -justice to the Maritime
Provinces. My hion. friend aaid sorndthing
about the Prince Edward Island branch.
This road will give connection frorn Sackville to Cape 'Torxentine and that is someThis branch line
thing that is wanted.
was projected by men in the offln days
who did not have the means to carry it
out in a proper way, but it is running today and -makes a short cut and when it is
put in proper shape it will help to build
This short
up the trade of the country.
line will assist the fishermen and wifl
If the Maritime
create a lot of trade.
Provinces are to bie sacrificed by the
o)rovince of Quebec and Labrador and Un-lava, and if we are to bie considared as
having no voice in the Administration of
this country let us know it at once. If
it is a political move then I arn against it.
If it is Wosafeguard the Senate I cannot
see where tha safeguard cornes in, because
the Government only has the right Woacquire a lie by lease with the right Wo
purchase afterwards and any agreemant
to purchase muet be sanctioned by ParWhy should the Goverument bie
liament.
harnpered by an amendment to this Bill
when it is for tha purpose of helping the
Maritime Provinces? Why should we make
any arnenâment which will create a difficulty and prevent the Government of thé
day from carrying out a policy that wil
help that part of the country.
That is how it strikes me, and I wilI hold
this House responsible-Liberals and Conservatives both, if they stand for any
enactment, amendment or any thing else,
that will interfere with the great development that may resuit frorn the action of the
Government. Now, is that a lair way of
putting it?
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-Yes.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILL-I see nothing- else.
I shall vote witlh or against the Government
tomorrow on anything- that in rny judg-

ment relates to the 'wellare of Canada.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Will y'ou?
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-If it suits me, 1
will, but 1 do not see 'why we should embarrass the Government in carrying- out
their policy or give themi an opportunity of

APRIL 1, 1915
the whole
saying: "Weil, the Liberals'have thrown our quota to the grid-ironing of of British
though we were will- Northwest, of the provi'nces
difficulties in our way,
Maniing to help the Maritime Provinces." The Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan,
Ontario and
whale of these provinces 'viii rise as one toba, and even portions of email retuin
a very
man against anybody here who endeavaurs Quebec, and that it was
the effort the Governta baulk the Government ini doing that we were receiving in
ment of the day had made at this late date
which will promote our best interests.
had
des ntat take aver thase branch limeis, which of
r
WASON-Tat
Hýn.
oes notbeen buit with the money of the peopie
Hon.Mi.WATON-Tat
frighten us. We are independent electors. the Maritime Provinces, and connect them
I aisa
railway.
Han. Mr. MeS WEENEY-I have been w*ith the Intercolaniai
effect of that amendover that line fram Campbelitoi to St. painted out that the would be ta deiay the
Leonards, that the Government are buying ment then proposed
lines and thereat about $25,000 a mile. I was amazed to acquisition of those branch deveiopment et
find the nuxnber of people that have set- 'by prevent the proper That this lies
tled along that line. The road runs thîaugh the Ma.rit.ime Provinces. wîfl deny. It is
nobedy
a virgin country,-and within the lust three been the case
branch lUnes bave been
years about 500 ai 600 families, or about true that two
îeferred
have gone inta that part ai acquired-the branch line aiready
3,000 people,
road and wili to between Sackville on the main Uine ai the
the country. It is a cheap
and Cape Tarmentine
be af very great beneifit ta settiers. There Intercoloniai railway car ferry under conai acres af land in that sec- to conneet with the
are thousands
whîch the expenditure ai
tion stiUl to be settied, and if they have gone struction, wîthout ferry would be a farce,
money on the car
in at the rate of 200 a year for the Iast three
line ta the International
years, or a total ai 600 families, the acquisi- and aiso this
a very good bar- baundary to which my hon. friend from
tion ai the road, I say, is
As he ver3' well says,
gain for the Gioveimment. Last yeai the Moncton has ieferred.
bias been
fiom Rockland and myseli 4lhe efiOt oi *ha acquisition thet have
hon. gentleman
Liberals who shown in the nunmber of settiers
were. 1 think, the oniy twa
aiong thst lime. Nowr it muet be
voted for the BiM. I ires canscientiaus in looated
where there is a
then, and I shall vote for it patent ta amy one that as in the province
supparting it
road ai 36 good deal ai virgin mail,almo in Nova Scotia,
naw. The Prince Edward Isiand
Brunswick, and
miles is being bought by the Goveimment ai New Uines have -been built. It pays the
awhere
whch.isonl abut 8,O
for$27,OW
h on
ntedvlpeto
conmile. Certainiy it is mot in the best been Gvrmn acquire thase uines, link them up
try ta
ince they have
dition, but I believe
railway, and thereby
hae
runingitthe pt i ingoo codi-with the Intercolonialgo in and take up land
hve put it in g odcandi-o encourage settlers ta
t they
ionnd
cary eo by assuring them ai proper transportation
an
Islecar
the
ndee
comnction
and th e ta the main arteries ai commerce in Canada.
btwfeen the
cmmnicd.ao
well know the effect
am saisietheny vore foatheo Hon. gentlemen very Dîummond Caunty
barainn
the acquisition ai the
cotifyvtorea
and isha I
Bain
w.hich is noir a division ai the
~railway
Bih a it
BOWELL-Is that Intercolonial raiiway, irom Lévis ta MontHon. Sir MACKENZIE
real. A good deal ai discussion took place
raad in goad condition?
at the time as ta the price that had been
Han. Mr. McSWEENEY-The Gavern- paîd, but tne Government is noir paid
double for it by the number ai settiers that
-nent have put it in good condition.
on that uine
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-Last year I had have gane in and taken up land
severeiy on ai railway. Like the hion. gentleman. from
reasan ta animadvert rather
be very sorry ta
the action af my hon. friends on the other Newr Brunswick, I should this Bill in the
ai the House in the amendments they see anythîng, interjected in
side
that would for a monmade ta a Bill somuething along the saine way ai an amendment
be the cause ai giving an excuse for
uine as this, that bad for its object the ment
ai those branches,
acquisition ai branch uines in connectian deierring the acquisition
railway in the Mari- and I give the bon. gentleman credit for
with the Intercoloniai
feeling about the saine way. High-minded
time Provinces. I pointed out at that tie
a patriatic member
that ire had been more than generous in gentleman as bie is, and
af railway construction in ail ai this House, as I know him ta be, lie
the support
an
parts ai Canada; that ire had cantributed wauid very much regret ta introduce
S-20ý

SENATE

misapprehends the intentions of the hon.
gentleman from De Lorinier, who' will correct me if 1 am vrong, when I say that
all he did was to indicate that when the
House went into committee on this Bill it
was possible that an amendment might
be inoved in the direction which lie indicated.
'Hon. Mr. MURPH[Y-Pardon me; I
thought he submitted the ainendment. If
he did not, I will take it back.
Hon. MT. POWER-I think there is no
intention on the part of any mnember on
this zide of the House to move against
the second reading of this Bill.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Heair, hear.
Hion. Mr. POWER-What is felt is that
when we go into coinmittee it may be desirable to inake sonie amendments; and
tlhat is wvhat we are here for. Now, I wish
te draw the attention of the House te a
ratlier sing-ular circumstance, as it seerl&
te nie, in connection with this Bill, and it
is just as well 'to do it -before we go inte
committee. I miglit say that there is no
objeotion to ra.tifying the oontTezts which,
under the second and third clauses are
ratified; but as to the clause -which deals
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-My hon. friend al- with the future, I think there is very great
luded to the f act that while -the Maritime neoessity for some anendnient. Now, this
Provinces were getting a certain smount first clause provides this way:
of branch lines, the West was covered
construcProvided that
,tith branch lines. I want to tell my -lon. tion of a line of no contract for thetwenty-five
railway exceeding
friend that any branchli nes in the WVest miles in length shali be entered into for the
have been built by our own people. We purchase price of such railway or otherwise
guarantee our own bonds and do not go be paid until after a sum of money for the
to the Government to build our hranch p)urpose has been appropriated by Parliament.
lines.
Now, hon. gentlemen will see ,that the
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-The branchi lnes Government cannot build a line 25 miles
my hon. friend is talking about in the in length unless there has been an approMaritime Provinces were largely built by priation of the money for the purpose by
the people of New Brunswick. In Salis- Parliarnent beforehand.
bury and Kent there is net a dollar of
Hlon. Air. DOMVILLE-Hear, hear.
]Dominion mnoney.
Hon. Mr. POWER-But as I read the
Hon. -Mr. MURPHY-We hiad built the clause, there is nothing in it to prevent
trunk lines that made those branchi lnes the Government from entering into a conpossible; net to-day, but for 20 years we tract for the purchase or lease of a line 199
have been building -those trunk lines.
miles long, even though ne money bas been
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-My hon. iriend forgets voted by Parliament. I may be inistaken,
the fact that the Intercolonial railway wvas at any rate it would be meh that the matter
huilt with borr'ewed money, and the people shouhd be made clear wvhen we go into
If it is desirable that the
of the W~est have to pay their ahare of the committee.
cost.
Government should be restrained froni
conHon. Mr. DOMVILLE-They have -nerer building a hune 25 miles long without
sulting Parliament, and without getting
paid a cent on it.
the money from Parliament, then surely it
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think the lion. is stili more desirable that it should flot be
gentleman from Prince Edward Island allowed te purchase an existing railway
amendment such as this if he thought it
would be the mieans of setting at naiight
the effects of this legisiation on the
Maritime Provinces. Though this amenda ulne or
ment is very small -only
two,-yet it would have a very unfavourable effect on the Bill. My hon. friend
says that the effect intended is te maintain the supremacy of this branch of Parliament, or at ]east its co-ordinate rights
in the 1egislation of the Parliament of
Canada. Well, to a certain extent the
views are correct, but I think under ordînary circumstanoes the Parliarnent bf
Canada and the Senate are sufficiently safleguarded by having the right to condemn
the Government, even if nccessary to veto
the Supply Bill if any'tbing were proposed
that wou1d be se nefarjous that they would
feel justified in taking such an extraordinary step as that. I hope the lion.«
gentleman will not press his amendirent
lst it should have the effect of the amiendnient of last year, and thereby throw a
cold douche on the acquisition of branch
lines in the Maritime Provinces, and the
giving to us of the Tîghts 'we -should have
had long ago, of pxriper facilities for transportation to every other part of Canada.

Hon. Mr. MURPHY.

APIRIL 1. 1915

199 miles long without getting mioney.
There is much more risk of samne sort af
improvident deaxing in the case af the purchase.
The motion was agreed to and the 1Bill
was read the second time.
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-Do my hon.
friends wish the Bill ta be referred to a
cammittee of the wholeP
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I think it would
be better.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is there any objection to going inta committee now?
Hon. '-%r. POWER-Wait until Saturday.
Hon. '-%r. LOUGHEED-There is a more
representative House to-day than there
will be on Saturday. I move that the
House go into committee now. I quite
appreciatz that I cannot ask the Ilouse to
go into committee now without the leave af
the Hause, and if the House do nat wish ta
go inta conimittee now, 1 will say Saturday.

CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS 0F THE
SENATE.
CONSIDERATION 0F REPORT POSTPONED.

Hon. Mr. POWER moved the adoption ci
the Sixth Report of the Cammittee on Internai Economy and Contingent Accounts.
The SPEAKER-There is another -report
that, was presented this morning on a sornewhat similar subjeet, regarding the charwomen, etc. I would suggest a postponement of the consideratian of this report
until. the next sittîng.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn very sorry. but
I do not find myself in a position ta accede
ta the.request of His Honour the Speaker.
This unatter has been before the House in
one way or another for sorne considerable
time, the repart has appeared on the
Minutes and every hon. gentleman has had
a chance ta read it. I may venture, at the
risk of being rebuked, ta say that on the
whole there was almast complete unanimity
in the cormittee which made the report.

I

The SPEAKER-There is no use in
Han. Mr. DANIEL having been called ta
the House going inta committee to-day.
,This is a money Bill and cannot be the Chair,
amended.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY <Speaker)-We ËAr
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-The idea is ta asked to adopt the Sixth Report of the
discuss it. You might as well have the Connuittee orn Internai Ecanomny. The fir*t
third reading on Saturday and discuss it paragraph of the report reads. as folws:
then.
Your committee have Inquired Into the comDANDURAND-I do nat agree'
Hon. M-Nr.
with the Speaker that this Bill could not
be amended. It comprises two very distinct
features. There is a general enactment to
go on the statute book", and there is that
part of the Bill which ratifies the contract
which tindoubtedly gives to that part of it
the featurez of a money Bill. I hold
strongly to the view 'that the first part can
surely be amended by this Chamber.

position and duties of the staff of the Senate
the
was due
a nd its efficiey. This Inquiry membera to -the
of
fact that ç!hile the number of
House has been very siightly Increased during
the past twenty years and whfle the efficlency
of the staff bas flot been improved. the expenditure for contingencies and that for the payment of the staff have increased very materlally.
Wîthout gaing further into the truth af

the alleg-ation, I suppose we must accept it
as au evangelical trulli. It is the Chairxnan
ai the Committee who declares that for
The SPEAKER-I have talready given a twenty years the staff bas not been imdecision on a similar Bill and I cannot proved, but that the expenses have been
change nmy decision.
increased to a considerable amount. We see
statement is there.
Hon. M.\r. DANDURAND-Yes, the hon. na proof ai that. But the
has progentleman must change it, because At was The Chairman af the Cammittee
nounced that that is the case.
reversed by this Chamber.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Excuse me; the
The SPEAKER-I have an honest conChairman daes nat pranaunce, the camviction, and a majority will not change my
position. The House can reverse my decision mittee pranounces.
a second time. When I arn convinced af a
Han. Mr. LANDRY-But there is only
thing I arn convinced.
one Kaiser in the world. The Repart proceeds:
The motion was agreed ta.

SENATE
had to the
The comrnittee have devoted flot a littie Order in Council, due regard belng
officer or clerk as the case may
time and thought ta the matters herein refer- statua of each
red ta and they agree upon the followlng recommendations.
That means that the classification and

Before we discuse those recommendations,
may I be allowed to state what is the jurisdiction of that Committe.
The juriadiction of that committee springs
from à re 'solution which. was passed by tItis
House on the 3rd March, 1915. The entry
in the minutes is as follows:
The Hlonourable Mr. Power r. 'ved, seconded
by the Honourable Mr. Taylor,
That the Committee on Internal Economy
and Contingent Accounts have power, wlthout
speclal reference tram the Hause, to conaider
any matter affecting the InternaI Economny of
the Senate. as ta which fis Honour the
Speaker ts flot called upon ta act by the Civil
Service Amendment Act, 1908. and such corninittees shall report the resuit of sucli uvnsideration ta the House for action.
put
being
concurrence
The question of
therean. the samne was resolved In the affirmative, andi
Ordered accordlngly.

So you may sec by this mandate given to
the commitee that the committee lias no
right ta consider any matter affecting the
internal economy on which. His Honour the
Speaker is called upon to act by the Civil
Service Âmendment, Act, 1908. This coinmittee comes with a report consisting of 17
or 18 articles, and the first four or five are
to change the personnel of the Senate staff,
ta superannuate Mr. Soutter, and to naine
somebody ta represent hum; ta superannuate Mr. Ralph, and ta name somebody
else ta represent him; ta remove and super-.
annuate Mr. Larose, and ta name somnebody
ta replace hum; ta dismiss Mr. Caron, and
ta place Mr. Byron Nicholson as curator
of the reading room, and so on. Has the
Speaker of the Senate anything ta do with
these changes? I think the Speaker oi the
Senate has something to do with them,
and that this committee had no riglit ta
interfere and had no right ta makze any
That
recammendation ta this Hause.
specially reserved ta the Speaker
pcver waans
bv- the re-solution of rthe 3rd of March. The
Co0mnittee were to consider any muatter
affecting thîe internal economy ai the Senate
as ta ýwlich His Honour the Speaker has
îîot been called upon ta act hy the Civil
I will
Service Amiendment Act of 1908.
prove tlîat the powers ai the Speaker are
tranipled upon by this repart ai the comnîittee. If we look at section 8 ai the Act
we fiad:

organization of the Department must be
done by the head of the departmnent, subject
to an Order in Council.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That is the Senate.
Hon. Mr LANDRY-Il we look at clause
5 of the Act we find that whenever, under
sections 5, 8 and 10, any action is authorized or directed to be taken by the Governor
in Council, or by an Order in Council, such
action with respect to officers, clerks and
employées of the House of Commons or of
the Senate should be taken by the House
of Gommons or the Senate, as the case niay
be, by resolution. If we go back to clause
2 af the Act, the interpretatian clause, we
find:
The deputy head, in addition to the officers
rnentioned in section 2 of the Civil Service
Act, includes the clerks of bath Houses and
the librarians of Parliament in addition ta the
minister mentioned in paragraph 2 of section
2 and includes the Speakers af both Heuses.

Clause 8 the Civil Service Act says that as
soan as'practicable after the coming into
force of tlhat act the head of each depairtment, and here the head of the departnment means the Speaker -of the Senate,
8'hould cause -the organization of bis
depantm.ent ta be determined. Thereftvre,
it is a propoeition ma>de by the Speaker
o-f the Hou-se to, the House which puts
the whole thing in anovement and the
House appoeove-s or refuses to approve of
the action of tihe Speaker. The 1a~w adds:
"The Order in Council should give the
names of the several branches of the departments with the numiber and character of the
officers and the duties and salaries pertaininz thereto." Every time anything hias been
done in the Senate pertaining to changes in
t:ic! personnel of the staff, it has been done
'by tiie Speaker on a motion or proposition mnade by -himi and approved by the
House. My lion. friend from Fredericton
will remember we settled our difficulties
before by compromise. The classification
which was read this morning wvas sanctioned
and accepted by mny lion. friend in my own
office in the presence af the hon. Mr. Dandurand. I came here and made the recammendations and they were accepted by the
House and the classifications were made in
the proper way by this House. The law
says once that is done the organizatian of
As soon as practicable after the comning the departinent shauld flot be changed exinto force or this Act the head of each depart- cept -by Order in Council. Once it has
ment shall cause the arganization of the de- been defined by this bouse it cannot be
partment ta be determined and defined by
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

APRIL 1, 1915

changed by a report of the Committee but
must be chariged by an Order in Council.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the House chooses
to make an orden to-day it can do so.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It cannot make anI
order to-day unless I recornmend it. I can
show you the opinion of the Ministen of
Justice and I can show you the opinion of
the Auditen Genenal. The Speaker is the
head of the depantment. The depantrnent
was created by the law of the country, and
the law of the countny must be stronger
than a resolution of the Committee. By the
law of the country we have cneated the personnel of the House. It was made by the
suggestion of the Olenk of the Hou se to the
Speaker. and by the Speaker to the House,
and was accepted by the Houise, and nobody
can change it except by another Order in
Council, and that Order in Couincil must be

fused if I f elt that it was in the public
nterestP I do not see that I would have
Perhaps it would
any reason te do so.
have been very easy te irnpress ma that it
What objecvas in the public interest.
tion could I have that Mr. Jones should
succeed Mr. Soutter as the clerk of Minuta? 1I have no objection te Mr. Jones
or any other man replacing Mr. Soutter,
but I dlaim it is not the right way to remove the obstacles which are now in the
way.* Then Mr. Arthur Ralph, Curator
of the reading room, is asked -t be superHa is declared by this report
annuated.
te be incapacitated for work for some time.
The public interest may dernand that he
I do not object tW that, but
ha replaced.
I say you are nlot tthe party to do that; I
arn the party. The only power I amn given
by this report is stated in the following-

paragrapli:
made in the sanie way. I have no objection
That H-is Honour the Speaker
to accept thieir report if the public interesta to nominate 'Mr. Chas. IH. Larose
the Senate
of
dernand it, but 1 tell you that if you flauint tion$1.000doorkeeper of
a year.
of
iniiiy face, as
the report of the Coinittee
I thank the chairman whio
it hias been donc to-day, as a matten of

be requested
to the posiat a salary

found that
that great, problem. He found
defiance against the power given to me by solution to
among ail the nominations lie was making
this House and iby that apeejal resolurbion that there was one I could make with bisi
passed by the House on the 3rd of Mardi permission, and that is, of the doorkeepar.
which gays that ail that pertains te the
The report says His Honour the Speaker of
Speaker .shouid not be treated by the C3omface, ïn the Senate is entitled Wenominate a doormâttee-if you fleunit this ini ry
defiance of the law, bow can you expeot keeper. -No, it does not go so far -as that. -1
have not the choice of the candidate: 1
that I will not resent, it?
that proposition you take al arn entitled We name So and So as doorWhen in
the power the law gives me ouf of my keeper. That is ail my power and hon. genhands an:d put it in the band!s of the tlemen think that this is the way Ris
be
Clerk, how can I net rasent what lias been Honour the Speaker of this body should
that in the treated.
done, and how can you expeet
face of that 1 should f ail on my -knees
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do nlot think it.
before the Hon. Mr. Poer
'Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Do hon, gentlemen
Hon. Mn. CLORAN-I have bad te do think that is the way the Speaker of the
that.
House of Commons or the Housc of Lords
What have I
cmmLtt4ea in England are treated?
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Tha
To go s0 done to menit sucli an attention from my
bas baen led inWo an error.
f ar away from the powens specially be- hion. friend? He had -better let me rernain
stowed upon tham by this House is quite in entire oblivion, or coinpletely surrounded
One cf those finst propositions is and hidden by 'ail those eha m-oinen that lie
illegal.
that Mn. Soutter should be supenannuated. is bringins, now as a bodyguard for me,
I will not discuss any of thosa propositions. because we find in this report, as well as in
It may be in the public intenest that Mn. another report te be 'taken inte consideraI do' tien ont Saturday. that the Chairman seerns
Soutten should be supenannuated.
If it is in the public in- te take lis inspirations frorn a lot of charnot deny that.
kind of attacks
terest, why did not the chairman of that wonien. -but let me say those
mani.
committea, or the one who is trying to get upon me are not those of a courageous
Soutter away in order to place anotber Read the report and you 'will see between
Mr.
ll
in bis position, corne and tell me, "Wel the Brnes wheat it mean.s. And alter
after <ktrng
wa will try and agree; wa bave no niglit -what has the -lion. gentleman, year&-beto trample on your privileges, let us corne thajt kind of -business for four during the
-time
to an understanding-." Would 1 have re-, cause hie bas passed his

b__,_ýTE

four years doing that kind of work-wbat
has he to reproacb me with? Have I bcen
a partisan here?
Hon. Mr. (,LORAN-No.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Never. 1 have done
my duty. The hon. gentleman may iaughi.
Hon. Mr. POWER-One can hardly help
laughing.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The hon. gentleman
is laughing at something salemn.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I ask the lion, gentleman to formulate his charges against
me il hie bas any to make. The first time
1 heard an accusation was wben tlîe hion.
gentleman said that I hiad engagred an
additional messenger in zny roorn. I bad
two there, the two that nîy hon. friend had
when he was Speaker, and I have taken
an additional man, MNr. Roy, and that
accusation feil at once from tbe lips of rny
lion. friend. 1 was se surprisedHon. Mr. POWER-Not in this House.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Does the hon. gentleman say flot in this Chamber?
Hon. Mr. POWER-I said something like
it.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hon. gentlemani said in this House that I ha,. taken
an additional messenger, Mr. Roy.
Hon. rMr. POWER-I do not rexnemnber
anyVbing- ]ike that.

is the oldest senator in this Chainher that
hie has any warrant to tramiple on our
rigahts?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is it because hie lias
the experience of the thing that hie is cotiducting day and nighit, tnat war ag-ainst
me? 1 want bim, if hie has something to
I
say to me, to corne out and accuse mie.
want hinm te fighit in dayliglit.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Thie lion. gentlemnan
is right there.
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-Tbe day that this
Parliarnent will be dissolved will be the
happiest day for mie. WVhat pleasure have
1 liad since 1 occupied these rooins? I hnd
the pleasure on a few occasions to see lion.
g-entlemen around my table; that was the
greatcst îleasure 1 liad. But apart froin
that, in oui relations as senators %%hat
pleasure have 1 unad- Eaclî bine I gave a
decision it lias beelî reversed. and I arn
told to-day, and was told sorne tirne ago,
that 1 must give a decision conflicting with
one 1 hiad given before, because that one
had been reversed. Well they wvill have
to try it ôn another ptràun than me.
If they want to reverse the decision I
have given, the ifirat thing te do is to prove
my decision wae wrong, and if it was a
wrong decision I have nmanliness and courage en~ougfli to take niy medicine and render another decision.

lon. Mr. CLORAN-Hear, hear. I have
heen waitingc for this for a long tirne, and
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-I tlîought 1 was
lias corne now.
really at fault; bie said it with sucil assur- it
I thouglit 1 was the guilty party.
ance that
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tliere is an itemn in
When I went to rny roorn, the first persons Report No. 5 that the services of Mr. Caron
I -saw were ilyv anessengers. They said " We be dispensed with. He has sent in bis
were ail here at the tiimne of Hon. Mr. resignation. I hope that that p)art of the
Power and we are engaged bere now."; resolution wilbe chang-ed.
There was no change at ail. 'Ihae followving
Ilin. MNr. POWVER-Certainly.
day, alluding to w~hat tbe lion. gentleman
had said, I put the facts before this House
Ilin. Mr. LANDRY-But the thinug that
thmat I had net .increased thie nuniber. The
gentleman would have done before to-day
lion. gentleman did flot say a word. lie a
that would be to have placed Mr. Caron in a
lhad net the rnanliness te acknowledge
his resignation before
lie had miade a iiistake, hie liad net the position to tender
I say any
inanliness to put the facts as tlîey were înaiig this recommnendation.
The lion. gentleman gentleman would bave done that. He would
before this House.
He may have seen 'Mr. Caron and said to him: "Mlýy
nmay have ail the power hae wants.
clain i ls vast experience, thoughi very dear Caron, send nie your resignation and
faw more thman hae expose thamselves te be nothinga will be said about vou." And it
called to order on account of frequant is in face of that declaratioîî of tlie coinviolations of the rules. He may caîl upon rnittee that Caron wvas forced to g«ive' bis
He may say that this resignation. I repeat it, a gentleman
bis axperience.
House is g-Oing te Tuin. Is it because hae would have done otherwise.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY.

APRIL 1, 1915

Han. Mr. CLORAN-A son of one af the
statesnîen. of this Empire.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-T-.he lion. nieniber
frain Halifax has been Speaker. He bas
applied the rules of the House.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And brought in the
police, tao.,
lin. Mr. LANDRY-I remember more
thani once that lie clainied, and he was
rizht to do so, that irony shoulil neyer
creep into a question. 1 would ask if it
was dignified for the Chairman of the Coinmittee te have written the followIng paragraph:

certainly wvill be a new departure, because
if this is not a new departure why should he

6. That Mr. Byron Nicholson discharge the
duties of curator of the reading roam in addition to those of bis present Office. clerk of
Engiish Journals. Mr. Nicholson la a gentIemnan of considerabie literary skill and experience and bis appointment wili supply a want
in tlh2 m'inagement of the reading room.
And
Is tîîat irany or is it seiuses
what -%ril] -ve t.hiink of the present assistant
eirato.r,thiat painsta'king inan who bas been

economy.

25 or 30 years in the service? It is declared
that lhe has not tlie high attainnients of
Mr. Nicholson to occupy that exalted poeitien of eurata'r ai the readirig rooen. Then
we have :the c1larworman coming in. The
eliause reads as follorws:
10. That no further appointments of charwomnen be made until the numnber of those
known as permanent has been reduced to
seven. and that the number of such permanent
ernployees shail not thereafter exceed eight.
1 neyer cared about charwomen. I neyer
îîîeddled with them. It is the housekeeper,
Mr. Carlton, that setties aili tho.se questiens. 1 neyer engage or dismiss a charwonian, and neyer meddle in that kind of
business, but 1 neyer thoughit the comniittee
would tell nie as a direction that no furthor appointinents be made until tiie number of thosýe known as the permanent staff
lias been reduced to seveîi. That is a Biblical nuinher.
Hon. M.Nr.CIOIIAN-Seven lean cat.tle
,and seven fat cattie.
Hon. Mdr. LANDRY-Seven chandeliers.
We are gaing to have anýOtheT report which
will be a littie more personal. This report
is inerely a ballon d'essai. You are going
,te have somiething more personal that the
Speaker of the Hanse-I beg pardon, Mr.
Speaker, if I anticipate yonr future
title. but it is asked that the next Speaker
of the House shonld not -have the right ta
have more than sa many charwomen,
In the minds ai hon. gentlemen thal

bring in that report? If things are going
quietly, norrnally and smaothly, why should
we have this repart? Well, the future
speaker will be guided by the dictums of
He
this chairînan and this comniittee.
should not have more than twa charwomen.
The interest the chairman of this committee
gives ta the charwamien of this Hanse extends also ta the emplayees generally, and
it is decreed that a register af the attendance ai the employees ai the Senate, siînilar
ta those kept in the varions departmnents,
be instituted and maintained. That is not
taa bad for a persan

wha

is

aiming

at

A new position will be created

and a new persan will be appointed ta fill
that pasition.
Han. Mr. POWER-That is not

a

new

position.
lIon. Mr. LANDRY-It wili be against the
lawv at ail events. If we consuit the Civil
Service Act we find clause 46 whviceh. reads
as foliows:
Nothing in this Act or the Civil Service Act
shali be held ta curtail the priviieges now enjayed by the afficers. cierks and employees of
the Hanse of Cammons or of the Senate or the
Library with respect ta rank, precedence. at-

tendance, office haurs. leave of absence, Or
with respect ta engaging In anch empioymOnt
dnring parliamentary recess as may entitle
themn ta receive extra galary frain Parliament
The hion. gentleman .vili readily admit

that it is a systemn which wiil be unworkable. How wauld ha wark that? When the
Hanse sits until mîdnight how will it wark
ont? Anl the emiployees are kept here and
wili leave about 2 o'clack in the mnorning.
The minutes ai praceedings must *be miade
up dnring the night tinie se as ta be ready
for the xnorning. HoNv wili that work aut
jiith the haurs af attendance? Haow will At
Iwork out Nvith the pages who are here whiie
we are sitting? How will it work with aU
the emplayees ai the Senate, cierks and

messen-gers? If you want to send a messenger ont at nighlt, yon send imi away; how
ivili it work, out at that tinie?
Now it is declared that between sessions
the Speaker's steward and the keeper ai the
wardrobe miay be cailed upon to da dnty as
Senate messengers during the recess? The
keeper ai the wardrobe is the only ana nat

em.ployed as a Senate maessenger dnring recess. The Speaker's steward is employed as a
messenger during recess. "Thiat the nuinber
ai pages hereaiter shial not exceed four."
That miglit be correct; I. do nat dispute

SENAThj

that. The pages and messengers wene lef t
in the hands of the Clerk to arrange about.
If the Clerk wants an additional page, hie
asks me to name one, but 1 have neyer
asked himn to create a position. The number of people that were exuployed here when
I camie in bas remained the same. I have
not added to themn by one single unit.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The report does not
say that you increased them.
Hon. Mn. LANDRY-No. The report
refiects the spirit of the chairinan, but it
bas not the manliness to say so, but everybody believes that is it. Suppose for one
minute that the hion. gentlemen îwene in my
place, and that lie had a report of this kind
against him, what cries would we not hear.
I have no objection to the recommendation
that supplies and stationery shiah be
vouched for. Finally it states that the
Clerk of Senate shall be the chief executive
officier of the Senate.
Hon. Mi. CLORAN-Wrhat is the matten
with the Speaker?
Hon. Mn. LANDRY-I think I ought to
have something to say, but now I shall be
obliged every time I corne to Ottawa to ask
tihe clerk if he will allow mre to corne to,
my apartment, because he is the chie! execeutive of the House. I rnight have to asc
him if he would al¶Iow me to go home when
the House adjourned. What shall 1 not
have to ask hirn? This single clause shows
the nature o! the report tbat was rnade by
the chairman of the cornrittee, and should
it not be taken by me as one of the greatest
insuits that a man could receive fnorn a
public body?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-You are right. That
is what it means.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want to know, before this report is adopted. whiat you have
against me. I want to know what the
charges are so that 1 can defend. myseli. I
ask you you to treat me as you would like
to be treat-ed younselves if yon were in my
position.
Hon. Mn. POWER-Would the hion. gentlemnr kindly addness the Hou-se and not
me ?
Hon. Wr. LANDRY-I arn not addressing
myseif te, the hon. gentleman, I arn addressing the Hoýuse. Mlien 1 amn addressing
the whole House the lion. gentleman thinks
I arn addnessing myself to hirn, the Kaiser.
I think it is my duty to point out the legal
position in which we stand and the legal
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

position in which that cornmittee stands,
because that committee reports on subjects
which the committee has no right to report
upon, and if the committee wants some of
thèse suggestions to be carried out there is
only one way to do it. I shall not put
obstructions in their path, but it must be
done in a way that will be honourable to the
Senate, and to the man who presides in this
Houtse. I do not say 1 preside in a dignified
way, but I do it the best I can according to
tlue dictates of my conscience, and to the
best of my ability. 1 know that there is a
Flouse liere to censure me if I do what is
wrong, and it lias very often done 50.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-He is ail right.
lion. Mr. POWER-I do not know thiat
I arn strictly in order, but I suppose thaafter the remarks made by His HonourI
rnight be expected 'to say something.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I hope so.
Honi. Mr. POWER-I arn not going to
enter into the personal question. I do not
think that this House is very much interested in the Hon. Speaker's opinion of mne,
or in rny opinion of hirn.
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Our personalities do
not'count for a.nything. We are supposed
to be a body of business men doing business
in a sensible, reasonable way; and w.hat
fancies may have entered into the head of
one hon. gentleman or another do not count;
we loo~k at the facts. Taking up some objections raîsed against this report--4aking the
last one-bhe recominending that thie Clerk
of the House be the chie! executive officer
-the lion, gentleman apparently thinks that
hie himse]f ought, to be the chief executive
officer. What is an executive officer? A
man who carrnes out instructions, and directions, and regulations made by people above
him. The Speaker does not seemn to recognize that there is any one or any authority
above him; but the Clerk is naturally our
chief officer, and hie is a gentleman who is
supposed, and bas always been supposed,
to be chief executive officer of this House.
There is one matter as to which I feel a
good deal of regret; I exceedingly regret
that Mr. Caron was not communicated with
before the report was presented.
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mn. POWER-I arn very sorry
indeed for that. and if it had not been that
we were under the impression that Parlia-

APRIL 1. 1915
Hon. Mr. POWER: It is with the view
ment was about being prorogued almost at
Of giving .the House a chance to, settie ceronce, we should have taken a different
the businesscourse; but under that impression that tain things in what we think
this report has
be prorogued to-day thera like and right way that criticism -His
Parliament would
been macle. As to the
ivas not time to, do things that way.
Honour bas ma.de questioning the auHon. Mr. THOMPSON-He sent in his .thority.of the comsnittee to do that, these
resignation.
matters with which we deal are almost
that Mr. wi'thout exception matte<rs iaffecting the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I know
of the Senate, the way
Caron sent in his rasignation before this Internai Economy
our business is to be transacted
report was taken into consideration, and in which.
as a Senate. There are one or two cases
hie is not being dismissad, but I think iA
where that is net so, but wbere the. auon-ly fei to say that I regret that tbis thority of His Honour the Speaker cornes
paragraph was inserted in the report, in. If we choose to take Mr. C. H. Jones,
and I suppose that other mambers of and put him in as Clerk of Minutes instead
the committea also regret it. And that of somek>ody, else, that is, prescribe a alight
just reminds me that His Honour the change o! duties, that does not corne undcr
Speaker has deait with this question as the authority of the Speaker. But it hapthough it ware a matter between himself pans that we ask His Ronour the Speaker
and inv, eif. Now. that is not the case at to be good enougli to nominate a certain
ail; it i:z a inatter betwveen the Coinnmittee on gentleman as dooîkeeper of the Senate.
Internal Econoniv and Contingent Accounts, We ask hini to do that, because it is his
selected hv tlhe Senate, acting- for the Senate privilege, 1 think, to make the recomsnenand the~ Speaker; that is what the real issue dation. But when we talk about the prois. The lion. gentleman wanted to, know piiety of superannuating an officer who
what pleasure lie had had during has termi has beau absent from work for two years,
of office as Speaker. Well, I do not know, owing to serious illness, surely it does not
and I do not think the House is very much rest -with tihe Speaker to authoriza us to
concarned in that; but, speaking as a public make that racommendation. Thesa recomman, I know that the attitude taken by His mendations have ail corne to, the Senate:
Honour the Speaker in a good many cases* the committea does not do anything, and
has helped to lessan the pleasure the mem- the Senate has the right to deal as it pleases
bers have had in being present at the 'with the recommendation of the commitThe Speaker tee. The Speaker referred 'to something
meetings of the House.
raminds me very much of the twelfth juror that I had once suggested in the Rouse
who stood alona against eleven, and then about a lad who had been employad by
seen tI'e Speaker, Mr. Roy. Honestly, I do flot
that hie had neyer
renîarked
That la Tamam-ber anything about that; I do not
elevan sucli obstinate men.
about the attitude of His Honour the undaortake tc; contradict His Honour the
Speaker in connection with the mem- Speaker, but I do flot recali it. I think
bers of this House. There is one point it ia for the House to, judga the doings of
whichi I propose to discuss. The coin- the committee as hast they can and try
itee, .arrived at a very hainonious con- and improve 'the method of carrying on Our
clusion, and 1 do flot think it' la neces- business. Wa have made the report, every
sary to discuss thase questions whick. the hon. gentleman has had the opportunity
Speaker raised much fuither; but I wish of reading it, and I do flot think there is
to eal attention to the fact that 'ahen talk- any object in sny saying anything more
ing of appointments we did not lay su!- about it.
11clent stress on the fact that the Governor
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
in Council controllad thesa appointments; question o! the authority and power of the
reconîmanded Speaker undar the Civil Service Act lias
that if an appointment is
by a deputy minister and that iecom- been discussed a good many t.ires in this
mendation is concurred in by the mainister, House. Most of those who have any Tethen the Governor in Counil-that is the collection of what has 'taken place know
Sanate. ivhich represents the Governor in the po-sition that I have always assumed
Council-no matter what the action of the upon
allias
It
question.
this
Speaker or Cleîk m.ay be, this House has ways been my opinion-and this is
a riglit, in the last -resoit, te, decide what but
it-that
of
verification
another
shall be done.
the Gommittea on Internai Economy
Some Hon. GENTLEMEN: Hear, hear. have arrogatad to themsalvas a power that

e

SEN
'316 AIE

316

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why
does the keeper ai the reading roorn require
the qualifications possessed by Mr. Nicholson, as pointed out here, ta enable him ta
take the newspapers fram the post office,
put them on files in the reading raam ta protect them fram being stolen or taken away,
and theny afterwards ta file them away? Yet
we are told in this repart thatAn Hon. GENTLEMAN-Hear, hear.
Mr. Byron Nicholson la to discharge the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do duties of curator of the reading roomn In addinot know what took place between -the tion to thase of hi. present office as Clerk of
Chairman and members ai the committee Engiish .laurnals.
and the Speaker, but I draw the inference
If the report stopped there perhaps noI have mentianed from remarks made by body would abject ta it, and I do nat say
the Speaker, in which I must confess he bas that I abject ta it either, because he may
displayed a good deal af temper, and per- have ail the qualifications mentianed here.
haps justifiably so, believing as he daes
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-We are giving him
that his power and authority have been
negatived in almost every case. But ta my work ta do, so that he will be daing double
mmid the Civil Service Act lays down the duty.
power and authority hy which all these reHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I unconirnendations and appointrnents should derstand that, and sa daes my han. friend.
1b( made.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-And not increasing the salary.
An lion. GENTLEMAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I want
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
very frankly, if the
had been consulted and his opinion ta ask my han. afriend
Speaker
appointment of gentleman af considerable
had been asked as ta the changes which are
akill and experience will supply a
suggested in this report, I have confidence literary
the management ai the reading
enaugh in the Speaker ta believe that he is want in
roomP Does he require a man ai literary
not Sa arhitrary in his character as ta have1
skill and ability ta take newspapers from
rejected them.
the past office and put themn on file? That
can anly be given as a reason for making a
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
change, or for another reasan.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is
My impression is that if the committee
quite evident, however, from his remarks had expressed its opinion clearly and disto-day. that lie has corne ta the conclusion tinctly, they would have said this officer
that the power and authority vested in himi is of no use whatever, and, inst.ead of
by Parliament,- as Speaker of the House, apparently giving, him more work ta do,
wvhich we ourselves discussed in adopting they are giving hirn the w'ork of a mesthe Civil Service Act, have been disregaarded senger and stating that the position
and that hie himself bas heen treated with requires a inan of literary ability. I have
conternpt. I do not say that the comrnittee long hield that the duty wýhich pertains ta
intended a thing ai that kind, but that is the office ai Speaker, it inatters flot who
evidently the opinion thiat lie lias forrned occupies the Chair, should not be taken
fram the action of the conuniiitt-ee in rnaking frorn him and arrogated by the committee
recomimendat ions ta the Senate whicli he without authority. The Senate rnay take
tllinkzs, and whichi after reading the clauses certain action on the recoxurnendation of
I think, they hiad no right ta do except the Speaker, and the Senate lias power
thirouigh the Clerk and the Speaker. There and authority to reject it if thev so desire.
is really where all the difficnlty lias arisen The Speaker and the Clerk are in the same
in the past, as well as in the present case. position as the head ai the departmnent and
Tixere are niny suggestions in this report his deputy: the Speaker represents the mina
wiceh mieet rny approval, as a member of ister of a department and the Clerk
deputy. The deputy may make a recarnthe Senate. There are saine things in it
the minthat, ta rny mmid, are ridiculous-perhaps mendation to the minister, and it to the
ister mnay reject it, or hie inay send
thiat is saine tao strong- a word.
Treasury Board, and that board may
approve or disapprove. If tlie Treasury
Somie Hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, niear.

is vezted in the Speaker and the Clerk ai
,the House. I have not the slightest doubt
that if these representations had been made
in a consultation with the Speaker, an
arnicaible arrangement ma.ght. have been
made ta carry aut the suggestions contained
in the reports.

Hani. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIL 1, 1915

Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes.
Board approves of tise recommendation, it
the Counoil. I regret exceedinglY
goces to
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-When?
that the Civil Service Act bas not worked as
Hon. Mr. WATSON-There is a motion on
I anticipated it would. Apart from that,
our action should be in accordance with page 62 of the Minutes of Proceedings.
The Speaker
the provisions of the Act.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I take the ground
looked on the action of the committee as
If
taking fromà him a power that hie bas. He that the cornmittee has acted wrongly.
deeply resents that, and I regret that hie has we are to be bound by what the committee
does, whether right or wrong, that is the end
feit it so keenly.
of the whole discussion. I take the ground
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I hiad not. in- that the commnittee bas attempted to deal
tended to take part in this debate, because with subjects which wvere not referred to it.
if there is one subject more than another If that is clear there is no question that we
that I dislike it is appointmnents to office. must apply the rules that no committee
My excperience in representing thîs city for can deal with any matter that is not referred
12 years disgusted nie for the rest o! my to At.
These questions have not been
days in rnàtters of that sort. I rise now referred to that comrnittee. If we do not
will settie this matter
in the liope that we
foliow the rules of the House we will go
once for ail, and that in the future we shall astray. It is clear to me that the commitavoid unseernly discussions to whicli the tee, in dealing wvith matters not specifica:lly
whole of this day bas been practically de- referred to themn, have actcd without authorvoted. I thoroughly agree with my hon.
I do flot care ttuppence about the
aisd venerable friend froni Hastings that ity.
matters referred to in this report, but I do
the la-' is that the Speaker is the head o!
abouit the proper conduct of
this departinert-I arn speaking, flot of the care something I arn going to try and help
outside this House and
House. but ci the administration
business of this House is
o! the House-and the Clerk is the deputy to sec that the
properly conducted. I do not care who rnay
head. The law says distinctly that appointhie is a friend o!
ments to office are to be made by the head, be in the Chair, or whether to see that the
deputy head. mine or not, I amn going
on the recommendation o! the
He alone, as the head of any departmnent, Speaker of this House receives the respect
has the right to make recommendations. to which, he is entitled. In this -instance
This House may ignore these recommenda- there is considerable evidence of feeling
tions if it choose, 'but the Committee on between some member of this committee
Internai Economny, no more than any other and the Speaker, and to be charitable the
comrnittee o! the House, has the right to report cannot otherwise be interpreted than
inquire into any question not specially as an attempt to give a siap to the Speaker
referred to it. I thînk that is at the bottom of this House. What interest bas hie in
of this whole question. Hlave these matters doing that? WVhy should we do something
been referred to the Comnîittee on InternaI that is insulting to the Speaker? The
Speaker is the representative of the House
Economyv?
and I have neyer seen any deliberative body
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No.
that would allow its presiding officer to be
The Speaker insulted without sorne inember of the House
Hon. '-\r. WATSON-Yes.
submnitted reports to this House, and they rising to protest against it. Why should we
were referred to the commnittee.
try to detract froml the dignity or destroy
what sùbjectir *the authority of the officer who presides over
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-On
this House? I arn going to vote against the
The SPEAKER-When did the Speakez report, not because I do flot think the
of the House refer anything to the coin. recommendations are proper, but because it
mittee?
is an assumiption of authority by a coinHon. Mr. WATSON-Tbe Speaker made à mittee o! this House to deal with sornething
report to the Senate on the acceptance ol that they had no business to deal with. If
we adopt that report and sanction the prinMr. Trudel's resignation.
deal with subreport was acted iciple that a commiittee can
The SPEAKER-That
jeets not referred t-o it, we wilI be establishon this rnorninge.
ing a very dangerous principle.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Has the Hous(
of the
re!erred to the Committee on Interna 1 Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-As a member
the matters dealt with ii i Oommittee on Internal Economy I would
Economyv any of
like to say that several matters were
this sixthi report?

SENAIJE

Senate was not a departmnent, but that this
Senate was a branch of Parliament.
On the passing of the Act, calling the
Speaker the head of the department was a
nominal proposition; it was suggested as a
means by which these matters should bebroug-ht to our attention. Where any reconimnendation of any character reached the
Senate through the deputy or through the
Speaker of the Senate, this House has
full contrai to deal with it, as they
think best. To hold the contrary is
perfect, nonsense, according to any way
of thinking. Respecting the reel"sfication whi-ch took place two yeaxrs ago,
the Civil Service Act says: "Thait Iéng
organization of
BELCOURT-Was the Speaker leterrnined and defined, the
Hon. Mr.
a departrnent shall not be changed except
consulted?
6y Order in Council." Where is the Order
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-I understood from a in Council? The proposition that wvas
personal frîend of the Speaker that His Hon. broughit to us at tbe close of 1913 was neyer
the Speaker was consulted and wvas satis- ordered hy the Governor in Council. I arn
fied.
not finding fauit with that, because I moved
the per- it. [t was hrought by the Speaker here, but
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Who was
it did flot conforin to tihe. provisions of the
sonal friend o! the Speaker?
Uct. Before a classification can be deterHon. Mr. TAYLOR-I understand Senator 111;ned under thiis Act, the Governor in
Bolduc.
Counicil înust order it; then the Speaker, as
was when Senator h*cad of a department ,and the deputy can
The SPEAKER-That
mnake a recommnendatioxl to the Governor in
Bolduc was in the hospital.
Council and have it changed, but that was
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-I arn giving the facts not done. WVhile I moved that in conias I understand them. That was the im- nîittee, 1 want to say frankly that I did not
pression of the majority o! the. committee. understand that the classification carried
We understood that the Speaker was satis- an incTease cf $500 or $600 to t.he ealaries
fied and the comrnittee approved of the sub- of the individue.1s nsmed in that clasoommittee's report as it is now before the sifleatiion.
14 came tihe last day before
House.
We met in the
the Senate adjourned.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-I consider the Speaker's room and talked it over with the
views entertained hy tii hon. seniator froni Speaker, and perhaps I was somewhat
Ottawa -and the views entertained by the obtuse and did not quite appreciate what
hon. senator froni Hastings are absolutely was done in tha-t respect. I did not notice
erroneous. There la not a'single section ox that A-i and A-2 had been changed. I saw
Trudel was 82,400, and 1
paragraph in the Civil Service Act that give.i the salary of MrNi.
the Speaker o! the Senate the powers whicl, did flot take it that by that recominendatiofi
they -elair. 1 go fur.ther than that and I sa we were adding $600 to his salary.
that we have not been living up to the pro.
The SPEAKER-That wvas printed in
visions of the Civil Service Act, and havE
Tha, tthere.
driven a coach and four through it.
Act requires that ail appointrnents in thg
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Yes, but 1 did
Civil Service should be made by the Coin
3 not read it in that light, or I should not
mnission, but not in one instance has thi,
have felt that we could do that and conformn
Senate conforined with the Act in that re 1 to the Civil Service Act. I want to say
spect. I want the Speaker to understarn
some little attention to the
that, so far as any personal feeling is con - having devotedthe Act, that the intention
a particle of it provision of
cerned, there lias not been
the Act neyer was that this Senate should
aîxd 1 have no disposition to do anythini Sof
Sbe humniliated by taking these matters away
that would cause inii personal feeling ii
From the inception of the Internai
respect to the natter. 1 xvas oniy acting as froni it.
e Economy Committee, appointed by the
a mnember, the coinmiittee believing that th

It was
brought hefore the comrnittee.
thought that the staff of the Senate required
reorganization. We considered that sorne of
the members o! the staff were not earning
their salaries.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Why was not the
Speaker asked to look into these things?
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-We thought the best
way to deal with the subject was to refer
these matters to a sub-committee. That subcornrittee was cornposed of five of the oldeat
and most efficient senators of the House.
They hrought in a report and the committee
received that report -and adopted it.

Hon. Mr. T 4YLOR.

APRIL 1, 1915

Senate to deal with these matters of
domestic interest, it was neyer the intention
of the Act that they should pass out of theI
hands of the Governor in Council, which in
our case is the Senate. There is only one
section in this Act which provides that the
Speaker shall be called upon te make the
nomination. That is section 22, and that
refers te the appointrnents of positions et
messenger, sorter, porter, and packer, and
such other positions of the lower grades as
are determined by the Governor in Council
-that is the Senate-may he made by the
Governor in Council upon the recommendation of the head of the department made
upen a report in writing of a deputy head.
Thut is section 22. Section 21 reada:

act in the matter. The Speaker is not on
our committee, and has nothing to do with
the work perforrned by them. The committee has te do with the work of the Senate.
The Speaker could not adv.se the committee in respect of matters regarding the
duties of the staff.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Why not>

Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-He would not
know about the work of the clerks as well
as the cornxittee.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-He would know
better than I would.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-He could net
k'now the work of these committees without
being in touch witb thern. But nelther -the
of this committhe deputy head reporte that the know- Speaker nor any member
If
ledge and abliity requisite for the position are tee can understand exactly the nature of
wholly or in part professional, technical or the duty of the officiais excepting those
otherwise peculiar, the Governor in Council, engaged in the work themselves, and when
upon the recommendation of the head o! the
and a
departînent baeed on the report In writing of I, as a member of that committee,
may appoint a persoli to the member of the subcommittee, met îvith
the deputy head,
position without competitive examination and prorninent members of the committee, and
without reference to, the age lirnit, provided deait with this question, it was foreign to
the said person obtains from the commission
on the
Fcertificat", to be given with or without ex- me to think tnat we were treading
amination, as is determined by the x-egula- corna of the Speaker. I have just as much
tions of the commisi~on, that hie pousesees the regard for the Speaker as my hon. friend
requisite knowiedge and abiiity, and ia duly and 1 arn willing te sustain the dignity of
qualified as to health, character and habita.
arn not
,Section 22 applies to messengers, porter, the Speaker of the Senate, but 1
sorter and packer. and to such other positions willing that the Senate should humiliate
in the lower grades as are determined by th. itself for the purpose of giving way te the
Governor in Council. may be made by the Gov- Speaker: In ne sense have we interefered
ernor in Council upon the recommendation of
as a member
the head of the departint based on the report with his prerogative, and if I,
In writing o! the deputy head. and accompanied of that comrnittee, feit that in this case I
by a certificate o! qualification from the comn- had .one an injustice te the Speaker, no
mission, to be given w1th or w1thout examina- man in this House would more willingly
tion. as is determined by the regulations o!
the commission, that the person applying for acknowledge At. I arn acting conscienthe appointment possesses the requisite know- tiously, according to my idea. as to what
iedge and ability and Is duly quaiied as to -the provisions of the Act require, and
age, heaith. character and habits.
as the reconimendations made by that
By section 22 it is left to the clerk and committee are for the best interests of this
the 'Speaker of this House to cail attention House, 1 really cannet think for a moment
to the f act that there is a position to be that tnis house will reject the report,
filled which requires professional, techni- which has in it matters that are so much
cal or other peculiar qualifications. Hav- required, for the best interest and control
ing called attention to the fact that a posi- of the staff of the Senate.
tion of that kind is vacant, tne Act says,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
- The Governor in Counicil inay appoint a
i hon. friend says the opinion expressed with
person." It is left to the Governor
Service Àýct by the lion.
Council to make such nomination, and hav- regard te the Civil
Ottawa and myseif is
such nomination to have it Con- gentleman from
ing made
f'irnied. The matter we na-e deait wita is erroneous.
one of which the Speaker could not have
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-That is my
personal knowledge. Surely the time has judgment.
net corne when the members of this Senate
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-All I
in Coanmittee, who have knowledge of the
hion. gentleman
duties to bp discharged by members of the desire te say is that theare in very good
who know exactly what has to be from Ottawa and myself
staff,
the Deputy Minister of
done by these officiaIs, have no power te company, becausa

SENATE

Justice bas agreed with us and it is on
record.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Andl
also the Auditor General, who refused to
pay certain accountsHon. Mr. THOMPSON-The statements
,of the Deputy Miuister of Justica and the
1 can find
Auditor General are on record.
them in the journals of this House, and
their opinions wviil confirm the position
taken by the committee.
Mr. LOUGHEED-Unfortunately
Hon.
avery session we have this inflaminatory
discussion on the meaning of the Civil
It is about as plain as any
Service Act.
theological dogma which may be submittcd
for interpretation, and 1 fancy so long as
we are administering the afi airs of the
Senate undar the Civil Service Aël, we are
likely to agree or disagree just to the same
extent as we would in the discussion of any
1 should like very
theological question.
much if, at this staga, 1 could assist in
pouring some oul on the troubled waters,
w-hich seem to agitate the Senate every eession to such an extent that it disturbs
out equanimity and destroys the test which
many hon gentlemen like to enjoy in this
Chamber.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Especially in holy
'week.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHLrl-It seems to me
we are discussing a technical subi dct and
in a sense for which there is really no satisfactory solution. Allow mie, in 'the first
place, te say that 1 arn a member of the
Heaven
Internai Economy Comiiiittee.
,forbid, if this .strife ýcontinues, that 1 -shouqld
be a inember of that comrniittee at any fuThe members of that comture session.
mittee are cai.ied upon to discharge very
They have
unpleasant duties indeed.
responsibilities which no lion, gentleman
on the comnrittee bias sought, and those responsibilities have to be discharged by
some one or other menmhers -of the Senate.
Power wvas given this session to the Internal Economy Commiittee of an originating
The committee was expected
character.
te make suggestions which would be in
the interests of th3 administration of the
They were
public service of the Senate.
in a position to do that to greater advantag-e than His Honour ',he Speaker, and furthermore, it would not have been entirely
in harrnony with the dignity o! the Senate
that hie should have b8en calle-à upon to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

niake the suggestions which this committee from time to time bas been called upon
Now it did occur to that comto offer.
mittee. in pursuanca of the originating
powers that were given us during Vihe
present session, tLhat &omething should [be
done towards reorganizing tlhe service
of the Senate. With ail -due deference
to the service of the Senate, I1 venture
to say that we ail thought At susceptible
of iniprovemrent con-sideririg the large expenditure of public nioney *we are making upon it. We found we had servantà
here, old officiais. as you may choose to
cail them, drawing substantial salaries,
but who, from circumstances and conwere
control,
their
beyond
ditions
niot giving the service that publie necessity required. The Internai Econoniv
Comimittee took upon itself to appoint a
siib--comimittiee Io imke inv-estization into
those conditions and to report thereupon.
That sub-comrni.4ttee discussed the entire
subject wi.th the Cleirk of this House, 'who
is familiar with ail the conditions to which
1 have referred, and I believe there was no
dissat;sfÀaction expressed by the Clerk in
the conclusions at which the committee arrived.
Hon. lMr. ]3ELCOURT-Was the Speaker
cons-ulted -about it at al'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I will corne to
that. The impression in the minds of the
sub-commîttee was that the Speaker was
familiar wlth what was being done, and I
myseif was fully persuaded that His Honour
the Speaker had knowledge of all the recommieudations wvhich were to be made. Having arrived at a series of recommendations,
we unfortunately have made perhaps a teclirical mistake, and yet it is not such an important matter as hias been represented.
After ail, this sub-committee lias simply
recommended to this House that certain
things should be done. I see no reason
why the Senate should not in turn recoinrnend to His Honour the Speaker, whio may
be charg-ed witli the originating power incident to certain thi*ngs in this report. tlîat
lie in turii should recornmend to the Senate
that this be done. This is siînply a recoinmendation of the committee. The committee has not arrogated to 'itself the power of
carrying out those recomm-endations.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-They
could not.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then, if they
exception
any
can
why
could not,

APRIL 1, 1915

be taken te any committee in the interests cf the Senate investigating and
recommending te the Senate that something
_3e done. Baving recommended te the Senate that something be done, then it is time
for it te go through the proper channels
providedf~or e doing. I do net tIhinik the
committee has in any way usurped the
power cf the Speaker ini suggesting te the
Senate what should be donc aleng certain
lines.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-What about the
Civil Service Act?
Hon. Mr. LOUGBEED-We have net
reached the operatien of the Act yet. This
committee has placed upon the table of the
Bouse simply a suggestive report directing
the attention of the Bouse te certain things
and expressing its desire that that condition
of things should be observed. I quite concur in the proposition that it might have
been more desirable had that suggested Act
genie te the Speaker, with a suggestion that
he in turn should recommend te the Bouse
that these particular recommendations
should be crystalized into practical shape.
If I had thought that a technical distinction
aheuld be drawn, I as a member cf the Internal Ecenemy Committee would have at
once said te that committee, 84We had better
wait upon Bis Honour and have bim make
the recommendation." But it is not tec
late. If -the Civil Service Acf is like the
Ark cf the Covenant, that he who places his
hands upon it would be f atally stricken, let
us stop at this particular mement cf the
report, and simply and suggestively wait
upon Bis Boneuir the Speaker and ask that
these recommendations be carried eut. I
as a member of that committee, would be
very glad if this report should be withheld
until we cati properly present if te Bis
Honeur, and ask him te carry eut the recommendatiens which. we have already
made. I, for one, am very anxieus, and
always shall be te uphold the dignity, honour and rîghits cf the Speaker and likewise
cf the Senate. I do net think-I say it with
the utmest cenfidence-even though there
may be a feeling cf antagenism wifhin certain greups, thiat thr was a member cf
that committee who discussed this report,
and whe was in any way a party te the recommendafiens made, who had any desire
whatever te usurp the power cf the Speaker,
or in any way te trench upen the dignity
and privileges which attach te the -office
and with which we would like te surround
Bis Honour nt all times.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-But as a matter of
1
fact yeu did'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is simply a
question of difference of opinion. Why
should this deliberative Chamber, a chamber before whom must corne for revision al
the legisiation passed by the House cf
Commens--why sheuld we ait down and
quarrel amongst ourselves as to the technical distinctions to be drawn in the administration cf the Civil Service ActP
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would therefore suggest that His Homour the Speaker
accept the assurances that this committee
have given him, that there was no intention
to infringe on his dignity or usurp bis
rights. and that our only desire is thât, he
should take this report as our recommeaidation, after careful investigation made by
us in the interests of the Senate, and that
he, in pursuance cf the rights which attach
to his office as Speaker, should recommend
te the Senate that these recommendations
be carried out.
Some hon. QENTLEMEN-Hear,

hear.-

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-You muet get down
te something practicable after ail the discussion. The only thing new before the
Bouse is the adoption cf the report. If the
report is adopted under the circumstsnces,
it is a direct insult te the Speaker, as admitted by the leader cf the Goevernment and as
suggested by the hon. senators from. Bastings and .Halifax; there is no question at
ail about that. If the lion. leader, cf 'he
Government had wound up his remarks
with a motion recommending the holding cf
this report until the Speaker had time te
be consulted, then wve would have been able
to vote on sornething that would net reflect
either on the committee or the Speaker.
Bon. Mr. LOUGBEED-I wvill make a
proposai, if hion. gentlemen wvii1 be prepared
to consider it. I move that inasmuch as a
difference of opinion has arisen as te the
procedure whichi should be adopted in the
subinission of this report, it be laid upon
the table until Saturday, and that Bis Bon.
the Speaker be requested te consider the
desirability ef making a reconimendatien in
accordance therewith.
Bon. Mr. CLORAN-I second that motion.
The motion was agreed f0.

S-21
REVTSED EDITION

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers to
FIRST, 6ECOND AND THIIRD READINGS.
the hon. gentleman's questions are as folBill (F-1) An Act for the relief of Cecil Iowa:
Howard Lambert.-Hon. Mr Taylor.
1. 6,298 Chinese immigrants arrived durThe Senate adjourned until Saturday, the ing 1913; in 1914, 1,600 arrived.
2. 886 Japanese immigrants arrived dur3rd instant, at Il ar.
ing 1913 ý in 1914, k81 arrived.
3. 88 Hindu immigrants arrived dur&ng
19313; in 1914, none.
THE SEKÂTE.
4. Under the Fishery Regulations of British Columbia, only a British subject who
Saturday, April 3, 1915.
is resident in the province, or a person who
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eleven is a -bona fide setiler and bas pre-em<pted
o'élock, a.m.
or purchased land, or a Canadian Company
or firm, or one whieh is licensed ta do busPrayers and routine prooeedings.
iness in the province, is eligible for fishery
DREDGING ON PACIFIC COAST.
lieenses. Hence. no licenses have been
. INQUIRY.
grantied in the years mentioned ta otherà
than abave.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK inquired:
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-That is Ïhardly an
Has the Government changed ail the
1.
dredges and tug boata at the Pacifie coast answer to the question. It does not say
tiram coal burners ta oi1 burners?
how many o! those Japanese were British
2. If ao, what lias been the cost of making subjects. Does it niean that there were no
the change?
3. What Is the savlng In the cost of the Japanese at ail?
fuel?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. f riend
4. 'What la the saving In the cost of operawill correct rue if I amn wrong when 1 yention?
ture the statement that the British ColumHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers ta tbia Government may possibly regulate who
questions are as 'folthe hon. gentleman's
should have tihe right ta fish under the
Iowa:
for British olumbia.
1. No, 'three tugs, <four dredges and one fisheries regulations is a British subject,
The persan quaifiled
rock-breaker are equipped with oul, while who is resident ini tihe province, or t.he pertwo tugs, two dredges and one Tock-breaker eon who is a bona fide settier and has preare ziot equipped.
cmpted or purchiased land, or a Canadian
2. $34,244.
company or firm, or one which. is likely
$35i,000, approximately, per annum.
3.
is eli«gihie
is very ta do business in the province,
4. An additianal saving whieh
for flshery licenses; hence no license3 have
d.ifficu]t ta estimate.
been granted in the years ment.ioned te
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The answer ta the othier than the above.
third question is "*$35,000 approximately.'
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I neyer iitderstoed
D>oes that mean per annum?
the province of British Coluwbia haci anyHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My bon. friend thing ta do 'with that subject.
bas not included that in his inquiry. It
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--I nave nq persays $35,000 approximately. That would sonal knawledge of the anstver oittsida o!
more than cover the cost o! making the the information which haý_ been !urnished
changes.
me.
ORIENTAL IMMIGRATION IN CANADA.
CRIMINAL C'i])E AM'FNOirMENT BILL
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK inquired:
1. How many Chinese immigrants arrived in
Canada during the calendar years 1913 and
1914?
2. How many Japanese immigrants arrived
in Canada during the calendar years 1913 and
1914?
3. How many Hlindu immigrants arrived in
Canada during the calendar years 1913 and
1914 7
were grantedl ta
lcenses
4. How many
Japaneee fishermen during the years 1911. 1912,

1913, 1914?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

THIRD RADING.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED rmoved the third
reading o! Bill No. 74, An Act ta amend
the Criminal Code, as amended.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I move tbat sectonis
5. 6, 7 and 8, which. were stricken out in
Committee of the Whole, do again forra
part of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I was not in the
bouse when these words were stricken out,

APRIL 3. 1915

and I should like to know 'what we are votHon. Mr. CLORAN-II -bon. gentlemen
ing on. Would the hon. gentleman give us would just consider this caimly and quietly
they would not change the legiala-tio>n on
bis reasons for restoring thern.
the statute-booke to-d-ay. I understand the
Hon. Mr. WATSON-My reasons for mov- vast -majority of the hon. House ha& Dot
ing tihat they te restored ia because I been called upon te dea] with the adminis'think it is good legislation. The Minister tration o! laws of thia kind, but if they 'hadl
of Justice,. in his explanations made in tèhe been th;ey would if.nd the Oriminal Code of
House of Gommons on the Bill, givea very Canada was replete 'with provisions o! thia
satisfactory ressons. At the present time kind. [n 4act, there are more provisions
there is a great agitation going on by an than the authorities are aible ta carry out,
organization known as the Social Reform and it is a mistake te hae changing theme
Aesoaiatior throughout. Canada. They have provisions !rom year te year at the demand
peAitioned tihe minister to pasa that legia- of well-meaning organizaions. Th-ey are
lation ibelieving it ta 'he li the luterest o« not tIit proper parties te insist on legialathe work they -have underta-ken; that is, tion. As the hon. gentleman from Prince
trying not only ta reform, but to prevent Albert has juet said, once they get an idea
girls ifrom going into houses of prostitution, that the law shouid te amended. they want
and I amn inclined to think that ve ahould te put it through right or wrong. I su>mit
rot put anything in the way of those peo- te this bon. House -th&t t~he judges, -the
pie, who certainly know more Ébout the police officer.s, the criminai overseers, are
laws they require -for the purpose of effec- quite satisfied with the legisiation now on
tively doîng their work, than we can pos- the statute-book in regard ta this question,
cibly know in this Chamber. It wouid hae and I fail to see the necessity of changing
a mistake on our part not té give the peo- the law. I for one, knowing and seeing,
pie engaged in this 'work the legislation and having to do with the question, feel
asked for.
that it wouid be a moat unwise tèhing to
make the inmates o! a house of that kind
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Il my hon. friend is
se anx.ious in regard te tèhis question, and guilty of an indictable, offence. it If the
House accept that emendinent,
would
asked for legisiatien by which some action
could be taken eagainst the property owners oniy -be spreading the evil and making the
'who rent their bouses fer immoral pur- scandai worse. I have already tld this
House that the magistrates and the judges
poses, I could quite understand it.
of this country are careful enough with reHon. Mr. WATSON-The Criminal Code gard to the protection o! girls ta keep the
scandai as cîrcumscribed a possible, and
at the pre-rent time provides for that.
te minimize the evil results of this ilicit
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Does my hon. friend traffie, and I do net want these things
think we can makze people good iby Act of flaunted. in open Queen'a Bench, or open
Parliament? The Criminal Code is top- court, before juries. It would not tend
heavy. A most respectaible citizen could ta remedy the situation in any reit
would
On
the eontrary,
lhardly -walk -up and down the atreet with- spect.
eut eome section being tound in the. Crim- make matters worse. I think thé hon.
inal Code under which he could te prose- House would do well te leave the legisia,cuted. Every crank wants te amend the tien 'which la now on the etatute.books
Criminal Code for the purpose of pleasing unchanged. I arn not going te say that
people of limited experience in sueh mat- the proposed legialation la evil, but under
ters. 01 late years we -have had wild cat the present circumstances it is unneceslegisiation submitted te us îfor insertion sary, and will oniy make the law more
i.i the Crimînal Code. It is a most ridicu- obscure. It is only making inmates of
lous proposition. The iaw governing this these houses liable to be indicted before a
thing has been in force many years, and full court and I think I arn right in trying
I have neyer heard any protest against it te save the public from that kind e! action.
cxcept from people who are at the head of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Hon. gentlement
the erganizatien of which the hon. gentleman has spoken. I know that they have will pardon me if I again make explanabeen iooking for legisiation without know- thon o! the amendment as proposed. Hon.
ing what the effecrts o! it wouid .be ail over gentlemen are doubtiess familiar with the
the country. I think the committee was fact that many moral reform institutions
very wise in c-trîking tèhose clauses out o! have been established throughout Canada.
In fact, I thmnk every province o! Canada
the Bill.

SENATE

has given considerable attention to this
ciass of legisiation, namely the establishnient of moral reform associations, for the
reformation of women particularly. Under
the Act as we find it to-day, the penalty for
bemng inmates of hawdy bouses is a terni
of imprisonmient that is toc short, for the
purpose of carrying ont any scheme or
these inmates. Hon.
policy of reform, as Wo
gentlemen can very well appreciate the
tact that Wo reform women ef this kind
they should corne under the influence of
these institutions for a longer period than
at present fixed by the Act.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Have net I pointed
eut Wo the hion. leader et the Gevernment that the present penalties are
heavier than tne ones suggested? We have
institutions for the care of these inmiates
in the city ef Montreai and they are condemned Wo six months irnprisonment and
$100 fine. If they do flot pay the fine they
get another six months.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This proposai
changes the law Wothe extent of making
it an indictable offence; at present it is a
summary ottence. It is proposed Wolengthen the terni of imprisenment fromn six
12
montha Wo months, and which is entireiy
In the diacretion o'! the court. Iu sorne
cases the court may consider it in the intereat et the oflender that the imprisenmient should be lengthened Wo the maximum provided by the Act. Some of these
institutions have directed the attention of
the fact that the present
the Government Wo
termi of imprisonmient is entirely inadequate Wopermit these institutions Woexercise a reforming influence upon women of
this character.

tion to impreve ene.s neighbourhood withI have
out always irnproving oneseif.
*noticed that these moral reform people,
admirable as they may be, aire net always
practical wispeople who are gifted .with
dom. They -see an evil which they tthink
shouid be aboiished, and they auggest
some remedy. They do flot stop Wothin<
be
whether those means are going Wo succesaful. When we discussed this matker in
comrnittee, I think it was pointed eut that
the practâoal resgult of thiv ;adaption of
these clauses ot theBill would be te do
-a great deal more harmi than good. W-ho
are the people that ought 4c 'be the best
judges as Wo what ought to be the moat
practical w'ay of dealing with thîs question P Are they nout the police authorities
cf the various cities? You will flnd that
the polite autho-rities are net in faveur of
this sort of legisiation. As it is 110w, this
particular form ot vice in imost of our
cities is confified Wooertain weii-recognized
kcalities. Tlhe police authorities have
these localities under supervision and can
control the mischief. If yeu pas legislation of this kind, then that evil, which
is now conflned Wo certain .more or leas
undesiratbie oalitiez in each city, 'wfll be
scattered ail over the city and the iniseh-ief
doue will be very much greater. People
who are now pertectly goed but perhaps
net very wife will be led into, temptation
-and the evil wili be much more widespread
than it is te-daY. I thinkl 'we should let
thîngs stand as they are. It is net necessary that we 6hould inake this an indictable offence and propose very serieus
penalties to give the court jurisdiction to
send parties up <for 12 months in order te
send them Wothe retormatory. The existing iaw provides fer that, and if it does
net. it would ho very easy to put in a
clause cf that kind.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-That is what the
Bill is for.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Having decided the
matter the other day, the bouse -shouid
stand by thet decision.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I should like Wo
make a few Tremarks in answer Wo my thon.
friend frorn Halifax. One reason why this
legisiation is asked -for at the present time
is that this offence cornes under a seiyaTate
clause o! the Crirninal Code. Clause 238,

Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn sorry that the
lion. gentleman from Portage la Prairie
should have teit it bis duty Wobring this
matter up again. It was discussed at
reasonable length in Committee of the
Whoie when there was a fairly full House,
and nowv the matter is brought up whien
there is a very thin House with a view of
reversing the decision that it came
to on Thursday. The hon. gentleman
tells us, and the hon. leader aise
people
says that there are certain
who are intierested in -moral reformn who
are anxious that this legisiation should be
adopted. I have a great deal of respect
and admiration for the ladies and gentlemen, chiefly ladies, -who are profmessional
moral reformers. It is a pleasant occupa- paragraph J, staites:
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

APRIL 3, 1915

Every one la a doase, Idle or undesirable
Vernon or vagrant who han corne tram, or la
an inmate of a disorderly bouse, bawdy bouse,
or house of 111-fame, or bouse for the resort of
prostitutes. or who ta ln the habit of frequenting auch bouses and dons flot give a satlafactory account of himself or berself.

Han. Mr. WATSON-The 'House is net
taken by surprise. This was put on the
Order Paper for Thursday, and one cf the
reasons why I gave that notice was because
there was a thin House when the clause was
There were not as many
àtruck eut.
The object of the 7th paragraph 'je ta present as there are to-day..
Tepeal these two putragraphs in clause 238. .Tae motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
As the Orininal Cade at present stands, v as read the third time and passed.
with Îkhese two paragrapha in it, there is
the right of appeal in sny case where these
CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS 0F THE
people are prosecuted under clause 238.
1
SENATE.
It has also been held that, on accounit of
Hon. Mr. LOUGH-EED- -As I was, in a
that, where they are poosecated under
other clauses in the Code, making this an sense,' responsible for placing on the table
indictable offencie, tbey also have the right the Sixth Report on Internai Economy, I,
of appeal. As I understand it, in trying to should like ta ask His Honoux the Speakes
enfarce the law, those who have taken an when hie will be prepared ta maire any
interest in this matter bave found that this, announcement ta the House on that report.
being su'bject te the right cf appeal, bias
The SPEAKER-I understood that that
prevented the law being put int effect. I report wae ordered ta lay an the table tathink, therefore, the action of my hon. day. If there is no objection. I will be
friend from Portage la Prairie in moving ready to give a decision Monday nxorning.
ta have these clauses restored is a good one.
SUPERANNUATION 0F MR. J. B.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Will my lion. friend
TRUDEL.
give me the definition of inmate.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-It je in the Code.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Surely tbis Parhiament ie not goingto refuse any criminel the
right cf appeal; that je the fundamentai
basis cf criminal law, the right ta appeal.
Wby should flot the poor inmate oif a
hanse of that kind nat have the rigbt to
appeal as well as the banker, thief, robber
or murderer.
The amendment was carried on a division:
Dontents, 23; non-contents, 3.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Before the third
reading ie carried, can 1 find out from any
of the authorities in this House what the
vote was when these clauses were thrown
out and when we had a full bouse? We
have only one-quarter of the representation
present.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I have noticed, more
particularly when we have three sessions
on one day, that there je always somebody
w~anting ta take advantage cf a thin House
to spring something of this kind.

The Order of the Day being called:
Consideration of the letter trom Mr. J. PL
Trudel ln re hie superannuation.-Hon. Mfr.
Casgrain.
Hon Mr. WATSON-I move thàt this eubject be now taken into consideration.
The SPEAKER-I propose that the motion should be that the request contsined in
the letter cf Mr. Trudel be granted.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-The second paragraph cf Mr. Trudel's letter reada as follows:
I aiso take the liberty ta ask, under the
provisions or s:ctien 12 of chapter 17 of the.
Reviaed Statutes. te shlow me ten additional
years of service, so that my auperannuation
allowance niay be sufficient te provide for thenieds of my famiiy.
I find that Mr. Trudel hias 22 years of service ta his credit, whichi. under hie present
salary, would give hini $ 1,200 odd per year

as a superannuation allowance. I bave ne
further opinion te express in regard to adding 10 years te his service, which would
mean an addition of $560 per annum te hie
BOWELL-Why
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
superannuatien. I have ne strong feeling
do net the senators attend to their business?
againet it.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-My hion. friend does
Hon. Mr. POWER-It le the duty of the
net always attend te his business; hie ie Government te pretect the treasury, and the
sometimes awey.
hon. leader of the Gevernment îe the gentleman who should settie this question.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.

SENATE

the position of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have not given the motion.- Occupying
of the Internai Committee
consideration ito the subjeet. No in- Chairman
any
for a number of years, I may say that' I
timationi has been made to me in regard to know nothing of translating myseit, but 1
this particular matter. 1 think that com- know that 'this man was a very hard workmunication should be had with the Govern- er and said te be an efficient translater,
ment. I presume it would corne by way of and I have no hesitation in giving hîm
Has
a recommendation from this House.
the benefit of anytiiing that xnay be in the
any recommendation been made by the law.
committee to His, Honour the SpeakerP
The motion was agreed'te.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON--No, only the letter of Mfr. Trudel, which. appeara at page
GOVERNMENT RAILWAY6 ACT
388 of.t he Minutes.
AMENDMENT BILL
The SPEAKER-Tii. letter was put in
REPORTED PROU COMMITE
my banda, and 1 thought it my duty te
The. House resolved, itself into a Comthat thia
place it before the House, ao
106, An Act
Chamber migiit act as they deem beat. mittes of the Whole on Bill
Act
question comea up on a motion to con- to amend thie Government Railways
This
that motion and te autiiorize the purchasa of certain
I suppose
aider the letter.
should be followed by one indicating what railways.
la the opinion of this House in the niatter.
(In the Coimittee.)
What ia aaked. by Mr. Trudel is that hie
On clause 1-" Acquisition of rallways and
should b. Buperannuated. There is a clause works."'
in the Audit Act which permit. 10 yeara to
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Has the hon.
be added to the time an ernployee has serleader o! the Government considered the
ved, provided it does not bring his service proposai made by the hon. gantieman trom
te more than 35 years. He ha. served 22 De Lorimier when the. Bill was up for second
years and aaks te b. considered as having reading as te the amendment ini the 2Btli
served 32 years, according to the Audit Act, lino thereot, and is lte Governm3nt willing
wiiich involves the giving of .10 edditionai te aocept the amendrnent?
yeara. It la for this House te recommend
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--Conideration
or oppose the request of Mr. Trudel.
ha. been given te the amendmeiit proposed
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-If the law gives the
by thie 'hon. gentleman trom De Lorimier.
Senate that power and it is sanctioned by The Government cannot see its way te acParliament, -and «is on the. atatute books, cept the amendment tor thie reason that it
tiien 1 say the official's request ahould be proposes tying up the banda ot Parliament
granted by this House. He is not violating in such a way as to take from it the disthe law. He is takîng advantage of the law, cretion which. it always exercises on a
which gives hlm the right to do so, and 1 money vote.
Hon. gentlemen will see
do not aee that this House can set itself up that what is asked te b. done is tis : authE
and protest against the provisions of
thority is to bie given te the <ioverninent
law. Trudel is perfectly justified in making to do a particular act in acquiring -certain
that request. Whether the House has thE branch limas of railway.
Trhe Senate havpower te vote the extra amount, 1 arn nol ing authorized the Government to do this
prepared to say. The leader of the Govern. by a Bill, narnely tbis Bill we are now
ment, the watch dog of the treasury in thii »considering, proposes f urther that, notHouse, would, 1 think, be pleased to re Lwithstanding the Government exercîsing
ceive any intimation from this House asi
the authority vestad in them by Parliarecommendation or refusai. I would recom nient, they shahl again corne back te Parmend that the application of Mr. Trudel bi liament, and introduce another Bihl ratif yHon.
favourably taken into consideration.
ing what they have already don..
move that th, ruenthernan wiIl readily see that the position
Hon. Mr."LOUGHEED-I
Clerk communicate the tacts which havi of Parliarnent to-day upon the acquisition
been laid before the House cto the Treasur, Sof any property of this kiîîd is that they
If the GovBoard, and the Treasury Board, if tlt,: Sneed no special legialation.
desire turtiier information, can communi ernment choose te accapt the responsîbiiity
of aoquiring property, they may corne down
cate with-the Senate.
to Parliarnent and place in the Supply Bill
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I have no hesita an estirnate for the purpose of payingin makini
tion, as mover of this resolution,
Hon. Mr. POWERL

APRIL 3, 1915
_It business of large corporations know that
whatever the consideratien may b.i.
in cases where
is now.proposed ta fetter and shackle Par- the president, particularly
ta this extent that it should net immediate action is required, will at once
liarnent
exercise the discretien it has to-day, assume the entire responsibility of dealing
wltbThis, 1 xrLghst say, on lineS dt general polioy ini matters auch as I have pointed out
would be very unwise. Entirely apart from out any delay whaisoever. It seems te me
the particular undertaking witb which we that in the administration of the Intercolonthe day
are dealing - Parliament cauld ignore such a jal railway the Government of
,statute. Let us assume that my hon. friend should eztainly be vested with sufficient
inshould make tliis amendinent in this Bill, discretion ta exercise the responsibility
and the. Minister of Railways at next session cident to asuuming such an obligation, withof Parliament should bring down an appro- out being tied up ta an embarrassing ex'tent
priation fer 'the purchase et a particular line involvini delay and disadvantages, by Act
of railway, and some hon, gentleman sbould of Parliarnent such as has been suggested
invoke thse statute which was this year Mor trarmd.ling-the Iree action of railway
the
paased. Parliarnent would- at once say: "We administration, particularly conocerning
Interooloiiial railway.
are net bound by any statute as to what
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCX-I did dot winli ta
Parliam.ent -may do in a matter concerning
which it has the fullest and most abundant interrupt my hon. friend when b.e was
discretion." Tbat i. 'the situation. As far speaking. But I was ratber surprised at
as Parliament is cencerned, it is entirely bis eta-tement that this legislation would
unnecessary. It seeks te limit the discre- fetter Psrliament. As I understand it, if
tien et Parliament in a way entirely con- there is any restriction in the legisiatien,
trary te well established practice and pre- it weuld be a Teotriction ef the. Governcedent. In regard ta the general policy in- ment, and more especially of the minister
volved in the Bill, it also would be objec- administering the Department of Railways
tionable. The Intercelonial railway is a and Canal. -for the Urne being, but it would
Parliament itselt.
large sys<em o! railways being operated, by not in any way fetter and can deail with
the G<ôvernment o! Canada. It muat neces- Parliament is aupreme
sarily came into rivalry, inta opposition and things as they wish.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon. gentlecompetition with other limes of transportation. To the party administering the rail- man admits that they cmn set it at naught.
way should be given the fulleat possible
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I do net quite ses
power, 80 that it may exercise its discretien *the peint.
asà ta whsèt is in the interest ef the railway' *Hon.
MTr. LOUGHEED-If they are
precisely ta the same extent as otiser trans* supreme tihey need not observe the. restricexercise discretion in tiens.
portatien cempanies
such matters.
Hion. Mr. BOSTOCK-The Minister of
Hou. Mr. BOSTOCK--I do net think any Rail-waye is the membey of the Governcempanies, sucb as -the Canadian Pacifie ment who will b. dealing with this matRailway for instance, could purchase branch ter, and the amendment merely requires
lines without referring the matter te theii rthe Minister ef Railways te cerne te Parliansent te have bis action confirmed. This
sbareholders.
tmatter was deait with in the year 1910,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--Oh, yes. If i -when
the late Government was in power,
occurred ta any et those transportation cern jand certain amendments were made ta the
et a roac
panies te-day tbat tbe acquisition
eBill that vas then brought into the House.
was necessary te tbe operation et the entirif I do net want te go into the 'whole history
system, the president, or general manager o cf it, because hon. gentlemen -wilI remensthat company without any besitation, os ber that 'bas been done on more than one
e
bis own responsibility, would assume thE
In 1913 we had a Bill of tŽiis
obligation et purchasinga the read, relyîn 9occasion.
8nature before us, and we meved an amendon the sharebolders or the board afterward
ment asserting the rights and privileges et
te confirm it.
the Senate, as one branch et Parliament in
dealîng
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-But he would lay i t this country, ta ibe considered in
with questions efthVis kind.
atterwards.
betore bis shareholders
Hon. Mfr. DOMVILLE-We killed the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Not necessarily
twelve
Hon. gentlemen who are more or less famii- Bill and kept the country behind
the transaction et the executiv e months.
liar with

SENATE

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I draw attention ta
t.he. fact that the 'Government to-day has
considered the questions brought up by
the 6enate at that time, because in clauses
2 and 3 ci this Bill they do exactly wiiat
the Senate suggested on that occasion
they should do. In those clauses they
deal with the particular railways that the
«Minister of 'Railways proposes te purchase
on behaîf of the Government -cd this country. 'I still think that the hou. leader cf
the Government in this House 8hould be
jealous of the rights and privileges cf this
Çhaxnber, and that he should consider those
questions in that light as much as any
other hon. gentleman in this Chaniber
-would. The effect cf this legislation, as I
understand it, is that the money £or the
purchase of any of those roads is put into
the Supply Bill and the Senate would not
have any opportunity of dealing with it
unless they were .prepared. te throw eut
the Supply Bill or te move te strike out
tihat particular item. Hon. gentlemen on
this side of the House 1 think are very
largely cf opinion that appropriations cf
this nature should ibe dealt with in a separate Bill, eo that both Houses of Parliament should have a better opportunity of
expressing their opinion èf tihi& kind of
legislation, but inasmuch as clauses 2 and
3 ol-the Bill are dealing with the acquisitien of particular railways for w'hich reason
the Bill should go through, I would not
propose at the present tune to meve tii
amendaient, as the leader of the Government in this House is not prepared ta
accept it, but must throw on the leader of
the Government in this Ohamber the respensibîlity o! -standing up for the privileges cf the Senate.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The explanation just
given by the leader of the Opposition is one
that appeals ta me probably just as strongly
as the statement made by the lion. gentleman froni Rothesay (Hon. Mr. Doniville)
last Wednesday or Thursday. The hon. gentleman for Rothesay, one of the well known
-business men of that province, knows as
much about the question as any senator of
this Chamber. His views, and the manner
in which lie put theni, appealed ta nie very
strongly. The requirernents of New Brunswick are not extensive. They are not beyond our means, especially when we are
throwing away millions of dollars on rotteu
boots and otherwise. I think that province
should corne in for a little, and the appeal
made by the hion, gentleman has had a
great deal ta do in bringing me over ta the
Hon. Mr.

DOMVILLE.

side of the Government on this question. 1
amn glad to see the hon. leader of the Opposition has taken the same stand also. There
is no doubit that ini voting large sums of
money Parliament-that is the Senate and
the -House of Commons-should have absolute control over the expenditure of that
money, but as the leader bas well pointed
eut, it is nlot a blanket vote that we are
going to give the Government. We stipulate that it shall be such and such a road
that is required in -the interest of the province of New Brunswick and the .Intercolonial railway. That money is going to
bie voted specifically for that purpose.
Things are net brightening at ail for Canida in regard te the revenue of the country,
and the Maritime Provinces are suffering
more than we are further west, and, under
the circunistances, 1 amn prepared to support«
the measure and allow the Governrnent
according to the stipulated ternis of the
Bill, to acquire those rights in the interest
of the province of Newv Brunswick and of the
country at large.
Hon. Mr. POWER-As the hion. leader
o'f the Opposition bas said, we deait with
this measure on two or three occasions before, and I do flot see .any reason, when a
Measure of this kind cornes before us which
proposes te render nugatory the restrictions
that are placed upon the Government when
a measure of this kind was last before us,
why we should not express our opinion now.
There has neyer been any objetion to the
Government taking power to construet 25
miles of railway where they deeni it necessary ta effect q connection between the Government railway and another railway, or
te make necessary extensions to a Government railway, but as to that particular matter, this Bill contains a provision that the
Grovenment shaîl not build 25 miles dl
new railway until the money bas been voted
On the other hand, this
by Parliament.
Bill undertakes to give the Government
poter ta acquire fromn any existing- railway
company a uine up to 200 miles in leng-th.
This nieasure takes away the obligation on
the part of the Governrnent to get the consent of Parliament to that transaction. 1
think it is only necessary te state that ta
show how unreasonable the proposai is. If
it is necessary that Parliament should give
the Government permission to build 25 miles
of railway, surely it is much more necessary
that Parliament should give the Government power ta acquire a road that is 200
Look at the particulars
miles in leng-th.

APRIL 3, 1915
The Canadien at the Tailway office il there was any connecwhich have been given.
from
Pacifie railway, for instance, own a railway tien at Mentreal between the train
in Nova Scotia which is about 200 miles in Ottawa and the train fromn Montreal tc,
length. Under this Bill the Government Halifax, and was teld ««No, the Intercould, without reference te Parliament. colonial Railway is net loeking for business
acquire that Canadian Pacifie railway Toad from us." I juat mention that te show
in Nova Scotia. The Canadien Pacifie rail- that we shaîl be completely in the hands
way own a couple of hundred miles in New of the Government amd tie Canadien
Brunswick, and any government could. on Pacifie Railway.
the eve of an election-and you can underHon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I did net propose
stand how far Governments will go on the
to take part in this discussion, but when
eve of an election-arrange with the Canfrom Halifax <Hon. Mr.
adian Pacifie raiiway to take over these roads the hon. senator the railway in New Brunsif we do not amend it. Power) refers te
under this Bill
with the state of Maine,
In addition te the Canadien Pacifie Rail- wick that connecta
vcry large steel bridge
way Unmes, there is a road ini the northeast and upon which a a few days te connect
about 80 miles lo>ng, is te be opened in
part of New Brunswick
amn obliged te
which I fancy wiil neyer pay working cx- with the lumber camps, I
have struggled. fer years
penses, and seeing the Intercolonial Rail- say something. We
private indiway is not now a paying concern, why te get that road geing, and
viduals have put their shoulders te the
should we tie on a number of .non-payiflg
gives eut
roads te the present system? In Nova wheel, and now my hon. friend
is the Halifax and South- te the werhd that that read wilh net pay
Scotia there
western railroad, about 200 miles long; an- expenses. I do neonsiderthat a fairteriticannot
other non-paying property. It will be seen cism. If it does net pay expenses that
mot, that
if this Bill passes in its present form be helped, but supposing it dees developed
that
much right te be
and without any restriction, the Governi- country has as
Canada. Both aides
ment will be in a position te buy up al as any other part cf
roads in the lower prov- in the House e! Commons passed this Bull,
thc -non-paying
our judgment is se
inces without Parliament having an eppor- and I de net suppose
superior te the judgment cf that
tumty of saying a word with respect tg the very much are getting tired of this wrangWe
bargains. The hon. gentleman who leads House.
I want te se the Government
the Government has made a stateinent with ling, and
and develep the country. I ohregard to the cempetition that the Inter- do its duty
under. It has ject te any one saying that the hItercolonial
colonial Railway is working
is controlled by the Canadian
been a matter of common remark for the past Railway
bave ne doubt thc
few years that the Intercolonial Railway is, Pacifie Railway. I
freed
run te a certain extent Intercolonial Railway, if completely
apparently, being
from politîca, would de very much better,
rather in the interest of the Canadien
better now. SpeakPacifie Railway, and that the Government and it is deing much
not as a ing of the Maritime Express, 1 de net
treat our Intercolonial Railway.
many passengers, becompeting line of the Canadiau Pacifie Rail- know that it carnies
se long to go around that
but as a sort e! feeder. Té give one cause it takes
way,
norilh shore.. I hope my hon. friend will
instance, the Maritime Express used te
insist upon this Bill going through in its
leave Montreal at neon, and the passenger entirety.
going from Ottawa te Amherst, Moncton ex
Halifax could leave here in the morning by
Hon. Mr. TALBOT, from the committee,
the half-past eight train and catch the reported the Bill without amendment.
Maritime Express at Montreal. Within the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I hope my hon. friend
last few months the heur ef the departurE
o! that train has been changed, and one will postpene the third reading, until Monhas te go te 'Montreal the evening beferi day.
in order te catch the Maritime Express
The SPEAKER-Third re.ad.ing.
the resuit .being that passengers, instead ol
by the Government rond, take th4
geing
Hon. Mr. POWER-His Homour the
Canadien Pacifie raihway, because one car Speaker knews he cannot de that witheut
leave here in the morning and net b4 suspending the rules.
-oblîged te stay over ini Montreal. That !ý
The SPEAKER-His Honour the Speaker
just one instance of the way the Govern.
Iknows he can de that, 'because*there ia ne
ment business iis being conducted. I askec

SENATE

Hon. Mir. LOUGHEED-It would depend
amendment to the Bill, and it can be read
the action of the committee as to vhat
-on
immediately.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the hon. gentleThe House'divided on the amendnient,
man viii look at the rules he wiii see that
the Bull cannot be read a third time now, wh.ich vas caTried on a standing vote, on
and the leader of the Goverument in the foiiowing division:
charge cf the Bill said Monday.
Contents, 19; nion-contents, 6.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--On account of the
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I did not vote on
absence of my hon. friend from -De Lori- this occasion; I was paired with the junior
mier, and aitogether apart from the point senator for Halifax (Hon. Mr. Roche).
cf order, I take it that the Bull ought te Had I voted I should have voted against
be, read on Monday next at the first ait- the amendment.
ting.
j INLAKD REVENUE ACT AMENDMENT
The third reading vas set for Monday.
T T.
unil tree
The enat adjurne 'ciokI
S3ECOND READING.

this* afternoon.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading cf Bill No. 115, An Act to amend
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three 'the Inland Revernue Act. He aaid: The
object cf 'this amendment is te permit the
o'ciock.
shîpment in b>ond cf smali packages cf
Routine proceedings.
tobacco containing less than five pounds,
and packages cf oigara oontaining less than
GORDON DIVORCE CASE.
25 En nwniber, frum n e point to another i
REFERRED BACK TO COXMMITTEE.
Can da. There is no provision now ini the
Inland Revenue Act te permit of thhe hoThe Order cf the Day being called:
It is very desirabie te have
Consideratlon of the twenty-sooond report ing done.
of the Standing Commlittee on Divorce. to su.ch a provision for the purpose.cf ieetwhom waz referred the petition of Albert ing the -requirements cf shipa etores, both
Edwin Gordon. together wlth the evidence on the Pacific and AtiantÀc coaets' 60 tha-t
taken before the said commlttee.
the manufacturera cf Caneadian tebacco
Hon. Mr. DANIEL moved the adoption may be able te ahip from their bonded
cf 'the report.
warehouses to bonded varehouses ini St.
.Hon. Mur. DAVIS-I have gone through John, Halifax, Vancouver, or Victoria, as
the evidence 'in this case, and I am under the case may be, su-eh packages as I 'have
the impression that the mnatter shouid have mentioned.
further consideration by the committee.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
I therefore inove that this Teport bie re- was read the second time.
ferred .back to the committee for further
The House resolved itseif into a Comconsideration.
mittee of the Whole on the Bill.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I second the motion,
(In the Committee.)
and my reason for doing so is the simple
fact that I am informed by eenators who
On clause 1were in attendance on the coxnmittee,
317. No tobacco of any description when put
though perhaps not -members, that very,
five

Second Sitting.

packages containing less than
-although up in and no cigars when put Up In packages
pounds.
containing lees than tventy-five cigars each,
shall be removed in bond f rom one warehouse
to another. whether withln the same or any
provlded. howInland Revenue
other that such tobaccodivision:
and cigare mnay be so
ever,
remnoved under sucb regulations as may be
the evidence taken.
made by the minister when such tobacco or
vote carnies cigare are lntended for éhipment as ship's
Hon. Mr. WATSON-If this
would At mean opening up the case for stores.
further evidence?
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Are there any regulations published at the present time?
Hon.. Mr. EDWARDS-Çertainly.
very, very important

evidence,

probably a lititle on what you «night call
the filthy side, does not -appear in the report. 1 th.ink the rnatter should be Teferred back te the committee to have al

Hon. Mr. POWER.

APRIL 5, 1915
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I 1,eally could "GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
not say ta niy hon. friend. I think these
regulations are published in the Canada
THIRD READING POSTPONED.
Gazette from Urne ta time'.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the third
Hon. Mr. MoKAY'(Cape Breton) ftram the reading oft Bill No. 105, An Act to arnend
committee, reported the Bill without the Government Bailways Act. and ta -au8mendment.
thorize -the purchase of certain railwaya.
Some bon. GENTLEMEN-Third reading
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Would the hon.
now.
gentleman permit that order to stand until
to-morrow afternoon?
Hon. Mr. POWER-There is no-objection
Mr. DOMVILLE- Why should it stand?
suspended.
ta the third reading if rule 63 is
Does my honf. friend waut ta have it thrown
The SPEAKER-It is nat nec.ssary ta out?
suspend the rules. The Speaker's ruliug is3 Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-No.
not a question cf leave of the House but a
Hon. MT. DOMVILLE-We oh<uld provote cf the Hanse. If the Hanse decides
this Bill may b. rend a third tirne to-day, it ceed 'with it. This Bull Interests a large
part of the community in Our section 0-f
is not necessary ta suspend the rules.
the country aud there is no reason why it
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is perfectly true should not Ïbe passed. We are obliging in
the regard ta any measure whieh intereets the
that in England, where they have not
same strict miles that we have, that may be people of the West, and I eall upon the
the case, and it is also the case in the leader of the Goverument ta insiet on pasHouse of Commons. It just happens that ing this Bill.
the Senate has passed a mile dealing exHon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I move that the
pressly with this question. That la ru-le 63,
ta be found on page 25 of the Senate Order of the Day be dimcharged and that it
be plaoed on the Order Paper for to-mormanual, and in as follows:
row.
No Bill uajil b. rem.d twice the &meday.
no Cominittes of the. Whole Boum shal proHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Would
ceed on the mmn Bill the. mare day the Bill the hon. leader of the Opposition iuiorm
read the meoond tirne, and Do Bill
han been
&hall b. read the third Urne If the Bill la re- the House why he dedires that this ruesported from the committe.
sure should 'be postpoued until to-morrow?
That is an express mule; it is not smreHon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The reason I make
thing that resta on the practice of Parlia- the request is that there are amre bon.
There is no objection if the hon. gentlemen not present to-night who are inment.
gentleman moves the suspension of the terested in this matter, and I therefore ask
miles.
the hon. leader of the Governmut ta allow
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I move that mules it ta stand -for one day.
63 sand 24a be suspended in sa far as they
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Let it stand.
relate to this Bill.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-That is no reason
The SPEAKER-I amn man enough tao why it should stand. These parties live
in Montreal and they should ibe here. I
admit that my hon. friend is ight.
really think this .&s going too f ar. If the
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill House chooses ta postpone the measure, I
vwas read the third time, and passed.
cannot do anything, but I appeal ta the
The Senate adjaurned until Monday good sense of the House ta permit this
measure ta -be put through to-night.
next, at 8 p.m.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do not know what
the leader of the Government is going ta
say, but this Bill met with a great deal of
THE SENATE.
obstinate opposition for t-wo long sessions,
1909 snd 1910, or 1911-12. Last weelc the
Monday, April 5, 1915.
House adopted this measure, and the hou.
The SPEAKER -taok the Chair at Eight leader of the Opposition, -who, with the
,o'clock.
other memnbers of the Liberal party, during
two previous sessions had opposed the Bill.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

SENATE

permitted it to go through. On the present they might as we]l 'be responsible for a Bill
oc'casion the hon. leader of the Opposition o! this kind as for ail the contracts they
undertook te support the Bill for certain enter into in spending the $50,000,0O0 that
reasons. The Senate passed the Bill unani- was voted te *them -for war purposes last
nlous]y, il 1 may use that word, hast Friday August.
or Baturday. It was put off at the -request
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The hon. senator
of some hon. gentleman te permit the hon. for De Lorimier, w.hose name lias been
senator from De Lorimier (Hon. Mr. Dan- mentioned this evening, asks me to inform
durand) to express his views once more. the Bouse that it is absolutely impossible
That hon. gentleman gave the Bouse aU for him to 'be present -before the meeting
the expianation he could, from every point to-morrow afternocon, and he requests that
of view, when he opposed the second read- the third reading of this Bili1 be postponed
ing of the Bill; he did it in a masterly until the second sitting to-morrow.« Be
way, I admit, but evidently not in a con- does not wish to raise any faetious opposivincing manner. The hon. gentleman is tion; he simply desires to make somne exabsent, and was aibsent hast Friday or Sat- planations. I would not ask te have the
urday wlien the Bill was on the Orders third reading of this Bill postponed if I
for third reading. The committee reported were nlot in favour of the measure. I apthe Bill unanimoushy, and at the request proved of il, not only when our own party
of some hbon. senator, it was postponed brought il in, -but since it has becn intrountil to-day. I do not sec that the con- duced 'by the present Government. 1 have
venience of one man should -be consulted. always been in favour of giving the Minwhen the convenience of thousands and ister of Railways every latitude in the matthousands of people is involved. Tbey ter of buying railways, hbecause I recognize
have had a response from the House of the fact that wit.hout such il is impossible
Gommonsz. They had their answer, incom- for him te oarry out any transaction. The
plete it is true, last Friday and Saturday. demand that this Bihl shouhd stand over is
To-night they want a complete answer. In not unusual. The hon. senator for De Lorimy judgment the leader of the Governrnent mier wihl be here to-inorrow affernoon, and
should stand by his Bill. The leader of the I thin4c, in 'fairess ta him, we should poatOpposition is in f avour of the Bill, and the pone the third reading. The hon. senator
entire Bouse is in favour of the Bill. It is foi De Lorimier has adways been fair to
paying too much deference to any memiber every member of this Bouse.
of the Bouse to postpone the adoption of
Bon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I see no reason
tlhe Bill, even if it -were -the leader of the
why this Bouse i4hould be held up iby one
Government or the leader of the Opposition. This is an important measure and man. We are not here to be influenced iby
affects an entire province, and the inter- one or two men. Ini my opinion, there are
ests of miany people. 1 think the House tbree or four men on each side wh-o want
and this Bouse.
should adopt thýe Bill now. What will it to dictate te tbis country the sooner these
be done, and
avail if the third reading is postponed- un- That cannot
it the -better. There are
tiI to-rnorrow? The hon. senator from De gentlemen know
niany hon. gentlemen weho do not take a
Lorimier will corne here and repeat his
the proceedingas of this
objections, and they jwill have no further prominent part in
who try to
to retard business. It will not House, -but there are others
effeet than
do-wn His Honour the Speaker, and we are
affect the minds of the hon. senators who
of thing te -be
have already voted in favour of this Bill. not here to allow that kind
question of riglht and
I was influenced by the arguments of the done. This is a cear minister of the day
wrong. What-ever the
hon. senator from Rothesay (Hon. MiNf.
is unDoniville) in favour of the Bill, although says 1 amn prepared to accept, but il over
Bihl stand
original]y I was opposed to it. In view of reasonable to ask that this
man 'who
his lucid argumnents and the light he was simply for the convenience of one
really has Éo imiportance before tbis counable to throw on the subject, and alte r
heariney the explanations given -by the hon. try.
Hon. Mr. POWEll-Il is a very unusual
leader of the Government, which were
more to the point on this occasion than thing when the leader of the Opposition
when the Bill -was hast before the House, ,asks and the leader of the Governiment
and the leadcr o! the Opposition being in ag-rees that a measure should stand until
favour of it, I -was willing that the Bill to-morrow that hon. gentlemen shouhd unshould go tàirouwh. The Government as- dertake to interpose and say it shahl not
sume the responsibîhity for this Bill, and Istand.
Hon

'-\r. CLORAN.,

APRIL 6, 1915

recommendation o! His Honour the Speaker submitted to the Senate. through the Internal FEonorny Committee. It occurred to
me that that prc>bably would be the best
chiannel through which to discuss the desiraiiity of arriving at sorne &atisfactory
conclusion upon the various s'ubjects embodied 'in the report. If His Honour has
such a recommendation, it seems to me
that it would be in thbe interest of ahl concerned-and we are all striving to promote
the public interest-that it should be laid
before the Senete and taken Up by. that
conînittee with the view o! a report afterwards heing submitt-ed.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I understood His
Honour te Speaker to say that he would
*be pleased to meet, I do 'noV know that he
said thbe commiittee, but I assume he would
be pleased to meet 'the committee, -and discuss the matters dealt 'with in his paper
*With the committee. In that case we can
CONTINGENT AOCOUNTS 0F THE
talk the matter over -before ive imeet VoSENATE.
morrow.
CONFERENCE WITH COMMITTEE.
The SPEAKER-I suppose we have no
meeting to-rnorro-w nlorning'
The Order of the Day being called:
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-No, tere is ne
Conaideration »of the sixth report 0f the
Standing Cornmittee on the Internai Economy business before the Senate that wili reand Contingent Accounts of the Senate.-Hon. quire oux -meeting to-morrow morning.
lion. Mr. CLORAN-Do you want to
abolish the other senators?
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbere is ne desire to
iburk this Bill. It will be Tead the third
time to-morrow -and will be assented to at
the close oel the session, and will Ïbecome
law just as soon as if we had assented to it
to-night..
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-There is too much
of the schoolmaster abroad here.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-With the enthusiastic ýupport this Bill has received
from my. hon. friends on the opposite side
of the House I feel satis'fIed t.hat the passage
-of this measijre will not be jeopardized in
theé slightest if we allow it to stand until
to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to, and -the Order
was allowed to stand until to-morrow.

Mr. Power.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-On Thursday
l.ast the repo-t of the Internai Econoxny
Committee was laid on the table to be considered the following Saturday, and it was
afterwards postponed until to-day. I should
like te ask- the Speaker if he lias any recommendations to make concerning that report, or any action *he proposes to take.
The SPEAKER-I have taken a course
similar to the one I took last year. Wben
la motion of the sanie kind came before
the Hous-e and I had diven my decision
declaring it -out of order,' there was a
conferene 1between some of the inembers of the cornmittee and myseif. I have
prepared a compromise paper that I would
have been very happy te discuss with my
bon. friends of the cornmittee. It wias
h-anded over to the leader of <tihe House,
but perhaps too late to permit him to have
the conference with the hon. gentleman;
I will put it again into the hands of the
leader of the Heuse if le -will lie kind
,enough to accept iV. A conference xnay be
held, and if we cerne to an urrangemnent, so
much the -better; if net, the report will
corne up" Vo-rnorrow.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have hrought
the matter up with the view of having any

The. SPEAKER-There miglit be a meeting of the committee to-'morraw .rorning se
ready for th-e first session
that we will Èe a&U
alter thaît.
The Senate adjourned until to-morrow at
three o'clock.

THE SENATE.
Tuesday, April 6, 1915.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
PARLIAMENTARY INVESTIGATION.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I would inquire o!
the leader of the Governrnent, ini view of
the iact that the Senate bas very liVVle Vo
do just now, if he would. persuade bis colleagcues te tranýsfer some of t¶he investigatiens now pro&éeding in the Lo-wer House
Vo this Obamber.. We would heMd a very
impartial inquiry here, and there would be
less turmeil. The hon. leader of the Govern:ment in th-is House would do well Vo
insist on bis colleagues in the Government
transferring sorne of that business Vo the

SENATE

Genat-e, s0 that prorogation might take
place earlier than they expect.
The SPEAKER-Is that a notice of
motion?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is ag.ainst the
ruies, but 1 might as 'well makes the suggestion.
GORDON DIVORCE CASE.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-In the absence of
the hon. gentleman from Brookvifle, I move
that the fee paid upon the petition of Albert
Edwin Gordon be refunded to the petitioner
less the cost o! printig.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Do I understand 'the
case is withdrawn?
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-lt was. thrown ont.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-AIi rig'ht. I want
that on record.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-It was sent back te
the committee.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Then has t>he Senate
thrown iA out? That is what the country
wants tu know. We should not mefund the
inoney unless the case bas been finally and
definiteiy deait with. I 'have no objection
te the request, on the understanding that
the case is definitely wit'hdrawn and
will not be heard of again this session.
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-Next se&sion.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That will, be ail
right.
The motion w*as agreed to.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (106), An Act to amend the Representation Act, 1914.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
Bill (114), An Act to aniend the Adulteration Act.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
Bill (116), An Act to amend the Inland
Revenue Act.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS ACT AMENDMENT BILL.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-If this courze is not
a nwekery of Parliament I shouid like to
know w'hat it is. Here is a Bill that shoul1d
have been passed iast Frid-ay or Saturday,
adjourned for the convenienoe of and ont
of deference to a certain member, and at
the very last moment $thereis not a word
to be said againet the Bi'll. I arn making
this remark, not to tantahize the hon gentleman from De Lori'mier, but to put hon.
gentlemen on' their guard, in order 'that
when adjournRments of this kind are sought
it must not be at the very last hour alter
Parliament -hm paased on t~he Bill. We
have hed an instance of a concrete character. Lait Thursd-ay we deated a proposed
amendment to the Criminal Code by a
very substantial majority. A certain rnember gave notice of reconsideration, and nobody knew until the foilowing d-ay that the
Senate wouid be asked to rescind its
vote. He accompiished his object, beoause
a number of the senators who had voted
to strike out the clause of the Bill were
absent, and a majority of the few meml>bers
who were pressent voted te "~tain the
clause. The reauit waa that the deoision
of the miajority when there was a larger
attendance, was reversed by a narrow miargin. That aimost makes me agree wi'th the
proposition of the hon. aena!tor fromn Halifax that seven daye' notice aihould be given
before undertaking' te rescind « vote. I
oannot agree wtth his opinion every time it
is expressed, -and the -bon. gentl«man i
front of -me is -the guilty party in this matter.à
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Order, order.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The hon. gentleman
interrupted me and I interrupt him. We
have 'te be on a fair ïbasis, ail senators
equal and no one or Vwo senators to run
the institution. We have 'to be conGulted
in the running of this institution. No two
or thre-e senators can pull strings a.nd put
legislation through the House.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-Order.
THIRD REAUDING.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That isorder for yon
third and that is what you deserve.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED mûved the
reading cf Bui (105), An Act to amend
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The hon. gentleman
the Government Railways Act, and to au- has named me.
thorize the purchase o! certain raiiways.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have not named
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I desire to say to yen at ail.N
the hon. House th-at the action taken 'by
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The hon. gentleman
the hon. gentleman fro.m Rothesay <Hon.
Mr. Domville), and mysel!, is fully justi- has named me as the person who gave notice to have a certain clause in the Crimfied by what is occurring now.
lion. Mr. CLORAN.

APRIL 6, 1915

inal Code reinstated. I did the proper
thing at the p.oper time.
Hon. Mr.
tionably.

BROSS

Mfiddleton)-Unques-

335
35 -

ONTARIO BILINGUAL SCHOOL
QUESTION.
DEBÂTE RESUMED.

The Order of thie Day* being called:
Resuming the furtber adjourned debate on

Hon. Mr. WATSON-Every member had the motion moved by the Honourable Mfr.
notice, and it came up in the -regular way David. aeconded by the Honourabie, Mr. MeHugh:
and was voted on.
Thtis flouse,

without

derogating

from the

Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I do not dispute the priumiple of provincial autonomy. deera it
proper a.nd within the limita of Ats powers ana
fact; it is thbe tact that I complais of.
juriaiction and An pursuance of the objeet for

which St was establlshed, to regret the diviHon. Mr. WATSON-You said " without, sions wblch seem to exist among the. people
notice...
of the province of Ontario ln connection with

Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I did not eay "withouit notice." I aaid the i hon. gentleman
gave notice un Monday, but it was not outficient notice for the veet m.ajority of mennbers, because they left on Thursday and
were not here on Saturday.
The motion was agreed ta.
CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS 0F THE
SENATE.
ORDER DROPPED.

The Order of the Day being called.
Consideration of tlic nlnth report of the
Standing Committee on the Internai Economy
and Contingent Âccounts of the Senate.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Hoii. gentlemen, as
this is flot a very important report, and as
I understand Ris Honour the Speaker to
have wane objection to it, tIhe feeling ot the
committee is that it would be botter not to
pu-sh the rnatter any further, I theretore
move, seconded iby the lien. leader of the
Government, that this Order ofthle Day
ha discharged.
The SPEAKER-I do net attach any imnportance te this report and I should ièe very
sorr te 'have it -withdrawn as an expression or as a resuit af a compromise 'which
tailed to be realized. It is hatter that it
shouid et.and as a token of the disposition
of the hon. thie chairman of the cammittee
%vith regard to myself. It does nat hurt me
w'hether it stands or tails, and I have nover
asked tea have it withdrawn.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I was the mnember
of the committee who moved to bave tii
report withdrawn. 1 thought it rnight reIleet on the present Hon. Speaker, and I
arn glad that lhe hon. senatar for Halitax
has moved for the withdra-wal ot the -repart.
The amotion was agreed te.

the bilingual uchool question and believe that
At la ln the nterest of the Dominion at lamre
that ail sncb questions should be conaidered on
fair and patriotic Uines and nettled -ln such a
way as to prezerve peace and harmony bcetween the different national snd religlous sectAons of this country, In accordance with the
views of the fathers of Confederation. and
with the spirit of our Constitution; and the
motion of the Honourabie Mr. Bolduc, An
amendment, seconded by the Honourable Mfr.
Pope:
That this House, without derogating from
the principle of provincial autonomy or suggesting An what manner any province ahould
exercise ts powere An matters of education.
deems At ProPer to regret the existence An any
province of Canada of divisions An connection
with bilngual uchool or other national or religious questions, and belleves that At la An the
interest of the Dominion at large that ail nuca
questions should lways be considered on Wsr
and patriotic lines and settled An such a way
au to preserve pouce and harmony between the
différent national and religlous societies of this
country. and An accordance wlth the letter and
spirit of our Constitution; and aisoo the motAon of the Honourable Mfr. Power. An aznendment to the amendment. seconded by the Non.
ourable Mfr. Derbyehire:.
That the said amendment be amended by
strlking out al. the words therein after the
words thus fouse " and substitutlng therefor
the followlng: "whiie At.belAeves At la An the
Interest of the 'Dominion at targe that ail
questions as to which divisions exist aznang
the peuple of any province should *be consldered on fair and patiottc Aines and ,ettled.An
such a way as to promote peace and harmony
between the different racial and religious ciement. of the population, A. of opinion that, Anasmuch as the subject of education As one of
those by the British North Àmerica Âct. .1867,
committed to the provinces, any suggestion volunteered by the. Sciiate as to the manner in
which any province ehould exercise t. power
wauld be contrary to the spirit of the constitution and calculatcd to lntensify and extend any
divisions of feeling that now exiaL" -

Hon. Mr. BOYER-This discussion was
started about a month ago, and hai proved
ta the House what we migbt cali a f ull
dress de'bate, cvndueted ini some quarterS
in a ma.terly 'way. The. legal points, pro
and con, -have been .discuseed by the best
legal talent the Houîe posseeses. A ques-

SENATE

tion that is talked about toc much threatens to become stale; therefore sny remarke
to this motion -wilI lie very short. I was
rather surprised -by the resnarks of our hon.
col.league for Soxith Bruce, who said that
lie regretted that this miglit lie turned into
a political question. That lias been said
before, and I suppose It will lie said again.
Let -me tell the hon. gentleman that for
fifteen years running w.9 wero treate-d in
the province of Quebec three times a day
to the Manitoba school question. W. lad
it for breakfast in -the morning papers, for
lunch at noon edition, and for dinner in
the evening papers. Who madle a political
issue of the Manitoba îchool question? Certainhy not the Liberal party. For sixteen
years elections were run in the province of
Quebec on t-bis very question. 1 can recall the words of the present member for
'the county of Jacques Cartier, w'ho lately
succeeded the Hon. Mr. Monk. In every
contest where lie took part he discussed,
for an hour te an hour and a quarter, the
Manitoba school question. He muade it one
o! the plsnks of the Conservative platform,
and on it the elections 'were fought. I can
remember the way in which lie raised lis
eyeé to Heaven and said if Heaven granted
that the Conservative party should b. returned to po-wer, in four and twenty hours
we would get baek our échools and oui
Tiglits in the province o-f Manitoba. The
Oonservative party had Ïbeen in power for
four years, and with its advent into power
the agfitation on the Manitoba achool question dîed. We expected in 'this, debate to
have a few words of encouragement from
nmy hon. friend f rom Provencher (Hon. Mr.
La Rivière), a gentleman who lias been
very active in lis province on the school
question, but it appears that the school
question is settled, -because we have not
heard a word from him. At the session o!
1913 the bon. gentleman told us that the
Government of Manitoba had nothing to
do with -the question. It was thie Legislature ef Manitoba that would. take action
in the inatter and compel the Government
te set, and the hon. gentleman broadened
bis chest and saîd, if the Government o!
Maniteba took no action he would.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. BOYER-Then he said il at the
following session no action should be taken
te settie the Manitoba sehool trouble, he
wouhd bring in legishation, but three sessions have gene by -and nothing has been
-done. As I said 'before, with the advent of
the Conservative party into power the agiHon. Mr. WATSON.

tation died. It was simply -a steppmng s'tene
to get the Conservatîve party int power,
and -when once that object had been
aohieved, ail grievances were forgotten.
Coening back to the question, as to 'whether
-we had a right te discuss in this House the
Maniitoba school question at the time of
thie extension of the limita to Keewatin, I
do net ses why the Senate should niot express it43 opinion on this question when we
discussed the Manitoba question in 1913.
We have had an expression of opinion
which, in my humble opinion, should satisfy the - inover of this resolution.- Net
a single voice lias heen heard againat the
teaching of the Frenoch language in any
province of the Domninion, and on that we
should reet. I would say to my hon. friend
that he has had great success i-n bringing
forward this motion, and lie should rest on
his cars and lie satisfied. We can tell the
country that the Sen-ate did not dividie on
the question, and that there 'was a unanimous expression of opinion in faveur of
t.eac'hing French in the schools ail through
the Dominion of Canada; that a knowledge
of the French -was recognized flot only es
an accomplishment but as being necessary
in this country. On that we ehould rest,
and on that I shall end my remarks.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-I move thle adjonînment of this dehate until Thuraday alternoon next.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Before the question
is put I cannot let the remarks of the bon.
gentleman from Rigaud <Hon. Mr. Boyer)
pass -without ans-wering them. I amn not
ag.ainst the adjournment of this debate,
but when 1 hear a gentleman of this House
Rtate that the Manitoba sohool question
has not been used liy the Liberal party as
a political issue in the province of Quebee,
I say positively that I heard snany speeches
made in the province of Quebeo in 1896,
snd the only question discussed was, the
Manitoba school question -by the I2iberal
speakers.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Why?
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Because, when the
Remedial Bill was presented in the House
of Commons -by Sir Charles Tupper, the
Liberal party of the province of Quebec did
not oppose the passing of the Remedial
Bill. There 'wvere thirteen memnbers of the
House of Gommons who were opposed to
the Bill, and who had sworn that the "Bill
should neyer pass, and had deoided to probaong- the discussion until the expiration of
Parliament. We know that these gentle-

APRIL 6. 1915
men couid nmot have kept Up the debate se
long, had tbey not obeen heiped -by Liberai
members frorn the province of Quelbec. We
know bow they sîtood on tbat occasion.
Wh.enevez on. cf th. thirteen membera who
had vowed te prolong the debate vas exhausted snd a-bout to abandon 1he dieouasien soma. xnember of the Litberai party
heom the province of Quebec vould rise
and mcve thbe adjournment o! the. debate,
and on -that adjournment wouid speak -for
froin five te ten hours, giving the. mexnbers
who ver. opposed to the passing cf the
Remedial Bill lime to zest and sleep snd
corne *back refreshed te continue the obetruction. It va.s stated publicly *by anany
speakers, tbat the Remedial Bill vas ineffective, sud vouid not -be seeepted by the
province of Manitoba, but liat if 13ir Wilfrid Laurier were at the. helmi h. vouid
settie lhe question vithliut tzouble.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-We knov very veli
boy lie fixed that question, -and ve know
very well that, the Bisliep of St. Borsiface
has neyer been salisfied 'with the settlement. I want merely ta zay that the Litezai parly in the whole province has viewed
tbal achool questicn sa a weapon to use
against the Conservative party. Ini evezy
county 'Lie question vas diseusaed, and the.
Liberal party promised that tiey vculd do
much ibetter Ibn 'tb. Conservative pazty

liad done.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I oouid net let
go -wfitoul zepudiation.
Surely my bon. friend is incorrect ini his
statement ini ansver te the hon. genleman
The hon. senalor frein
frein Rigaud.
Rigaud stated that the sobool question had
been kept up against the Li:bersh party for
fifteen years, and that is, perfectly true.
The proof of il la tibat aince 1896 wu weze
accused of 'having been traitora te the Manitoba French and Cathlic people in voling
against the Remedial Bill.
Hon. Bir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No
doubt about tiat.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-And being se
attacked. we were obiiged te defend ourselves.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-The Liberai party
accused the Ccinservatives cf being traitera.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-No, th. conIrary is tie trufph. W. vwere taken te task
and ciarged witi being traiters to the
Manitoba French and Catibolie people in
veting against the Remedial Bill, and In
8-22

liaI statement

REISBED

337

answer *we took the proper stand, that it
was a Manito'ba question and shouid be
settied by that province.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No
doubt about that.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I repeat tbat
for the fifteen years, -tram 1896 t 1911. the
Tories soeused the Liberals of iaving made
a obad settlement et. the echool question.
and pzcmised that Hl 'hey seould te r.turned to power they would restore Cathclic ehools in Manitoba.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Nothing of the kind.
4srue;
Hon. Mr. CHIOQUETTE-Yes, itla
-and we have always been obliged to defend
ourseives in the province of Quebeo against
tbis foolieli accusation cf beiiig traitors to
the minozity in Manitoba. It ia also true
that the vener>ble Archbi,'hop of Winnipeg
was flot satisfied 'with the settiement of the
schooi question, but sino. 1911 hle did not
say a word on the subject, lais friends having obtained the reins of power; and I congratulat. him, because he has te go back
10 the Tory party tlieze to gel them to restore the achools, but sa far h. bas don.
nothing. The statement of the hon. gentièman from Rigaud ia abaolutely orrect.
The -whole of the Tory party of Quebeo has
made a politicai question of it, snd nov
they are trying to make use of Ibis simple
resolution of my friend from Mille les,
giving only an expression cf opinion about
the sehools ini Ontario. They are again
raising the political question. No Literai
so far has said a word about polieis in the
discussion in 'Ibis Houa., but the Tory
papers are mah-ing fais. statements; alec a
public empioyee: a deputy uiinIster, Mr.
Vincent, and another Tory in Ottawa, Mr.
Champagne, ex-M.L.A., are abusing the
Liberals, wlio were on the same platform
with Tories, like His Honour the Speaker,
the Hon. Mr. Chapais, in Quebec, but tbey
did not attack thein.
The SPEAKER-I beg pardon, I vas attaoked once.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-It vas net much
of an attack. I admire the position His
Honour tb. Speaker teck with Mr. Chapais
and otliers. The mnotion cf tb. 'bon. gentleman frein Mille les is that, in the interest cf peace, harmony and justice, somaething sliould be don. in OntaTie 'te redrea
the grievance cf the Frenchi Catholie minority, because il is the preper place te do
it, just as Manito>ba wouid 'be the proper
EDITIi<N

SENATE

place ta settie the echvol question in
that province, if the Tories say it is net
settled. The 'hon. gentleman. from Lauron
<Hon. Mr. Bolduc) has oertainly misunderstood the hon. gentleman f rom Rigaud, for
h. would neyer, in the interest 'of his own
party, say a word about the echoul question, which was always held a a swerd
agamnst the Liberal party. I remember the
hon. gentleman from Provencher <Hon.
Mr. La Rivière), asserting in this House
that if bis friends ini Manitoba did nothing
in the mafter he would hisnself move en
amendment, semething in the form of a
Remedial Bill, to salve the Manitoba sohool
question. He neyer did- il. I dare him te
do il. Bo Tories here and out.side had bet.
ter keep quiet and not' talk poli-tics about
these resolutians new before this Hause.

dignitary of the church in Manitoba coming down ta take part in the fight on ths
side af the Tories against the Liberals, and
th. Tary press repealing his remarka day
after day until the eleclion toak place, I
thînk on the 23rd ot June, 1896. Wèe the
Liberals di6gruntled? Was our friend Mr.
Manette, "the . member 'for Napierville and
La Prairie, angryP No. On th'e eve et the
election-and 'th. hon, gentleman £rom
Lauzon vill remember il-ie eent a taegram te the Archbiehop, who had returned
ta his Bee, which he ehould flot hav~e left
on such a 'missian, cangratulating hien on
the succeas of hie work ini favour ot the
Tory candidate. 0f course il was saroastic,
'but Îh. did net show any an-imus. The gaod
natured Lïoeral candidate who carried the
county in spite of the Archibishap let it pas.
We have no 11-feeling in regard te lhe mat-,
ter, but when it is neoessary ta protest we
protest on, fair and hons grounds, nat as
the hon. senator tram Lauzen has done.
He bas pratested on unfair, incomplete and
lcpsided observation, one-eyed observation,
anly seeing his o'wn side. I se bath aide.
I 'have 'had ta 'battis with the question on
many a plattorm lhroughoul the province
et Quéecs, and thank God, we suooesded.
During this debate I had occasion te allude
ta the action of another Ardbbishop, wbich
was personally directed again8t myseit, and
caused my deteat in the oounty et Pree.oft?
Doa he knew anything -abaut ithat?

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-This new element of
the debate at'tracts me very much. It is
much like an electrie light with the Oies
:buzzing around it. 1 rie for the purpose
of recalling te the bon. gentleman tram
Lauzon that hie observations of the different campaigns in Quebeo in 1896 for twenty
yearu 'were not taken with a f air pair of
AtHia glass.. were lopaidoed.
gilsems.
tacks may have been made iby the Liberals
against the Conservalives in regard la their
method of dealing with the question; but I
know, having been ail t!hrugh thoee campaigns, fram New Brunswick te the northerm part of Ontario, that the 4janservatives
confronted us 'with 'every difficulty they
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Oh
could place in our way with regard ta this yes, we know ail about il.
quSetion. They charged us, and especially
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Does the hon. senSir Wilfrid Laurier, as leader of the FrenchCanadiane, with being traitors la our race, ator tram Lauzon knaw about it?
ta our creed, church and religion. Has the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-J de
hon. gentleman from Lauzan -not heard flot know whether he dos: I do.
tbhese charges hurled at the head of theý
Liberai party oft hat day? Did, he ever
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Then you appreoiate
huri any et thase charges againsl the Lib- the services et the archbishap in beating
eral party himef? I venture te. say the me as a Liberal candidate?
ethe most
Hon. 6peaker was prebably ane «
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I epprominent in hurling these charges aI the
Lifberal party throughout the. Domninion, preciate ail the Liberala did at the lime in
especially in Quebec. He says we 'were net that line.
aceused. Let me recali te the han. gentleHon. Mr. OCLORAN-Yes, sud you are a.
man tram Lauzon <Han. Mr. Bolduc) one fair-m'iuded moan toa.
tact w'hich he will remember, èthat the
The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
Archbishop et St. Baniface ini Manitaba,
left his palace and camue right clown. in should nat address hîmsefthe heat of the election, [rom that province
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Ne,,but I have been
ta th. city of Montreal, ta La Prairie and
ta Napierville, his hirthplaoe, te denaunce addxessed, aud I answer it back.
the Liberal candidate in the counties of
The 6PEAKER-The hon, gentleman has.
Ns.piervil.le and La Prairie, Mr. Monette, ne right ta. do that.
n4Jw judge oft Vhs Superiar Court I. the*
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Do what?
province oi Quebec. Here was the 'nighest
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.

APRIL 6, 1915

The SPEAKER-If the hion. gentlemen
wants te speak et a m.zuber of this House
lie muet say "«the hon. mnember for euch a
place," met 7you."
Hmn. Mi. CLORAN-I have been saying
.that ail along as -far as the, hon. aenator
4rom Lauzon was concerned& and wheri the
lion. senator frem Hastings adresed me
personally I gave it back te him.

in the Dominion in reference te the
separate school question. Il sny onie vill
take his speech, so far as it relates te the
Manioba achool question, and substitute
the word Liberal in every place where he
used the word Conservative, lie will have
an exaçt exemplification of what took
place during that discussion.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is pretty good.
did
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
Hon. 8fir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
net 'add.ress you at aIl.
hon. friend is altogethar teo intelligent a
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-You addioesed ne- mari not te know what took place in the
body. I have given enough e>t the facse, past, and b. ie altogether tco intelligent a
net imagination, net talse observation-I man net to know what is taking place teHe knows, or ought te know, that
will net say a fais. observation, but in- day.
complete observation--4n regard to tbis the sehool question in Manitoba is as fer
question, and as the hon. senator tien> from being sattled to-day as it was fifteen
Rigaud (Hon. Mr. Boyer> lias pointed eut, or twenty years ago, when bis party atthere bas Ïbeen an attempt te terni this tained power by making use cf the agitaIf he has any
motion of the hion. senator from Mille Dles tion upon that question.
inte a political football once more in the doubt about it let him appeal te the
interests and on behaîf of the Conservative Archbishop of St. Boniface who bas
party. This debate hias been going on for neyer been satisfied, and is constantly-I
-weeks, and the silence is ominous. Nobody was going te Bay perpetually-urging réforme
has spoken on ilhe question except the upon that sehool question. At the preBent
Englieh or French Liberals; and I stated moment one stop that the (Joneervative Govte seyerai, "The silence la ominous, what ernment in Manitoba teok on tbis question
does it mes»' The Tories are taking ne has been condemned from one end cf the
part in 'thia debate." Then, alter twc or province te the clher, and very nea.rly lest
thTee 'weeks the hon. senator trom Bruce them powar in that province.
To dlaim
(Hon. Mr. Donnelly) and hon. senator, Mr. that the question is scttled, therefore, is
Mason, undertook te take part in. the de- incorrect. I would remind my hon. friend
Ïbate. Bo now, the debatoe is on two legs that the opponenté of th. Remediul Bill
instead of being on one; what we desire tb. talked Parliaxnent out of existence la eider
country should bave je a fair expresaion te prevent the Conservotive party from
of the opinion of the House in regard te doing what they conceived te be justice te
the matter-nothing more. We are not die- the separate echool people of the province of
tating to Ontario or te any province; we Manitoba. What took place afterwards I arn
have no rigbit te dictaI.., but, as I eaid in flot going te discuss. I am prepared at any
a pre'vious effort, it is within our rights and
hour or two te a full 'disprivileges as a deliberative body te express time te devote an
cussion ef those questions, because I kntow
an opinion and advi-se wha.t je amicable.
something about them-at least, if I do not
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Ihave I ought to. The hon. gentleman, for whom
an indistinet recollection et somiething bey- I have the most profound respect, in meoting been said -in the past about the Mani- ing this question without due refiexion, did
toba school question.
a great wrong te his own party and te bis
oxvn professed feelings.
GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Sorne hion.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-He was sitting on
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I conless niy regret that my hon. friend from the nest of traitors, that is aIl.
To my
Rigaud introduced this quastion.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-With tbe consent of
I do net
mind it was quit. unnecessary.
propose te follow him in the statements tbe House, I weuld ask that the debate
h. bas made in reference 'to what took ba adjourned until tbe firit sitting te-morplace corne years ago la connactidh witb rew.
the Manitoba scliool question. I uise
The motion was agreed te.
niainly for the purpose of recording rny
The Senate adjourned until te-morrow at
oppoeition in toto te that whioh hie
bas attributed to the Conservative party three o'clock.

SENATE
and farmers, they might allow the people
Whose money tlhey are using, the money
deposited in their su'gings banks, soaneth4ng
Wednesd-ay, April 7, 1915.
more than 3 per cent. I do not think there
The SPEAKER teok tJhe Ohair ut Three can be any question about tzhat. I cail ato'clock.
tention to the fact thet tisese banks cannot
get money f rom any otheT source at such
Prayece and routine proceedings.
a lo'w rate as 3 per cent, and tiherefore t.hey
INTERE8T ON SAVINGS BANK
migh't deal s littie more generously witb. the
A4JCOUNTS.
depiositors. It seeme to me that in this
instance, as in s0 inany other instances,
INQUIRY.
the middileinan gets more than he ehould.
The money ia the savings ibank is taken
Hon. Mr. POWERrose te
Cali attention ta the unfair and Illiberal way by the maddleman and -loaned to 'the conin which depositors In Canadian banka are sumerut, about 7 per cent, while the prod-ucr
deaIt with, and ta ask wbether It la the inten- gets only 3 per vent. I wis1h to cail attention of the Governent to Increase the rate of tion 'to the fat thet aeveral yeareaugo,
interest on depouits In the pont office and other
w-lien the banks were not as prosperous as
Gevernment savingm banke?
they are to-day. and the rate o! interest
He said: Thse su'bject to which. I propose was not quite as -high as it is now, when
to caîl attention is one of considerable mo- it had got over 6 per cent the Govearnment
ment. I Ïhad the honour two years ugo o! advanced the rate of interest payable te
d>ringing t'his matter 'before the House; and depositors to 4 per cent. A sense of justice,
I apoke on it, flot et great length, but at and a sense of their own interest, sbouId.
tomne reasonable length. I do not propose induoe the banks te be more liberal with
norw te makie a speech on the subjeet, but their depositors. So far for the banks; now
uimply 'te cal! attention te the position o! as to the Government. At the pyresent tîme,
thiags. Hon. gentlemen are a-wsre that the Government aeem ta consider it in
the chartered benks of thie country -bave their inteTest ta look qaker the msufacturteen remarkably iprosperous d'uring thse ers, the farmers and certain other classes.
pat few years. We find that mont o! the It is equaily thoir duty to look to the inr'banka have a rest aLmost equal ta their terest of the thousands of comparatively
aubscribed capital, in aome cases consid, humble people who have their money deermby grester, ad itbat thsy are payang posited in the savings banks. At the predividends on the original capital of any- sent- time the Goverament of Canada is
whers fremin O te 14 per cent, and geneira;lly paying 4j per cent to outside lenders for
they inanifest, in thse character o! 'their money, while ta our own people, whose
'buildings and otherwiae, the signs of great interest they are supposed ta protect, they
prosperity. It is a good thing for tihe pay only 3 per cent. They pay 50 per cent
country t1hut their banking system is suc- more to the outside lender, than they pay
ces6ful -and that itheir *baks are prosper- ta their own people. That ta me seems an
ing. But I thmnk that a lîttie mnore extend- unnaturai and indefensible condition of
ed distribution of the, prosperity would -be things. Referring ta the banks, the deposits
on the -whole diesirable., and there is no in the old-fashioned savings banks amountclass of our population whioeh deserves ed te $ 14,553,000, and in the post office
more consideration £rom the bunkers than savings banks ta $42,661,000, niaking althe people 'who deposit in their suvings together $57,215,261.
banks. The mon-ey deposited in the savHon. Mr. THOMPSON-That was two
ings banks is, as a rule, the result of carefui living and saving. It is the work of yèears ago.
people who have, in samne cases, been exHon. Mr. POWER-Yes, it 'may be more
erting themselves during .perha.ps haîf a
lifetie, and 'have laid by 'what are coin- norw. If 'the Gaverunient epaid 4 per cent
paratively snal suins o! maney, 'but surus instead of 3 per cent, they would distribute
whiclh are of great impoirtance to thein, a.mong people of comparatively limited
and in a great many cases the snoney in means each year a sumi of over $570,000.
the savings banks really belongs ta the The most important eflect of the change in
widows and families o! men 'who have con- the rate of interest in the Governument Sav'trived te save. It seems te -me that, inas- ings Bank -would ibe that Cihe banks would
much as the bankers nowadays get on an be obliged te raise their rate o! interest ta
average not less than 7-per cent for the the same rate as that paid by the Governrnoney which they lend fia business people ment Savingas Bank.
THE SENATE.

Hon.

Mr. DANIEL.

APRIL 7, 1915

Hon. Mr. CLORAI-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Hon. gentlemen may
be suxrprised la know thal ithat 'would resuit in the distnibutiun of about $6,350,000
a year more than ia now being disfributed
namng a very desirable ciasa cf Our population.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You men $600.000.
Hon. Mr. POWER-No, I meani $6,350,000; that is- by the banks. Hon. gentlemen
will see that the depositors i this country
are es deserving-a cits as tbere la in thbe
-counitry and Ihat it is the duty cf the Governanent to 'use the power .which they possess under the Act ito rais the rate at least
to 4 per cent, conaidering tb.at they a»r
paying 4j per cent to cutside lenders.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILL-I agree whth my
bion. friend that the depo>sitors aRhould gel
a higher rate of interest. Last session 1
proposed a Bull that t.he Goverument ahould
issue small -bonds, but exception was taken
to il on the ground that it 'was a m-oneY
Bill. I atill behleve that if the Government
vould issue amnel bonds of $10 et 4 per
cent, the resul would be that. instead of
the publie depouiting their money in thie
banka, they would talc. tbese emali dben4urea. whieh vould be as good as cash.
If the Govermunt can .pay 4j per cent for
money, they might just ns well issue these
amaîl tan doUar debenlures. and tqbey would
b. getting the money st a -fair -rate cf interest, and would not have to hold, goid ta
cover the debentures, because thie public,
-would pass these debentures frum -band ta
,band, and the Governmenit would net -bc
cal-led upon ta redeem them.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. gentleman
from Haslifax Jas etsted one aide of the ques,lion. It is true that banka declare dividende
as high as fourteen and fifteen per cent and
more, but the bion. gentlemàan has nol called
attention ta the fact tihat these dividende
are on the paid-up capital of the bank, and
do not represent anything like fourteen or
fift-een per cent on the paid-up capital and
reserve of the bank. They hardly represent
six per cent ini many cases. Therefore, it
is a dividend which îa paid on the accumulation of the profit, and thia accumulation of
profit is necessary for tRie stability cf the
banks and in the intereat of the country.
Therefore, il le misleading ta maerely cali
the attention cf the public ta the fact that
trne dividenide are as large as stated witheut giving the other side of the case. The

hon. gentleman has stated Ihat the, banks
are proaperous. We should ail rejoice. and
be gratified aIt that condition of things
obtaining in this country. Il ha iu the initerest cf the w1hole of the people of Canada
that th. banks should be proaperous, and
they are .proaperous, probably, because they
are gelting depoaits at a low rate of intereat;
but we muet remember that these deposits
are mostly ail payable on demand, and
therefore each bank bas to keep millions
of dollars for the purpose cf being able ta
meel cails which may b. made on tJhem at
any lime, to guard againal rume on banka
and to prevent a disastrous stat. of affaira
occurring. If they were ta pay a larger rate
cf interesl, with th. experience I have haed
I would be cf the opinion thal they mighl
not be able-and I believe they would net
be able-to keep a reserve large enough to
fneet caîls. Look at the condition cf affaira
in otlber countries, especially to England.
Do the Englhsh banks pay a larger rate cf
intereat than is, paid to the depositor lin
Canadian bankeP Nothing cf the kind.
Instead cf beiug paid a higher rate cf interest, depositors very often pay the bank
for receiving lheir money on deposit, and
when they «et any intareat on Iheir dposits, they receive a very mudh. amaler
rate cf interest lin Effgland than depositars
gel here. What 'would b. the consequence
of the suggestion made by the hon, gentleman if it were put in practice? Il would b.
to rais. the rate cf intereet ail over the
country.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If banka are able ta
supply the capital that la required for the
commerce and industry cf the country, it la
mainly by reason cf tihe deposits, and if the
rate cf interest on the deposita were raised
the rate of intereat on advancea would likewise be raised, and it would be a dislurbing
eleihent ail over the country. It la Irue
that in years paat the rate was four per
cent, but at that time what was the geveining rate cf interest? It waa eight and nine
per cent ail over the country. 0f late
commexîced
criais
the
since
years,
Al ie true Ihat th. rate cf interest hias been
raised, but net by the banka as n rule.
For certain kinda cf transactions, especially
boans on real estate, the rate of interest
has been raised, but for many years th.
rate cf intereat te commerce and industry
in general bas been about 6 per cent. Il

SENATE

is in the intereat of the country that the blind the people. with declarations of that
present rate on depoaits should continue. kind? Instead of paying the banks to take
their money, 1 do not know of a case in
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The principle under- any country where the depositor does flot
hion. senator from exact some kind of a return on his deposit
lying the motion of the
Halifax is one that will have te be fully That brings me back to the proposition sugrecognized in the near future. The present gested by the lion. gentleman from Halifax.
gentlemen of the Senate will probably not and it ia"this: that when the national Govbe called on to enforce its application, but ernment of any country-we wiil take
there is not the slightest doubt that the Canada for example--goes abroad to negoviews put forth by tl7.e lion. gentleman frorr. tiate a loan and pays 4 and 4j per cent for
Halifax upon this question are views enter- money and refuse to, pay as high a rate to
tained by nine-tenths of the population oi their own people, that national Government
Canada. IJnfortunately, it is one of these is dereliet in its duty. If the Government
matters as te which everybody's business would on a demand for a loan proclaimi to
is nobody's business. ]Nine-tentha of the the workixig mari of Canada that hie would
population of Canada are supplying the get 4j per cent for his money, instead of
ainews of war for the capitaliat, caîl him hiaving 42 or 47 million dollars in the nabanker, manufacturer or whatever you tional treasury, we should have 500 million.
like. It is the working man who is supply. We would -have every dollar of the working the funda. IL is the working mari who ingman'e savings under the contTol of the
has a dollar or two to save and puts it in Governanent. Whien the Governiment was
the savinga banks that supplies the nioney borrowing $100,000,000 for this war, why
which turns the wheels of industry, that did they not say to the people of Canada:
keepa the plough going and practically -"Insteadof allorwing 3 per cent interest on
maintains all the charities in the country. deposits we will give you 4j per cent for
The capitaliat, whether hie be a banker or every dollar theat you lend the Government
a manufacturer, or the heir te large estates, for the plirposes of thia waTr." Had they
do.. not put hiea money in the Post Office or dons that, the Miaiter of Finance would flot
any other savings bank. He is teo cute to have haed to leave the shores of Canada
deposit his money in a savinga bank at to get the money. The Tr'easuSy wouid
3 per cent interest when hie cari put it into not, la able to hold the. money that would
enterprises, whether of the foreat, the mine, flow i!nto it, -ad it would not be necessary
or the factory yielding anywhere froni 3 to to a.sk England to guarantee our loans.
30 and even 50 per cent on hua inveetment. I know that I myself would put a few
The poor mari carinot do that. The two or thousands dollars at the.disposal. of the
three dollars a week paid by hîi will not Government if they would give me 4j per
enable hini to establish a f actery or buy a cent, and 1 dare say there is flot a man
gold, a silver, or a coal mine. He is not in Canada who would not do likewise.
in the position to buy timber lriits and Hon. gentlemen, 'why not pay 4j per cent
make millions out of the couritry's wealth. on deposits? As the lhon. gentleman froni
Theý poor man stands abris, and there are Halifax said, give it to deserving classes,
so many of theni that nobody takes his the classes which. croate the wealth of the
case up. What is everybody's business is country, the toiling classes. Why not give
nobody's business. The resuit ia that the them. -the saine benefit as we give the
ao-called wealthy men, mlllionaires and foreigner? Thiat is a question that has to
capitaliats fourid institutions without risk- be answered, but it will net be answered
ing any of their own money; they take the here to-day. Governrnents corne and go,
inoney of the poor working mari to run and Goverriments are tied up by capitliese institutions. I was astounded, and 1 talists. Look out for -the day whlen labour
think this hion. House muet have been very will be united as the manufacturers and
niuch surprised te hear the hion. senator the capitalists are united. That day may
fromt De Salaberry (Hon. Mr. Beique) state bring haÂrm to the country il the anatter
that ini Erigland depositors had to pay is not properly looked after now. 1 conbanks te take their money. If the hon.
tend that the suggestion -made in this
gentleman has proof of that statement, hie
discontent among
should give it te the Hous and te the motion will tend Vo allay
They
country. I should like te see the depositoi -he working classes of this country.
who has to pay his bank to take money. now feel that they cannot get justice or
Is the lion. seriator able te cite any in- fair play, but they say there are mren in
stance of tliat kind? If lie ia not, why the administration of the public affairs of
lion. Mr. ]BanQUE.

APRIL 7, 1915
about
DOM VILLE-What
Hon. Mr.
liquid assets in the United States?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do net know about
that, but I do know that the King cf England is trying te drive them out cf bis
kingdom.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-The banks take
this money and lend it in New Yerk at 4k
per cent, and that is what they cail liquid
assets.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-My answer te the
hon. gentleman is the same as the answer 1
gave te the hon. gentleman frem Grandville.
I arn not basing my case on comparisens at
Hom. MTr. CHOQUETTE-What rate of ail, but on the facts. Why de we see the
intereet do they pay in the 'United States? banka paying only 3 per cent and charging
from 6 te 10 per cent when they make lons
1fr. CLORAN-I amrn ot going to They get ahl they can squeeze eut cf yen
-Hon.
base my argument on co-mparisons, be- when yen ask them for a loan. There is
cause cc<mparisons are odieus. I amn put- ne regular rate cf interest, and if yen go
ting my case as the hon. senator for Hall- to a bank and ask for a boan cf $1,000,
fax put ibis, on facts. You miglit ask nie they will size you up and charge you acwh.at intenest they pay in Timbuctoo. cordingly.
What lias that to do with the question?
We base oui case on the actual facts as
Hon. Mr. DOMVILL-That is their
they exist in Canada to-day. We are flot business.
asking for anything unfair or unjust.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is a business
When you. have nine-tenths of -the popudollars into the hands Parliament sheuld put dewn. We are net
iation putting theiT
the
of a few men, then the Governrnent of the prepared te do that te-day because
day should mse that these few men do net administrators cf Parliament are tee much
rob *lhema of nearly al the benefits they tied up. If yen have a friend in the bank
The who is one cf the directers, or the manager,
ahould creceive from -that meney.
hon. senator from De Salaberry said the then you are faveured, and yeu may peubanking interests are prosperous .and that sibly get money at 5 per cent, and probably
eme pay dividends cf 15 per cent, but without putting up any security. That lias
h. went on to say that that did net re- eccurred in the city cf Mentreal te my ewn
present what At purported te represent. knowledge. Men without any security whatWhy, sorne banks have paid as high as ever have obtained boans from the bank
50 per oent and 100 Ver cent.
for haîf a millian dollars, and when the
boan was net repaid the bank had te go
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-WhereP
te the wall, and the depositors lest everyCLORAN-I believe the thing, because the manufacturer who had
Hon. Mr.
Bank a-f Nova Sootia is a pretty good illus- borrowed the money cauld net pay. What
tration of the dividends that can be paid dees that nmean?. It means that the deposifrom the poor man's money. The province tors get thin air for the resulte cf the
cf Nova Scotia ought ta be congratulated sweat cf their brews. The sanie thing has
on the fact that it has a strong banking happened in Toronto and other large ceninstitution, equal to, if not stronger than tres. where so-called capitalists take the
the Bank of Montreal. Where does the money cf the poor and squander it in erectnioney in that bank corne from? The capi- ing luxurieus buildings costing millions of
talists do not make it; they do net deposit dollars. Where did the meney come fram
their money in the savings banks. The te erect these buxurieus buildings? Where
manufactures cf this country are run dees the meney corne from te pay the exlargely by the sweat cf the brow of the travaguant salaries that are paid? Does the
working man and the -servant girl. Out of bank manager put up a cent cf the money?
the $57,000,000 in the Government banks, No, lie draws it fromi tac poor and the poor
probably anc-quarter, if net one-third, is alene. That is the position of things in
Canada to-day. Canada is net suffioientiy
made up cf wages earned by hired help.

the countiry who are looking after our interest and tirying to do the best they can
for ns, and we will bide our time. This
motion ie a warning to Parliarnent -and
the legialaters of this count>ry that al
their efforts sheuld not be in t.he direction
of advancing the interests of a small number of ou. people. This 13 a vast country
wibh a population of only seven or eight
millions, but -beware of tihe tixne when the
country reaches 15 ta
population of ti
25 maillions. Theo people of tthat day 'will
not stand for legislation that looks te the
interest of th.- f ew as against -the intèrest
of -the aiany.

SENATE
maintain large reserves to enable thexn
enlightened to grapple. with the question, to respond to the -repayment of deposits
f ast, and the
but she is being, enlightened
or as bas been
dernanded;
day is coming when the people of this wheneverout by the hon. member from de
pointed
country will insist upon being properly Salaberry (Beique) narnely that our banks
safeguarded.
always have to maintain large reserves for
Hon. Mr. POWER-I should like to say this purpose.
a word in reply to my hon. friend from
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-No.
De Salaberry, who spoke of the dividends
Hon. Mr. EDW4RDS-My hon. friend
paid by the banks of ten and fourteen per
cent as being on the original capital. That says no. 1 admit that it is quite tinie that
is perfectly truc, and the dividends on the in the case of savings bank deposits three
present capital -are not as great as that. months' notice may be avai'led. of, but the
But what constitutes the rest upon which banks of Canada have neyer availed themthe dividends are now supposed to be paid? selves of this privilege.
These reste are simply accumulated profits
Hon. Mr. POPE-The banks of Canada
-profits which the banks did not distribute, do not hold gold in reserve, dollar for
and in that way ini some cases they have dollar.
more than doubled their original capital. I
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-If they held dollar
think we have a right to consider that on
they would have
the original capital they are making a for dollar against depositswant it perfectly
no money to lend. I
handsome profit.
particularly
understood 1 arn not advocating the interest
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I do not think this oi anybody. I amrn irply trying to put this
question is very well understood by ahl the matter fairly and squarely.
senators of this House, and I do not preHon. Mr. MITCHELL-My hion. friend
tend to say that 1 understand it from every said the stockholder had only received 4j
point of view myself. We have three classes
5 per cent. Why should not the stockof people in Canada who are involved in and
holders get more than that> Why should
the question uxider discussion. Primarily
be spent in erecting .large
the etockholder of the banks, then the the money which do not even appear on the
and the borrower. Ail are im- structures,
depositors
sheet? Why do not the banks pay
portant to the well-being of Canada. One balance
larger divîdends and not tie up their money?
hon. gentleman said that if the Government would issue bonds of small denominHon. Mr. EDWARDS-The cost of bank
ation they would through this medium be structures in Canada is a subject of con1 take At that, these
able to secure all the money they require siderable comment.
for carrying on the war, as f ar ais Canada buildings are in proportion to the business
is concerned. That would *be a great mis- requirements of the banks. My hon. friend
take, because if the money deposited in the might defend the insuralice companies. No
banks were so used, the commerce of this companies in the world have such expencountry would be at an end. We are al sive structures as the insurance companies,
looking to the development of Canada. and no companies pay such high salaries.
The commercial and industrial borrower
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And the widows and
is the man who develops the recources of orphans get less.
Canada, who creates a demand for labour,
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-My hon. friend
and enables the depositor to earn the rnoney
hie deposits. What is the position of the also referred to the accumulation of surHe subscribes for a certain pluses. If lie were a large stockholder of
stockholder?
amounit of stock i the bank, and thereby a bank, I have no doubt he would see to
In case of it that a surplus was created to protect him
assumes a double liabi],ty.
insolveucy of the bank, hie is hiable for against thc double liability.
double the amount of bis stock. Whàt is
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-For the purpose ot
his return? I arn not one of those enjoy- being able to supply the money in case
îng returns, but the stockholder gets only there is a run on the hank by the depositors.
4 to 4j per cent. The highest he bas ever
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-At the expense of
received is 5 per cent, perhaps a littie more
iu some instances. His position is really, others?
after all, not to say very much better than
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-It is not at the exthat of the depositor. Then again, what pense of others. It is not at the expense of
the position of the depositor if
would be
So far as the borrower itbe banks did not do as they do, that is the depositor.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

APRIL 7, 1915
concerned, 1 may say that if tha borrower and in certain banks in England, a charge
had to pay a higher rate o! interest than hae is made for the safekeeping: of money. My
is now paying, the affect would ba to cripple hon. friend <Hon. Mr. Bostook) shakes his
the Dominion in its industries at a time head, buit I know posiitivaly as to that.
whan it is niost dasirabla that Canada 1 understand my hon. friand lias sorne
should promote tha devalopment of indus- money ini the Bank of England. on
tries in avary possible way. In daaling with which he is getting no interest, but
this question let us ha fair. It is perfect ha is paying not1bing for the safekeepThe Bank of England is
-nonsense to say when you borrow monay ing thereof.
at 3 par cent and lend it at 6 par cent there- a different institution entirely fromn the
fore, you are making 3 par cent. Nothing general joint stock companies of England.
o! the kind. The bank doe not make a net My hon. friend from de Salaberry is perprofit of over 1 par cent on its total de- fectly correct in his staternent that a charge
posits. It makes a very good return now is made in some cases by the banka for
the eafe keeping of mon.ey. I concur in
if it makas 1 par cent.
the opinion which has been expressed
Hon. Mi. CLORAN-WhyP
that fair play should ha given the depositHon. Mr. EDWARDS-Because, as in al ors, but the stockholders should also be conother undertakings, it costs something to sidered.
Who are the stockhoiders of
carry on banking, and where the bank takes our banks' Are they the wealthy men of
the responsibiiity of being the guarantor, Canada? Not at al]. The vast amount of
which it is for the depositor, it conserves the stock of banks in Canada is held by
his money, lets it out in industry and helps widoi;s, orphans and poor people. The
davelop this country. I arn in the position commercial men of this country are not the
of a borrower from the banks, and I find nu people who hold bank stock to any confault that hanka should pay a reasonabla siderable axtent. The so-called wealthy peorate of intarest on déposits, and that a rea- pie of tihis country are flot stockholders in
sonable rata o! interest should ha charged banka. It is onily gentlemen who have reto the borrower. But this is not a time when tired from business, or people of that kind
it wouid ha dasirabla to bring about a con- who invest in bank stocks in a genaral way.
dition wherehy you would hamper the de- Bank stock is a very unpopular inveatment,
vaiopment o! the couxntry by raising the rate and it woUld be very unwise in the present
cf intarest to ha pald by the borrower. I condition of affaire in Canada to maka bank
arn not haie defanding the borrower for one stocks any more unpopular than they are
moment. 1 arn simply trying to ha frank in to-day.
dealing with the question. I judge, frorn
sorne speeches which have been made, that
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I have listaned
somes hion. gentlemen at laast do not at al to my hon. iriend's very interesting lecture
understaxad the question. I heard the remark with -regard to banks. The bon. gentleman
made a littie while ago that when the popu- from Rothesay <Hon. Mr. Domville) sugla.tion of this country zeaciies 20 millions gested that the Governinent might issue.
there will ha a change so f ai as thase condi- amail bonds bearing 4 per cent interast,
'ions are concernad. In countries where and raise money in that way to prosecute
thaere is a far greater population than wa the war. To that the hon, gentleman frorn
have in Canada, rauch lover rates of in- Russell <Hon. Mr. Edwards) replied that
terest are paid on deposits, and my hon. the affect of such a policy would be that
friand is quite correct in saying that in there would ha no money for the trade of
many cases in England the bank actually the country. But is it not true that if the
charges for taking cara of the daposit banks would not invest money in foraign
money.
stocks, but would keap it here for the trade
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Name one.
of this country, they could lend the Govover tha ernment the rnoney they need and have
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Looking
Engliali bank returns hon. gentlemen vil ciloueh. money left to accorniodate the trada
sea there is a great ainount of free of the Dominion?
money which pays no interest, and a
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I have great pleacertain arnounit of deposits on which
On a vast arnount sure in answering that question. Thera is
interest is paid.
by the banks o!
of *ieposits in England no interest i.3 not one single dollar loaned is not loa.ned
it frorn the general man- Canada in Naw York 'which
paid, and I have
ager of a hank in Scotland. that in his bank, in the very best intares of Canada.

SENATE

there any way in which the deposdtors, of Cantadan
banks are deait with; and the other, as to
whther thle Gyovernment intends to increase
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Money is loaned on the rate of interiest on deposi'ts. Permit me
eall which. is available in 24 hours, and if to say, in -the first pliace, that we have no
that maney were in Canada not one single authority for regulsting the ra~te of int«ret
dollar o! it would be loaned at all. An t'hat may be paid by the banks to deposihon. gentleman asked why ia it flot loaned tors.
in Canada on call? Cail loans in Canada
Hon. Mr. POWEB-No.
are an impossibility; the markat is not
large enough. Money sa loaned on caîl
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-And it would he
ini New York practically conatitutes a
an unwise policy, it seemas tai nie, for the
position of the bank reserve and la a
in any way to interfere with
positive advantage ta tha Cana'dian bor- Governnent interest paid.
one ini Canada. And again the rates of
rowers and every
referring to the matter of deposits, which
Hon. Mr. POWER-I de, sot auggest that
altier &Ui conatitute the bulk of the banks' ±.hey should mnterfere. I said they ahould
in Canada, if auch were inveat.ed in pay 4 per cent.
funds
Government bonds, Canada would be
crijppled and you snight as well leave the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But when my
country.
hon. friend undertakes ta direct the iattenHon. Mr. CLORAN-What about France? tion of Parliament to the aleged ililiberal
banks are
Every dollar earned by the famier in France and unfair rway in which our
treating depositors, it by implàcation sugis loaned ta the Governinent.
gests that something eh.ould be donc. PerHon. Mr. EDWARDS-If my hon. friend mit me ta say, in 'the first place, that
keeps on aaking me questions for Borne time rnoney, tand interest on ieney, is the a.me
ho will learn something of tha question. as any other coznmodiity: it is subije ot
My hon. friend does not discriminalte ho. the law of aupply and demand. Vflbatever
tween a borrowing country and a laaning rnoney îs worth 'Lt .will oramand. My hon.
country. Canada is, and wiil be for many friend overlooked entirely the imuportant
years to corne, a debtor nation. France f"o that the cost of admiistering the
and Britain. ara both lending nations.
Government 8avings ïBank oepSesenta at
least 1k or 2 per cent. I understand the
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-WhyP
trust c>mpanies of Canada estilmate the
Hon. Mr. EI>WARDS-Because the na- coat of administering itheir f unds at about
tion's liability is.ta its own people.
2 per cent. My understanding 'le ithat a
trust oompany will not undertake ta invest
Hon. Mr. MURPHY-Hear, hear.
mon-ey for less thian thiat arrount; and it
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-When Canada is costs the Governmnent of Canada quite as
a@ old es England, and when Canada makes mu-eh as it would any ýprivatie corporation
the accumulation France and Great Britain to handile the funds of depositors. That at
possesa, 'Lt will be a lending nation; but least -would represent li or 2 per cent. Perfor many years ta came Canada must bm mît me also ta say thet the depositoirs in
just what she has been for a long (ime, a the Government 6avings Banïk are naL so
very large debtor nation.
solic!tcus about the rate of interest they
Hon. Mr. POPE-When the banks of shail ebtain as they are to obtain that
Canada miade cali boans in New York, and security which depos.iting in any et-her inivant-ed thie inoney 'baek, did they get it' stitution will not afford. Rt must be quite
Net a dollar.
mlanifest ta hion. gentlemen that if we
raise the present rate of interest allowed
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-In 1907 the caîl
t'hie borrowing public of the
loans that were made by the banks of Can- an deposits,
Dominion must necess:ar.ily pay it. Let us
repaid promptly.
ada in New York were
assume for the moment that the chartered
Hon. Mir. POPE-I objeot ta (bat. The banks cf Canada should increase the rate
st.atement is not correct.
of interest to 4 per ent, as intimiated i>y
LOUGHEED-In -dieotng the my hbon. friend, it is quite manifest thiat
Hon. Mr.
ta pay thxe
attention of tihe Houa. te this mater my the public in turn would have banks woudd
the
'hon. friend has deait with two eubjects: extra 'rate o! interest rwhieh
imiportant ta
first, hie bas called the attention of the pay ta depositors. It is as
unfair and illiberal consider the borr«wing public o! Canada
House ito the alleged
Sion. Mr. EDWARDS
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Is
maney loaned in that way?

APRIL 7, 1915
Hon. Mr. DOM VILLE-My hon. friend
w'hen dealing with the question of initerest,
as it is tc consider the depositor. misunderstood me. My suggestion was te
Loet us assumne for the moment *Ihaît the issue toeur per cent bonds te -furnish the
Governrnent of Canada ofeéred to pay on people cf this country a substantial seourGoverninent Sai-hgs Bank deposita la hfflg ity. Rt would not be l1k. thoee mushroom
rate of inýterest. It would et once take but towna in the West whidh issue municipal
of circulation aIl the money that should be bonds at high rates cf intierest.
.availsble for inveotment and for -ail the, inHon. -Mr. LOUGHEED-I have mnade the.
dustrial sati'vities of Canada. The cern- statemeuit ini answer te the inquiry of the
morciail requirementa of Canada would st bon. genitlemen trom Halifax, that the. Gcvn
once be loat sight of; thia money would be ernanent bias ne pisesent intention of indeposated in Government Savinga Banks oiEfg the. rate of interit -on deposits in
and Iockied up, and the. publie would be the. Government Savings Back.
thie aufferers &ueron . Hon. gentlemen
Hou. MTr. DAVIS-Tii. banks won~t let
must, mot overlook the faet, as ias alzeady theni.
ie a boriawbeen pointed out, tUat Canada
BILL INTEODUCED.
ing nation and thb.t the more money we
Bill No. 121. An Act te amend the.
bave ini ciTculation througiiout ail the channels cf our trade, (the better for the people Supreme Court Âct.-Hon. Mfr. Lougheed.
of Canada. If the Governanent could obtain
CONTINGENT AC(X)UNTS 0F THE
by deposi ts in the post offiSo aavmnga banks
SENATE.
ail the money neceswary to mneet its obliganeoessity of MOTION TO ADOPT RE2PORT POSTPONInD.
tions and could obviate the
Hon. Mfr. POWER moved, the -adoption
fioating bcans in the European rnoney
markets, iit must b. nianifest teo hon. gen- et the sixth report cf tii. Standing Coin.
tiemen that that rwould mean taking out mittee on Ipternal Eoonomy and Contincf circulation muney wb.ich we need for eut gent Accounta.
He said : DL will b. remembered the
commercial sctivities and handing it over
to the Governinent of Canada, thns dia- hon. leader cf the Houa. auggeisted,
penuing with the mecessity 0f the Govern- with a view te coming te an amicment bringing ite Canada from a loreign able undertanding in connection with
ountry the money requieed. for our this report, as te -which thS was tomie
national purpos. .1 think hon. gentlemen difféeee cf opinion, that, ther. aheuld b.
wil agr.. with mne tihst that would be very a confereaice b.tuween HMe Hoour thie
unwise. Another element t1h'at hon. gen- Speaker and the, Comniittee on Internai
tlemen have overlooiied is this: thâat the. Economy. W. lied a meeting and His
tanks, in admainistering the deposits lier Honour the. Speaker w«e good enoxgii to
which th-ey ellow, say, 3 per cent, have te attend and give hie viewî. I 'may aay tbat,
bear the cost of administration, plus -the with one or trwo comparatively trifling extax that ie imposed upon their capital. By ceptions, thbe views expresaed by Hie Hon.
legislatâ'on this session -we have imposed 1 the Speaker in the informel report which
per cent upon the. circulation of thc banka; h. submitted, te the commîttee w.em' trot
and that rate will eventually. in ail pro- different subsbantia.ly from the reoornmendbability, have te be paid by the borrowing aticus cf the cominittee. On on. or two
public. The bon. gentleman from Rc'Lhesay points there -vas a difference. Hia Honour
(Hon. MT. Domoville> has suggested the de- the, Speaker recommended that Mfr. de Monuirability of the Government of Canada is- tigny be transrferred from the. econd divauing bonds which might be purchascd. by ision te -the firat division, and. ithat Mfr.
the. people of Canada, bearing a higheS Beneit be tra*nserr.d te a higher division
rate ci inteiest than that which la ptaid in tban that wh.idh lie in nuw.
the Post Office Savinge Bank. But it night
Heu. Mfr. CHOQUETTE-That le not in
be pointed out thst any one who bas money this ireport.
to deposit in the savings banks, eould easily,
Hon. 1fr. POWER-No. Whetever th.
within his own municipaliftY, -Pu.rcbhaa
bonds of that anuniclpality bearing from 41 disposition of the ommititee raiglit bave
to 5 per cent interest. Se that there need been te meet His Honour's viewa, they were
be no unnecessary sympathy expressed for net in a position -te do se, because they
the depositor -by reason of -lus not having felt that the Housa had decided the quesiaccessi'ble an inveetinent yielding a lafger *tien 'with respect te Memmr. de Meintigny
rate cf intecrest tien tiiet which. the. Gov- *and Bencilt, and they could not reverse the
decision of the House. In any case tihat
ern.meint pays.

SENATE

348

That the. word "not" be inserted before the
decision cou1d-only be «eversed by a moion
and that the following be added
which 'would require five days' wOrd "now " of the question, but that it be
to resciiid,
at the end
very *euh- amnended by strlldng out paragrepbz 2, 5 and 6,
notice. That really ie the only
ln their respective
stantital difference iiebween the scheanesub-1 and incorporatlflg the 7samne
imediately atter the
ln jaragraph
rnitted by Hlis Honour -the «Speaker emnd aMder "non1nfate."
the repo'rt as it is now submintted. The. word
If thiat.ii accepted tii la&w wiN bel followed
cornnitte-e mnade v'nrious alight changes in
will be ail right.
their original sirth report ais a resuit cf and then the resolution
be
to -a very large extent of His Honour the Speaker would then
the suggestions
and ijiiere ie net requested to make the nomination. Before
Hie Honour the. Speaker,
of Mr.-Jones,
anything that I ses te oeil for further notice Mr. Garneau add the naine 2. Then add
except in paiiagraph 5, His Honour the whjch je mentioned ini clause
Mr. Nicholsonshobuld Mr. Byron Nicholson, rnentioned in clause
Speaker thought %that
mentioned in
not diseharge the duties of curater of the 5, and Mr. Sinéon Le Lièvre
clause 6. Conciliation has been agreed upon
reading .room in addition to thoffl of li
amn glad that the
proeenmt office. The eommrittee, -atter due and I amn glad of it, I
conclusion to littîe trouble *bas disappeared and that
iconedide'aton, came to Unhe
everything will now be ail right, and for
stand by their original decision ini the. 'at
the word
ter. His Honour the Speaker suggested that purpose I move that after
Gar'neau, Clerk of French "nominate" in clause 7 we put what is conthet Mr. A. L.
thus w.
Journals, be proxnoted froin one division to tauned in clauses 2, 3, 5 and 6, and recoinand
another. That suggestion 'the committee will unclude all the nominations
willingly and cheerfully adopted. AIl the miendations cf the committee.
cther paragraphe are suubtantial]y as in
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The trouble I find
our original report and the document subwith the amendment is that it does net
mi'tted by Hie Honour the Speaker. Thé.
standing or the precedence
final paragraph of the report, ini respect tu reaily affect thein this House. We have net
wes eliminrated., be- cf the Speaker
tihe Clerk of the. House,
of these people.
cause that 'had been .provided for ini formser changed the standing
sessions -by resolution-s sdopted iby the
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-This muet corne
Senate.
if
as a report froin the deputy head andthe
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-When the. bon. there is ne objection, why net agree te
leader of the House spoke on this ques- amendinent.
tion a few deays age, it was -by way cf conCol. the Hion. Mr. MASON having been
cildation, but Mt the sa-me itirne 'it wa aise
the Senate, called te the Chair,
in order te preserve the. rules cf
and te comply witb the -la'w in the natter
Hon. Mr. LANDRY (Speaker): According
cf nominations, that nomination munlb
made a propoon the report of to the wiehes cf this House I
made by the commnittee
the recoi- sition te the <Jomrnittee on Internal Econoiny
the Clerk te the Speakex and
te thie matter. I take it as ene cf
mendation cf tiie Speaker te the cornmitto. in regard given to me by the law, that the
This prinoiple is sdmitted ini gome clauses my rights,
te any appointment in
of 'the repocrt, and set aside ini somne other 'recornrendation,
this Senelte muet originate with me.
clauses. The principle sheu]d b. accepted
4
head makes a report te the head
for ail nominations tbat the Clerk (Who is The deputy
the head cf the.
should imake -a report Ito Hiz of the departinent, and repert before the
deputy head),
recomiendni- departinent pute that
Honour thie Speaker, 'whose
Ceuneil. In tlhis case, thi. head of the
't
tien shouid be i\eferred te the. House.
and thie Council ie the
report is iconcenned, r have net departinent ie myseif, session. The Senate,
far as the
7 eays: "That Senate assembled in
much te say. Paragriaph
may refer-that recommendaHie Hioneur the Speaker be cRequeste-d to if it pleases,committee. I muet make the*
Mr. L. Garneau." There ithe prin- tien te the
inomiùnate
and I make it on the report cf
cipi. je recognized. The 6peaker baes re- initial move,
is the Clerk cf the House. What has been
comuiended, and the reconmendation
present case? I teck ail the
made. But in regard te tahe otlhera, the. done in this
the committee,
je not followedý. Why not? naines that were proposed by "'I rwill euggeet
saine course
ise aid that he suc- aud as a ýcompromise I said,
Tae Mr-. Jones. It
and in addition the twe
ceeds Mr. Seutter. Take No. 5, that Mr-. ail these naines, by the ch&irman of the.
te
Byron Nicholson muet do ee and se. In naines Teferred
hie laet speech and I
No. 6, Qhat Mr-. Le Lièvire Is te do so and committee," ini
submitted a draft report te thie cornso. I meve:
Hon. Mr. POWP-rZ.

APRIL 7. 1915
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-No, 'he is given acf.
ditional work, but hlein 111lin the same
poettion.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Take th. position
of Mfr. de Montigny. I proposed to change
bis clase. Dos the hon."genitlenyan go so
far es to sy tirat I have nort thie righit to de
that'
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-The Benate 'bas stlied tihat already.
quesHon. Mfr. LANDRY-I amn ekiing ma
tioni, but the bon. gentleman dose not answer fit. One thing is certiain, I have the
rigbit te make these nominations. and the
Senate bas the right 10 acoopt or decfîne to
accejt my nominations. Section 24 of the
Act provides that -a promotion mueý hé
made on the recommendation of tihe depuLy
head to the head of the. depszriment. The
wbole polioy of this Act i.. that the reormiendation must originale -witb und corne
trom tbe depuity head to the head of th.
departmnent. The three first nominations
es Tepor'ted by the conunittée ehould bé
made under tihe same rule thâta th. coinHon. Mfr. WATSON-No, ble ot dhang- iItes adopted in relation to Mies O'Brien,
lig bis classification.
Mfr. Laroae and Mr. Garneau. 1 do ftot se.
know mhat I amn why oné rule should be adopted. in one
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I
caern and aniothoe rule in enother. I vould
saymng.
ask the hon. gentleman to wccept this amnHon. Mfr. WATBON-I alec kuow wheit enëmer$ of myl hbon.. *riend, tb. hmo. son1 am saying.
etor for Grandville. TJ corne lier. end say
we have arrived et an arrangement is
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY-I-f 1 amn t be cor- fibat correct.
net
reeted I ehuàld h. correted proprly.
Hon. Mfr. DANDURAND-No one ha. eaid
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-I made the eliate tbat.
ment thal tb. case ebould be referréd to
Hon: Mfr. LANDRY-4 know thé hon. genHia Honour 1he Speaker for recomimendatien where an individual was chsnged from tleman dos not say it, 'but il is umfalr to
put in this report that it is baaed on the
one claes tu another, ibit rwher. thbe idi
vidual was net dhanged from one elas le suggestion cf the Speaker.
tb. other wé d.id net couaider il necesery
Hon. 1fr. DANDURAND-After béaring
te refer 'to Hi. Honour the Speaker.
the Speaker.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I coutend that any
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY-After hearing tbe
cbange in th. personnel cf the Sonate mue.t saggestions made by His Honour the
b. proposed by me.
Speaker. Wbat are the suggestionis tbat I
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-We do not objeo made? Net one of Ihem bas been accepted,
except in référence to Mfr. Garneau, and
te that.
that was made in accordance with the
wby i. il nol resolutions passed by Ibis House lasI year.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbéfl
done?
I asked that Mfr. Garneau's naine be put on
Hon. Mfr. WAT'SON-When a person ù~ the list, and tbat ie the only Ihing I gel. I
n-el changed from one class te another. *put before the c6mmittee a very important
'tb. commiltte dees net consider il noces question, and il was el aside. By the
sary to iaek thé recolumendation of HL~ Civil Service Amendmént Act of 1908, al
Honour the Speaker.
sessional messengers are doné away with.
thé law,
LANDRY-Byron Nichelaon ig I proposed, in order to comply wilh
Hon. MSr.
-these messengers sbould oblain a cerin an -that
itaken from ues position and put
tificate of qualification from the Civil Serothecr.

mittee, aud thé committée bas refused
Why
te accepî my recommendation.
shoiïld the committee corne hère te-day and
propose this report as a compromise report?
It I-s not a compromise report; it is a report
in wbich thé chairman of the committee
took part cf my suggestions and set the
others aide. This report suggeats thé
direct appoinîment by ithis House cf three
cf its emp$oyees to vacant positions and
on the other band isuggests tiraI the
Speaker bai requeated to make 'Ibis. other
Why sucb a diflerence in
appoiirlments.
the mode cf prooedure? Tbe report goes
on ito ask that Hie Honour the Opeaker
b. requested to nominale Mir. A. L.
Garneau; i. that making a aiew nominThé hon. member for Portage
ationP
la Prairie <Hon. Mfr. Watson) says in
one caaa it is a new nomination, andf then
hie eays il i. only a change. Il was net a
new nomination. Il was changing a man
f rom one class te anoîher class. Wbat are
we doing with Mfr. Joues? Hé is also changing his position.

SENATE

350

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Hlear, hear.
vice Commission, and that under the provisions cf clause 22 a double class should be
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-He is standing for
created by order in council di-stingui.shing the rights of the Chair that dominates this
sessional. employees from the permanent em- Rouse. and I respect and admire him for
pieyees. If the Auditer General should doing &o. His Honour the Speaker otten
choose te refuse te psy these emplcyees, he calls me down, and I admire him for doing
would be perfectly right in doing se. I did so, because most of the time he is right,
net ask te increase the number cf sessienal but I do net think it is dignified to be occumessengers, but I wanted te fix their statua. pying time of thia House in discussing the
The hon. gentleman fromn Halifax does net government of the House officiais. They
appreve cf that. Ras he semething te say? are controlled by the head of thue House, and
Why the ComHon. Mr. POWER-I de net feel anxious why should we interfere?
just now. I think the pro- mittee on InternaI Economy should always
te aay anything
be at loggerheads with the Speaker is more
posai is more fer concord.
than I can understand. I believe it is a
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I asked that ail 'the question cf animosity and jealousy that
pages and ail these nominations in the lower underlies the whole matter. I have no deubi
c1âss, as definéd by the law, sheuid be Ris Henour the Speaker can nominate, but
determîned by resolution cf this House, and he cannot appoint a single official; ail he
that is in the interest of the employees. I has power to do is te recomxnend, and the
ask this House te accept the amendment Senate can accept or refuse to accept his
made by my friend fromn Grandville (Bon. nominations. That is -the position His
Mr. Choquette).
Honour the Speaker takes and what more
Hon. Mr. BOT..DUC-We are leeking for cean t.his House denand or expect?
There ia the position the Hon. Speaker
a solution, and I believe it is still possible
te arrive at a solution cf this vexatious takes. What more can this hon. body deproblem. If I understand. His Honour the mand or expectP The Hon. Speaker eays it
Speaker correctly, he says that he is willing ie net only his right but his duty te reto accept the amendment moved by the hon. commend certain persons for certain offices
gentleman forGrandville. The enly differ- in the administration of the Senate, from
ence I see is that the recommendation must kitchen ta garret, and says "«if my recombe made by His Heneur the Speaker instead mendation dees not suit you throw it cut
of the cemmittee. Under ail these cir- and if it does suit you accept it." Now he
cumstances I hope the hon. gentleman for is taking a sensible manly position with reHalifax, the chairman cf the committee, gard to thîs. We are not only dealing with
will accept the amnendment.
the present Speaker, but the conclusions we
ob- r'each in tis debatewill affect future SpeakHon. Mr. CLORAN-I arn simply an
the rights and powers cf the cernserver cf what is geing on in the Senate in ers and
as againet
It is deplcrable that mittee as against the law, and
regard to this matter.
the Speaker cf the day. -We must provide
the Senate cf Canada should be called upen,
I hold the principle laid down
day after day, week after week, and month agaînst that.
miner matters of by the Speaker is correct -and sanctioned
after menth, te discuss
and confirmed by law, that he. has the .power
this kind.
te make the recommendation, leaving te the
Hon. Mr. DOMVljLE-They have noth- Senate the right te refuse or accept hîs reing else te do.
comrnend'ations. 1 hope we will take the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I asked the hon. sensible view cf it «nd get r.id of culinary
leader of the Government yesterday te give polit ics which are degrading to the Senate.
us something te do. I say it is huirniliatin@ ÎI believe the suggestion of the Speaker
te be discussing these matters cf househeld should be accepted.
econemy. The Speaker cf the Rouse is uiie
Hon. Mr. CROQUETTE-My object is -in
admired by aIl, and he does net commané
respect ci the law and the rights of the
the confidence ci ail the sýenators.
Chair. I have nothing te do with the
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I do net agre( present Speaker.
with the hon. gentleman in that.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-As one cf the mern
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The Hon. Speake: r bers cf the Internai Economy Cemmittee, I
personifies true manliness and he has thi should like. te disabuse the miruds cf memcourage cf his -convictions, and he is stand bers of this hon. body who think that the
ing up for the rights cf the Chair.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

APRIL 7, 1915

sidering the. time the committee takes and
the trouble they have in finding out the
beat means of conducting the business of
tbis Chamber and carrying it on. It is
not very satisfactory to any committee to
b. placed at work that is very unpleasant,
and then when it. performa the unpleasant
duty and' makes itas report, to have that report turned down without, perhaps, sufficient cause. 1 think Ris Honour th.
Speaker might b. very well satisfied with
th. report. Certainly It gives the conclusion 'wbich I. as one of the committee,
supposed had been arived at when His
Honour was present and conferred with the.
committee a short lime ago.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE,-I have a great deal
of respect for the report cf a committee of
such importance ais th. Internai Economy
Committee, and I have no doubt it carries out the intention of the committee, but
as tbis may b. taken as a precedent I desire te say a word or two on th. question.
I amn not sufficiently informed te pass an
opinion as te whether thé Speaker is correct in bis contention in the cases that have
been mentioned by him, if il calle for a reconunendation on bis part. This depends
upon li. question of fact asto which ther.
aeems te b. a difference of opinion. Ris
Honour the Speaker said il would imply
a promotion, and that statement was conte"tê by the hon. gentleman from Portage
la Prairie, but as I do not know 1h. facts, I
am uns.ble te form an opinion on that malter.
There ie a question on which I amn able
te form an opinion, and that ie as te the
concern which we should ail have, net only
for the reporta cf committees, but aise for
the dignity cf the. Chair. I do net quite
agree with Ris Honour lb, Speaker as te
the extent cf his functions. I think bis
The SPEAKER-No. 2.
contention is-a-t least I eo. undoersoed it
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-Tbat Mr. Jones suc- on previeus occasions-that ne nomination
in lie cernceed Mr; SoutIer. I underestood
can be made except on bis recommendation.
m.ittee thal Hie Honour agreed le liat..
I may be right or I may be wreng, but
The SPEÂKER-Wîib thie difference, that my impression is-and I agree with the
I should propose the name and net b. put Speaker as te that-ýthat th. initiative in
in lb. position cf havîng te accept Al in the ail cases belongs te -HieHonour the Speaker,
way in which il has been done.
and my contàrntion is, and bas been, thot the
any House, need net necessarily agree with the
Hon. Mr. DÂNIEL-I do net eee
e! the Speaker, liat when
other course but te decide il in lhe usual recommendatien
ie made te appoint a
Personally, I arn satisfied le vote for a recommendation
way.
certain person, the- House may disagree as
either lhe amendment or the report, beand appoint another
cause I do net think il makee any practi- te that recommendation
difference. This Houe having ap- pereen.
cal
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I do net bepointed a cornmittee te look afler lie internai economy -of lie Senate, should treat lieve His Honour lie Speaker agrees with
its report with lhe respect due te il, con- that statement.

Internai Economy Committee have any idea
cf attempting so te speak, to clip lie wings
of His Hon. the Speaker, or lake any action
Hie Honour xnigbt object te. i3e far as I
amn prsonally coencerned, I arn abeolutely
free froen holding such an opinion.
At th, last meeting cf the Internai Econozny Coxnmittee aI which Ris Hon. the
Speaker was present, I came te lhe conclusion thal the whole thing was praclically
arranged se as te be satisfactory te Hie
Hon. the Speaker and lie Committee cf
Internal Economy. Therefore, I muet say
I arn a little surprieed to-day le find that
Hie Honour objecte te the report. I lhink
the idea of the coenmittee wae te fail in
wvith the suggestions cf the Speaker in
ail that he suggested, and I wae under
the impression !bat we had incorporated
tbose suggestions in the report now before
the Senate. I take it that Ihis House ie
suiprerne in Ibis malter. The law laye down
certain formalities in regard te certain
thinge being done, but thie Rouse need net
adept them. If we adepted any other principle, it weuld inean the taîl weuid wag
lhe dog instead of the dog wagging tie tail,
to put il in coarse language. The Houe
is the arbiler. What difference does il make
te Ibis Rouse whetber tbis malter cernes in
on. special form or whether il does net,
when both parties te the dispute, if there
is any dispute, are agreed as te whal ouglit
te b. don.. If there je any disagreement I
lake il tiat His Honour dees net agrec with
recommendation No. 5, that Byron Nicholson
have added te his duties as clerk cf Englisb
Journals, th. duty of being cureter of the
reading roem. That is about the onlylthing
with wbich Hie Heneur ie net satisfied, as
I understand Al.

SENATE

help the House in coming to an understanding of this matter which. will prevent these
eternal discussions. I take it there can be
no doubt %vhatever that the etaff of this
House is pla'ced. under the Speaker. He
is -the guardian of th.e honour of this
House, and the head of the staff who are
here called upon to be servants of the
Senate. I do flot t.hink. as far a.s 1 can follow
the discussion in the House, that any one
is cf the opinion that either an appointment or a promotion-and 1 use the words
advisedly-in thie House i. net oe that
must originate with the Speaker. If that
is se, we have here a report which le manifestly not based on any recominendation cf
the Speaker.
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-Excuse me.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I arn going to
show that, and I t'hink the bon. member
will agree with me. I take it that the
action cf the Committee on Internai
Economy in deaiing with this report was
the resuit cf a motion 'made in thîs House
sometime in the eariy -part of the session,
and if I recoliect the particular motion,
it was this: That such matters as are not
committed by law te the Speaker mnay be
inquired into and reported upon by the
Coenmittee on Internai Econoiny. I think
that is substantially -the eflect of the reselution. I lhope hon. gentlemen are paying
attention to my words-"-ý Snob inatters as
are net committed by law te the Speaker
may be inquired into and reported on by
the com'mittee." What -are the matters
comnmitted ,by law te the Speaker? Appointment and promotion in any part cf
the staff of the Senate.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-No, ne.
Hon. Mr. BELCOTIRT-I -am net going
te bother the Heuse with reading the law.
My hon. friend knows the law as well as
I do. I read it and gave very particular
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Might I inferm the attention te it last night. In the year 1912
hou. gentleman that the hon. Speaker was there was a classification of thie officers
pressent in the oomnrittee when those dîf- cf this Heuse adopted by the Chainber.
ferent items, 7, 8 and 9, were agreed te.
Hon. Mr. THOMIPSON-It was net mnade
m-ereiy cali atten- according te the Act.
Hon. Mjr. BEIQUE-I
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-It was made by
tion te the form cf the report. If this
ferm is adopted to-day, it ineans that it this House and aocepted, and it lias been
may be adepted for ail tume te conie, and binding ever since. Until that is changed
te my mind iL is net the proper 'way te we are bound by it. My hon. friend from
invite the Speaker te anake his recemsnen- Middleton wishes me te read the provisions
dation. He should net be dictated te and which gevern this matter. Subsection C of
Testricted as lie has been, and told te section 2 reads as follows:
neminate such and such a persen.
(c) *«Head of a departmnent," In addition to

The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman from
De Salaberry dees net agree with me.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-However, I say en
passant ths.t it does net realiy concern the
question. As fer as this report is concerned, I agree with the Speaker that lie
has the initiative, and he sheuid have the
initiative as te t.he recommendation he ehould
meke, and I would go further than the
amendment. I do net believe it was done
mntentienaily by the committee, but I de
not thin< that it is proper te use such a
ferm as the one which -bas. been edopted.
Paregrapli 7 states that Hie Honeur the
Speaker shouid be requested te neminate
I think we should have
So and Boe.
more censideretion for the Chair. The
Chair Èaa the initiative and the Chair
sheuid be invited te niake bis rcommeudatien as te the occupant cf such and such
a position, and net be ordered te recommend such. and sucli a person. I weuld
suppose that the Speaker &hould cemmunicate with the cmrnittee, learn the
views of the oommittee, and that they
wouid .agree, but then if the Speaker, after
being invited te makre bia recommendatien. dos net maire a recerreendation
which <neets wit>h the approval cf the cermittee, or with the approval. cf tis hon.
Houe, 1 would feel thet this hon. House
is perfectly at liberty te substituts for the
perion who bas been auggested by the
8peaker, much person as the Heuse may
dcem proper, but I earnestiy call thes attention cf the committee te the fact that
anether fSmn should bie adopted. Instead
of requesting the Speaker te nominate se
and so, the hon. Speaker aheuld lie requested te recoenmend a porson te occupy
sucli and sucli a position. I think te
Chair is entitleçI te that consideration.
We should have respect fer tthe d.ignity
cf the Chair, which is a bigh position.

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-May I just say
one word in the hope that perhaps it may
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND.

the mainisters mentioned In paragraph <a) of
section 2 of the Civil Service Act, Inoludes the
Speakers of both Heuses.

'APRIL 7, 1915
Subsection 2 of section 3 reads as fol- the: head of the departmnent. I say that any
appointment to this House can only be
lows:
made by the Senate in the manner I have
Se much of titis Act and of the Civil Service just described. These are the matters which.
Act as relates to s.ppoiatenent eUaaificatio..
salaries and promotion shall apply te the Per- are committed by law to the Speaker, and
manent effiers. clerks and employées of both the difflculty his arisen because the CernHouse of -Parliament and to the lbrary of mi'tee en Internal Eoonory did noît act
Pariament .
within the wording of thiq resolution.
Subsection 8 reads a. iollows:
adopted by this House on the Srd of March
Au acon as practicable mter thie comlng inte of this year, and inutead of dealing with
force et the Act the head of each department matters which are not committed to the
»hall cause the organisation of hie depa.rtment Speaker by 1mw, they have themeelves deait
te be determlned and defined by Order In Ceun- with mattere sa. lby law coramitted to the
cl. due regard being had te tie statue.o e aeh Speaker.
They have not -ionfined thernofficer or clerk as the case rnay b.
The Order lu Council shall give the names of selves 'to dealing with mal lers wbich are
the. severai tranches of the departrnent, with as the resolution called for, :eferred by 1mw
the. nuinher and character of the office. clerk- to the Speaker. I amrn ot £ )ing to discus
and the.
ahips and other positions In eh,
itself. I do not care tuppence
duties. tits and salaries thereafter te pertaîn the report
whether se and s0 ils promoted or appointed,
thereto.
but I do care, as the bon. gentleman from
Aiter being se determined and definedAnd 'we deter-mined and defined the De Salaberry imae eaid, for the honour cf
this House and the bionour cf tjhe bon. genmatter ini 1912. The clause proceeds :
tleman who for the trne -beig, preades
t
-.. he organisation of a department shall fot as
Speaker, and if we are going to
be chang-ed except by an Order In Council.
have these unseemly rows every year. I
That is it should not be changed except have got on my feet to diseuse reports coverby an order of the Senate. What we did in ing charwomen and meseengers for 'the imet
1912 is wliat -the Governor in Council does time. I have no intention now to dises
on the report of a deputy Ihead cf a depart- the appointments; my ohicot je to try and
ment 'concurred in by the liead. In other have the members of this House look at
words, the Governor in Oouncil means the this thing in the only way ini whiçh it may
Senate, so f ar as the employees of this be regarded. There has been a clear invaHouseare concerned. If we look at section sion of the riglits of the Speaker, and the
45 we find the followi.ng:
Speaker made a mistake in going before the
'Wherever under sections 6. 8. 10 (paragraPh committee to diseuse the matter the other
(b) of subsection 1) 21, 22, 23, 24, 26 (subsec- day. I do flot think he bas any business ta
tien 2) 32. 33, 36, 37 (subsection 4) of this go there, and when my hou. friend wlie s0
Act or under the Civil Service Act, aniy action ably leads this House made the suggestion
la authorized or directed to be taken by the
Governor lu COouneli, or by Order ln Council, te the Speaker that there should be a comsuch action. with respect te the eflicers, clerke. promise, and that this matter sliould be
and enipîcyes of the Rlous cf Ceinmons or settled amicably, witliout breaking mny
the Senate. shall te taken by the House of secret I may say that after the House
Commons or the Senate. as the case znay be, by
resolution and wlth respect te the officers, clerks arase, I went with the hon. gentleman from
and employees ef the Llbrary cf Parliament, Hastings to the Speaker and suggested that
and te such. other officers, clerloe, and em- he had better imake recommendations and
ployece as are under the joint control cf bath accept the proposai made by the lion.
House ef Parliament, shall be taken by bath
flouse of Parliaenent by remolution, or. If such leader, and have peace and harmony. The
action la required during Uic reces ef Paria- Speaker took our suggestion kindly, but I
ment. by the Governor lu Ceuncil, subject te did not think he was going before the
ratification by the two Housse t the next en- -committee.
He should not have gone
suing session.
before the committee on hie knees and ask
It is manifestly clear under the law that, for a certain thing. I thought lie would do
so -fer as our employefl -are conoaerned, thie what the 1mw saye he is required to deSenate of Canada is the Governor in Coun- make recommendations to thie House, and
cil and the Speaker cf the Housp is the head flot to the committee. He je not called upon
cf the department cf which the Clerk is the te make recommendatione to the committèe.
deputy head. Under the law no appoint- The House may completely ignore hie
ment, ne classification, and ne promotion cf recommendations. They may do something
any kind can, be made by the Governor in entirely different, and unlees that practice
Council unless it is upon the recommenda- is adhered to in every instance we are Soing
tion of te deputy head, concurred in iby to have these unseemly rows, and, we are
S-23
REVISED

EDITION

SENATE
Act every nomination should originate with
going te have mexabere of committees, who the Clerk, and corne through the Speaker
particular reason o! their own for
have some
to this House. Let us turn now to section
doing it, taking the opportunity of hitting 18, wbich rends as follows:
the Speaker, with whom they may not be
From the said lbut the comfflissiofl. on the
on friendly tenus. If I a= right 1-and I
wtth the apof the
have not the elightcst doubt that.I amn- application the head,deputy head,
of any devartmnent. ahaill
what should b. done for thc future is that iurovai of required clerks, whether for persuppi>' the
the Speaker, ,whenever there is a reason for manent or temPorar>' dutY.
in tfiis Bouse,
a change or an appoiniment
The only exception li this Act which gives
should make a recommendation to the to the Speaker the right of nomination ie
Senate in Uic manDer defined by law. He section 22, which reads as follows:
should have thc Clerk of the Bouse 'prepare
of messenger.
Appointinente to
a report, concur inx it, and subrnit it t0 the porter, sorter and the position to such other
packer, and
and the Hous. can deal with il as it positions ln the lower grades as are determined
Bouse,
deals with ail Uic reports subrnitted for ils by the GovernOr in Council. may be made b>'
consideration. Il may concur li it, or refer the Governor in Council upon the. recommendathe depatiflt beéd on the.
the heaLd
it to the Committec on Internal Econorny. tion of in wrltlngofof the. deput>' bead, and acrecommendations report
In airnout every case the
companied by a certWfcate of qualifICation frOmn
of thc Speaker will be referred tb the Com- the commission, to b. given wIth or withoflt
b>' the regulatiofla
mittce on Internai Econorny, and that cern- examination as in deterrnlnedpergon applylng for
that the
mittee should deal with it as the iaw of the comimissionpossesses the requisite knOwprescribes, as being a recommendation the appointinefit and ia dul>' qualified as to age,
ledge and abiiity
froxa the Speaker, and not as donc health, character and habits.
this report. The form of the report
in
That section authorizes the Speaker te
Thcy should report that,
is wrong.
the rcem- make a recommendatien to this flouse.
having taken int coneideration.
mendations of his hon. Uic Speaker the
Hon. Mfr. BELCOUBT-That is another
committee reports so-and-so, and then it is question altogether. Section 13 deals with
for the Bouse to deal with it. The matter tha qualifications and nothing elsc.
is perfcctly clear and I defy any hon. gentleHon. Mfr. THOMPSON-Bead 18.
man te look int thc law and corne 10 any
right pracdifferent conclusion. Uniess Uic
Hon. Mfr. .BELCOURT-There are none
tice is adhcred 10 wc are going 10 have these s0 blind as those who do not wanL to sec.
unsccrnly rows. I have done rny beat en
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-S-eCtion 18 reads
If the
rnany occasions 10 prevent thexa.
as follows:
rnerbers of thc Bouse have not the good
i ense to sec that the dignity ef the iouse
1prom the sald Ilst the commission, on the
i s not preserved but on the contrary applcation ef thxe deput>' head, with the apdepartmeflt, shall
eriously menaced by the course which has proval. of the head, of any whether for perrequIred clerks,
icen pureued, I wash rny hands of the euppi>' the teinvorar>' duty.
manent or
vhole matter.
Bon. Mfr. BELOOURT-Ths± is another
hon.
Hon. Mfr. THOMPSON-When the
question altogether.
gentlemnan reads the law 10 me and states
Hon. Mfr. THOMPSON-There is no other
Lhat this gives 10 thc Speaker cf thc Senate
Act. I Thave no,
M
>nly the right to make Tejoommenda- qu5-stion involved in this
y hon.
I sa>' he has not properi>' read the feeling against tlhe Speaker.
ions,
bis interpreta- friend spoke as though some of us were
la'w. Be asks me 10 accept
to injure the
tien of the law. I refer hixa t section 13, anxious 10.- do something
I have just as mucb respèct.
Speaker.
as flUws:'
whi<ih reads
position the Speaker occupies as
ExcEpt as herein otherwise provided, appoint- for the
I have stili more
positions In the Inside service under that any hon. member, but
nient to
cf the Parliaof deputy head shall be b>' competitive zxamina- respect for the indepandence you make tistion. which shall be of such a nature as wili dE- ment cf Canada, and when
termine the qualifications of candidates for the Pr
a Reichstag, and let one man
particular position to whlch they are to be ap- Palamentthen yeu sbould throw the mae
goveru it,
In Council.
pointed by the Governor
If thc Senate should
BELCOURT-That is net the into the scrap heap. for a position and Ab
Hon. Mfr. ll.nominate
any man
quesionat
lue adopted, there ie ne court to
queston atail.should
cannot change
Hon. Mfr. THOMPSON-The hon. gentie- wluich you can appeal. Yeu
The>' talk
that under the the judgment of Parliament.
man stated te this House.
Hon. Mr. BELCOItRT.

APRIL 7, 1915
about th. Auditor General. We d.o nol go is asily one ogxhr thing that 1 desire o say r
Tli lion. gentle- when the Speaker met witl th. cammittee
to the Anditor General.
man shonld look int tlie constitution .of I tiought we had reacbed a definite undertlie 6enate ai Canada. Every hon. senaboir standing, and I arn very sorry that the
occupies a position equal in every respect Speaker bas not th.ught p>roper to accept
10 every other member, whether he b. the report. Pereonal'ly I have no feeling i
Speaker or a niember o! the Senate. tbis matter. I believe it ie the duty of the
Section 21 bas been referred to, by tlie Houe té protect the interegt of tb. Senete,
Speaker as the section, showing he has a and whlen 25 members who feirly reprement
Section the Hanse oensid.r a proposition, I do not
riglit to make the nomination.
tbii it is -fair te sy that they are inter21 reade as followa:
fering with tb. ,ights of the Speaker.
If the deputy head reports that the knowledge
and ability requisIte for the position are wheoUy
Hon: Mr. POWER-I amn not very eauily
or In part profeosional, technical or otherwise
peeuilar, the Governor In Councfl, upon the r.- surpri:sed, but 1 muet confesse that the amendcommendatian of 'the head of the departrnent ment of the hon. gentleman from Grandbaued on the report In writing of the doputy ville (Hon..Mr. Ohoquette> has surpriéed
head. înay appoint a porion to, the position me. Thet emendmnt is that vo do noc
without comapetitIve oxamnination and witiiout
reforenco to the e lirit, iprovtded the said accept paragrapli 2 of the report, that Mr.
perion obtaine -fromn the commission a certifi- C. H. Jones sueceed Mr. Soutter as Clerk
cate, to, be given with or without examination. of 'the Minutes. That is not a question of
as la determinod by the rogulations of the comn- apçx>rntiment to office, or promo ton. Mi.mission, that ho poasesaes the roquisite knowledge and a.billty and la duty quadlled as to Joncs i.s one nf the staff of fibe Senate nt
health. character and habita.
the present tirni, and we sirnply , ,cummcnd
The commission doe nol give a certifi- that lie tak- nver certain work. That doe
cate at the lime the Govemnor-in-Council not require any nomination from Hie
may appoint a person, and I sanliat the Honour the Speaker or recommendation
Senat--.
the
of
Clerk
the
only section in this Act which givas the from
Mr.
witli
interfere
not
do
Speaker a right to make a *nomination ie Wc
ection 22, wbich' refera 10 serters and Joncs' status as an officer. Then the report
reoumends CMat Mr. Byron Ni;eholson dispackers. *etc.
charge the dutiea of curator of the reading
The SPEAKER-That section says that roorn. If anything can h. a mratter of inil muet be donc on tb. ireport o! lh. ternai eoonomy of the Hguse that je cne.
8paaker.
W. do not alter th. .status of Mr. NicholHon. Mr. THOMPSON-I admit tlie son, or chiange bie ealary. We aimply eay,
Speaker bas the right, 10 say 10 the Senate as a waIter of convenience, thu.l le ahail
".Ther, is a vacancy on -the Senate staff," discliarge certain duties. The smie.thing
but after rceiving tlie report that il is applies to th. allier recommenda.tions inA
vacant the Governor-in-Council may ap- the report. W. do not change the. cbus af
point a person 10 that position. I do not these empioyees. Thi. trnth je thet thine
propose ta go any further in respect to are things which, under the orders thaI 1h.
I arn willing Ihat tb. hon. Senate inede some years ago. ehould lie
1h.s malter.
gentlemen who are members of thié legal done by the Cierk. I arn surprised that
profession shonld carefnlly look into the this amendment should have been minrolaw on Ibis point; but 1 am sure they can- duced. I do aot know thal the hon.. sennot find within four- corners of th. Act ator from Ottawa was lier. when the leader
anylhing giving the Speaker the rigbt ta of the Government mnade an explanation.
racommend appoinîments except in sec- The leader of the Government was anxious,
as any leader of a Ronce like thie should
tion 22.
be, that th. dignity o! the House shouid b.
Hon. lir. RELCOURT-I did nat speak prcserved, and that there should b.
of appaintments.
harmony belveen Hie Honour the Speaker
A conference was sugHon. Mr. THOMPSON-I say recoen- and the Senate.
mendation. Ef there ie anolier section af gested. I do flot know whether it vas His
the Act, except 22, 'which requires the Honour the Speaker, or the leader o! the
conference.
- Speaker and -the Clerk tea recommend. ap- Government, wlio snggcsted thie
pointments, I ehould l1k. to se il. I have Tlie commillee and Hie Honour th. Speaker
discussed this question witli the Anditor met; and no ane can say Iliat th. comGeneTal, and I amn free to, state that he is mille. did not treat His Honour. th.
in accord -with rny view o! the Act. There Speaker witb the utmoet respect and polite8--234

SENATE

nese. Hie Honour the Speaker made certain
recommendations. He recommended that
Mr. A. L. Garneau be promoted to subdivision A of the second division; also that
Mise Kate O'Brien be sappointed te the position of junior clerk, and that Mr. Charles
Larose b. appointed to the position of
door-keeper.

to nominate, and I can hardly conceive of
anything more courteous than that. There
is one other remark that I might as well
make before I ait down, and that is in
respect to the expression of opinion of the
hon. gentleman from Ottawa (Hon. Mr. Belcourt>. I agree with the hon. gentleman
that these discussions over the reports of
the Internai Economy Coxnmittee are undesirable and flot creditable to the Senate.
Possibly it would be better if they took
place with closed doors, if we must have
The hon, gentleman must rememthem.
ber that, I think, ini every instance this
session these discussions have arisen from
unresasonable amendments moved to the
report of the committee, and why should
The
the committee be blamed for that?
committee are not responsible for these
The committee have done
amendments.
their best on ail occasions, and their report
should be treated by this House in a business way.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Does the hon. gentleman contend that I msd-e these recomviendations?
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon. gentleman
reoommended Mr. Garneau for promotion,
snd that Mr.* Charles H. Larose be doorkeeper. The committee accepted ali these
suggestions, and ini order to prevent further
difficulties sud friction, the committee
asked that Hie Honour the Speaker be
requested to nominate these people whom
he had already nomînated to the committee. Surely there is nothing unreasonable in that.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Why not put the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Does the hon.
others in with it.
gentleman dlaim that under the Civil
Hon. Mr. POWER-There le no promotion Service Act if a matter reached the Senate
without the recommendation of the Clerk
given to Mr. Jones.
and Hia Honour the Speaker, the committee
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-He je appointed could assume the right to ricommend
to a place that he was ncît in before.
superannuation?
Hon. Mr. POWER-The work je there to
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes, you cannot flnd
be done, and if we cannot see tha.t it ie performed the Senate would have no control anything in the law which gives His Honour
over ita own interior economy. Thie amend- the Speaker power to deal with superannu-ment would simply leave the Senate without ation. That is a matter for the Treasury
Another Board.
power of controlling its staff.
proposition which the commnittee did not
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I desire to move
entertain was that there should be two an amendment to this report before any
eetabliehed, a per- division je had upon it. With reference to
classes of meseengere
manent clase and a temporary class, and clause 1, in which we make provision for
the temporary messengers were to pase an the superannuation of Mr. Soutter, IL have
examination. before the Civil Service Com- had occasion to inquire into his financial
mission, the same as firet-clase clerks. condition to-day, and I have satisfied myseif
How could the Clerk, or the Chairman of that a very great hardshîp would resuit
the oommittee, or anybody'else employ a from a superannuation of Mr. Soutter from
clerk temporarily for a day or two if that the month of June next. He has a large
They family and certain obligations, and I move
procedure had to be gone through?
have scores of temporary sessional officiais that June be struck out and that next
in the House of Commone, and it hae neyer January be substituted in lieu thereof.
been held that the Civil Service Act applies
Hon. Mr. POWER-There is no objection
to them.
I do not think any senator of this Houe to that.
can more sincerely express hie regret at the
The SPEAKER-le that an amendinent to
divisions thal has taken place over the the other amendmentP
recommendations of this committee than
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Perhape the
your humble servant. Thé committee neyer
desire to infringe on the rights, hon. gentleman could wait until the first
had any
duties and privileges of Hie Honour the amendment je dieposed of and then bring
Speaker. We do not say that we recommend in his amendment. I arn quite sure this
So-and-eo be appointed, but we recommend is flot a new matter to senatore of the Senthat Hie Honour the Speaker be requested ate. 1 have taken part in similar discueHon. Mr. POWER.

APRIL 7, 1915

siens, but there is one feature cf this dis-t
cussion that I should like te emphasize.
Technically I arn disposed te read the Civil
Service Act as the bon. gentleman from De
Salalberry -reads it. -Technically I believe
that most cf the subjecte which are deait
with by the Committee on Internai Econcmy
aheuld be initiated on the recommendation
to
cf this, Bouse
Clerk
cf
tbe
Bis Bonour the »Speaker yet I see
taie
between
différence
conaiderable
-status cf the Senate and that cf the Geveruer in Council. It seerns ta me that Bis
Bon. the Speaker should recognize the considerable difference that exisa between the
concil and the Senate. This law was primarily made 'te caver tbe work cf the department, and it was enacted tbat auything
pertaining to the administration cf the department and wbich bore on its organisation
sucb as appeintments, promotions or superannuations, sbould be brought to the attention cf the bead cf the departrnent by the
deputy bead, under the forrn o! a report,
which was carried to the Cabinet or Council.
Bow la that council formed? It is formed of
the heada cf ail the departrnents. It is quite
right that everytbing should emanate in
each department from the deputy head te
,the head cf the department, and from the.
bead cf the.departmenit to the Couneil. It le
rigbtaleo tLiit these recoemendations, should
have the fqIll weight cf the approval cf the.
deputy head, and cf the head cf the department, ini order that tbey sbould be deait
with by the ether ministers forming the
council. I quite realize that the council
would be slow in turning down any sucb
recommendation made for the well-being cf
the administration cf any department. The
other heada cf departments must be largely,
if not completely, governed by the rcm
mendations cf their colleague, who ibetter
know the. needa cf bis own departîment.
When Bis Bon. tbe Speaker brings a matter ta the Senate the situation is very different, because be cornes te bis partners and
coileagues, bis peers. Be is submitting te
thern a matter with which they are as famiiiar
as he is. 'Up to five or six years ago. it was
plainly stated in- our ruiles that Bis Bon.
the Speaker bad no more« power in this
Chamber than any otber member cf tbe
Senate. Be could not.even, cf his own motion. cail a member to order unless another
colleague rose in bis seat and asked that
order b. maintained. Thbe administration cf
the Interior Economy cf the Senate was
delegated ta a committee. and I want ta call
the attention o! Bis Hon. the Speaker ta

be fact that technically the Senate is sup..
posed ta be governed according to the rules
w'hich govern the administration of the departments, but that i reaiity our situation
i.a totally different from that of other departnents. Hia Hon. the Speaker quotes the
Act ta show everything should emanate
rom the. Clerk and from bjmself. Technical1ybelieve Hia Han. the Speaker is right,
but I wouid suggest that His Hon. the
Speaker benceforth should recognize the
fact that the real authority resides in the
Senate.
Hon.Mr. BELCOURT-Noboily questions
that.
Hon. Mr. DÀNDURAND-I would go one
step furtber #han that, and invite any
committee of this Bouse, more especially
the Committee on Internai Econofny. ta
make as many reports as thay please on
the good order and better Administration
of this Chamber. Of course His Honor the
Speaker might ssy that, looking at the
Act and taking the wording of the Act,
nothing should reach the committea except
through the Speaker, but I would invite
bis bonor te remember that by long tradition the Senate bas dealt with &Il these
matters tlirough the Cominittee on Internai
Economy, and that sme leeway should
be allo'ven that eommittee accordiug to
the old traditions of the Senate.
Hon. Mfr. ROSS (Middleton)-I move the
adjournment of the dabate until to-morrow.
The SPEAKER-I
bave it.

ithink

the

contents

Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middleton)-After that
expression cf opinipn I withdraw the
motion.
Hon. Mr. KERR-An opportunity should
be given the hon. gentleman te speak ta
thd motion if he s0 desires.*
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I should like ta hear
the opinion cf the hon. member from Middieton <Ross). I undertsand he desires
ta look up the law on the question, and be
in a position to gîve the House the benefit
of bis opinion.
Bon. Mr. CLORAN-I am in faveur cf
the motion ta aàjourn the debate because
it will give me a chance to say something
more.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-I undérstood the
mover withdrew bis motion.
The motion 'was agreed <o.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading of Bill (106), An Act to, amend the
Représentation Act, 1914.
He said: This je a Bill t amend certain
clerical errors which have béen found in
thé Representation Act of 1914. They are
not of the essence of thé provision wi*i
which théjy deal, but are very largely
technical or clerical.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read the second lime.

ment of temporary- or acting officers of
excise. The principle whioh is incorporated
in the Customs Act is one which I think
with advantage may be ixxcorporated ' into
te Inland Revenue Act. The work which
is done b3rthat department is very similar
t~othat of the Cust0m3i and At bias been
found necessary for the purposes of the
Civil Service Act that this legisiation should
pass.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bihl
was read the second time.
ONTARIO BILINGUAL SCHOOL
QUESTION.

ÀDULTERATION ACT AMENDMENT

DEBATE CONTINUED.

REPRESENTATION ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
SECOND READING.

.BILL.
SECOND READING.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED moved thé second
reading of Bill (114), An Act to amend the
Adulteration Act.
,, He said: In the first session, 1914, wé
muade certain amendments to the Adulteralion Act, dealing chiefiy with the manufacture of maple sugar, with a view cf pré.
venling adulteralion cf that article. It bas
been found that in several respects thé
législation has Dot answered thé purpose for
which il was paased. This'Bill ie b improve thé- legielation, and to f nither carry
out the objecta i view. It introducés no
néw principle int tihe law, but is calculated 10 more satisfactorily enforce the provisions of thé Bil.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I présumne thie Bill
is on thé line suggested by producers of
maple sugar. Considerable alteratione have
beén made i -thé Bill, and I think in ils
présent form il is in much butter shape than
it was when firat introduced. I présumne
my hon. friend will be able to give further
informationwhen we go into committeé.
Tlhie motion was agreed to and the Bill
was read thé second lime.
INLAND REVENUE ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
SECOND READING.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
reading of Bill (116), An-Act to amend the
Inland Revenue Act.
Hé said: Thé objét of thie Bill je to
amend the Inland Revenue Act and to, incorporate theréin a preciely similar clause
to that which are found in the Customs
Act and making provision for the appointlion. Mfr. THOMJPSON.

The Order of the Day being called:
Resumning the further adjourned debate on

the motion moved by the Hon. Mfr. David,
seconded by the Hon. Mr. McHugh:
This Bouse. wlthout derogatIflg frOm thé
principie of provincial autonomy, deems it proper and within the limita of Its powere and
Juriediction and An pursuance of the object for
which At was establlshed. to regret the divisions
which aem to exist among the people of thoe
province of Ontario in connection with thie
bilinguai uchool question a.nd bellevec that ft
la Anthe intorest of the Dominion u.t large that
&Il such questions should be consAdered on faIr
and patrlotlc dine. and settled In auch a way
as to preserve peace and harmony between the
different nationl and rellous sections of thla
country, In accordance with the vlews of the
Pa.thers of Confederation. and wlth the spirit of
our constitution; and the motion of the Hon.
Mfr. Bolduc, la amendment, seconded by the
Hon. Mfr. Pope:
That thAs Bouse, without derogating from the
prAncipie of provincial autonomy or auggeeting
An what manner any province shouid exercise
is powers In inatters of education, deems At
proper to regret the existence An any provInce
of Canada of divisions An connection with
bilingual uchool or other national or rellgious
questions, and belleves that At A An the interest
of the Dominion at large that aUl auch questions
shouid always Ibé considered on fair and patrlotic Unes and settied, An zuch a way as to. presi>rve peace and harmony between the different
national and religions sections of this country,
and An accordancé with the letter and spirit or
our constitution. And also, the motion of the
Hon. Mr. Power, In amendment to the améndment. seconded by thé Hon. Mr. Derbyshire:
That the eaid amendment bé amended by
striking out ail the words therein a.fter thé
words 1'this Bouse " and substituting théretor
the following: "'wbkleiét believes At ls In the
ntereet o« the DominAon at large that ail questions as to whlch divisions exist among thé
people of any province should be considered on
fair and patrAotic lAnes and settled An euch a
way as to promote peace and harmony between
the different racil and religions elémente of
thé population, a of opAnion that, Anasmuch as
the subject of éducation la one of those by the
British North América Act, 1867, committed
to the provinces. any suggestion volunteéred by

APRIL 8, 1915
een misconstrued or misunderstood. The
the Senate as to the manner ln which any pro- b~
vince should exercise its power wou7d be con. t emptation te apeak on an occasion of that
trary to the spirit of the Constitution and cal:ind, I am sure every bon. gentleman will
culated to intensif>' and extend any divisions ofk aLgree with me is very strong, yet I have
t.e1:nS that now exi*t.
iot succumbed te the temptation. My
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-Hon. gentlemen it le r~
bject in rising was te say what I have said,
so near six o'clock that I would inove that Otnd to add what 1 am about te say. The
the debate on this motion be adjourned eason I am net. going to take part in the
until to-morrow.Y
lebate, notwithetanding that I have as good
Mr. BELCOUET: Before the motion a righL as sny one and s stronger duàty *Ihan
Hon.
le put I ehould like to have an opportuiiity rny one te do se, ia beeause I bave been
of saying a few words in reference to this icting as counsel for the people who are
matter. It will only take me a few mo-i .mmediately concerned in litigation- now
mente. If I have not taken any part in this before the courts. I think it would be
debate, anýd il I do not propose to do se, it Lgainst profeasional. dignity and prefessional
is not because I feel that I have not a right, sonovr, as I understand il, for counisel
and it je net because I do not feel that I engaged before the courts to rehearse his
have what is more, a duty. Perhaps there brie!, as it were, m the Senate, or in the
la no member of this House who bas given House of Commons. The intereste of my
this subject deeper thought and considera- clients demand that I should net do anytien, and if I may say so, a more serjous Ihing that would in the slightest degree
and earnest and unprejudiced consideration jeopardise or prejudice their case before
of the subject with a view of arriving at the courts. Having said se "much, I hope
the right and just conclusion, than I have. the House will pardon me for obtruding
For many years I have had to do with this purely personal views and motives on the
subject, professionally and otherwise. As House.
a public man I have given the matter the
Hon. Mr. DÂVID-Did I understand the
I feel that the hon. gentleman te aay that he had ne knowlvery best attention.
debate might have been more complete edge of my motion before he read cf it in
if I had been able te give the House the paper? It has been affirmed that there
my views, because of the long thought and was a conspiracy between .the hon. gentleconsideration that I have given te this par- man and mysel!.
ticular subject. Perhape it devolve. upon
Hon. Mfr. BELOOURT-I can 1answer that
me more than any other member of this
House te express my views upon this sub- question with the greateet candour and
ject, representing as I do the French assure the House that I had not the slightspeaking minority of Ontario, which je very est intimation that my hon. friend was
much interested and deeply concerned with going te move the resolutien, much less see
this question. I suppose every hon. gen- the resolution. before I saw it in the paper.
tleman will agree with me when I say that, 1 read the notice o! motion in the Quebec
yet 1 do not propose to take any part in this Chronicle one morning when I was in Que.
discussion. I came te that decision at the bec on professional business, and that was
very outeet. 1 was in Quebec on legal the first I knew that such a rtsolution was
business at the time and saw the notice going te be moved.
o! resolution in the paper. 1 had not been
Tlhe motion te adjourn the debate was.
oonsulted, but the -mo-ment I read the. resolu- agreed te.
tion I concluded that, for reasons which I
The Senate adjourned until 11 a.m. tewill state in a moment, it was inadvisable
in this morrow.
for me te take any part in the debate
House. I have adhered ta that, and I pro.
pose te adhere te it xiow, not that I have nlot
on several occasions been very strongly
TME MAKTE.
.tempted to break my promise to myseif.
My name has been introduced into the
debate several times, and statements made
by me outside of this House have been
Thuraday, April 8, 1915.
quoted. An attempt bas been made by
gentlemen te contradict things that I
bon.
The SPEAKER teck the Chair et Eleven
said in the past by things that I have o'clook, as.
said more recently hefore the courts of this
Frayers and routine proceedinuza.
provinice. Several tîmes my meaning has

SENATE
able men that the province can provide for
the adminietration of justice. Wben they
have rendered a deoision -ought not that
decisian be final, instead of allowing an apINQUIUT DROIPPED.
peal ta the Supreme Court of Canada, whieh
, The Order of the Day being callod:
court le composed of men who know nothHon. Mr. MeBWEENEY inquIred:
ing of provincial Acts, uniless tfhey study
1. The nunbr of mon employed on the inter- and analyse them, and find out 'what is in
colonia raliway Up to February 28, 1915?
éhemn applicable ta the speeial case ibefo.re
2.'The nuniber dlunilaed durtng the eloYen
then. You are putting on tlhe Supreine
monthe ending FebruarY, 1915?
3. The number employed for the cme trne? Court judges a duty which they should
lie called upon ta porform. We hiave a
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In the absence not
sufficient number of courts ini each province
of tho hon. gentleman from Moncton, I
to sottie these local matteris of corrtroverted
suggest that this question ho etriken tram
Il a point 15 raised which inthe Order Paper. lt ia very indefinite and elections. constitutianality of any Aet of
volves the
cannai be anewered. We have alroady
a province, then that should be submitted
written tho hon. gentleman in regard to ta tihe Supreme Court and even ta the
tbe matter.
Privy Cauncil, but 1 do flot think the GovThe inquiry vas drapped frein the Order ernment is 'vise in putting a -provision of
this kind on the federal statute books.
Paiper.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I was surprised
SUPREME COURT ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
that the leader af the Government did not
makoe more extended remarks. ta justify thbe
SECOND READING.
action of the Governinent in regard ta this
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second Bill. The hlon. gentleman seems tao have
reading cf Bill No. 121, An Act ta amend forgotten that in the session of of 1913, and
the Suproeme Court Act.
again in the session of 1914, the Senate disHo aid: The chicot of this Bill is to cussed a motion moved ity iy hou. fri end
give juriediction ta tihe Supremo Court of blhe senator for Mille les (Hon. Mr. David)
Canada ta hear appeals tram the judgsnent dealing with this very question. At the
of any provincial couit in any proceedicg Urne af that discussion the Sonate vas voey
under any prov'incial controverted olc- strongly oppoaed ta this question of extions Âct, whereby auch an appeal would tending aippeals. The desire on the part of
lie givon. At the presont turne one cf the the menbers cf tihe Sonate was that appeala
provinces at least has aaked that juniedic- should lie lessened rather than inereasedtian, or authority, be given to the Supreme that the pople af the country should ho
Court ci Canada ta hear isueh appeals put to less expense in obtaining judicial
from tihat province. This measuro will plac decisions, rather than put ta greater exupon the statute bock machinery w.hereby, pense. Wbon that question was discussed
il any province of the Dominion desires in 1913, a -motion 'was carried in this Hanse
tbat un appeal in controverted elections and a committee appointed ta deal 'wi4ih
ehould lie ta the Supreme Court ot Canada *the question. The question wa« again
thiat appeafcean be muade.
brought up in 1914, and the saine motion
apHan. Mr. CLORAN-Does the hion. leado2 r. was carried and a similar committee good
That committee did very
thin-k tis a vise pr -pointea.
of the Government
in connecvision to place on the statute book cf thE ework in securing information friend froni
Dominion. To mry mind the best and mos ttion with this matter. My hon.
in lis discuscompetent authowity to settie provinYila 1Ottawa (Hon. Mr. Belcourt) out thst Parthse court ai appeal cf -the prov- sion at that trne pointed
matters is
ince. Wbat have ioderai judges ta do witQ Sliament could only deal with this question
I notice
provincial matters, unlees a question of of appeals ta the Supremç Court. ta which
vires et the constitution is ra.ised? [ that in the province cf Manitoba, questions
ultra
these
y
think tis is unwise legielation. The onl~ my hon. friend has referred, judge and later
persons competent and able ta settie the eare brouglit before the trial Court cf King's
mattters cf contrcvoerted elections are th. ecan ho brought before the
the Supreme
people fwithin the provinces, and we hav e nch, and af'terwards 'beforethat province
Court o1f Court of that province. In
the ordinary Superior Court, the
I th4nk
Revision, and a Supreme Court, as we calIl they already have Vwo appeals. granting
in
it, in Quebec, tlhe Court of Queens Bench i. the Sonate is hardly justifiedappeal to the
further
where there are seven judges, the niai t permission ta make a
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY
EMPLOYEES.

Ban. Mfr. BELCOURT.

APRIL 8, 1915

43upreme Court of Canada. This is a muatter dealing entirely 'with provincial questions ini wbich the province itacîf is intereatcd, and in which the Federsi Supreime
Court lias not nearly the same interest or
kn<owledge to deal vith the muatter. .Tiie
ether House ct this Parliament is. at the
present -moment, dea3ing with Bill 109,
vwhioh has been introduoed for the very
~purpose of facilitating. and doing awsmy
with the expense of deciding questions
that come4q Up in this vay. and also for th.
purpose of preventing delay in getting a
decision. I m.ight possibly be persnitted
to qacse the words used by the Minister of
Justice onJy yesterdiay in the House of
Coinmons in discuasing this Bill:
-The other provision@ of this Bill (109)
do not deprive the respondent of the means of
defence avallable to him under the present law,
a meana of defence whlch vs thlnk he ought to
b. deprlved of because tbey lead to great delay.
vhich delay ulttmately operates to defeat the
operation of the lav."
Itese words of the Hon. Minister oi Justiee are very applicaible to the legisiation
no'w proposed. It is legislation thal should
net Ïbe granted it the present time. This
Bill Sa broughb i towards the end cf the
session, when ve have very litIle time 10
diacusa or itioroughly conaider it. A litile
delay on a queston of duis kind would not
do any barm and I, therefore, move thai
ail the vords alter" nov " be struck out
and tie vords "ibhis day six montha"- b.
odded i lieu thereof.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
bas entirely misconceived the discussion
*which took place in the Senate in the session of 1913 and tihe session o! 1914. What
xny hon. friend [rom Mille Iles (Hon. Mr.
David) hied in view was to restrict aippeals
te the Privy Couneil, not to tihe Supreme
Court of Canada. The object o! my hon.
lriend f rom Mille Iles' motion and discussion was the reverse of vhat the hon. gentleman bas stated. Bo far as the Supreme
Court cl Canada is concerned, in the exercise of its jurisdicticn it deals almoast entireIy with provincial matters, tha>t ie, 'with
contracîs and with civil matters affecting
the provinces. You cannot lay down a
principle LiaI the Supreme Court of Canada must oniy exercise uts jurisdiction in
federal matters. 'IThat court vas neyer designed for such a purpose. Il vas designed
as a Court of Appeal frc'm bhc dufferent provincial courts of Canada, uand finds its duby
almost ent.irely vithin tihat particullar
realm. To lay dcvn the principle which
cny hon. friend bas laid dovn would ho

practioe.lly to extinguish the jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court o! Canada. It seams te
me not at ail uureasonable that the Supreme Court cf Canada, removed. as -it is,
and inuaI 'e, [rom the provincial prejudices which invariably gpcv out o! the
adjudication and acbtlexnent of provincial
eiectionî disputes, is pre-cminently the forum
in w¶ich finality should b. given te lîtigation of tbis kind. There are fev provincial
courts that are entirely free from the projudices vhich -mus't invariably eurround
them, oving to the atmosphere arising out
cf provincial cleetions in 'which. tiuey exercisc their jurisdiction, end if a province cf
the Dominion, in dctcrmining th. important controversies arising out of provincial
elections, can remove those controversies
to the Supreme Court of Canada-a court
whi'ch should be free from ail the prejudices
and ail th. sympathies which *nust nocessarily handicap to a very large extent the
provincial courts-il is vcry desirable in
lbe public intercat that il should 'ce don.
Il any province in the Dominion o! Canada should exercise its legisialive pavwers
in asking that tihe highcst federal court i
Canad4 ahould be the 'cbanci through
whieb lb. de&sion ini mattera cf this kind
should go. why should not tbe vicvs of
tiai province prevail in pcrmitting it to
avail itseîf cf the machinery of Ibis court
which bas been esta;bl.ished for kindred purposes.
5cm. hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Hov many provinces cf the Dominion tbrcugh their officiai
machinery, government or legisiarture. or
otherwise, bave asked for this legisiation?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Thc province cf
Manitoba bas asked for it, and I understand cîber provinces have indicated a desire, bout not througb legiaation, thal tbis
should be donc. Up 10 th. present lime.
owing to the Supreme Court of Canada net
having jurisdiction 10 deal vith provincial
election cases, tb. provinces of Canada have
nol taken amy stcps 10wards passing logislation expressive of their vishes in this
particular direction. It rcmained for th.
province of Manitoba 10 bake the first step
in that direction. Some .province or otier,
whether it 'ce Manitoba or any other province, must neccssarily take the initiative
in laumching out. upon that vider sphere
which the province of Manitoba has don.
in invoking the Dominion Parliament to
give jurisdiction to tbe Supreme Court
te deal with questions cf this kind.
The motion moved by my hon. friei us

SENATE

362

reactianary. The whole trend of legisiation
at the present time is ta apen up the higher
courts ta appeals tram the provincial courts,
and -if we have a court equipped, such as
the Supreme Court af Canada is, te deal
with ail questions which practically arise
Dominion; there i. no
throughout 'the
reasan whatever why that court should
not have jurisdiction ta deal with the decision af-cases which heretofore have given
more or less dissatisfactian in the difierent
provinces.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I would, like ta ask
what construction the hon. gentleman
places on this Bull. Would it apply ta pending cases?
Han. Mr. WATSON-Sure.
Han. Mr. CLORAN-That is the secret ai
the whole -business. Lt gives the right ai
appeal in pending cases.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-My hain. friend
is the second member ai the Cabinet who
hias expressed an opinion upan this legislation. He apparently differs for the second
Ho
time with the Minister af Justice.
dWefred from him on eome amendiments
he submitted ta this House on the Criminal
Code Amendment Bull, and naw he differs
with hlm as ta tihiislegislatiau, because this
Bill, when before the Hous ai Cominons,
was discussed by I think tbree members
ai that House only, the Minister ai Justice,
the leader ai the Opposition and Mr.
Bennett, the member fram Calgary. The
three of thom agreed in candemning the
principle underlying this Bill.
Han. Mr. DANIEL-At what page ai the
Hansard will that be faundP

pro-ànce of Manitoba bY passing thiS ioulais."
tion. I understand tiiat it la the wish Of the
legislatureofa Manitoba: but, ovon no, 1 would
riot be lsoposeid to Mix Up ioderai mztters With
provincial matters. If I had an amendment to
inave ln thus legWsation, 1 would move that
provincial laws should be administored by provin .li courts. and foderai tawu bY iodelrai
courts. My hon. friend han. however, thOugMut
differently, and I merely wish to oeil thie attention to the point I have mentioned, which 1 b.i!eve ho wIll find worthy of conaîderation.
Then the Minister of Justice spoke as

follows.
In s0 f ar as the doairsbility of creating auch
an apposi la coniceind& 1 share ln vory largo
Ineasures, If not entirely. the views which tue
If
rtght hon, gentlemn has just amproêod
it were a matter of consideriliz the wish et the.
ethe province of Ma&nitobaL tu thus
legisiatureof
regard, I would probably concur iln the VIOW
bat ho has expressed. and I think thero la aso
very much to b. said for the view that we
should have these na.tters speedily settled. The
reason wich lads me to propose this legisiatien ia that it seemis to me that questions concerning the composition of the legisiaturo of
a Province are in a peculiar mafiner questions
which that legiulature iseît uhould determine,
.and It ia tiierefore a fair thing that, 'whon the
legislatureora a province has itseif detormIned
,iat it ls desirable that upon questions coneerning controvertedl .leg±ions thoers should b.
%n appeal to the Supreme Court 0f Canada, wo
ihould make it possible fer that te b. cs.rried
out In tact the. motive tbAt les me te mcove
this legislation ia the. recogniitioni which I thiuk
ought, to be given to the aboolute right of the.
legiolature of a province itself to det.ermine
che best process or mneans by whinh élections
to that legislature siiould b. determifld.
Mr. Bennett follawed the Minister of Jus«
tice and said:
I concur entirely In the observations of the.
rlght hon gentleman opposite in regard to this
matter. I do flot belleve ini an appeed from the
Suprêmne Court of a province hi the Supreme
Court of Canada regardlng controvertod electiens ln thast province. and 1 nover bave
done no. Prom a logîcal standpoint, such -an
appeal should nat be entertained. because tue
legislature itaeîf should. determine who should
ait ln the legisiature.

Han. Mr. DANDURAND-Page 2 132.
fter the Mmnister of Justice had explained
the purpart ai the Bill, tbe leader ai the
Opposition said:
1 simply cite that part of his remarks.
1 have no intention of opposing this legislation; but in my opinion tt la rather dangerous. The whale tone of his speech is to the sme
long disIt was only yesterday tuat we had a
cussion upon the dlflcuity of getting a final
decision in controverted election cases, and wO
are this stssion in this Parliainont passlng new
legislation to expedite as much as possible the.
hearlng and determining of such cases under
the~ Dominion Controverted E2ections Act. If I
have a fault to find with aur judicial systema, lt
.a that in the province to which my hon. frlend
and I belong there ls an appeal ln euch cases
to the Supreme Court of Canada. In Manitoba
ther. is an appeal front the trial judge to the
Court of ICing's ]Bench sitting as a court of
review, and another appeal from tiiat court te
Under tus legislation
Cie Court of Appeai.
there would b. .tll another appeal; so that 1
think we are nlot conferring a faveur upon the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEE.

I do nlot intend voting for this
effect.
amendment witheut reserving the right te
pass such legisiation if it is insisted upon
by the local legisiatures. But it seems ta
me we are exercising our functions quite
properly at this moment in not hastening
ta place this legisiation on the statute
book. There is noa hurry. I did not examine this legisiatian with that abject in
view. If there are contested elections anising from recent elections in any province,
1 suppose this legisiatian could net affect
them. This Chamber bas plenty of time

APRIL 8, 1915

to deal with the question in the future,
sud il is botter to posîponé consideration
of .this measure. Tiser. is boforé Parliament an important Bill which has for its
purpose and offet the shertening of delays,
and we should not at Ibis moment place
ourselvés on record ais favourablo le lengthening delays in thia spécial case, whon the
larger question will corne up in a Bill which
is aI present boing discussed. W thé other
Housé, and which ha. considerabiy interosted public opinion throughoul Canada-a
Bill favourable te shertening of délays
and briging trials to a more spéedy conclusion. IFor that réason I shahl vote for an
adjourumént of tbis question unlil a hater
date, whén thé two branches of Parlisment
shahl have expréssed an opinion on thé
larger question which i. contained in Bill
109, méentioned by thé hon. gentleman te
My héft.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. -leader cf
the Governmént has raiséd the question as
lie whether thé Suprême Court cf Canada
should hé limited to passing upon federaI,
legisl-ation, or should t. csi.héd upon te
pass as well upon provincial legialation.
Thero is ne doubt that thé precico 'has
been to extond thé juriadiotïon of 41h. Suprem. Court of Canada te provincial legis
halis snd le provincial matera; it -has
as
gene se fer in civil cases as éivel li cases
ariaing undér 1he federal law. The question is net firée lrom very streng do"bl,
snd thé hon. menmber i. probably aware
thsI juriste cf very ihigis réputé have ex.
pressed very strong opinions to tise effeot
that thse Supre Court of Canada bas ne
jurisdictien upon civil maltera. Thé praotice beforé thé question was Taised made
it véry difficuit te huave a deeision in a

casé upon -its true monits, W. have

dTift-

ed inte tisat practioe, snd for sny part I
entertain very strong doubla on the peint.
I Vhink the intention df thé constitution
was that a Court cf Apposa, sucs as thé
Supreme Court cf Canada, should be limited
te matters cf federal legisiation.

The hon. leader cd the Houe done Dot
remembér that accuraiely. I apoke not OnlY
ut the right of appeel te ithe Prxvy Coimoil,
but aise to the 8upremer court, and in my
romarks in e.neaking to 'the question I
nid:
.There are nme Who content that thse Interpretation'of a provincial statute and of a contract passeS under a provincti statutte, ahoud"
be loft to thse provincial courts or Justice, sud
that belng more famillar With provincial aws
and décIsIons, theY are tise ment complote courts
to judge those canen, and consequentir' there
gbould be no appeal In snch canon front tihe
provincial courts of Justice on thl* point 1 ama
of their opinion. and 1 thinir their viewu abould
b. taken into conslderation-Y

I shsll vote for the motion to adjourn th.
consideration of this question.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I egree with. the aontiments expressed by the Minister of Justice, thé leader of the Opposition, and
the menidber for Calgary in the ciher Cb&mber. There is eue point te which I 4Jhink
the attention of thé House ought te b. directed and that is: if this Bill becomes law,
the greater part etf the line cf the Supreme
Court will bé taken up in lrying centreverted eloct.ion cases Imom the 'vexions Provihejal courts, te thé detriment cf th. regular business of th. BuPrune Court. Thst
in a peint whioh deserves a good dosa of
consideration.
Hon. Mr. BELCÔURT-May I point out
te my hon. fiend that tbis legislation Inièht
lead to a very sozieus anomaly. snd perbaps something nwhich anight b. desoribed
in stronger terzns. If thie Bill ges tbrOuÉh
these appeals te the SuPreme Court wif be
permitted if the provincial legisiature
se enacts. If the province of Manitoba
should. pass a isw crealing au eppeai Iron
the provincial courts te the Suprême Court.
what is there te provenl tb, provaucé of
Manitoba from making these appeals
retroactive, and give the right te appeal to
the Supreme Court from a decision already
rendered. That wouki be unfair.

Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tho juriediclion
could only begin from tlhe very liane this
Act would corne into operation. u.améiy.
wluen the Royal assent was given, 0e that
il could not b. retroactive.
Hon. Mr. BELCOIJBT-LLe me state my
meaning. W. are going te prorogué within a weék or lén deys. There aY b. a
case pending ini the Court of Appeal, or
appolnted to censider thc advisabllty of lirait- there may be a judgment rendered by 1h.
lng thse rlght ef aPPeal te thse Suprême Court Court of Appeal iwithin a woek. If wilhin
and te thé Prlvy Council to certain classes ef sirty days the Legislature of Manitoiba

Hon. Mr. DAVID-I cail thé attention of
thé -hon. leader of thé Housé le thé resolu.
tien which I med in tise session cf 1913.
Thse hon. leader of thse Houa. pénhaps do..
net remember well thé nature cf thé motion
béosuse it vweut. furt'hcr than he allieges. It
is as follows:
-Hon. Mr. David moved; tisat a commlttee be
es.-I
...

SENATE

gives the right ef appeal fromn the provincial court te the Supreme Court, that
gives an appeal 'Whieh would ïbe snanifestly
unfair, as my hon. lriend mnust see.' The
parties have gone to the Court cf Aippeal.
say in the province of Manitoba, knowing
that that vwas the final court, and believing
that the case wouid neyer go any further;
but if 'we pesa this Act, and if the Manitoba
Legisiature should implenient it iby a statute giving jurisdiction, that case whicb
was not sappealable when it was decided by
the Court of Appeal, would be appealaible;
that is a resuit which -would b. imanilestly
unfair and improper
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I amn very glad, I
raised the point when the hon. leader cf
the. House introduced this Bill. It 'was
going through wîthout discussion, but I
raised the question, and I arn glad te see
that no many of my colleagues endorse my
vei'ws.
The House divided on the amendinent,
which wss carried on -the fol]owing division:
CONTENTS:z
Bélque,
Beth
Belcourt.
Bomtock,ý
Choquette,
Cloran,
Dandurand,
David,
Davis,
Dessauflks,
DeVeber,
Edwards,
F'arrell,

Hon. Messieurs
Front
Gilimor,
Lavergne,
Power,
Prowne,
Ratz,
Roche,
Ross
Rops (Moos*Jaw),
Tessier,
Thompsen,
Watson,
YEo.-26.
NON-CONTENTS:

Hon. Messieurs
McCall,
Baird,
McKay
Bolduc.
(Cape Breton),
Bowefl
McLaren,
(Sir MackEnzie),
Murphy,
Daniel,
Poirier,
Gordon,
Ross (Middleton>,
LaRivière,
Tayler.-14.
Zougheed,

CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS 0F THE
SENATE.
DEBATE CONCLUDED.

The Order ef the Day being ce lIed:
Resumling the adJourned debate on the consideration of the sixth report of the Standing
Commlttee on the Internai Economny and Contingent Accounts of the Senate.
Hon. Mtr. ROSS (Middleton)-While there
hes always been a dispute between the
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT.

Cornmittee on InternaI Economy and His
Elonour the Speaker ever since I have had
the honour of a seat in this Chamber, I
always thought the dispute was 'as to the
nerits of appointments, or the fixing of
salaries, or promotions, but I neyer under-etoed until yesterday that it was really a
fundamental dispute as to the - constitutional position of the Speaker of this House,
and 'wben 1 ascertained that tact yesterzlay and heard one or two of iny hon.
friends speak on the question, I thought
I would like to have a look at the Act
before I voted. Having leoked at it, I do
net wonder that there bas been a dispute
ovier this Act for the last t'hree years, and
tinlesa there is sme amendrnent ta the
Act there will be disputes for a great many
years. I shall indicate ta the House where
1 think the trouble bas arisen frein this
legisiation. The Civil Service Act deait
Now,
with ithe executive cf departmewts.
it is comnion knowledge to the members
cf this Heuse that the constitution here
consists of the two Houses which are legislative, and the executives departmant,
which carry out the legislation passed in
the twe Houss, but in ne sense et the
termn could you eall either the Senate or
the House ef Commens a department, and
that is one of these things which was pot
borne in mind by the peeple whe drafne
this legisiation. When they drew an Act
respecting the Civil Service cf Canada,
they delined wbo the head cf jýhe department was and who the deputy was, and
then proceeded te legisiate for the departments, and there was ne trouble about it,
because the organizatien of every department was practically the Panue. Then it was
thought, apparently, a geod thing te extend the provisions cf the Civil Service to,
the officers et the two -Houses. Now to do
that in the Act of 1908, they extended the
meaning cf the word "Deputy Head"- se
as te make it include the clerks et the
two Heuses, and the Library cf Parliament,
and the meaning of "«Head ef Departrnent"te include the Speakers cf beth Houses.
Il they had gene on ana put in another
clause saying that each cf the Houses for
the purpose ei this Act sheuld be a department tihe matter weuld have -been clear,
but they did net de that, and in my opinion
that is what caused ail the trouble. The
legisiation proceeds practically, with a few
exceptional clauses, along the sanie lines
as when they were legislating for an executive depai'Vment akrne. Let me point
eut to you how that affects the Act cf

APRIL 8, 1915

190S, and the -position of the Speakers cf much like -a -man who lias been given tihe
position cf colonel without a regiment.
bath Houses. Section 8 says:
Into
«*An sean au practicable atter the comlng
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Doos that refer to
ferce et the Azt the head of each departmrent youz nelghibours?
should cauue the organisation ef lits departmient
te b. determined and defined b>' Order In
Hon . Mr. R058-Under tbis Act le -has
Council, due regard belng ha*i te the statua et the. linour of tihe office which is conferred
each oMfcer. or clerk,ý au the came may b.."
on bim.
That is ail right for th. Departmnent cf
The position that I take with regard te
Justice, the Department of Agriculture, thia Act is that, with the exception cf ane
and so en, but it wiii net do for tbis or two clâuses--which exceptions are flot
House, because tbis. Hous ia net a de- necessary for me ta argue-it was in the
partanent, neither is the House of Coin- mind of the man who drafted this legisiamenas a department, and fiherefore th. tion, thougli he neyer expressed it, to put
Speaker of Ibis Houa. is stoppad. The the. Hause on the footing of a department.
very finit thàng lie fhad te do.- under ffus For that reasan I think there i. what some
Act was te erganize his department.
people describe as a barn doar in the Act;
The SPEAKER-Would the hon. gentle- there ia want of a clause defining the word
- department "'; and until that word "deman couple section 8 'with section 45?
partment " goes in and puts the Speaker
Hon. Mr. CLORAN--Get the cennecting of the House and the Ohief Clerk on the
links; that is the beauty cf 'my doctrine. same footing as a minister and a deputy
Hon. Mr. BOSS-I have examined the minister, in my opinion the safest and
point very carefully and you wi-1l find a sonnidest position to adopt is that the old
good deal of troub>le in 'following section powers, the powers ai the Houa. as exer45. Further on, in section 8, tb. Act saya cised and enjoyed in 1908, stili continue,
*bat the Order in Counceil shouid give the except where yen bave an express clar-cnt
names of the several branches of the de- clause which enables lhe head and the
partment. You cannot carry that out 'with deputy hcad to deal with the matter cf
the numb-er and character of the officers, their own motion. Until then It should
dlerks, their duties, etc.
reinain with the Hanse itaelf, which acts
medinm cf the Internai
my lion. throngh .te
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Will
Economy Committee. I admît there are
friend per'mit me an observation?
same sections which provide that the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL- Speaker and the Chief Clerk can, without
reference te anybody, do certain things.
Order.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The bon. gentleman but they are net very material.
was asked for an explanatien; wie has th.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-What are theyP
night te cail orden?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Read section 45.
Hon., Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
Hon. Mr. ROSS-I have read 45, and it
bave, and I do.
rny hon. friend wants reading lessons h.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-You have ne right had better continue reading 45 himacîf. I
te.
think the hon. «gentleman will find that
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Subsection 3 cannol -b. sections 24 and 22 deal with exceptional
changed except by an Order in Council. situations. Practicaily that is ail I have ta
Then, furthber on, in section 15, each head say in regard te this matter-that on aem~unt
o! a department must furnish the commis- of an absence of a definition of the. word
sien with the number of additional per- -department," I cannaI find anything in
:manient officers or clerka *liely te b. re- this Act te take away the oid powers af
quired in bis departîment with-in the next thte House and transfer them te lhe
six menths. That cannot a4pply le this Speaker.
House. Then there i. one other clause
Soene hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, .heat.
under which the head o! the deparlinent
The SPEÂKER-Will the House ailow
must notify the Treasury Board of th.
name, position, and senvices performed by aie te put a ques tion?
eacli clerk, and Ihat cannaI u'pply te Ibis
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Make it easy.
What I think is perfectly plain
House.
The SPEAKER-J ust a question. The
is thal the Speaker cf Ibis Houa., as Weil
as the Speaker of the othen Houa., is very hon. gentleman bas quated section 8 of the

OV'MA.1r

civil Service Act amexidment of 1908, and
saîd that the Senate cannot do anything
undar -that clause because the word "departI call the.
ment" was net inserted. thea.
attention of the hion. gerntleman ta section
45, which says that section 8, in soa far as
regarde the classification, applies dlrectly
ito the.6anate. What is the hon. gentleman's
answer ta such an obaervation?t

to pointa
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I4 want
out where my lion. friend's arguments
wholly fail. Ha says that becausa the. Act
has nat declarad the Senate a department,
the Act cannot apply. Nobody would expect that the legislature would want to
declare that in ail respects the Sanat.. and
the House of Gommons are on the saine
footing as a department. That would bei
abaurd. Nobody would azpect that. But
il hae will once more -raad subsaction 2
af section 3 hae wiil sea that bis argument
fails, bacause there are, whilst no doubt,
provisions in thei Civil Service Act which
cannot be made applicable aither to the
House of Commons or tihe Senate there are
several at laast whicb can be made applicable with propriaty and withouit any
But subsection 2 af
inoonvenience.
section 3, ta which my hon. friand
dose not 'seem ta have paid sufficlant
attention, covera that point altagethier.
Sa much of this Adt and of tiie Civil
Service Act as ralates ta appointments,
classifications,

salaries

and

House in 1912,
put on- this section by this
of secv ien, acting under the provisions
ion 8, the provision of subsaction 2, of
t
ectiozi 3 were applied and classification
vas màde by the House an thjs report
Economy.
o>1 the Comnititea on Internai
lien, unless section 45 means what we say
'J
friend to
i t means. 1 would ask my bon.
,eil me w'hat it meana. It cannot meanl
Lnything elsa. Section 45 reads as follows:

the House of Gommons, is ta make the classifications provided by the. ÂctP lIn 1912 we
applied the provisions of the Act. I think
my hion. friend ought ta deal witb the
matter more aeriously, and it must be maxilest ta himi that because certain provisions
of -the Act do not apply. he cannat hold
nat apply.
promotions, ithat ail the. provisions do

etc., shail apply ta the permanent
officars, clerks and employees of bath
Houses of Parliament and tha Lîbrary af
Parliamerit.
is plain
Hon. MT. CLORAN-That
enough.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-My bon. friand
says that so far as appointments, promotions, etc., are concarned,"tha Civil Service.
Act doas not s.pply, bacause first thare are
provisions in the Civil Service Act which
ms.nufestly cannot apply ta the Housasi
of Parliament, and bacause i~t hag not
bean declared in the Act that Lb.
Sexiata and the House ai Commons ara
The provisions on which
departmnents.
It was not
I relied. arc quite plain.
thought Lo put the .Housas ai Parliament an the samne f6oting: as a dapartment. IL could not be done, but the. abject
af that subsectian was ta hava those provisions ai the Civil Service Act which might
be -applicable to the Houses ai Parliament,
ta s0 apply, and that is wiist thase sections
say. That, is the interpretation that was
The SPEAKEPR

wberever under section 5. 8, 10 (paragrapb
B of .ubsectOfl 1) 21, 22, 23, 24, 26 (subsecton
or
2) 32, 33, 86, 37. <subsectIon 4) of thua Actauànder the. Civil Ser-vice Act any action ta
thoriaed or dlrected ta b. take- by the. Gavernor
n Counclui or by Order in CounclI, such action.
and emwitii respect ta thie ofilers clerka,the. Senate,
uloyees of the Boume of Commnons or
the.
shail b. taken b>' thi Hous. of Commana or and
Scnate, as the. cae may b.. by resolution
wlt.h respect ta the. officers, cierca and employees
of the librar>' of Pariament, and ta uucii otiier
ofincers, clorke. ani employees an are under tiie
joint contrai of bath Bouses of Parliamient saa
bc taken by bath Houa.. of Parllamerit b>' resolution, or. If suci action in required during
In
the. recco of Parllainent, b>' the. Governortwo
Council, aubJeat ta ratification b>' tiie
session.
Houses at tiie next ensulng
Does not that inean that the Sexiste, like

Hon. Mr. ROSS-My lion. friand asked
a question about section 45?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I asked about an

hour ago.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-1 will try to kili two
birds with ana stone. lIn my view section
45 cuLs the ground froin under the feet of
the Speakers -of the two Bouses, because
where an Order li Council is spoken ofHon. Mr. CLORAN-I did not ask the
hion. gentleman for his interpretation of the
law. I simp>' asked him to read the section. I do not want his interpretation.
Hon. Mr. TESSIER-But we want it.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Uxider section 45 the
position I took with regard La it is fully
confirmed. There is just ane other question. '
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Has the hion. gentleman a right ta speak twice?
Hon. Mr. ROSS-I arn not speaking twice.
An hion. gentleman asked a question of me

APRIL S, 1915

with -regard to section 8, and I say the
Speaker is limited in that regard.
The SPEAKER-The question is on the
amendmenl, and the object of this amendment is to put these two persons in te
sme position as the other tbree perons
named in the report.
Thbè House dh'jded on th. aimendment,
which was re.ýecied on the following
division:
CONTENTS:
Ron. Messieurs

Belcourt.

Bolduc,
Bowel
(Sir Mackenzie),
Choquette,
Cloran,
David,

Dessaulles,
Domnville (Lt.-Col.).
Landry (Speaker),
Mltchell.
Poirier,
TE,! ier.-1 2.

NON-CONTENTS:
Hon. Messieurs
Baird,

Belth,
Boutock.
Dandurand,
Daniel,
Davis,
Derbyshire,

Deyeber.

Edwards.
Profit
Gillmor,
Gordon,
Lougheed,
Mecay
(Cape Breton),

McLaren,

Owens,
Power,
Provie,
Ratz,
Roche,
Ros MooseJaw),
Rosm <Middleton),
Talbot,
Taylor,
Thomi)Uof,

Watson,

Yeo.-27.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I ibeg te move
in amendinent ltaI clause il di the -report b. @truck oui. Ib eays taI a regiaber
of bte -attendance of bte employees similar
te that kept in other departnents sh'ould
be maintained. I do nlot think that is
practacable. llhey do not do !.b in the
House of Gommons, a.nd I do not se. why
we should do it here.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Strike cuit ite
word 4'Department."
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I do not sam
w-by we ashould compel the. exnployees te
aigu a register. Il éhows a idaek of confidence in our emaployees. If there is Itn'
partieulair efmployee who is -remisa in tii
duty lie should 'be censured for il, but we
a<hou]d net iblame bte rest of the em~ployees. How would il ib. possible te carry.
out ibis register if an employee had to atay
here until 12 o'clock et nigitP Oould he
be expected te b. here et nine in te mouaing tic registerP But il this mile were carried out he 'would -have a mark againfÀt bhim

36

for nlot registeriiig at fine inl the morning.
I do not see why we should omipel all the
employees te regieter because one man is
delinquent and we know who btai tnan is.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-In rising te second
that motion I do so owing to tihe arg9ument ci the hon. senator from Middleton
(Hon. Mr. Boss), who bsaa ad btaI titis
House is net a depariment, and titis raptlation asks tha.i the same system ahould,
b. followed here as in other departmenta,
and te hon. eenator from Middleton has
made it clear that Ibis Houa. 1. not a department.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-The attendance oi
te mem'oers cl this House1s registered.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Thal la don. for constitutional resons. The constitution etaies
that if a senator is absent during two coniiecutive sessions h. should be disqualified.
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-I rise to a point o!
Can an hon. memiber move two
order
------amendinents to the same imotion?
The SPEAKER-I am of opinion thal
witen a member bas moved an amendiment
econd amendiitbmv
h.hon

ment.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Then I will mev.
the ainendmnn, because I honeMLly thlnk
tai Ibis rule could npt b. carried out.

Hon. Mr. CLORA-I second the motion.
Hon. Mr. TÂYLOR-You seco!nded the.
otiter one.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I 'wilI second every
motion that has good common hors. sens.
in il.
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-The. ruling cf te
Speaker applies t0 t>he mover. and 'te seconder.
Hou. Mr. CLOBAN-No, it dos not apPlY te the seconder of te motion, and I
thi«nk lte Speaker is wrong anyway.
Hon. Mir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Order,
order.
Hon. Mr. (JLORAN-The hon. senator
from Grandvifl!e <Hon. Mr. Choquette> dld
not move two motions on bte ame queslion. Hie. second atuendment is on enotlier clause.
The SPEAKER-I have given mny

de-

cisioli..

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I accept th. decision, 'but et te Mame time I utink Hue
Honour is wrong.

SENATE

- The SPEAKER-The main motion is on
Speaking on
the adoption o! the report.
the main motion the hon, gentleman from
Grandville (Choquette) has moved an
That amendrnent haa been<
amnendmeant.
disposed of an'd the hon. genstleman cannot
move a second ainendment unlesa he had
the right te speak a second rtime on the
nrain motion..

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE- I do not wieh
to diseuse 'the ruling o! the C.hair. but I
should like te aay that my amendment is
not as te clause 7. The amend-ment I a
eneving now is as to clause 7.
The 6PEAKER-1l
taken up clause &>y
bad 'been rneved to
hon. member vould
taking tMas report en

this report had been
clause, and a motionI
thst effeot, then the
be right. but uwe are
bloc.

Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-There can he
no argument on this motion until it is put
l'o the Hous.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Hon. gentlemen,
clause il ef the report requires that a
register should be kept of the attendanoe
of the employes o! the Senate. Buch a
register is kept in varions departments,
and I thnk it i. quite a proper thing teo
do here, but this clause gos toc lar. Surely
it eBunot be oontended that no regi-ser cf
attendance should be kept. If the hon.
gentleman is net satisfied witb the wording
of the clause, he should move te change
the -wording. I am not quitte sure myself
but t.hat the wording might be improved,
but I do not think the clause abouid Ibe rejected in toto. This House is very wnueb
coneerned with the attendance cf i4ae aployees, and. if no register la kept we have
no means o'! ascertaining whether the arnployes are regularly in attendance or nuot.
Such a rule as this is in force ini ail imT.ortant business houses, and it is also in
force in the departmnents of the Governtuent and I ses ne reason why At siholild
not spply here.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-The clause reada,
-Similarly to the various departments o!
Now, that la atrictly
the Government."
right; and how do they registerP They
regiater each tilme they corne in and go ont
There thsy have regular beure. This body
la entirely a different institution. I perlectly
sympathize .with ths rernarks M' the hon.

senator for De Salaberry (Hon. Mr. Beique)
when he says that some record of attendance should be rnaintained; there is no
objection to that, but the clause reada: "as
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

in the' various departments of the Governnent." That is absurd, because this House
nay ait just as the House of Gommons
s. That rule doe not prevail, in the
'ommons, because'it ia not a department.
RVe have had instances of the Commona
itting for a whole week, and thiB Houae
might ait for a whole week.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Yes, and probably
will do ao this week.
Hon. Mr. EDWA.RDS-1 do not think the
scheme is proper. It is a syatemn that prerails not only in dealing with labourera,
but sornetimes in offices. and employera in
some cases regiater when coming in and,
going out, for the purpose of maintaining
Eecorum, but in the Senate it is not reaaonable or practicable.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I take it that
this recommendation meana that the register of attendance shall be conducted on
lines similar to those kept in the other
department. -but if it really means that
the personnel of the Senate wonld have to
register and be here fromn 9 to 5, then we are
going againat our interesta, becanse if we
should adhere to the rule, when we ait in
the eveninga we would be wit-hont a staff.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-4f the sarne
rnis is to apply in the Senate as in the
other departments, I would dissent fromn
the wording o! this clause. The Senate
should clothe the' Clerk with sufficient
power to enable him to know if there is a
regular attendance o! the personnel under
him; but if this ia to b4e a register similar
to that kept in the other departmenta. then
I amn bound to vote for the amendmnent o!
the hon. gentleman fromn Ottawa. I draw
the attention o! the Senate to section 46
of the Civil Service Act, which BayaAct or the Civil Service Act
Nothing in ti
should be held to curtail the privilegea now enaoyed by the officers, clerku and employes, of
the House of Commofla or of the Senate or of
the Library of Parliament with respect to rank
and precedent, as to attendance. office hours,
or leave of absence, or with respect to engaging
in such employrneflt during Parliamentary recess au may entltle them to recelve extra Baiary
or reinuneration.
0f course I do not know exactly what
bearing thia clause wonld have upon some
kind of regulation that we ahonld enact as
to the attendance of members, but I ses
clearly that we can not, hold the personnel
of -the Senate to the sarne rules as those
which govern the other departments.

APRIL 8, 1915

Hon. Mr. WATSON-The intenticn o!
the committee, in making this report, was.
as it ought to be, that there shouid be smre
supervision over the attendance o! the employees o! this House. After malcing a care.
fui investigation by a sub-cornmittee, and
exarning the chie! officers o! the Senate
'we -were in!orrned fixat oertain officiais tif
thxe Senate did not give attendance 10 ths
Senate at ia11, but were sway hai! their
time, that they would leave at lixree o'clock
when they are required there until 4, 5 or
6 o',clock i the atternoon. Any gentleman
wfho has had experienoe with thxe InternaI
Econorny Coinmittee, and the staff o'! the
Senate, wili know that some o! our staff
-work very hard and attend at regular
hours, -while others, are practieially loafers,
and leave the willing 'workers, 10 do the
work. while they go out when they like.
That bing the case, as reported 10 us by
thxe officers o! thxe Senate, it was thought
that something should b. done 10 enforce
regular attendance. If it is not possible
to carry th-is out in fthe manner recommended, it ahouid be done in sorne other way.
There is no -reason why the empioyees o!
thbe 8enate shouid not b. subjeet to th1w
4
sarne regulatione as t he officers of s de
partment. Our recommrencfation. is that
sme symtem ehould b. adopted whereby
the officiais o! the Senate should be- required in sme way 10 record their attendance.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Or know by that
record w.hen they are absent.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Or know that they
'were absent.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--Some o! thern are living in Montreal, and just put in an appearance ber.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-It is not 10 impose
any .hardship on our empioyees. go f ar as
the gentlemen who have to attend the. aittings of lte Houa. are concerned, for instance the gentlemen at the table, tbis
clause dees net include them; such officiais
in the departments are net required 10 register; but the ordinary empioyee who is
under the control of some chie! officer
ought 10 be under smre regulation requiring him to keep a record o! his attendance.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Did the merohers o!
the committee ascertain fromr the officers
o! the Hou.se whether il would 'b. prs.oticable?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-A sub-committee of
the Internai Economy Committee had beS-24
REMORED

fore them the chie! officers o! the Senate
and got the information. On reoeiving tha't
information -we adopted thbis report. Tihe
administration o! thxe rule 'w-il be in the
bands o! the Cierk.
Hon. Mr. GORDON-I arn suxprised to
hear any hon. gentleman aay that such a
simple regu}attion as this is impracticable,
or cannot ib. enforoed. I amn satisfied thst
no honest empioyee o! the Benate wouid
abject to snob a regulation as this; and il
that be the case, why sbould any hon.
member o! tbis Houa. object? The regulation la so simple and so easiiy enforoed
'that, to my anind, it shouid ie adopted and
enforced- This regulation wouid impiy that
heretofore fixer. bua Ibeen no registration,
and if that la th. case, 1 tor one arn in
favour of the recommrendation of the cernmittee.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I shoulkd like to
know from thxe dhairrnan of the cominittee
if that regulation la going to eapply during
the recesa of Parliarnent.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-Yes.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-In that case I think
it ia making our miles unnecessariiy rigorous. I could well understand that auch
a rule is required while Parliament is in
session, but ince Confederatien it has been
the practice, there being very littie te do in
the Senate during the receas, te leave t~he
staff umder the diacretionary ruling of the
Clerk, and not place them under unnecessarily rigorous rules. It mouda well, of
course, for us to establish draconian lawm,
but in reality I see no necesmity to force
employees, who have practicaiiy nothing te
do during*.recess, to remain in attendance.
It is not of their own deaire that things
are so, and if they are made to corne here
every day at bal! past nine and kept until
four or five, with nothing to do, the efficiency. o! the service wiil not be thereby
irnproved. We will have ail the employees
here for.no other purpose but making acta
of presence, as they say in French, and
the result o! it wîll not, in rny estimation,
improve the Civil Service work, nor will
it improve the disposition o! our Clerk.
Lt is weil enough during sessions o! Parliament, while the Senate is sitting, to have
the clerks ln attendance but, as one o! the
oid timers in the Senate, I ask that matters
be aliowed to exiat as heretofore, and leave
that part o! the administration to the Clerk,
who, if necessary, will consuit with the
Speaker. It is not for us to estabieb draEDITrioN

SENATE
conian laws for no other purpose except te the whole report. I cannot understand why
House
say that we are boas, and will insist on we should have employees in this
when ,%ho absent themselves three, four or five
having our employees in attendance
be
they have nothing te do. I arn certainly months every year. If the argument
oppose te this unnecassary act of rigour. correct that they have nothing to do, dispense with the office altogeLher and employ
Hon. Mr. EDWAEDS-I approve of main- such officers as may be required during
taining .proper decorum and proper attend- tlue session of Parliament. The complaint
ance ini the Senate. There is no objection bas been made ini the past that jusi as soon
te some record being kept, but I certainly as the House rises messengers receiving
object in the strongest terms te the riles $1,000, and perhaps as high as $1,200 a
applicable to the varionsa departmente be- yeax, leave the Senate and neyer show
ing made applicable te the Senate; because
faces during recess; so that we are
1 do 'not think it is practicable. In the their
really .paying them $1,200 a year for doing
various departments there are regular hours nothing except during sessions of Parliawhich are kept, 9 te 5. If we are going to
If their services as messenger are
make that reguilation for the Benate, what ment.
required te do the work necessary te carry
officers are you going te have when you are
on the business, let them be here as other
sitting?
éervants. Nobody in his own private busiHon. Mr. WATSON-The Clerk will ar- r.E55 'would think of employing a man for
-range that.
a month or two, paying him a high
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I amn perfectly salary, and allowing him to be absent
willing te entrust matters in the handa of dtiring eiglht or ten months of the
That is what we are doing.
the Clerk. I should like te withdraw my year.
amendnient for the striking out of the en- Either have a staff who thave nothing to
tire clause, and instead of it te inove te do except during the session of Parliament
strike out the following words: «"Similar and pay tshem for doing that, or keep them
wete those kept by the various departments,." employed during the whole year. If we
read-" that a are going te economize, the eooner
So that the clause 'would
system the better.
register of attendance of the employees of change the whole
the Senate be instituted and maintained."
The SPEAKER-The question is on the
It seems te me that is a reasonable solu- aTmendment 4that the words «'similar to the
tion of the question.
varlous departments " be struck. out.
Mr. BEIQUE-It will be in the
Hon.
The motion was sgreed te.
hands of the committee?
Hc. Mr. LOUGHEED moved that the
for
Hon. Mr. EDWAIRDS-Yes.
substituted
word "January - be
prcpare regula- "June - in the report.
Hon. Mr. BEIQIUE-To
tions and instructions te the Clerk.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not think the
Hon. MrT. MoKAY <Cape Breton)-I
amendment is necessary. because the re- want te call the attention of the House
port does not say that the record should te clause 7. If hon. gentlemen will look
be identical with the registers kept in the at that clause 1they will conclude that it
departments, but similar. Identical and is unneoeesary. Clause 12 of.the report
similar are very different things, but inas- says that employees absent from duty for
much as the hon. gentleman from Rockland three days because of illness shaîl pro(Hon. Mr. Edwards) seems te have set duce a certîficate from one of the Civil
his heart on this particular amendment, I Service physicians. I think that is going
think the committee would not object te a littie too far. An employee may have
having the words " similar te those képt in a cold that would prevent hlm from coming
te his work, or he might have some trifling
the various departments - stricken out.
thing the matter witbh 'him w1hich would
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I object te the prev£nt his attendance.
We frequently
whole clause, because I arn in f avour of have little ailments that we are able to
the old motto " Let well enough alone.", take care of oureelves, and it is not necesHowever, I amn willing te accept the amend- sary te oall in a physician. But if such a
ment.
thing e±isted with one of our employees,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-To my he would be obliged te eall in a physician
mind this is the most valuable clause of whether needed or not. The employee
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

APRIL 8, 1915
oould not decide the question for hiseselt. noV really sick do noV def or to the Speaker,
A Civil Service physician could noV grant the housekeeper or any one else. Tbey
a certificate unless be giad a thorough simpiy put on their coats and walk out
knowledve of the case. Such a clause as and remain away noV mrnely for Vhree days
that is unnecessary, but if it is adopted but in sme cases three weeks, and expect Vo
the time should be extended Vo one week. be paid for the ime Vhey are absent. 1V is
absolutely necessary that we should have
Hon. Mr., CLORAN-The hon. rnenber
perfeotly right. Take sorne regulation of Vhis kind, because theso
for Cape Breton is
the case of an temployee who lived at ernployees abuse their privileges.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Wby noV adopt a
Britannia- How could lie send for a Civil
Why ghould tbis clause that would noV be so severeP
Service physicianP
House discriminate against the family
Hon. Mr. POWER-This provision of the
physician? I Uiink the comrnittee is rnaking an attack on the medicai profession. report embodies the practice which preThe certificate of a farnily physician is vails in the varions departmnents. If an
just as good s that of -a Civil Service ernployee is absent for three days, he has
phyBician who may be runniing around or- Vo produce a certificate of illneas from one
ganizing comrnittees at election timie, and of the Civil Service phyuicians. I underwho would probably charge the poor ese- stand that the practico of this House bas
ployee $3 or $4 for a certificate. I under- been that employoes who were absent for
stand the bon. meinber is a physician, and any length of Vume had Vo produce certifilie doubtiess underst.ands the position our caVes Vo the Clork. Hon, gentlemen should
noV bestow all their sympathy on a man
employees would ho in.
who rnay only be a malingerer; they should
Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-Do we know who
and where extend smre of it to the service of the
these Civil Service physicians are,
Vhey live? If one were not irnmediately Houte. Il this systese works satisfactorily
available, it miglit be an expensive matter ini departmnents, I do not see why iV should
to send for bise. I do not believe in these not work satisfactorily here. If the Houso
medical certificates, except to a linuited prefers it, I do noV see why Vhe clause
We ail know fibat a farnily miglit noV be amended Vo read ini ths way:
extent.
That an enployee absent froin duty on the
physician will sornetirnes grant a certifirnay be requlred to
cate out -of pure kindness. I believe iV ground of lines.such Ilmes. from one produce
of the
would be rnuch better to leave: it Vo a a certilicate of
Civil Service physicians.
statutory decleration to be made by the
a
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Why noV make 1V
employee hirneeif. Let the employee take
the responsibility. I believe that moat regular physicianP
men would hesitate to maIe a statutory
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon. gentleman
declara>tion that Vhey were not able Vo cornes here witbout thinking about Vhe subattend to their du ies unles% that were ject and thinks he knows botter than the
ireally true. Âfter aIl, what takes place committee of Vwenty-fivo who have given iV
He every consideration.
in?
when a doctor iu called
bas to take the word of the patient as
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCX-Make it "duly
h
to whether .- e is i11 or not. A patient
may lie down on a sofa and pretend Vo be qualified physician."
i11, but if a patient had to niake a declaraHon. Mr. POWER-In order Vo meet what
tion, I believe he would maJke an effort to seems Vo bo more or leus the general feelget to bis work. It would be in the public ing of the House, I move VhaV Vhs twelfth
interest that employees when ili should clause be amended so as Vo read as follows:
make a declaration, and a great deal botter
An empioyee absent fromr duty on the grouxid
than requiring an omployee to pay a of Ilines. may be requlred to produce a certifia fée.
cate of such llnes, fromn a duly quaified pracphysician
Hon. Mr. MITCHEL-I

think iV is a

Ititioner.

The SPEAKER-The hon, gentleman bas
very serious thing Vo intorfere with a medical man. IV would be a great hardship on no right Vo move that amendment.
employeos to compel them eV procure a cerHon. Mr. BEIQU-T-hen I move the
tificate froni a Civil Service -physician. I arnendment.
think the family physician would be. mucli
The arnendrnent was agreed to.
better.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-This clause was put
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I inove that
in the report bocauso employees who are ,clause 13 be dropped.
S-24i

SENATE

372

Hon. Mr. POWER-Quite right.
13. That durlng the Intervais between sessions the doorkeeper. the Speaker's steward and
is my painful
The SPEAKER-lt
niessenger. and the keeper of the wardrobe may
more the last
be called upon te do duty as Senate messen- duty to denounce -once
ger.
attempt of the Committee of Internai
I object te singling eut any particular
offleer by n*aqne. They should ail be put on
the sarne footing, se that ail messengers
who serve during the session shall do work
cutaide the session. This clause rnight t>.
amended by omitting the naines of the
officers xnentioned, and eaying tfhat aIl pernmanent messengers df the Senate may Ïb.
cailed on in tlhe intervals betrween seseions
te do duty.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That dees net amount
te anything. The doorkeeper is net a muessenger, and the Speaker'e steward, and the
keeper of the wardrobe are net looked upon
as being Tanessengers. The object wasthough I cannet say I feit strengly aibout it
myself-.-that t.hese efficers should he availabie Wobe calied upen if necessary te do
duty as messengers. 1 understand it bas
net -been the practice in the past to call
upon these officers te do duty. If it should
happen te Ïbe neoessary, it is only right
that the Clerk sheuld have power te cail
them, in.
Bveral bon. dENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
The SPEAKER-That power exias aiready.
Hon. Mr. CLORAK-I do net ses 'why
those four offleers dhould b. singled eut.
As te the keeper cof the wardrobe-d't -is a
'beautiful wordrobe the Senate has 1 must
corrfes-iv-hy ferce him te corne here for 9
months during the year when there are ne
cloaks and no bats to be hung up, ne rubbers te clean, and no umbrellas to tigbten
Up? What ie 'hie geîng te do? Simpiy
nothing. As te the doorkeeper, -why ask
birn te corne alre wvhen the doors are
closed, and when this Houa. looks like a
~mortuary chamnber?
Hen. Mr. DAVIS-The bon. gentleman
bas spoken three or four times Wothe
motion.
speak
The SPEAKER-He has ne right Wo
if hie has spoken already.
Several bion. GENTLEMEN-Question,
question.
The SPEAKER-T-he question now is on
Before putting that
the main motion.
motien te you I wili give =ny decision on two
peints of order in these terms. I prepared
it in advanee, because I have a right, wlien
I find that a mnotion is not aecording to
order, te say se.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.

Economy te encroach on my rights and toi
substitute itself for the law in the administration cf.the Senate.
On Wednesday the 3rd day cf March, 1915,
-the Hon. Mr. Power moved, secended by the
Hon. Mr. Taylor:
That thie Committee on Internal Economny and
Contingent Amcounte have power, wlthout apecial

reference frein the House. to consider any matter affecting the Internai Econorny of the
Senate, as to whlch Ilia Honour the Speaker in
flot called upon to act by the Civil Service
Amendmnft Act 1908, and sucb commlttee shail
report the. resuit of sueb consideratiofi to the
Heuse for action.
The question of concurrence being put thereon.
the sme was resolved in the affirmative, and
Ordered accordingiy.

By this resolution, ail that pertained to
His Honour the Speaker was deliberately
set aside. and piaced out of the reach of
the committee.
The committee bas consequentiy tever
been entitied to make the report which, it
tries to-day to impose upon this House.
This report is entireiy against the letter
and the spirit of that resolution of 'the 3rd
of Maei last, and it is as Speaker of this
House. my bounden duty to call your attention to this attempt te set aside the rnost
formai instructioni given to that committee.
This sixth report of the committee deals
with the positions and duties of the staff
of the Senate, recommends a certain number
of dismissais, and points the name of the
persona who are te fill up the vacancies,
instructs -the Speaker to appoint certain
persons to a certain position, and in
a general wsy indicates to the Speaker
what are the duties which the coinmittee expect bim to perform, se that
he may net be ignorant of thern. It advises
him that, ini the future, no appointments
are to be made of eharwomen until the
number bas been reduced to seven, that the
number of pages should net exceed four,
that during the intervals between sessions,
the Speaker's steward and messenger be
called upon te do duty as Senate messengers.
etc., etc.
In 1908 the Parliament of Canada placed
on the statute bock legisiatien whieh decides undeniably and with supreme authority the question which is te-day preneunced
upon by the Committee cf Internal Ecenomy.
This legisiation, chap. 15, 7,8 Edward
VII, in dealing with the organization cf

APRIL 8, 1915
promotions te be made. What
departments and wîth subsequent altera- latter the
assigna hecomes then-and I mention but this last
tions which may be made therete,
the section in the Statute which
-formally and without any possible error- case-cf
in charge of a departmnent, enacte:
to the minister
124. Promotions, other tban from, the third
and to the Speaker of the Senate-in so f ar
te the second division, saal be made for merit
as the Senate is concerned-the work of by the Governor in Couneil (Le. the Senate)
organisation and reorganization of the staff upon Uic recommendation of the head of the
department (Le. the Speaker) based upon thi.
under hie control.
DeputY Head."
head of each department," says report in wrltlng of thie
**The
An attempt was made lest year to emend
cited Act, " shall
section 8 of the above
in this
cause the organization cf bis departmnent to tihe law, and a Bill wes initiated
and defined by Order in Chamber. The Senate tried te recover the
be determined
standing it lied voluntarily sacrificed in
Council."
an
This organisation, once it is determined accepting the law of 1908. But such did
of the head of a depart- attesupt was fruitless and Parliament
on1 the initiative
ment, and confirmed by Order in Council, not move in the matter.
As .long as the present law shall deterremains intangible, until another Order in
the saine manner, mine the organisation and reorganîzatieri
Council, obtained in
Senate, as welh as tha
bringe inte operation, in this first organ- of the Staff cf the
empicyces-as long
the alterations necessitated by the promotion cf certain
ization,
senis3
This is what is as it ha3 net been amended in the
exigencies of the service.
desired by the committee-I shahl uphold
enact-ed by the statute, in the 3rd paragraph
the prerogative granted te me by the Statof said section 8, when it adds:excluand defined, ute, cf recommending myself, to the
-"After being so determined
sion cf everybody else, the proposad apthe organisation cf a department shall net pointment or promotion-and any suggesbe changed, except by Order in Council." tien in that lins, if it is lecking this necefIt muet be borne in mind that it is the sary condition of the presidential recomnhead cf the department who, alone, in the mendation, cannot, aftar ail, but b. deeyes cf the law, has the power to pet the clared iflegal.
machinery in motion: "The head -of each
What le illegal cannot b. in order.
department shahl cause the organisation of
I therefore declare out of order ail that
bis department te be determined and de- part cf the report cf the Committae cf
finied by Order in Council."
Contingent Accounts, which relates te the
And besides, ail appointments--those pro- organisation cf the Staff and the promovided for in sections 21, 22 and :ù3 of the tion of certain cf its emphoyeeâ.
Civil Service Act, 1908, as well as promotions
My decision cen be appaaled from -and
permissible under section 24-are made on reversed.
the report cf the deputy head of each departWhat then?
ment, concurred in by the head thereof afid
A conflict will have been created, a reapproved by Order in Councfl.
grettable conflict, more ragrettable for the
That is the real economy cf the Civil Senate than for myself; for, having no inService Act.
tention whatever cf disarming, when I am
Neediese te add that the Act, in this con- perfectly sure cf being in accord with the
nection, aseimilates the Speakers cf bath law, I shall continu3 te invoke the lawit
Houses-(see. 2, sub-sec. c) te the heaes cf as wehi as the manner of interpreting the
decisions cf both by the persoa themsehves who have
departmnents, and the
charge of enfercing it, and from whom the
Houses, te Orders in Council <sec. 45).
the enactments cf a following letters will show what should or
Netwithstanding
under the circumStatute, adopted by this House on its owni should net be done
behalf, the Cornmittee cf Internai Economy stances.
In answer te questions put te him in a
takes upon itself to ignore the prerogatives
wbe, in this letter dated 6th December, 1912-the text
cf the Spcaker cf the Senate
cen be found in the Journals cf
instance, bas ail the powere of the head cf a o! which
the Senate cf the 23rd January, 1913-the
departmnent.
is what the Deputy Minister cf
To the recommendation of the Speaker, following said, respecting my contentiou
iJustice
the recommendatione cf the Committee ii
that the appeintment cf certain employes
substituted, and the Committee, contrary of the Senate should be preceded by the
th(
te law, usurps the right to erganize
recommendation of the Speekar.
Staff of this House, and te suggest to the

SENATE
--This would appear te be the prescribed the staff of this House and te the promomnethod et appointnient, having regard te sec- tion of any of its employees.
tions 2, 3 (subsection 2) 22 and 46, of the Civil
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have tha honor to
The recomService Amendment Act, 1908.
mendatien of the Speakers appears te be a con- appeal from the decision cf His Honor the
dition te the making of any such appeintmaent.
Speaker, and I move, seconded by Hon.
(Signed) E. L. Newcombe,
Taylor, that that decision be not acDeputy Minuater of Justice. Mr.

The Auditor General is net less explicit,
and if I cite hie opinion, it is net se much
tu ihow that it is in accordance with my
own, than Woestabliah that, if the Senate
wishas to place itseif above the law, the
intervention cf the Auditor General may be
exercised in a manner disastrous te the
employees, which the Sanate may have
appointed, ignoring the provisions cf the
Btatute.
The Auditor General states in fact, wh&t
hie duty 'would be under such circumstances:

This decisioft, I
cepted by the Housc.
may say, is something that we- have been
having every seission during four yearsThe SPEAKER-The hon. gentîsman ie
No discussion is allowed
out of order.
on my deelsion. The question is, shonld
the decision cf the Speaker be sustained.
The House divided on the question, and
the decision cf the Speaker wBd reversed
on the following vote.
CONTENTS:

- In answer te the third Paragraph ef your
letter. 1 beg te state that I de flot ueo how the
clerk et the House, the chairman or uecretary
ef any commttteo or even the Senate, ceuld
preceed te make an appeintment witheut having their action preceded by your recemmendatien, ba.sed upon the report i writing of the
Clerk et the Senate.
"WIth reterence te the last paragraph, 1
cannot conceive uuch a thing au the Senate
Ignoring the law whlch they aaslated In enacting. but mhbould midi a thing occur, it weuld be
the duty of the clerk te dedline te issuea
choque for the payment of the ualary, and the
duty et the Auditer General te refuse te allew
duch payment te bo maade.
(Bgd.> J. Fraser,
Auditer GeneraL"

Béique,
Belcourt,
Casgrain,
Choquette.
Cioran,
David,
Dessaulles.

This Houas, in accepting the Civil Service Amendment Act, 1908, and in contributing te make it the law of the land,
bas deliher ately consented te the aban:donment and sacrifice cf the privilages of the
pat, and it does net possess any longereither for its Committee or for itself-the
right cf substituting ita recommendation
to that cf the 8paaker, nor the rîght cf
making any appointment which has net
been previously recommended by the
Speaker.
Should it go beyond that, it commits
an illegal act, and clashes into the impassable barrier set up by the Auditor General.
I certainly cannot become an accemplice
te such an infraction, and, considering it
is my imperative duty te ensure te the law
its undeniable supremacy over any ruka,
resolution or report of the Senate or cf its
committee,-I 'declare out cf order that part
of the raport cf the Cemmittee cf Internal
Economy and Contingent Accounts cf the
8enate relating te the reerganization cf

Farrell,
Frost,
Gillmer,
Gordon,
Lougheed,

The SPEAKER.

Baird,'
Beith.
Bostock,

Boyer.
Daniel,
Davis,
Derbyshire,

DeVeber.

Hon. Messieurs
Domville (Lt.-Col.).
LaRivière.
Lavergne.

.McCalI,'
Montplaisi,.
Tessier.-13.

NON-CONTENTS:
lien. Messieurs
McLaren.
Mitchell.
Owens,
Power,
Prowne,
Ratz.
Roche,
Rosa <MooseJaw>.
Rosis (Middleton),

McKay
(Cape Breton),

Talbot,

Taylor,
Thlbaudeau,
Thompson,

Watson,
Yeo-29.

cf the report as amended.
The motion was agreed te on a division.
The Senate adjourned till 3 p.m.
Second Sitting.
Mr. BOLDUC, in the absence cf His
Hon.
Honour the Speaker, teck the Chair at
three o'clock.
Routine proceedings.
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I should like a littie
information, not se much fer myseif as fer
the country. WiUl the hon. leader cf the
Government inform the House, so that it

APRIL 8, 1915
T

Mfr. Power ta amendment to the amendrnent.
seconded by the Hon. Mfr. DerbYshire;
That the sald amendment be amended by
strlklng out ail the words therein eafter the
words thls Housa' and uustituttag therefor
the followtag: " white It believes it in ta the
intereat of the Dominion at large that ail <puestions au to wbich divisions ezint among the people of any province should, be consldered on fair
and patrlotic Unes and settled In such a way
as to promote peaos and barmony between the
different. racial and religions elementa of the
population, la of opinion that, tamuch a the
subject of education la one of those by the
British North America Act, 1867, commltteil to
the provinces, any suggestion volnnteeoed by
the Senate as ta the manner ta which any
province .hould. exorcise Ita power would b.
contrary to the spirit of the Constitution anid
to intensify and extend any divisions
Hon. Mr,. CLORAN-But '.lera is no Chair. calculated that now oeult.'-(Eon. ]Kr. Dan'l)
of feeling

wiil be on record, why Hia Honour the
Speaker is not in the Chair this afternoon?
He is a civil servant.
Borne hon. GENTLEMEN-He is sick.
,Hon. Mr. CLORAK-We have no officiai
information in regard to that. If His Honour the Speaker has reason to be absent,
and t.here ià no illness, he wiil not require
any Civil Service doctor's certificate. We
are entitled bo know why- hie ia absent.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May 1 point out
to His Honour the Speaker that there is
nothing before the Chair.

I have no objection to the present chairman, but he was iîlegally elected, and every
piece of legisiation from now until His
Honour the Speaker resumes the Chair wilI
be illégal.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I rise te a point
of order. There is nothing beforé the
Chair.
The SPEAKER-There is nothing before
the Chair.

Hon. Mr. DA2IEL-I find myseif suifering from a severe cold this atternoon, and I
move that this Order of the Day bé discharged and that fl be placed on the Order
Paper for this day week.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That kilis it.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I arn opposed to
that. I have something to say on this
question.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I understand the hon.
ONTARIO BILINGUÂL SOHOOL QUES- gentleman doea not insist on hi. motion,
TION.
and is wiiling that I should. take his place,
Debate contlnued, the Order of the Day belng as he is not fit this afternoon.
cailed:
Eesumlng the further adJourned debate on
the. motion moved by the Hon. Mr. David,
seconded by the Hon. Mr. McHugh:
This Houme, without deroganng front the
principle «f-provincial autonomy, deem it proper and witbln the limite of Its powers and
Jurlaiction and in purmuance of the obJect for
which It was estabUsehed, to regret the divisions
which seem to exut among the people of the
province of Ontario in connection wlth the
bilingual school. question and belleves that It
in in the interest of the. Dominion at large that
ail such questions should lie considered on fair
and patrlotlc Unes and settled. In such a way
au to preaerve peace and barmony between the
different national and religious sections of this
country, in accordance wlth the vlews of the
Fathers of Confederation, and Wlth the spirit
of our Constitution; and the motion of the
non. Mfr. Bolduc, in amendment seconded
by the Hon. Mr. Pope:That this Hnsne, without derogating front the
principle of provincial autonomy or suggestlng
in what manner any province diould exorcise Its
powers In matters of education, deems it proper to regret the existence In any province of
Canada of divisions ta connection with bflingual
ochool or other national or religions questions,
and belleves that ft la ta the interest of the
Dominion at large that ail such questions should
edways lie consldered on fair and Patrlotic lines
and settled in such a way as to preserve peaca
and harmony between the different national
and religlous sections of this country, and In
accordance wlth the letter and spirit of our
And aloo the motion of the Hon.
Constitution.

Hon. Mr. DÂNIEL-I arn askéd by the
hon. gentleman from DeSalaberry to withdraw my motion for thé tirne being, and I
do so with the consent of thé Honse.
Hon. M*r. BEIQUE-I desire to make a
short survey of the position occupied by
hion. members who have spoken on this
subi ect, and to draw attention to the tact
that ail parties seem te be agreed as te
the principle or expression of opinion
covered by the main motion. The discussion which lias taken place on thie question, te my mind, does crédit te this hon.
House. The language which, has been
used ha. bean of a high toné snd very
moderate, and a wise course ha. been taken.
throughout the discussion. The motion in
arnendment, which was proposed by the
hion. member from Lauzon (Hon. Mr.
Bolduc) it will be noticed covers, for al
practical purposes, thé main motion. It
is worded somewhat diiferentiy in order
te avoid referring to any individual province, and also te make the purport of the
motion more general than the main motion.
What is the purpose of the amendrnent of
the hon. member frorn Lauzon (Hon. Mr.
Bolduc)? I t is this that this House be-

SENATE
that the fact
lieves - in the interest of the Dominion snreiy cannot be contended
at large that ail such questions. should of saying that sucb issues, whether religions
in a
aiways be considered on fair and patriotic or scbool questions, should be settied
the
lines and settled in such a way as to pre- broad spirit and i accordance with
,serve peace and harmony between the letter and spirit cf the constitution, is caldifferent national and religious sections of culated 'Wt antagonize any section of the
an insult Wo
this country and in accordance with the country. It would be rather
in
letter and spirit of our constitution." I assert that any part of the population
ther'e is not a single this Dominion would fl.nd cause for irritaamn quite sure that
this
member in this House who would be ready tion in an expression of that kind from
niatter,
to take exception to that. If there is. I hon. Hanse. In dealing with this
wouid invite him Wo say now. Will any- I have guarded against entering into the
of the question, and
body deny that ail sncb questions shouid constitutional aspect
have done the
flot be settled in the way that is mentioned I believe that other members
motion? The same. We have been careful Woavoid any
in that aznendment Wo the
We have put the
motion moved by the hon. member froin controversial question.
an
Halifax (Hon. Mr. Powver) adroits the very case on a much broader ground, namnely,
and'the mo- appeai Woail men cf common sense for fair.principle of the main motion,
the parties who
tion of the hon. member from Lauzon (Hon. play and common justice Wo
We have
Mr. Bolduc) because, reading from the are concerned in this question.
member froin Hali- rested our case on article 4 cf regulation
amendment of the hon.
terms the
fax .we find the foiiowing: "This House 17, which prohibits in express
in al
believes it is in the interest of the Do- teaching of the French language
ail questions as to schools except schoois in which that
minion at large that
which division might occur among the peo- ianguage bas heretofore been taught-wbich
new schools
pie of any province should be considered means that hundreds cf
the province
line and settled in may be established in
on a fair and patriotic
snch a way as Wopreserve peace and bar- of Ontario in which the teaching cf tie
mony between the different national and French language would be prohibited.
religions sections of the country." I fail We have also ini support cf cur case the
inspecWors appcinted
Wosee on what principle the members of the opinion cf six cf the cf Education, three
House are divided, because I find the same by the Department
and three French speakprinciple embodied in the three different English speaking
ing, who are unanimous in saying that
motions which. have been made before this
17 is unfair, and that the effect
House. The cnly grounds of division that regniation Wosuppress the teaching cf the
rests on the suggestion that it is wouid be
I can find
I am not
French ianguage in Ontario.
inadvisabie to record an expression of opin- aware that any members cf this hon.
ion of that kind for fear that it might create House have seriousiy questioned that, and
irritation in certain sections of the country. I find that even the hon. gentleman from
An additional reason which was also gîven Halifax, who moved the motion in amendis, as it is claimed by those who have given mient, spoke as foliows:
snch reason, that matters of education,
defend regulation 17.
I do
being entrusted Wothe provinces, it wonld My ownnot undertake lato that that regulation
Impression
be contrary Wothe constitution to suggest might be modlfied In the Interest cf the Frenchin what way these matters shouid be settled. speaking people of the w1hoie ccuntry.
We are not contending anything else, and
I cail the attention of hon. members to the
fact th-at in none of the motions is to be it wiil aiso be noticed that we have avoided
found any suggestion as to the manner in taking part in the dispute which bas arisen
which this question should be settled, between the schooi boards and the Departexcept that it shouid be settled in a fair ment cf Education. They may have gone
and broad spirit and in accordance with further on one side or the other than was
We ignored that entirely,
the letter and spirit of the constitution. warranted.
Therefore, it seems elementary that any hecause that was not invoived. The quesIn
motion, worded as these are, cannot impiy tion was presentedon its own merits.
any suggestion of a settiement contrary Wo speaking in the first instance, I stated as a
was
the letter or spirit of the constitution; hence proposition that the French language
As to the constitutionaily on a parity with the Engthat ground is not weli taken.
It seems
other reason which is assigned-that it may lish language in this Dominion.
hon. members, and
create irritation in certain sectionsý of the to have surprised some
gentleman from South
country-I would respectfuiiy sug-gest it especially the hon.
Hon. Mr. nEIQUE.

AiPRIL 8, 1915

Bruce. My contention does not imply that lar in Quebec. The only opposition te it
constitutionally the French language shouid' would be the teaching of the Freinch ianbe taught in any of the schools of the guage in the sehools of Quebec. la he arguing
province of Ontario. In fact, ny proposi- that point?
tion does flot irnply that constitutionally
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Very likely it is my
French should be taught even in the province of Quebec. I dlaim it would be open own iault, but I do not understand what
te the legislature of the province of Quebec, the hon. gentleman is driving at. I have,
if the contention of the other aide is correct without discussing -the question, called at-that is, if, according t. the spirit cf the tention te what, in my mind, is the effect
constitution, both the two languages should cf the two sections cf the British North
flot be taught-to prevent the teaching of America Act to .which I have referred.
the French language in Quebee, because, as Arguing on the supposition of eitber of
far as the letter of the Constitution is con- the contentions, I have expressed myself
cerned, it is sulent on that point. Ail that without giving my opinion as te whicb of
we find in the constitution is article 133 these contentions is well founded. I have
and article 131. Article 133 deciares that flot stated my opinion in the matter in one
both French and English, are official Ian- case or. the other. I bave only a very few
guages in the records and journals cf the words te add. Hon. gentlemen who speak
Dominion Parliament, and likewise ini the only one language, - the English language,
legisiative assembly of the province of Que- which is the language cf the vast majerity
bec, and section 101 declares that in al of the people cf this Dominion, do net fully
courts establisbed by this Parliament Eng- appreciate the privilege of speaking one's
lish or French may be used at the option own native tengue; the language whicb. one
cf any person. If it is contended-and I possesses witbout effort is net fully appredo net desire te enter into a discussion of ciated as it would be were that privilege
that contention-that this does net imply chalienged.' 1 amn sure that hon. gentlethat in the spirit cf the Constitution both men, the majority cf -whom apeak t~he Englanguages shouid be taught in this country, lisb language, and who no doubt value it
then I say, without any hesitation, that it
'would be very much impressed
would be within the power cf tbe legisiature very highly,
any province
of Quebec te determine that oniy the Eng- if an attempt were made ini
any other language should cf this Dominion te curtail An any shape
lish language or
be taught i the schools of the province. or form the teaching cf that language. They
Take the province of Quebec, or any other do net realize the effect of such curtailprovince, will it be found that any language ment because it has not occurred, and I arn
has been made the officiai. language in that sure it will net occur. No exception should
province? I believe not. I amn not aware bc taken te tbe motion cf the hon. -member
that there is anything of the kind. I admit from Mille Iles, and the fact that he ha.
it may be done. It i. in the power cf each raised this question. Net oniy that, but I
legislature te determine that such and such say it was bis duty, and it is within the
languages shall be officiai. languages, but s0 province cf this hon. Heuse to raise and
far it bas not been determined, and French discuas ail questions of public interest. I
and English are on an equal footing, se far quite understand exception could bave
es the Constitution is concerned, because been taken if he had suggested te this hon.
the only references te those languages lieuse legislating on that question, but so
which are to be found in the Conttitution far as ha bas limited himself te discussing
are in the two sections te which I have the question as a public question, I dlaim
called attention, and both are treated alike. that it is witbin the province of thia House
Hon. Mr. ROCHE-Dees the hon. gentle- te do se in order te enlighten the citizens
man draw any distinction between the ian- cf thîs country and prepare public opinion
guage being speken generaily and the ian- te take the proper course. On a question
cf sucb importance te a whole province,
guage bein.- taugbt in the schoois?
such as my own province. and to over 200,Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I weuld ask the hon. 000 inhabitants of the province cf Ontario,
I do members in this House speakirig that
gentleman te explain bis questions.
net understand what he means.
languagc cannot be expected to remain
Hon. Mr. ROCHE-I think my friend silent, and I arn sure that the discushave taken place will
wbich
refera te the fact that there was some dis- sions
position te ignore or prevent the general produce their fruits. 1 have toc high
of al
use of the French language. It is vernacu- an opinion of .the fairnesa

SENATE

An Act reepecting the. Essex Terminal Railway Comnpany.
An .Act respectlng the Grand Trunk Railway
Companiy of Canada.
An Act respecting the Montreal and Southern
Counties Railway Comnpany.
An Act respecting the. Canadian Northern
Ontario Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Canadian Northern
Quebec Rallway Company.
An. Act respecting the James Bay and Eastern
Railway Company.
An Act respecting the South Ontario Pacifie
Ilailway Company'.
An Act respectlng the. Southern Central
Pacifie Eatlway Company.
An Act to amend the. Independent Order of
Foresters Consolldated Act.
An Act respecting the. Titl. and Trust company, and to change Utn name to Chartered
Trust and Executor Company'.
An Act re.pectlng the Canada Preferred Insurance Company.
An Act respecting the Vancouver Lite Insuranc. Company'.
An Act to Incorporat.' Mardil Trust Company.
An Act respectlng the Edmonton, Dunvegan
and British Columbia Rallway Company.
An Act respectlng the. St Lawrence and
Adlrondack Railway Comupany'.
An Act respectlng thie Toronto Eastern Railway Company'.
An Act respectlng the British Columbia
Southern Ralway Comnpany
An Act to incorporate the Brulé, Grand
Prairie and Peace River Railway Company'.
An Act respecting the Manitoba and North
Western Railway Company' of Canada.
An Act respecting Pacifie. Peace River and
Athiabaska Railwa>' ComnISan>'.
An Act reepecting the. Vancouver, Victoria
and Eastern Railway and Navigation Company'.
An Act respecting the. Athabaska Nortiieru
ltIlway Company'.
An Act respecting the. Canadian Pacifie Railway Company'.An Act resp.ectlng the Ottawa and New 'York
Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Empire Lufe Insurance
Company' of Canada.
An Act respectlng the Huron and Brie Loan
and Savinga Company, and to change Its name
to "the Huron and Erie Mortgage Corporation."
InAct respecting the Caïualt>' Company of
Canada.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
An Act respecting the Bank of Alberta.
An Act to incorporate Colonial Bank (CanThe Senate was adjourned during plea- ada.)
An Act ta Incorporais Alberta Permanent

English speaking peopl -e in this Dominion
to beliave that, on thinking over the question, they wilI fail to reach the conclusion
that the dlaim is a just anc, and that the
French population af the province of
Ontario is flot entitled ta some reasonable
relief. Only lant night a case was men'tioned to me of a servant in this city whose
parents reside in the northern part of
Ontario. That servant has been attendmng
achools in which the French language is
not taught. She has learned Englisb. and
is able ta write and read only English, and
in comrnunicating witb ber parents she
has to write in English; but as ber parents
do flot know a word of English, they are
ohliged ta get somebody who knows English
to translate ber lattera, and ta write ber
ini reply. Will it ha claiined, when you
have ta deal with such a large population
as 200,000 inhabitants-who rnay be 400,000
or 600,000 five, ten or fifty years hencethat they should b. placed in that position?
It seems but fair ta expect that ail reasanable ipeople will unita in arriving at the
conclusion that relief should b. given. As
ta the manner in which the relief sbould
be given, we have flot suggested anytbîng;
it is for the Gavernment af the province of
Ontario, ta say and decide, but these people
ehould flot be lef t to have recaurse before
the courts. The Govcrnment itself, it seems
ta me, should corne ta their relief, ançi 1
arn confident that before many years clapse
we will see that praper relief bas been furnished.
Han. Mr. DAVID-May I intervene ta
sa>' that the Deputy Governor of the Gavernar General 'will be 'here at four o'cloek,
and 1 therefore propose now that we adjaurn during pleasure.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I will bave the
floor afterwards.

sure.

Trust Company.

BILLS ASSENTED
An Act ta amend
rund Act, 1914.

TO.

the Canadian

Patriotie

An Act ta amend the Senate and House af
Commons Act.

An Act respecting the. Alberta Central Railway Company.
An Act respecting the. Athiabaska and Grand
Prairie Rallway Company.
An Act respectlng the Brantford and Hamilton Electrlc Railway Company.
An Act respecting the. British Columbia and
Whiite River Railway Company.
Hon. Mn. BEIQUE.

An Act respectlng the. Western Dominion
Rallway Company.'
An Act respecting the. Calgary and Fernie
Rallway Company'.
An Act respecting the. Canadian Western Railway Company'.
An Act ruespcting the Montreal. Ottawa and
Georgian Bay Canal Company.
An Act respecting the. Toronto Terminals
Rallway Company'.
An Act ta incorporate Entwistle and Alberta
Soùthern Railway CompDany'.
An Act respecting the Simcoe, Grey and Bruce
Rallway Company.

APRIL 8, 1915

An Act respecting the Toronto, Hanilton and
Buffalo Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Kettie Valley Railway
Company.
An Act to incorporate Fraser Valley Terminal
Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Canadian Northern
Bailway Company.
An Act respectlng certain patents of the
Lohmann Company.
An Act î'especting the Sterling Lite Assurance Company of Canada.
An Act to amend the Bank Act.
An Act respecting the -Van Buren Bridge
Company.
An Act to Incorporate Northern Pacific and
British Columbia Rallway Company.
An Act for the relief of William Ewart
New.
An Act for the relief of Helene Suzette
Baxter Douglas.
An Act respecting the Edmonton Dunvegan
and British Columbia Raiiway Company.
An Act respecting the patent of the National
Wood Distilling Company.
An Act for the relief of Lottie Thorndike.
An Act respecting the Grain Growers' Grain
Company, Limited.
An Act for the relief of Adami Ciarce 'Anderson.
An Act for the relief of Alexander Xelntyre.
An Act for the relief of Violet Burnett
Delmege.
An Act to amnend the Custoi Tarif!, 1907.
An Act for the relief of .Arthur Ernest
Birdadil.
An Act for the relief of Thomas Jefferson
Moore.
An Act for the relief of Ailes Beckett
An Act for the relief of Austin McPbail
Bothwell.
An Act for the relief of Agnès Gravelle.
An Act for thc relief of Clara Elizabeth
Darneil.
An Act for the relief of Thoms Batin

Harries.

An Act for Uic relief of William John Owen
Delaney.
An Act for Uic relief of Edith May Webster
Boydell.
An Act for the relief of William Robert
Delaney.
An Act respectlng the Premier Trust Company.
An Act respecting Uic North 'West Lit e Asnsurancé Company.
An Act respecting the Moncton and Northumberland Strait RaIiway Company.
An Act to amend Uic Judges Act.
An Act to supplement the Revenue required
to meet War EIxpenditures.
An Act to authorise certain extensions 0f
time to Insurance Companies.
An Act respecting certain Issues of Dominion
Notes.

After corne time, tihe House was Tesumed.
Hon. Mr. OHOQUETTE resumed the debate. He said: When I epoke on the main
motion, I presented an argument in favour
of the resolution, and 1 think no-body
s hould find fault with the speech I then
delivered. 1 am not going much oiitside
of that, but I wish to cite the words of

a good Irish priest onthe same lines. Before proceeding 1 wish to say that 1 quite
agree with the hon. gentleman from De
Salaberry (Hon. Mr. Beique> when he said
that nobody could object to the fraining of
the main recolution, -and we could find
stili leas objection to the amendment. I
that anybody can find fauît
do not ae
with thé first four or five uines of the
irregular subamendmtent, as I declared it
te be by my vote. Bo far wq ail agree.
There can be no objection to dsclairing t.hat
it will be in the interest of the oommunity
et large that this question should be cetled ini an ainicable and peaceful way, and
that aIl «,bbc rightc and privileges of those
affected Iby il should be respccted. But
it je the last part of the eubamendment
moved by the hon. gentleman from Halifaex
to which thete is o'bjection. It reads as
followc:
That, inasmuch as thc subWct of education la
one of those by the British North Anierîca Act,
1867, ecsnmittedl to the provinces, any suggestion volunteered by the Senate as te, the manner
in which any province should exercise its pewer
would bc contrary to the spirit of the Constitution and calculated to lntenuify and extend any
divisions of feeling that now chat

I remind hon. gentlemen tbis je a re.
proacb te, many hon. .members of this
Hou-se who have voted many times in thé
other House on a similar resolution-not
in regard te the intereat of this province.
not in favour of a section of tbe cornmunity in this country, but in regard to
outjcide matters belonging te -the British
Parliament, and when I look around tbis
Houce I can see 20 or 25 members who were
members of the other Hou se with myseif,
when we voted unanimously in f avour of
Home Rule for I-relaxxd. The Federal Parliament had nothing te, do with that question: It .could only be ésettled by the
British Parliament. What objection can
the two dozen senators who were then
members of the Houe of Gommons and
voted for Home Rule, -have te th-is House
expressing an opinion in the interest of
peace in this country and that the French
people cbould hé fairly treated? As the
hon. gentleman from De Salabsrry said,
we are net leguiclating; we are simply propocing *a reselution. We are juet eaying,
as frse citizens of this ceuntry and mcmbers of this House, that in the forum
w-here_ tbis question ehould be eetitled
they ought te take means te adin
way
peaceful
a
il
in
just
the interest of the country at large.
Te that there cannot be any objection. Now
there is another point, and it ie the main

SENATE

expect and gray to
and we
reason for which I amn now standing on xny sure. that their confidenbtly the cause of treedomn
efforts ln
God
feet. 1 have been surprised, and it is with may be crowned with success. It wll be Our
sorrow that I have seen the unholy alliance duty to give themn every assistance that lieu ln
of the Orangemen and the Irish Catholics of our power.
On'tario. They have a right t0 join bands if
Mind you, men of that country making
they please, but as a member of this war against the Minister of Justice and the
House, as a citizen of 'this country and as Asquith Government! Now the Irish cana French Canadian, 1 arn more than not refuse to stand with the French on this
astounded to see that the Irish Catholics question when they know that we have
with a few exceptions are now joining bands fought for them, and educated and aided
with those who have always been against them when they needed help in this counthem for centuries not only in Ontario try. I arn not going to draw any more conbut on the other side of the water, and are clusions, but I feel that it is my right to, say,
now licking the bands of those whipping in the face of this lecture of the Grand
them. If the Orangernen wish to stand with Master of the Orange Order 'wherein hle says
the Irish Catholics, 1 have nothing to say, that t.hey will fight against the Home Rute
b>ut when they fought against Home Ruie Bill, that if the ITish want the French of
we stood by the Irish Catholics. If I arn Quebec to help them, we will be there notsurprised to see this unholy alliance, if is withstanding what they have done, because
cheering to us that a few English speaking we are prepared to stand for justice, even
Protestants in this House have stood up if those for whom we have to fight do not
for fair play and justice. It is te their glory feel at heart that they should stand by us.
that they have done so. If is probably bePex haps I arn speaking wîth a littie feelcause fhey are better educated, knc'w the ing on this question, but it se--ms to me
French people better and sp-eak their Ian- this is the time to speak the truth and
guage; 'that is one of the best fruits of to appeal at leaut to the generosity of those
their higher education. Gentlemen of Vh-is whorn we have helped in the past and are
House who do not belong to my race, reli- ready to, help in the future. 1 appeal most
gion or party have spoken in favour o! this earnestly to the Irish Catholice to stand for
resolution, and I congrafulate the member the rights of the French peopla as the
for Russell (Hon. Mr. Edwards) and Comp- French have stood for theirs. I recali .the
ton (Hon. Mr. Pope) and Moncton (Hon. eloquent words of an Irish priest who two
Mr. McSweeney) for the way they treatoed years ago spokie in Quebec in the name
the question, and the justice they of the true Irish race. I shail taire the
claimed for our race. On the other hand, liberty to, read his remarks, which I have
we have seen the Orangemen fighting the found in the report of the Congres s in
Irish Roman Catholics ail over this Dom- Quebec. held in June, 1912. Father Quinn
iein, and alse in Ireland on the Home Rule was 75 years old. He had been for
question. They have actually gone te the 50 years an Irish priest in the county
extent of arming fhemselves to fight and of Richmond. which is a mîxed comkîli the Nationalists if the Home Rule Bill munity. He was beloved by the French,
should become law. No later than three by the Irish, by the Scotch and the
weeks ago, in this very country, where har- Englisli, and by Protestants as well
mony and justice should prevail, I read an as <Jatholics. He carne to Quebec during
say
account of a reception given to the Orange that Congress, and claînied the right Wo
Lodge of Ontario Est. In the Citizen of something, as at that tirne Mgr. Fallon,
the l8th March last is a report of what who, I regret to, say, belongs Wothe saa
the Grand Master said about the Irish faith as mine, but whorn 1 amn not going
Home Rule question. This is what hie says: te follow on a question like that, had
"The Home Rule Bill he said has, through begun there bis insidious campaign against
At that
the treachery cf the Asquith Governmenl/'- the French language in Ontario.
not treachery of the French people bu.t Congress Father Quinn, who is a good Irish
Catholic, speaking in French, asked pertreachery cf the Asquith Government:
few remarks, and here
Bihas, through the mission to make a
The Home Rule
treachery of the Asquith Government, been is part of what hie said:
passed during the politicai truce which te
paîtrictic Unioniste bail consented to for the
period of the war. The matter is ciosed until
peace has been estabUIshed, but Immediately
that daY cornes, the loyal Unionists of Ireland
will prepa.re t0 resist by every means ln their
power the enforcement ef this iniquitous mealion. Mr. CHOQUETTE

I do not belong by birth te, the French fami1Y. The language of my youth was a foreign
one, and if the dangerous honour bas befallen
upon me to speak in this intellectual and patriotic ceie1brauon, it is on account of my being
a child of adoption and a son ef Ireland.

APRIL 8, 1915
o! how we respect the r.ights and the 'langnage o! lothers. He contimued:
table. Tii. French tongue--it la mine-es It
The French Canadian people were aloo, one
was yours. -They spoke that language; the. deMotiier Country, anld
But, ladies and gentlemen. the. adoption was

complete and I dlaim my place at the. paternai

voted prient to whom my fatiier owed hie peacefui deatb ln a atrqnge land, witb a laut pardon
for the. oppressors of Ireland. They upoire that
language, tbose Who adopted -the. ive year old
orphan; tbey spoke that lang^uage,' 4h05. Who
educated une during'my youtii. It is still. the
language of the. old man, and It la in that ia.nguage tbat I amn happy to-day to publicly expreuu the. gratitude wiiicb the sons of Ireland
shouîd profess for the. country of adoption; for
French Canada. Canada, on two differesit occasions.wau kept under the English fiag bY
French valour. But tbat wau flot aufficient to
prove your loye.ity. During haîf a century you
were compeUled to struggle. before the. courts. in
Parliament, and ln publie meetings. Blood even
waz shied on battlefieldu to secure your liberties. French Canadians, you may witb pride.
claim the. right to speak your language, you
paid a sufflciently bigh prie for tbat rlgbt.
But after coming out victorlous from the assaults of lus enemiJes, the. Frenchi Canadian race
was destined to learn uomething stlll more
painful1; the. Ingratitude and treason uf too
large a numnber of Its frlends. This bringa me
to the. troubling question of the. relations b.tween the, race Of mY origin and the race of
my adoption. Cruel'irony; deplorable contradiction; tiiese two races Whio do flot seem able
to live close to on. anotiier on this land of
America, their ancestors were ln Europe, Inseparable allies. Cremone, Fontenoy, Langfleld,
you are witnessem thereof; tbe warriori of the
Emeraid Ile autoulshed you by their valout
and heroismn wbicb resulted ln great victorien
for Frranc.L
Il was in 1847, a famine stUlI more terrible
than the preceding one threatened the Irish
In - the
people w1tb complete extermination.
course of three years more tiien four Milons
of tiiese pour wretciies, beving eucaped death
miraculously, took the, road of exile. Perambulating giiostu, they lef t tbeir country, weeplng, ln search of iiospitallty on more fortunate
shiores. It was the. will of Providence that we
land after two months at sea, on tiie shores
A
of Grosse l.e (30 miles below Quebec).
disease wiiicii science could locate nowliere chue,
added Its terrible torture
tii. flever of famine
to our already great sufferinge.
Canada, bowever, saw tiiose unfortunate peopIe coming and welcosned them as brotiiers.
Moved by compausion. Canadien prieste, fearleas of the. epldemic, fought for the. glory uf extending assistance to them. Let tiie Canadien
clergy b. blessed for tiieir iieroism.
My parents of adoption, ln order to enable
me to preserve the language of my famihY. iiad
placed ni?, quit. young, in an English sciiool.

So we see that not only naw, but for
50 years back the French Canadian was
will.ing and anxious that -the Engl.ish language should bo taught and spoken, and se
when they took that yaung man o! five
years old, the first thing they did, after
caring for him, was to send him to, an
English school in order to preserve bis
language. You bave there the best proof

day, abandoned by their
they became orpiians. An effort was made to
Impose upon. tbern a strange, unknown language, and they said: 'IIt ia flot the language
of our soul, nor of our liberty." Af ter long
and eersevering efforts, they a.t lant obtained
the official privilege ut using French on an
equal footing wlth English. They oesved for
liberty but nover attempted to restrain the.
liberty of otiiers. That ia my Ideal; and that
la wiiy that people iiad my affection and preference.
Must we add that descendants--in smail
numbers tiiank God--of thos whorn your
fathers cared for wiien dylng fraen hunger and
trembling with fever, are to-day trying to deprive you of the right to speak your own language and tinder the. pretext of religion to Impose a forelgn tongue on you.
I deeply regret it but these attaccs will have
the effect of strengthening your nationa4 sentiment.and your love of the maternai tongue.

When a man occupying a high position.
and venerated ts~we might suppose, dares
to raise bis voice against the use of tihe
French languiage in the preaching of the
Gospel, there will al'ways 'ho !ound an eloquent patriot to vindicate and claim fuit
recognition o'! the rights o! bis race with
-a noible and respect!ul firmness. He continued:
Au long as the st Lawrence flowu towards,
the. ocean each wave wiil carry towards the
shores of the. Motiier Country the. Who1 Of a
French Word. Ais long as wiU subsaet thls forest of steeples so much admired my Monoeigneur de Loubin-Januon, the Word of God will
b. preached ln the tongue of Bossuet, Fenelon
and Lacordaire. Au long as there wilI be, on
1111. Canadian and Ainerican soit descendants
of the firet settiers, tiiey will always dlaim, au
a sacred right, the privilege of speaking the
language of Samuel de Champlain, Mgr. de
LavaI and Maisonneuve, flot only ln Quebec,
but at ait pointe where there la a French grouP,
flot oniy among the family, but eX achool, ln
ciiurch, before the courts, and ln legislative asemblies; not au a favour but as a naturel
rlght, guaranteed by the Constitution and by
the. British Crown.
T2his rigiit muat b. aclcnowledged. by everybody and especlally by my own compatriote.
An Irisiiman, by nature, bau a generous mind.
The real Ireland. as God made it, with the
assistance of the. Patric<u and ColonThans and
their successoral la entitled to and shall alwaYB
have my admiration and my love. it lu3of ber.
and flot of an illegîtimate and disflgured Irela.nd, that I proclalm mnyself the. proud and devoted son.
Whatever the. situation may be,_j, the son of
a courageous mother, wrestllng from ltu -ofpre8sors, plece by piece. the. iniieritance of Uns
liberty. I declare to my friends and to my
Frenchi Canadian benefactors:*I Struggie fearlessly and incessantly; act as O'Connell and
Redmond; you bave rIgbt and juuticeon your
side; your cause la one that muet be imperisbable."

SENATE

1 ask hon. members cf the House, especi- here. I dlaim tjhat the Senate should be
ally rny hon. colleagues cl Irish origin, laigely an educator of the people. of Canada
inside and eutside of thbis House, te think Froin this Chamber there sho'uld go eut
of these words, and te contrast 'them with tbrough the entire length and bread<th of
the wcrds used soene twe 'weçks ago by Canada every principle that iB in the best
the grand master cf the Orange Order. 1 interest of Canada, and it Whould. ha perdo net want-te raiee any leeling. I have feotly 'withi'n the province o! this Hou8e te,
nothing te say against theOrange lodges; diseuse and- express its opinion upon every
they are doisig what they suppose is rigbt, social, moral or other question. Senie han.
but on the other hand, when I put before gentlemen may be pleased that there may
them the example cf the venerable priest flot be a vote on this question, but as far
whose words I recail, I have a right te ask as 1 amn concerned, if a vote should be
the leaders in the dîfferent provinces te taken, I would vote exactly in the Uine that
urge their governments te give the French 1 have speken, and in dcing so I feel thaît
populatien thxe measure cf justice te which. 1 would do w.hat is right. Whether we take
they are entitled, as we in this country
we have given expression te
have been asking cf the British Parliament a vote or net,
as far as 1 arn
tinie and time again te give them Home our views, and the results,
concerned, in that respect are perfectly
Itule.
satisfactory.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I de net desiré te
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Before the motion that
deal with the main question again; 1
eirnply wish te say a few 'words on thie amn- is te be moved by the hon. member for St.
endwent te the amendment. Wlhen I John (Hon. Mr. Daniel) is put, I wish te
raised the question of order, I be]ieved that say a few words. I want te repeat what I
the proposed amendment was net an arnend- said when 1 spoke on this subject in the
ment. Let that be as it may, if the hon. first place, that I was net induced. by anygentleman who moved> the amendment- body te make this motion. I alone conand 1 give hi.m credit for discussing every oeived and worded it, and put it before thé
question which cernes before this House in House, and I was; net influenced. in any
a judicial manner-was right in bie con- way by anytedy in this matter. I thank
tention, he sheuld. when this question was
members cf the Senate for taking
first intreduced have opposed its introduc- the hon.
tion és one not being within the purview my word of henour. Any member of this
of this assenibly and one that sheuld not Chamnber who gives bis word cf honour
be deait with here. Having permitted dhould be trusted by the other niembers.
the question te be fully, or very I do not thank these outside of this House
largely 'discussed, and then moving an who have net thought proper te take my
smendment te the amendment and not word, and who continue te assert that I
only thst, but preceeded te discuss was influenced by somebody and by party
the merits cf the whele question, I 6ay, consideratiens. I can only pity themn for
with ahl respect te him (fer he is an eider speaking as they do. Probably they do se
parliamentarian than mysel!), that he -was because they cannot understand that a
wrong. If he was. right in his contention public man may be henest and guided by
that it was flot a s1.ýbject which elhould other motives than those which would
corne before this House, he should net have govern themselves. I pity them because
discu,-sed it, 'but should have confined hlm- they cannot Vhînk better cf tlheir fellow-men
self entirely te his ainendiment. The ques- than tbhey do. It must be contrary te their
tion having been fully discussed it is net nature, contrary te their morals and connecessary that there should -be a -vote. trary te their intellectual ability. Sorne of
There seems te 'be a desire on the part of the gentlemen, though I arn glad te say very
sorne Iion. gentlemen te prolong the de-. few, belong te rny own nationality; their
bate, and it is just possilble that it rnay ha
and insinuations have been
se .prolonged that there rnay net ha a vote accusations
country.
upon it. Whether there is or is net, the quoted in different papers of this
The ques- Hon, gentlemen, my race 'bas been abused
effect will be precisely the saine.
tien bas been discussed very lfully and in in this way before, and there is net a
a very equitable and moderate rnanner. For single nation fighting for its liberties and
that I arn, as one of those interested for its rights that bas net been betrayed
But I do
pleased. by some of its children.
very well
matter,
the
in
Personally I disagree with 'the view that net think that these people should be
this question is net a proper oe te discuss taken into consideration
Hon. Mr. CHOOTTETTE.

APRIL 8, 1915

I vant te eay a 'word about provincial
rights. Sorne bon. members cf this Bouse
bave expressed surprise that I, baving aiways been a champion cf provincial rights,
sbeuhd have rnoved snob a motion as this.
Well, hon. gentlemen, I do net think that
allegation vas serious. I cannot understand bow a motion like mine could encroach upon provincial rights. If I bad
tbought it vas an encreichrnent, 1 veuld
neyer have laid it before this House. IL
bais been said also that -my motion, and the
discussion and the vote which rnight be
Laken, vould intensify the racial divisions
which now exist. Well, hon. gentlemen.
suppose you have two neighbours who are
quarelling ail the trne, and always on the
eve cf fighting, you go te them and say
"Gentlemen cease your quarelling and try
and arrange your dilfficulties in an amicable
way.- Couhd you be accused cf intensifying the division that existi between thernP
That is a parallel case te the present one.
In condluding my main speech I had hoped
At would not.be contended that the Senate
had no right te consider much a question
as this. I clairned that such a contention
vould be contrairy te the spirit of our tn
stitution, and te the intent cf the Fathers cf
Gonfederation. wbo estabiished the Senate.
I viii content mymeif now by adding that
iL vil be contrazy te the precedents estabIlshed in this country and te the vieva
expremmed by morne cf the most eminent
men cf Canada and cf this Chamber. In
1882, when the question cf Home Rule vas
brought before this Chamber, the objection
vas made as te the jurisdictien cf this
Boeuse, and tbe resolutions which were
presented were seconded by the hon. nieraber from Halifax. It waî the hon. member
from Halifax-who was then, as hie is nov,
one of the rnost useful members of the
Senate-who answered the objections and
said it could flot be contended that the
Senate had ne juriediction and had net the
rigbt te niake a declaration and paiso a
resolution in connection with the situation
in Ireland. I mnust admit that I vas infiuenced a great deal by those precedents,
and by the opinion cf the hon. member
from Halifax, in taking the decision that I
have taken te bring this motion before the
Senate. Se that I have reason te be surprised that tbe marne bon. member frem
Halifax should, in this case, have centended that on a question vhich is purely
Canadian and -vhich interests a great part
of our population, we had .ne juriediction
and ne right te express our viewi, or even

àte make a simple prayer. I will tepeat
what has been said before-that resolutions
of the sarne kind had been adopted by the
House of Gommons in 1886 and 1887. The
marne objection vas made as to jurisdiction,
as to the right ci the Houme of Commons
Ldeal with the Irish question. It was
said at that time that that question vas
within the exclusive juriadiction of the
British Parliament, but vhen a vote was
taken, the resolutions were pamsed almôst
unanimously. In the Legisiative Âmsernbly
of Quebec in 1897-I vas then a member of
that House te know -it teck placeremolutiens were introduced to congratulate Mr.
Gladstone on the Bill vhich lie had brought
before the British Parliament on the Irish
question. Objection vas raised and the
Hon. Mr. Flynn, now a judge in cur province, met that objection by expressing the
maine opinion as that expressed. by the hon.
member for Halifax-that even a provincial legislature had what we cali the expressing power. Well, hon. gentlemen, if
the lieuse cf Gommons, if the Senate, if
even a* provincial legisiature had what ve
caîl the expres.ing power, bey eau it be
said that this Senate bias net the saine right.
the sames expressing pcover, the vight jto
consider such a questien, wbich, as I have
already said, interest sem great a part cf
Our population?> And remember, hon. gentlemen, that each Urne that Irish question
came before the lieuse cf Gommàons, before the Senate and befere the provincial
legisiature, it vas more than a prayer, because in smre of these resolutions, the means
by which the Irish difficulties rnight be
settled vere indicated, wbile in the present
case ne means are indicated for the settling of the question ve are discussing.
When the hon. memaber for Halifax was
speaking-remembering the sympatby vbich
bas been expressed s0 rnany Limes by the
French Canadians tevards their Irish countrymen-I could net belp thinking of the
famoua words cf Julius Casar vhin he vas
assassinated. Perceiving amongst his assassins Brutus, wbo vas reputed te be bis
son, bie looked at him snd said, «'Tu quo
qui fili mi," vbich means in Englisb, "Event
you, rny son." Well, I vas tempted te look
at the hon. member -for Halifax and say,
Tbe first part
"E-van yen, brother."
of the amendrent offered by my hon.
friend from Halifax is similar.te the first
part cf the motion wbich I meved. That is
net an ameudment at ahl. If my motion is
objectionable, the amendment cf the hon.
member for Halifax was equally se.

SENATE

and I
The last part, because it is based on the they would take the same position
my motion
assumption that my motion, as amended by arn sure would vote for
gentleman
the hon. member from Lauzon, suggested a as amended by the hon. would be
bilingual echool from Lauzon, because they
mode by which the present
in accordance
difficulty could be settled, and there is obliged to admit that it is
which they
in the motion indicating that. The with their views and the views
nothing
contradictory held when they created this Chamber. And
last part of the ameudment is
more completely that
to, the firat part where it says that those in order to establish
words of
should be settled s0 as to, pre- assertion, I shall repeat the last John A.
difficulties
in this country. the celebrated speech made by Sir
serve peace and harmony
of the French
and adds the atatement -that tha Senate Macdonald when the question
flot make any suggestion. Bo that language came up. He said:Ébould
In the narne of humanlty, in the name of
hon. gentlemen who vote for the amendof tlis
ment of the hon. gentleman from Halifax civilization, in the name of the progrees In the
our friends
obliged te, vote yes and noeat ' he country, I appeal to ail to Party, to forget
will be
without
on. House, may be anreference
go
inoonvenierice -when
The
slame time. gentemaamendment of the erywhat to their constituents on both aides,they forreembes
frm Hlifa
to
eryback
reembes
gentema Hhifa
frm
merge eVErymuch the old god Janus who had two get that for a moment, and to,to make Canada,
One thing in the "great desire
directions.
faces looking in opposite
French and Engiish, one people, without any
of the hon. members of this House said the hostile feeling. without any differense of opinother day in my presence, and-in the ion. Let us forget this cr3'. and we shaI1 have
tht. unfortunate fire
presence of some hon. members of this our reward in seeing from so anial- a spark,
House, that my motion was nothing, and which lies been kindied and we shail go on as
for ever.
that it could be added to the prayer which extinguished goîng on since 1867 as one peowe have been
without doîng pie, wîth one objet, looking to one future.
the Speaker rend every day
foundation of one
any harm. 1 do not think my motion de- and expecting to lay the
such an honour as te, be added to the great counltry.
serves
In 1890, speaking .on the motion to
prayers which are read in this House every
Terriday. but that remark shows that my motion abolish the French in the Northwest
be very unoffensive. I am sure that tories, Sir John saîd:
must
We have a constitution now under which ail
my hon. IFrend would not vote against the
having
prayer, so that I do not see how he eu British subjectz bave absolute equallty, religion,
the amendment when he cou- equal riglit of every kind, of language,
vote againat
tends it deserves te be added te the prayer. property and person.
I leave to your consideration the eloAnother prayer wh.ich we recite every day
"Lead us not inte temptation," which quent remarks of the late chiettain which
says
means that the hon. gentlemen of this ahould be engraved on the front -of our
te
House must be on their guard in order not Parliament in order te be an example
to be deterred from doing their duty, ini all future generations.
order that they may always put country
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I understand that
above party, that they may alWays place
others who have something to
justice and fair-play above party and above there are
on
It is not sufficient to sgay in regard to the new light thrownneis
any consiaeration.
practice, the subject especially in regard to the
pray, hon. gentlemen, but we must
that has been openad
and we must give effect te the noble feelings avenue of thought
in the prayer that we up by the hon. member for DeSalaberry
which are contained
Beique) and also by the very
recite every day. 1 do not see how hon. (Hon. Mr.
froun
speech made by my friendand 1
House can refuse
gentlemen o! this amndd b.th ho.to vote eloquant
gn-Grandville (Hon. Mr. Choquebte)
a
formy otin
odes theadeornmesin o the debatE
Allusion has been
tieman from Lauzon.
ftedbt
on in to mv h dormn
made very often to what is going
We have a very thin
Europe and to, the war. If the soldiers of until te-morrow.
osbrlaquum
France and England who are fighting in
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-I withdrew my mo
the battlefia]ds of Europe knew what
on at prebeut in Canada, I tlîink tion because the hon. gentleman wi8hed
was going
The continuation of the debat(
they would say, " For God's sake oease your to speak.
of thE
fratricidal quarrels. Be united, as we are. was in my name, but on account
in *the interest of the fact that I arn not feeling in condition t(t
on the battlefields
that i
Empire, o! Canada, of civilization,- and if take part in the debate, I moved week
day
the fathers of Confederation were present should be adjourned until this
Hon. Mr. DAVID.

APRIL 8, 1915
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I amn not surprised,
and the hon. gentleman having spoken 1 but the facts are plain.
and .1 mak2
would insist on my motion,
it now-4hat the *debate be adjourned until
ADULTERATION ACT A MENDMENT
1h.s day week.
BILL.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN- .Before that motion
is.put I desire te meve in amendment thal
resolved iself into a ComThe .Heuse
the dabate be adjeurned until to-morrow.
on Bull (114) An Act te
te place myself on record in this mittee of the Whole
1 want
for DeSalaberry amend The Adulteration Act.
matter. The hon. member
(In the Committee.)
<Hon. Mr. Beique) has.-made a very important statement and lias givan te the
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Has my hon. friend
Senate and the country a new idea which
cf Can- the leader of the House any remarks te
will startie ail educational circies
Bill?
ada, especially in the province cf Quebac. make upon -this
suppose that many of. the memI de net
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As I said yesterbers e'cauglit on" but it is cf importance day. the Bill introduces ne new principle
that it sheuld be theroughly underateerd. .into the law. We legislated on this quesHon. Mr. TAYLOR-I rise te a point tion in such a way last year as to render
the Act very largely impracticable. The
o! order and the hon. gantleman will kir
The only question on ebject cf this Bill is to adjust the law to the
Iy take his seat.
which the hon. member can speak now is conditions which we reahly have to face, se
that we may be able to carry into effect the
on the motion for adjournment.
1 have before
arn giving reasens object 'that we have in view.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I
place. me the legisiation of lest session. There is
why the adjournment cannot taka
no difference whatever in the principle.
Gan he net understand that?
The principle of the Bill of last session was
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-We wilI -have the that the word "'maple" should be used and
point cf erder decided first.
made applicable only te pure maple proin the legisiation
Hon. Mr. CLORAN4-There les ne point ducts. Through an errer
be
I amn giving resens why the we enacted, the word "maple" could nct
of order.
used as to maple preducts at ail, and this
take place.
adjournmant shouhdnet
Bill is meant te correct that errer as wel
The SPEAKER-I decided that the me- as te make the Act more ipracticable. Lt
tien was carried.
aise increases some of the penalties.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The hon. Speaker
Hen. Mr. BOSTOCK-I should like te
cannet decide anything sittlng down. He draw my hon. friend's attention te a smal
must stand up and put the question.
matter in connectien with the side note.
The SPEAKER-I did rise.
Lt refers te the manufacture cf adulterated
maple sugar or maple syrup. Lt would look
did net.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Ne, you
as though we were trying te make them
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-4jrder, order.
manufacture adulterated stuif.
rise te rny feet and novî
The SPEAKER-I
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-When the Bill
I have decided that the motion is carried.
was introduced inte the Gommons the view
cf Inland
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I appeal from th( cf the Department administrationRevenue,
cf the
the
decision ef the Chair if I have te stand charged with
play of this kinÉ Adulteration Act, was that the Bill should
alone. I want ne unfair
from any one on the floor cf the Hou se oi be made more elastic than it was hast
session, so as te permit cf the manufacture
from the Chair.
cf compounds or imitations cf maple syrup
SPEAKER-Order.
The
se long as those compounds or imiHon. Mr. CLORAN-I appeal from thq tatien products were properly marked
decision of the Chair.
indicating what they contained. When the
Gommons the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Order Bill reached the Heuse cf
SHouse did net view that policy faveurably.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The hon. gentiemai They thouglit it desirable in the public
lias ne right to cahi order.
interest that there should be ne cempounds.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The motion te appea
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Hear, hear.
is net seconded.
8-25
REV!SED

EDITION

ÉE'NATiý'

Haln. Mr. LOUGHEED-But that the
Bill should b. even less flexible than it
was last session~; so that now the policy cf
this Bill is to confine the producta of maple
mugar and syrup to the pure and unadulterated article.
H on. Mr. BOSTOCK-Should we net
change the aide note, which ia rather misleadingP
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The aide note is
mnot part cf the statute. However, the aide
note would be correct; it deals with the
manufacture of adulterated maple ayrup or
The
maple sugar because it prohibits it.
aide note imply indicates what ia the object of the section.
The. clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. WATSON, from the committee,
reported the Bill with amendments, which
were concurred in.
Senate adjourned until three o'clock tomorrow.

TEE

SEZ<TE.

Fridzy, Apt.il 9, 1915.
The. Acting SPEAKER (Hou. Mr. Bolduc)
took -theChair at Three c'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedingé.
ALIEN POPULATION IN IPORCUPINE
DISTRICT.
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK inquired:
1. Rias the attention of the Government been
called ta a 4eadlng article ln the Montreal

Many of these have mavings ln the
a menace
variaus local banks, the result of thrlf t and
industry, but there le no evidence that they are
sendlng morney to Germany or Austria, ln tact
lt ie next ta impossible for them to do so.
(2) The men e.rrested for drlling at -joili
Porcupine belonged to a society lcnown ae the
«Polleh Palcone Alliance of America." an organisation founded 23 years mgo ln this country
for the purpose of accompllehlng the palitical
freedom ot Poland, and bas nothlng to do with
the preeent war situation. The majority ef ie
Their
membere are of Russian nationallty.
driIllng le dons without arme, and with no
smn2ster intent
(3) The attempt to destroy a magazine ot
the Niplsaing Mines Company was the work
of a German Pole, crezed wlth drinl..--"
been dlnniased b>' tbat company, and was done
for reverge.
The whole situation la well In bond and
there is no cause for uneaelnems.

ABSENCE 0F SPEAKER LANDRY.
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I desire to, eall
the attention of the Governsnent too a
rumour emanating from this, House and
circulating in 'the country Vhat the Hon.
Speaker of the 6enate has, sent in his
resignation. I ehould like to know -if the
Funlour je correct, and, il mc, tihe reasone
for the resignation. We 'have sa rig¶it to
make this inquiry 1because it is a puiblic
tmatter, and yesterday rwe were tbold by the
Clerk of the House tVhat Hon. Mr. Landiry,
our Speaker, was unavoidably absent, and
the leader of the Goverument inoved thaL
the hon. senator f ro7n Lauzon, take the
Chair. It appears now-and I know personally-'that Qie Speaker is flot absent
but is in his room in this building, and
according to our information, bas 'been En
negotiation -with t.he -leader of the Government, with the Clerk of the House and 'with
the temporary Speaker. If the rumour is
correct the House would 11ke to know il
the Goverient is going to -accept' the
resignation and to replace His Honour per.
manently.

Heraid of the 3rd of Ajiril, 1915, commenting
on the. conditions exlstlng in the Porcupine district among the allen population there, and
atatlng that considerable aume of money are
belng sent out of Canada by these people ta
Austria and German>'?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Govern2. What stepe are belng takien ta stop theae
people drilling and tram sendlng money out of -ment bas no information -whatever as to
Canada as therein mentloned?
what the intentions of the Speaker are, or

as to the reasons of bis aibsence, save and
except the fact that the Olerk of tihe Senate
announced in his place yeste'rday that the
Speaker was unavoidaJbly absent, and in
Bay that special. oflicere detailed by me have pursuance of that etatement, the fienate,
invemtigated conditions ln northern Ontario, in- according to law, appointed a Speaker durcludlng Porcupine, perlodicaily since the corn- ing his absence.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have reoeved
the foflowing answer to the hon. gentlemnan's question:
In answer to yaur note or Yesterday I beg te
mencement of the war, and
(1) Whilst there are a cornDaratlvély emal
number of subjets of Germany, a.nd a la.rger
number of tiiose of .&ustro-Hungary in the emplay af the mining companles, they are ail reported ta be peaceeb>' lnclined and in no way
Bon. Mr. BOSTORK.

THIRD READINGS.
Bill (106) An Act fo arnend the Rlepresentation Acf, 1914.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.

APRIL 9,1915

of Gonimons. fer some reason the Governnment has seen fit te amend it by adding a
couple cof sections wiiich practically doaway 'with any value it might -have. With;
reference te the. bandling o-f grain in the
West, I cannet understand 'bow the. GovCOMMONS AMflNDMENTS CONSIDuED.EM
ern'rent came te make the ahipper a parti
toe Ià.lss if ther. should b.e any. As a
The Orders of! the Day Ibeing cai*ledl:
-the grain is loaded on 'Lhe
Cona!deratiofl of the amendments made by matter of fact
the House of ComimOfl to Bill (S), An Act to cars at tihe loading p)latform, or at the.
elevaters in the West.' It is then sent te
amerîd the. Canada Grain Act
itself into a Commit- Port Arithur or Fort William. Wh.n 1*
The Hous. resoived
leekage or low on
tee ci the Whoie to considér the. amend- gets there il theT'. is any seals b.eing ibroh.en
tbe -way by reason of
ments.
off, the. party 'wr'b ahipa it 'would have a
(In the ComtAtee.>
dlaim againat thei corn2non carrier that teok
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Thii Bill origin- that grain te Fort William. Atter the grain
atoed in the Sena.te. In clause 2 'we madie arrives et Fort William iL is taken charge
provision for certain things. I wiii read of iby thbe Governinent, 'wbo hbave super-vision o-f the elevaters at Fort William, and
siwbsection 4 o-f section 2:
ewn sone of thein. The weight given iby
grain shall leave a terminal elevator
No
without being otffcialiy weighed, and the. offi- te Governmen-t mustI be accepted by the.
cial certificate of weight shal ;be conclusive shipper ne matter how inuch he rnay loe,
ev4deiice of the weight of such grain.
whether it -b. one bushel or fifty ibusie1a,
Upon publicity 'being given to titis Bill or a thousand busheis. The Goverament
im ne credit for that, and Ait t a
alter it reached the House of Gommonts, gives
i and the carrier that
carriers, matter between
vas strenuously objected to &>y
it
and transportation companies. who might takes it 'Le Fort William. Alter thM t i l
posibly find themaselves confronted in the handed over 'to tii.Govemmrent, is weighed
transport of grain iby a certificats ,which by the Government, and 'weighed int the
vould Ïbe conclusive evidence against them eievater. Now I laul te ee. where the
in the event of a shortage. Representations shipper should lb. made a party te 1this
ver. made to 'tihe Minister o-f Trade and traneaotion. The Governmient have charge
Commnerce as to their intereeL being pre- of iL, lthey have libeir own mnen, lhey are in
judioed, and as to ne inetbod being a4klpted control and the shipper 'bas ne charge of
'whereby there could b. an adjustament, it. He cannot go insid. the elevaLor; lie
ahould a eubstantial shortage be tound. has nothing te do 'with iL. H. lias a recetit
In consequence of! 'hese representatione and for se mucli grain weighed by the. Goveruobjections certain amendments Lave Ïbeen ment, the. Government load that IaLo a
mnade to this clause. Su-batantially the arn- iboat and it is tzansported te an elevater
endments are that should a shortage b. across the. lakes. Wben it gela across the.
mnade apparent in the transport o-f grain lake in 4lht eboat and is ioaded, mbt Lh.
heom a western terminal elevator to an elevator on thie otiier side if a Erhortage is
eastern port. or te an eastern elevator, and found, iwhy shouid the. shipper, 'who in the.
sheuid that shortage 'b. of -a suibstantial firgt place put bis grain int the, elevator,
'obaracter, the Governiment, thzough the b. held responsibie for that, a'bortageP Il
Grain Commission, ehould adjuast bh.aL d1l- the Government made a miatake thde
'terence and ascertain 'wherein the shortage siiould lie liable for that miatake. If they
oocurred. Posei'biy a mist&ke might occur employ incompetent men-and in sme
et the point of ehipment, as iL very eften cases tiiey miust, because they do net pay
does. Very naturaiiy the carrier 'would sufficient saiaries-why aiiould tiiey net b.
objeot te being held responsible for any *heid responsible? Tiiere is as inucl iimpo'rtshortage in the auantity ef grain that the ance and as much responsibilîty, or even
shipper claimed te hbave d.eiver'ed te !him. more, in connection with the 'weighing of!
Therefore itl a proposed ini the arnendrnent that grain at Port Arthur as ther. is In the.
'which rwe have made t3hat tbis difficul-ty management of a Ibanli, yet you viii flnd
should be settled as indiicated ini the arn- thiaL lte mien -who weigh lhe grain aregelend'xnent.
ting oniy $75 a rnth for doing work whieh
of mailHon. Mr. DAVIS-This Bill originated invoives téb. handling every rnonth
and 'we agreed te its pro- lions and million&of 'busiiels cf grain worth
in the Senate
'visions, 'but since ALvas sent te th. House millions and millions of dollar.- If they

Bill (114) An Act to amend the Adulteration Ac'.-Hon. Mr. Loug<heed.
CANADA GRAIN ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.

SEN&TFE

Ioad too much juta the boat and it goes
across-'which las sametimes happened'we neyer hear anytbing aibout the excess
in weight, as the people who get it in Mnost
cases say .nathing -about it. But ilf the
reverse is -the case, aud the load is not sufficient. it is qui-te another affair. The grain
is weighed* an the east aide of the lakes,
viiere we eau 'have no conutrol over the
weighing, and if a shortage la found, t3hey
corne back sudl demand tuhat the shi!pper,
the Goverument and everyibody cannected
vith it be held responsible. That is not
fair or reasonable. T.he shipper cannot passi-bly lie respoissibie for the ehortage. Hia
grain goes juta the elevatar and be gets a
-recei.pt, and if afterwards it is Icund short
it is a matter 'between the elevatar and the
plat!orm man at Fort William or Port
Arthur. If there is a shartage tahere, he
lias ta look alter hia carriers,'and ha has
ta take a receipt from the Goverumeut fýor
it. Why szhould lie ibe held respcmsibie -because miistakes are made by Goverument
employees in shipping it out.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I point out
ta rny hon. friend thiat the ehipper is the
owner of -the cargo. The grain is ahipped
tram the terminal elevatar and sent tic nome
*asteru port. Why ishouid the position of
the shipper cof grain hae different f roam that
of any other ahipper-that ia ta say. if a
viletake bhas arisen.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-He is net reaponsible
foor a mistake.
Tzrn, Mr. TOUGHIEED-We are not talliing of the emall ohlpper who ships from
some place in the West, but the shipper
'who owus the cargo.
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-But this Act covers ail
the eh-ipers
Hun. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, nlo, siflpiy
thei owner crf the cargo.
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-Then take the large
shipper. Is the Government guarantee
worth anythi-ng or is it not? The Government bas assunied the respon8ibility of
weighing its grain and taking it into an
elevator, and getting a receipt for it.

mistake only 50,000 ibu8hels hafve been
shipped, and lie receives a certificate for
l00,000, is it reasonable that lie bould OaY
ta the carrier, "«You must account for
100,000 bushels, notwithstandiug the taet
that only 50,000 were shipped?
Hon. Mr. KERR-On the otiber hand, the
answer ta that is this: supposing the sh4ippar hips 100,000 Ibushele of grain and gets
his reoeipt for 100,000 ibushels of grain, and
that grain goes forw.ard, passes thTough the
h'ands cdf the difforent, people iuentioned in
this Act, and ultimately between some of
thern a slip has been made and they have
not the 100,000 bushiels bout only a part of
it, why eould the mnan 'who delivered the
100,000 bushels lie called upon ta contribute
ta make good the loss.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He is flot eaUled
upan.
Hon. Mr. KEBR-Yes, it says it has ta
be borne arnongst them. They shall have
po'wer ta assesýs or apportion the loss arising
tram sucb shortage amongst the elevatar
nien, 'water carriers, shippers, etc.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That ia after the
inquiry has, b.en made.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Assume the ahipper
can show that lie did deliver the proper
quantity where he did deliver it, stili ti
m'ay ibe apportioned among these people es
the comimission tuhink proper.
Hon. Mir. WAT8ON-And 1$, i4 entirely
out of the contrai of the, ahipper.
Hon. Mr. KERR-EFntirely out caf bis control. The man who la able ta show be delivered a certain quautity la the man who
is entitled ta be relieved. The're sbouid be
of
fia right ta assess hLm for auy -portion he
the loas unles it oould lie showu that
vas the ainner.
Bou. Mr. LOUGHEED-My bon. friand is
a lawyer aud wili appreciate the reasonableness of an investigation being made ta ascertain wherein a mia.take or fraud may
have oocurred, and my hon. friend will eee
that under the Bill the certificate which
he receives under clause 2 subsection 4 is
of thie
final, suhject ta section 120 provision Act.
for
Section 120 of -the Act makes
such -an inquiry and investigation that
yacutadrasa
lc
wudtk
eaaa
cutan
old ae lc b
fos
and investigate ail
"The board shail recelve

Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-But qail certificates -are susceptible ta luman infirmity;
thare rnay Ïbe a mistake, sud if there is a
miatake, suTely *my bou. frieud. will coucede that there sihould ie eo'me right -of
rectification. It is only reasonable that
in wriUing under oath.
that should ha so. Let 'us assumne tubat the complainteuntrue dockage, improper weights for
0f
Pot
ahiper s t sippng Cbbarue(a)
(c) 0f fraud or oppression by any person."
000 bushels of grain, a.nd through some
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

APRIL 9, 1915

(Jovering every feature that rnight arise
that would enter into the investigation or
inquiry arid precisely as a court would Malte
it. Let us consider an analegous case. Sup)pose that a ahipper shipe some other article
that does not corne within the Grain Act,
and hie dlaims that h.e shipped a certain
qus.ntity te a certain destination, and the
,arrier at that destination dlaims that-he
did not receive the quantity shipped, and
the court investigated it: his rernedy, or
redress, would b. through aome judiciai tribunal. The tribunal wouid inquire and find
out wherein the mistake or fraud happened.
Why 6hould net that principle be applied te
shipment o! grain in bulk? That is ail that
is being don.. The Grain Commrission fi
made a tribunal for the purpose ai making
the widest investig-ation te ascertain wherein this iitake occurred, so that the los
will b. thrown on the parties responsible
for it.

33

HEon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This only deals
with the terminal elevator at Fort Wilkain,
.and shipments fromi Fort William to eastern
elevators or castern points. The shipper
frorn any of! those elevators -in tihe interior
of the country .is not included. We are ncw
deaiing 'ith a man who ships a cargo of!
grain frorn Fort William or Port Arthur to
scxre eastern point. Ail thst the Act deals
-with is, if there fi any difeérence between
t.he shiprnent -and the certificate wbich the
shipper gets et t.he tirne then the diffleulty
should be adjusted. by some competent
tribunal. Would sny hon. friend tbrow responsibility entirely on the carrier?

Hon. Mr. WATSON-The terminal e1.vater al, Fort William or on this aide af
the lah-es or the oarrier should su stain the
loss, becauise the éhipper has nothing to
do with the handling of the grain, and
rxothing to do with loading the cargo.
The shipper is entirely innocent a.nd
shouid like te ask has no control. over the shipping of the
Hon. '-%r. WATSON-I
th. hon. leader, who knows sornething about cargo; the Governnient have control of the
the. Grain Act, as hie had charge of it a few terminai elevators and weighing. You eay
years ago, what control has -the shipper of the certificate of the weighmaster shail be
the grain aiter it is received in the grain evidence'o! the. cargo loaded. Why bring
elevator et Fort William? He has nothing in the -shipper who bas nothing te do with
to do with it.
the loading of th. grain?
Hon. Mr. LOtJGHEED-He is the man
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It ià not the emmii
shipper we deal with. In this caue it fa the who does it.
man who shfps the cargoHon. Mr. TAYLOR-I arn very well ao- Hon. 3fr. CÂSGRAIN--The owner of the quainted with this matter, having been i
cargo.
the grain bu»iness. This A-et d'oes not affect
wha ships the f armer or seller.
Han. -'%r. LOUGHEED-Yes,
Hon. 'Mr. WATSON-I arn not cl-aining
his grain te sorne distant part.
it dees.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The ahipper has no
Hon. MT. TAYLOR-I arn a grain exportcontrai o! that shipment of grain. If you
want te divide th. ahortage and th. sur- er. I -have agents ail over the Weet .buying
pluses At seems to me it ia between the grain. It is shipped- on the piatform cars
terminal elevator at Fort William, which f rom the interior te Fort William. I arn
loadi the grain under the supervision o! the. 4.he owner of eeverai h'uudred tbousand
Governrnent, and thie carrier, and the e1.- buslhels at Fort William. I seil a cargo te
vator at the other end who receives irt. The -a man in England. I order a vessel to be
man who ovrns the cargo has nothing ta do loaded. with grain at the elevator at Fort
with f4Artihur and shipped, eut. I arn th. shipper
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, because h.e and I own th-at grain, and I order 500.000
bushels shipped out. It is l1oaded. into a
ahips it.
vessel ta be translhipped again at Montreal,
Hon. Mr. WÀTSON-But his officiais do se that I muet get the weight et Monbreal
nat ship the grain. The elevartor loads the when it -arrives there, the samne as f4 -left
cargo. The elevater man is the shipper, and Port Arthur. That vessel passes through
the Gavernnient is responsible. Certainly a series of canais corning down. Su.pposing
the ahipper has ne recourse against the. ele.
çwhen the vessel fa lying in the
vater at Fort William for shortage if hE somýe night
steals 50
shipe grain frein an interiar part ta Fani canal the crew or someb)ody else
or 100 ibushels, -who is ta setile Ior that?
William.

SENÂ rE

Hon. Mr. WATSON-The lake carrier
wou.ld have to, lo-se 'that.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE left the Chair,
and was replaced by the Hon. Mr. Ross
<Middleton).
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-The oaptain o! the
vessel knew ncthing about it. The vessel
when it was unloaded in Montreal was 50
or 100 bushels short. The captain said, -I
shipped 500,000 bushels et Port Arthur, and
I -have delivered here to you." It could flot,
be proven. The Grain Commission would
investigate and they would say the vessel
was responsible for the whole thing.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That is right.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-01 course.
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-But if there was none
taken out and the vessel feil short 100 or
500 bushels at Montreal, then this commission would settie wvhether the vessel or the
terminal elevator that unloaded it was responsible.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Or the shipper.
Hon. Mr. WATSONshipper corne in?'

Where

does

the

On looking over that return I find there are
For exsome very, very peculiar things.
ample, in the Canadian Pacifie Railway
elevator "B" I find that the surplu-ses in
wheat amounted to 13*2,397 bushels and 50
I find that in oats the surplus waB
lbs.
160,910 bushela, the surplus of barley was
8,183 buahels. The surplus in mnixed grain
was 1,037 bushels. There was a deficit of
6,000 bushels of e11 the kinds of oas. Then
I find i the Empire and Thunder Bay elevators the surplus was 129,365 bushels of
wheat, and no deficits in barley or oats of
any kind. I find that in the consolidated
elevators there was a surplus of 17MS busheis o! wheat. There was a deficit on oats
of 10,000 bushels, but there 'was a surplus
o! over that on other kinds o! grain.
In the Ogilvy elevator the surplus3 of wheat
was 11,746 bushels. The surplus of oats
was 6,798 bushels and of ibarley there was
a surplus of 1,898 ibusheis. There was a surplus ai Vhrough and no shortage. When
rny hou. friend says the farmers are not
suffering from this, I dlaimi that they are,
-bocause I think the comnhissiofers are
xnaking up the losses whieh .may ccur in
transit Iby taking it out of the eurplua8ê
that they find i these elevatore.
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-I understand that
the faîrmer sella mibjeot to, weigtht at Port
Arthur.
farmer
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The
has nothing to do with this. My hon.
friend 'will' see that we are only legislating
now as to ahipments from terminal elevators to, eastern ports. Look at clause 4
of section 2 o! the Bill which vwe are now
considering, " No grain shall leave terminal
elevators without being officially 'weighed."
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I want to diraw the
attention cf the hon. ¶nenber to the statement made by the Trade and Commerce
Department -with reference to this mnatter.
They should know more about it than aniy
person else -because t.hey have charge of
the shipping. What was -said aibout it
when this matter wasdiscussed? The Minister of Trad-e and Commerce said:

Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-The shipper owned it
aînd he should stand his proportion.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-What for? Why?
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-If there was a shortage he is- certainly responsible for hie proportion. If it was proven thart the elevator
made a mistake, becau-se he had the bins
full i~n the elevator there, sud if the elevator made a mistake and did flot put in
5W0,000 bushels, the shipper should be responsible, certainly.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Perhaps the ahipper might not have given the order to ship
500,000 bushels; he might have given orders
to ship only 480,000 bushels.
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-We do not know what
tricks might be played between the shipper,
the owner and the elevator man. H1e mighit
say, -I have sold 500,000 hushels; you ship
480,000 bushels."
The shipper puts his grain into the hands of
the Government at Fort William, and it goea
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That is it.
or into elevatora
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-The hon. member
who has just taken his seat says that this
I think
Bill does not affect the fa.rmer.
The Senate, a couple o!
perhaps bt does.
weeks ago asked for a return from the Railway Commission showiug certain thingssurpluses and shortages in the elevators.
Hon. Mr.

TAYLOR.

into the Government elevator
which are eupervrised by the Government. The
shipper has no power Inside of these elevators.
his grain is delivered in trust to these warehouse men. When the grain la ordered out of
the warehouse It Is weighed out by the eievator into a.boat, and the shipper has nothing
to do with that operation, which is under Government supervision, or under Government
minagement. The weight of the grain that 15

APRIL 9, 1915
my hon. friend mean te say that th-ere
should net be seine machinery by whieh a
£-aud of that kind .could Ibe in-vestigated
and the Tespensibility thrown upen the proper partyP
Hon. 'Mr. DAVIS-Il there are twenty
ehippers of grain do y4u. clair» that finetee» of tbern ehould he znuleted in Joas btcause the Gwernment happens te h~ave a
dishonest employee who mlakes a wrongful
entry to oblige one shipper. We aasumne
tbat the Governiment bas boneet ehlppers..
The tact remnains trhat the grain has to b.
received by the Goyernment -and that the
Government qship it out. The Governsnent
have assumned control and -are rre&pon9ýble
for the 'weights. I aeumned wben we
àgreed te that Bill that the Governn>ent
weight vas final. Il I éhip aniyth.ing else
by railroad the ra-ilway cempany take possession and are responsible.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, they are not.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Il 1 put a cer.tain
grain is put in the elevator it is put inte ,commodity into a car and that commodâty
the bands of the Governunent and the Gev- is not delivered, I can corne bhack on the
arriment weigh it in and the Government carrier for the loss. My hon. friend from
give credit and sbip it eut again, and they Leede (Hon. Mr. Taylor) said the sailors
bhave supervision over the shipping of it might ateal e.rticles frer» a boat, but supeut w-hen it is put into the 'boat and car- posing they di.d, would not thi owner of
ried te t'he other aide. The matter in dqs- the vessels who employed these sailors be
pute is between: the carrier and the Gov- responsible?
ernment -and it ia my contention that the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-11 it could, be
shipper has netbing te do with it.
prove».
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The étermilual eleHon. Mr. DAVIS-If there is a dispute as
vioter need net b. a Goverument elevator.
te how much grain is delivered that diepute
*Hen. Mr. DAVIS-The Governuient bas should te between the oempany and the elesupervision over ahi the terminal élevators. vator that put iA into the boat. The shipper
therefore the Government is responsible. ehould have no i'esponsibilifty. He pute bis
My hon. friend wil! net say ,h.at the mari grain inte the elevator and he bas to accept
who is weighin-, the grain is an agent ef wh.tever certificate the Governmen.t g-ives
the sbipper.
him. He is net en.titljed te make bie own
weigbïts. If there is any las between the
Mr. LOUGHEED-He niay be.
Hon.
and.the Government eiewas point of shipment make that up or get it'
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-If the ahipper
vator, he has te
haridhing obis o;wn grain then h. xight -b. fror» the -railway company, but I submit the
respensible, but w.hen h. puts the grain shipper bas a right te get his grain al ter it
ifito the elevator. the Government become gees into the elevator.
respensible te bum. Wby should there 'ha
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The hon. gentleany difference between this and any other
man is apparently labouring under a misline of business?
apprehension. There is no use alludîng te
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-8uppose a shipthe line from Winnipeg te -the central eleper should say te a weighmaster, now I vator beeause that is net affeoted.
It is
h.ave 500,000 busibels of grain, I want te ehip
is given for grain that
point and I want you te true that a certificate
eut te an esterri
the elevator, but At does net
issue a certificate fer 500,000 ibus'hels 'byut ie put inte follow that every tinie the owner
necessari.y
enhy weigh eut 400,000 and I will dàvide the
te ship that he will ship
profits with yeu. That weuld. net b. an of the grain wants
case ef fraud as frauds-are every ibughel he Las in the elevator. He
extraordinary
o'f 'wbat
perpetrated iri matters of that kind. Dos may. if be se desire, shi-p a fraction

put in the vessel is therefore givon by the
Governmnent weighman, and with that grain
and that weight the carrier goeg on bis journey te the eastern elevator. The grain 1a thon
weighed out Into the eagtern elovator, but It la
weighed out without Government weighmOu
and without Government supervision; it s
weighed out by the olevator ftsolf into Ita eIevator. If that weight and the weight givon
at Fort William should agree, thero la no trouble between the carrier and the elevater. but
If the weight given by the In-weighing or receiving elevator la 1.000 bushels short, thon,
under past conditions. the carrier had to make
Up that shoriage. The carrier reasoned In this
way: . that ho received froin the Governnient a
certain weight of grain -at Fort William. that
ho did not throw It overboard or lose It In an3F
way; but when It was weighod In at the eastorn
elovator It was short. althouaSi he contenda that
ho delivered to the recoiving éevator Juat au8
much as ha got ai the loadIng elevator. Consequently. he demurred againat the payment
of the shortage. His greund of attack was.
thnt there muet be something wrong with the
weighing at the loading elevator or thora muat
be something wrong with the weighing at the
unloiding elovator.
That is a clear statenient that when the

SENAVk,

M~

inake a mistake wbhy shou]d he not be
called in? Thesi the board 'will asseeas only
the guilty party and nobody else.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--Supposing tobey do not
find the guilty partyP
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I take it t.hat 'the
board cannot asas auybody if they dou't
find the guilty party.
Han. Mr. KERR-The saowing ol surpluses in these elevators makes it plain
that the elevaters take care to get at least
as mulh as they.give certiificates for..
Borne hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Han. Mr. KERR-If that were flot se, end
Yf it 'was not &,ecause they take so much
caTe about that. they would not bave a
surplus. Their certificates would cover al
that they really had there.
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-Out oi whom does
the surplus corne?
Hon. Mr. KERR-I was going to say that
the elevator takes care of itsell 'when it receives the grain. and the shipper bas ne
-way of determining any more about it. AUl
that he knows is that whether there was a
shortage or a surplus, he got en-ly what h.
vwas entitled ta get paid for--what he vas
entitled to bold as hie property.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But my hon.
friend will admit that il there is a nianifest
case 'where a mistake bas ibeen made in
faveur of the shipper, there' is ne reasen
why rome tribunal shall fot adjust it. Will
my hon. friend say 'why 'the carrier should
tbe charged up entirely with the shortage
or losa that rnay -have taken place?
Hon. Mr. KERR-Because the carrier,
'when he received that, acknowledged the
receipt o! it; it is his own business; it is
bhis own elevator, it is his own weighing.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-What about an
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, ho bas nothover-qua.ntity?
ing to do 'with the elevator.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Surely the ahipper
Hon. Mr. KERR-He bas his o'wn emm-ouldte very glaci te saybe had sometbing ployees, or the Government's?
ta do with the mistake. The shippez could
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I amn askýing the
say, -I have made a unistake." He could
as vehl as the carrer, hbon. gentleman to consider the human inigo te titis board just
and say I have made a mist-ake, I intenci- firmities that wiii enter into a transaction
eci se many -bushels ta go, and I find1 eut iby of thut kind 'where a mai'fest niistake
some erre>r, for instance the telegrapit oper- oecurs. Then shall the man or party who
star made a mistake and misquoted t.he would benefit ty the error take advantage
figures; I -have shipped more. Then take o! it?
te reveree case: suppose there is a shortHon. Mr. KERR-Certainiy I arn not
age on delivery in Montreal. The carrier sayin-, that he should.
can say, «' I want te have an investigation."
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is ail the
la bhere anything fairer than that? Sica
provides
we have proven that the shipper coulci Bill provides for; the Bill simply

he bas in the elevator. I bave been
at Port Arthur when shipa vere loading
and I have seen them go te one elevator
and -take on, a certain quantity of grain
and then te another elevator and take on
more. The ahips jnove from elevator te
elevator and-lt is possible a mistake might
be made: the -ahip might take on more than
the right quantity at one elevator, a.nd take
on leas at another elevater titan they
ehould. The Bill due not make it necesaay
that any body shall be muleted unjustly;
or will lose in any way; aIl that is desired
ie that there ahail be an investigation and
that this board &halltry and find out where
the error bas taken place if an, errer bus
occurred. The han. member for Saekatoon
<Hon. Mr. Davis) quoted the words of the
Minister of Trade and Commerce. These
words were uttered by the minister before
he eaw that the Bill should be amended,
but he vas convinced that iA was not right,
and that is why the Bill has been amended,
and therefore these words are no longer applicablé. The idea is that prima facie a u-ertificate for se many bushels of grain is good
as far as it goes. but the onus of proving
that the quantity bas been reoived. le upen
the carrier- in the first place. He is supposed ta have received. it, and if it is found
that -there la a shortage Ait a up te him te
prove that h.e dîd not receive the grain.
.Any one sblpping a large -quantity of grain
might easily make a miatake. _He might
telegrapit te Fort William -ta send se many
bushels and there migbt be an errai ini the
telegramn and the instructions might be to
les quantity thian he bnci intendeci.
ship a the grain arrives at Moritreal if a
Wben
shortage la founci eurely the paTty respQnsible for the mistake aheuli 'be expecteci
ta rectify it.

Hom. Mr. CASIGRAIN.

APRIL 9, 191539
the grain by getting rid
that wliere a shortage of that kind occurs temptad to steal
of it i some otlier way, the grain must
the Grain Commission shahl be a tribunal
eitlier ini the boat or the elevator. If
to investigate and adjuat the mistake whieb be is the case-and these elavators evithat
ha. arisen.
dently are protestig themselves against
is ail riglit overages as appears by the statemant read
-Hon. Mr. KERE-That
enough, but bear this in mind, that the liere to-day, I venturè to say that when
shipper, by the receipt which he lias re- this Grain Commission get busy they wil
oeived, cannot get any more than -that find these overages are accounted for by
He ha. only got to deal the f act that they have not shipped the
receipt shows.
with hi. one shipmant, wliereas the car- cargoes tliat they represent tliey have
rier is dealing witli a large .number of shippad, and that i. why the surpluses
ahipments, on which evidenLly there i. occur.
an excess beyond what lie issues raceipts
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Tliat i. it.
Tliese returns th&a1 have been read
for.
g.ats the beneshow that. Thie carrier then
Hon. Mr. WATSON-My hon. friend says,
fit of that surplus, but wlien there i. a "That i. it." Exactly, tlien the elevator
shortage lie goes back to the shipper and should be lield responsible, not tlie slipsays «'Oh, you must contribute."
per, who have no riglit to dlaim for any
overage. You have the elevator at eitlier
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Let me illustrate
that lias to liandie
Let us assume that end, and the carrier is an overage, it is
to my lion. fria~nd.
$100,000, that grain. If tliere
a depositor pays into a bank say
either in the elevators or on the boat.
and receives credit in lis booki of deposit
may not be on the boat, but tlie shipper
for $125,000, and it is detarniined after- It
to say about the
lias arisen; the bank lias no control, nothing about the cargo,
wards that a mistake
did shipment, nothing to say
is at liberty to show that tlie depositor
lias no riglit or interest in the overages; in
not really deposit, that amount, and that fact, *I venture to say that lie neyer would
The bank is entitled
an error liad arisen.
need this Act, and yet you try to suggest
to say to the depositor, "This mistaka lias that lie lias something to do with tlie
arisen, and we have the riglit to have it shortage. It appears to me that tIi. sort
That i. ail this
rectifierd against you."
of paternal legisiation i. for the purpose of
Bill does.
looking after the water carriers, wîo are
I
Hon. Mr. WATBON-Would the lion. efficiently looked after in this debate.
the gentleman bhbind him tlimk tliey are quite capable o! looking
gentleman or
Wlien tIis Bill was
suggest for one moment that a shipper who after themselves.
slips lii. grain to a terminal elevator at introduced in the Senate a few days ago, I
Fort William or Port Artliur and ordera liad no objection to making the certificate
it out of that elevator as lie saes fit could final, but I did at that time suggest that
possibly. by any means, get a bushel more the cariier, the boatman, the captain.
out of that elevator than lie delivers to sliould liave some supervision over the
loading -o! bis cargo.
the elevator?
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-How can lie?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, lie should
not.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I do not know. Let
why should the Government work that out, but for
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Than
shipper to be
you ask that man to become responsible God's sake do not ask the
that occur
for any los. that may occur between that responsible for the mistakes common carand the elevator on between the elevator and the
elevator, the carrier,
tlie other sida of -the lakes? That is what rier.
You are
you are asking us to sanction.
Hon. Mr. ÇASGRAIN-Investigate wliere
asking that the shipper sliould be consid- the error took place.
ered in adjusting losses. 1 do not suppose
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Let tliem investilie would ever hear o! an overaga, but lie
ehevator and carrier, not
may hear of a shortage. Now the elevator gate between the lias nothing .to do 'with
or Port Arthiur would the shipper, wlio
at Fort William
the cargo or weighing. I contend
say that the grain is weiglied unto the slip *loadung
*that the word "'shipper" ouglit to lie
there by the~ Governinent elevator man, a
out of this altogether. It i. paternal
Government officiai tsking charge of it, strucli
interests
that those peoplE hegialation, trying to protect the
and you must assume
at, of the water carrier. Let the Government
are dishonest, because unless they

394

SEN XTE

Bon. MT. TAYLOR-AnXd they do that,
get after those elevators at Fort William ut the shipper that this applies to la the
b
that have reported surpluses ai nearly
argo-shipper who is abipping to England,
500,000 huehels. If lhere je any shartage on che epeculatar.
elevators make At up. t
the lakes, let those
Hion. Mr. DAVIS-What is the difference?
They -will have the henefit of the surpluss: let them stand the lasses in
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-Is there a farmer in
weights, because it muet have been in the hoe West tJhat ships by the boat load?
They either defrauded the t
weights.
Hon. MT. TALBOT-There ie something
ehipper that was shipping the grain iuta
1
elevator at Fort William, or defrauded v.rong in that Grain Commission, and
the
a full cargo.t ,hink thoir repart will prove it. On page
the boat by not shippiug out
apThere muet have been eame mistake there, 103 of the Grain Commission report,
or there would nat have been those sur- pendix B, the report of the officiai vessel
register on the grain elevator situation for
pluss.
the season of 1913 bas a peculiar paragraphi
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-In reference to those which rmade es follows:
surpluses, I wish la explain. The elevatars
The Board of Grain CommiueioflCrs dos not
receive froni the cars; they weigh in, pro- take any responsibility for the figures, facta or
bably, fifty bushel drafts; they ehip out ini opinions net forth, In the report. It recomnthese
500 bushel drafts. Why would there not riended publication of the report, no that made
might be
and
be a surplus? Many yeare ago, when I figures, tofacto parties opinions
with a view to
Interested
the
wvas in the grain business, we shipped out known Investigation.
further
by the carload and the carrier was reNow, when a commission çwill gave sucti
spansible for the shortage, if there was a
the eurplusage. Iu a a report as that-that they have no conehortage. and he had
and figures
cargo of 5,000 te 8,000 bushels he would fidenoe'iii what they cail f ars
wrong. I hope
geuerally have ten or fifteen bushels af -I think there is something inte W. and 1
look
overage, because 1 weighed it in 50 bushels the G.overnment will
of 'Irade and Comnat a draft and it was weighed out 500 amn glad the Ministerof this thing sud trybushels at a draft an the other side; there- mere ia taking hold
The ing ta do something.
fore there was always a surplus.
elevators wauld nat b. doing business if
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-TO prove mny conter'they did not have a surplus, weighing it tion I -want ta read another few words from
out ai a car in 50 or 100 bushel drafts the Minister of Trade and Commrerce In
and sbipping At aut in 500 or 1,000 bushel dealing with this subjeet. He je taflking
drafts. That accounts for the surplus.
of the terminal ebevators et the lakes. He
you think Say&:
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Do not
First, tha4
that one elevator having an average of! Taire the Governmneft elevator.elevator. it le
to a Goverument
138,000 hushels is a little too large , mum- grain cornes the bands of the shipper tbere.4
taken out of
plus la have?
it do weighed. lnto the elevator, and the Governint elevator le responsibie for every Pound
Han. MT. CASGRIN-What percentage of grain that cornes in. It le respansible for
deliverilg an equai quantity of grain both In
is that--on ho'w mny million Ibushels?
grain le sptited

Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-lt would not be toc
large a surplus if they shipped many millions of bushels. By taking it in sinall
drafts and shipping it out in large drafts
there is the turn af the sosies every 'time
in your favour. As ta how it 'would affect
the farm-er, the farmer ie paid at the elevalar; he 'has sold by the carload st Winnipeg, delivered at Fort William, and he
ie paid -when it arrives there.

weight. and In grade. If the
out of the elevator in any way, that In to the

ioss of the elevator.
Now my han. friend alludes ta a fact; ho
supposes a certain case-tbat theTe mig'h t
ho a dishonest operatar in a Government
elevatar 'who weuld connive with the ship
per la ship out 400,000 bushele of grain instead of 500,000 as ordered. I would like
te ask my hon. friend if it would not ho
just as reasanable la suppose that a dishonest captain of a ship ould run hie boat
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Not always. Th-e f arm- up alongside another and hoist a lot of that
er can ship down there or he can hold it.
grain up out of the vessel.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yee.
Hou. Mr. TAYLOR-WeIl, ho eau hold it.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Then why sh-ould the
Hon. 'Mr. DAVIS-They bave la «ive you
shipper be held responsible?
that inuch grain.
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

APRIL 9, 1915

Hon. Mr. LOU(IHEED-He in not held
responisible eany more than 'the carrier or
operator. The legisiation covers all parties
concerned with a view of investigating andi
finding out what party or parties siiould
Ibear the shortage, that isto -say, 1between
the outgoing elevator,- the receiving ele-va-tor, the carrier. the shipper and the

operator. Now it might be that ail

parties

would, have to bear a proportion of the
shortage.
Hon. 'Mr. DAVIS-If my hon. friend
would eut out the *word "ehiippeoe" and
take the responsibility off hum, and inve«Ugate as between the receiving elevator, the
carrier on the lake, and 'th-e'GovernineDt
elevator that ships the grain (>ut, I
quite agreeable te that.
be
would
We should flot insert the word shipper
when the grain is taken out of his hande
and he has no responsibility in the matter.
He orders out 10 or 20 thousand bushels of
grain, and the Government sys: "Aill
right, we wvill take that many bushels of
your grain and load it in a boat." If that
is lost in transit, or there la wrong weighing on the other side, you make the man
responsibie. The littie shipper ie the same
as the big shipper. There is only one kind
of shipper; it makes no difference whether
it ie a big corporation or a fariner. He
puts the quantity of grain in the elevator
and gets a certificate for it. If a farmer
pute hie grain in an elevator and gets a
certificate he deposits that certificate in the
bank, and if he orders that certain quantîty
out, and through some stupidity of Governiment employees, or dishonesty of weighers on the other aide of the lake, where the
Government has no supervision, or the
mistake of a steamboat carrier, why shouid
he suifer for that? I cannot understand it.
Ae to tying the bands of the Grain Commission, the generai opinion in the West
in that the Grain Commission have more
than they can do, and if they were carrying out th eir functions properly tihere wouid
not be so much complaint in the West. I
will read what a gentleman, whom the hon.
leader knows very well, states about the
whole transaction. Mr. D. D. Campb.ell has
been acting for shippers for a great many
years. He is an old-timer in the West, and
well known as a man of sterling honesty.
He says:
Dear Sir:
I ose that it is expeoted that the Dominion
Boume will soon open for business, and I understand that there are iikely to b. soms
changes made in the Grain Act, and it la pos-

sible that the Board of Grain Oommissioners
ms.y be amking for more power to be given thein
In deallng w1th matters that may be ail right
In nme cames, but If I had an hour's talk with
you I think I could convince yen tbat there
neyer wam a time when mor& definlte action in
necessary In securing redreas from, the aers
that are continuaily occurring, especlalir In
weights, both of car lots, and aise In cargo
lotm.
The faruners and dealers In the West bave
far more reason to tart a rebelion over the.
weights they are reoelving for their grain
than there wam for the war which is now raging in Europe. You may say we have the.
Grain Commission te apply to, and In reply I
say we have applied to them, but without resuite, ais the facts which I will state wili go to
prove. I, may without f ear of successful contradiction, thm± conditions neyer were no bail
as they are at the present time, and 1 bave
b,ýen closeiy In touch with the grain handling
for the past thirty yeara.
A litti. over a year ago 1 took up the was'k
of collecting elaima for different grain firme,
and also for farmers that desired niy assistance. and In that time 1 have seoured adJustmente in weight for the following amounts of
grain. by proving te the satisfaction of those
In charge that the weights as issued were net
correct.

He has written a very long letter. He
suggests ihat tus malter should not b. put
in the hands of the Grain Commission for
tbis reason- the Grain Commission handie
ail the grain ai the head of the lakes and
control ail the officiais uhere. If their own
officiais make mistakes in the handling oui
of grain, you will leave the matter te be
decided and adjusted by the Grain Commission, who are their muperior officers. We
do not consider Ihat lhe proper thing. He
says:
W. require a Dominion Utilities Commissioner with full Power te Inquire inte al
troubles arlirg between the railways and the
terminal elevaters. who would have full power
te give a ruling as to where the responsibllity
rests, and order an adjustment of samne, fer
the average shipper cannet afford to stand a
sutt In court with a large corporation. 1 wIfl
state a few cases as an example.
He goes on te show where tier. were mistakes made in the Dominion Governne.nt

elevator which is operated by the Board of
Grain Commissioners. He Baye:

So I think you will see that we require an
Independent party te decide where the responsibility resta, and whose decIsion would be final
and binding on ail concerneS.

H. is opposed to the Grain Commission
having the. power you are taking in the
last lwo clauses of lie Bill. H. wanls an
independent court, if you are going te have
any aI ail, te decide mallers of this kind. I
muet stili hold tiaI th. shipper has nolhing
,te do with it and that liat part should be
cul out of the Bill.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Would not the
saine thing apply to the carrier and the
paragraprh 2, su-belause 4, clause 2 of the
elevator owner?
Bill.
Mr. WATSON-The carrier and th.e
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The objection is to sec-~ Hon.
elevator owner are the people who bave
tien 128.
the shippers' grain and who are handling
Hou. Mr. BOSTOCK-The objection is to it. These* surpluses that are referred to in
the word " shipper"- in the 26th lime of the returns of the Grain Commission, and
also referred to by the Board- of Grain
the Bill in clause 4.
Commîssioners, go to show that the eleHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I move the adop- vator people should he responsible for
tion cf sulblause 4 of paragrapli 2. Where these eertificates. I find in this report
the words " conclusive evidence of the that the commission refera to surpluses
weight of su-eh grain"- are striken out and during the last 12 months as follows:
substituted therefor " final, subject -to secDurlng the last twelve monilia, the registration 120 of this Act."
tien a.nd cancellation of warehouse recelPts has

-Hon. Mr. IOUGHEED-We are now on

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That is ail right.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If any hon.
memnbers have other objections te the Bill,
1. should like to have them discussed so
that I could take them Up with the departnient.
Hon. 'Mr. BOSTOCK-There is objection
in
to that word -"shipper"- the two clauses.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The Bill provides that
the Board may make regulation in regard
te shortages and overages of grain, and may
assee in such manner and such amo'unt as
they deem proper. I think that clause
gives too much power to the Board. Supposing yen strike out the word " shipper "
then you would have power to assess the
whole thing against the carrier.

baen In the hands of the State, and the figures
given for the suipluses of the past year muet
b- acceç,ted by the board. The board consider
that the surpluses are too large, and that the
posslbllty of securing large surpluses, and the
privilege of eelling these surpluses for their
own adv'antage. constitute a temptation to term'nai elevator companies. The board are.
therefore, strongly of the opinion that the
sources of these surpluses should be re-arranged, in so far as the board bas legal authorlty to mnake such re-arrangemlent.
Surely these suipluses should go to make

up deficiencies in the cargo. These elevators a-re allowed to seli these surpîn ses
for their own benefit. We have had reports made that there are practically no
shortages, but ovier hait a million bushels
of surpluses. Surely the elevators should
take the responsibility with the vessel
owner, and adjust these matters between
themselves and they should be responsible.
I dlaim that a shipper has no interest, and
power should -not be considered by the commisHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Some
must bie given to the 'board if mistakes of sion as having any interest.
this kind arise, as inistakes must arise.
Hon. Mr. CA&GRAIN--Supposinlg 1 arn
T5his law is applicable -to every feature of
a shipper from the West, and I know that
commercial hife. Saine tribunal must he I -have shipped so much and ge~t a receipt
authorized to adjust matters of this kind. from the terminal elevator at Fort WiIIt is said that because it is going to fal liarn, and there is a mistake in that reheavihy on one interest, or anether in- ceipt, if I know there is a xnanifest misterest, that that is a proper objection to
take have I got to accept that certificate?
the Bill, but bon. gentlemen, we are dealHon. Mr. TALBOT-You have to take
subject. We
ing with a very important
are dealing with divers interests, interests it, and you have absolutely ne redress.
The CHAIRMALýN-I arn afraid you are
that are distributed between the carrier,
the elevator owners, the operators and discussing something that is not before this
others. We cannot omit any of those who House. The Bill that was sent from this
are interesteci. We sirnply say this tribu- House to the House of Commons bas been
nal is authorized to make the fullest in- returned and the copy we are discussing
vestigation and adjust the loss.
is not the proper copy. I think it will bie
better to wait and have it printed.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The shipper should
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Page 444 of the
be eliminated from these risks altogether.
Minutes contains the clause we are dealing
He has the least possible chance to prothe word "shipper" occurs in
tect bimsefl. He delivers bis wheat and with and
before
Governrnent the samne way as in the Bill we ha:i
it is laken charge of by
US.
officials.
Hon. M.

DAVIS.

APRIL 9, 1915

*Honi. Mr. LOUGHEED-The word shipper does not occur in the firat amendment
and I move the adoption of that amendment.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr.. LOUGHEED-The next amendThe point in
ment is on page 1. line 15.
controversy does not arise there, and I
move the adoption of tbat clause.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED: Then we corne
te clause 4:
The said Act la turther amended by adding
the following section after section 120:
**
120. The board shall aiso receive and Inv atigate ail complainte In writing under oath.
of any s'iortage in grain, upon the delivery of
sme from an elevator to a vessel or from a
v. sel to an elevator. and saah have power to
asses or apport:oe the loas arlalng from such
Ehortage. amonggt the elevator operators,
water cartiers, and sh'ppera. having to do with
the said gra'n.
Now, as 1 understand it, hom. gentlemen
take exception to the word "shipper" in
I would suggest to them
that section.
that if they think there is any ambiguity
about the word "shipper" that should be
eleared up. The word should be included,
but if there is any doubt as te the meaning of the word "shipper" there should be
nome interpretation pleod upon it. The
intention is not to affect the man who ships
from an internai elevator, but the man who
slips from the terminal elevater, the owner
As I read the Bill it can
of the cargo.
only affect the owner of the entire cargo.
I presume that if the word "shipper" had
been le! t out, and we had depended on
the word "operator" it miglit have covered
the situation equally well. The sympathies of my hion. f riend eeem te be aroused
on behiaîf of the small shipper.

ll
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-No, we mean
shippers.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOOK-The idea, is that the
shipper is the man who has put the grain
into the terminal elevator and who holds
a receipt for the grain.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, lie may be
The operator goes on
a man who buys.
Say I have a
the market and buys.
thousand bushels in a certain elevater and
this man buys from me and I turn over
te him my certificate. He may buy other
warehouse receipts and, after buying a
sufficienf quantity to make up a cargo,
lie charters a vessel and ships to Montreal

397

or Liverpool; that is the shipper that is
intended to be covered by this Bill, and
that is the man who should certainly share
the shortage with the carrier if any misLet me point out to hon.
take arises.
gentlemen how, if this Act does not pass,
it will prove inimical to the interest of
The carrier and the
the amahller man.
elevator owner will make somebody. pay
for the risks they take by reason of the
The ship owner will increaise
shortages.
his rates and the elevator owner will increase his rates of storage and the small
shipper will have te pay.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-You must not forget
that there is a source from which you can
make up these shortages in the over-plus
they have in the elevators.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-There is no guarantee that there will be any over-plue.
Hon. Mr. WVATSON-'-Let the Government
mlake legisiation that they will have te avail
themselves of any surplus. Vie are told by
men who ship grain that there will always
lie a surplus. I do not want men who have
no control over the weighing to be held
responsible for any shortages.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The shippers are
not necesiarily the people who put the
It may be an
grain in the elevaters.
operator who buys the grain. An operator
in Montreal bas so many thousand bushels
of 'wheat which lie is shipping, and he is
the shipper ini this case and not the f armer.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Â veesel going from
elevator té elevator taking on grain to
make up a cargo is controlled by the clearing bouse at Fort William, and I contend
that the samne arrangement should be made
between elevators and the carriers with the
terminal company at Port Arthur.Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I move that the
icommittee rise and report progress. and
that this matter can be considered in the
meantime. It lis been fully threshed out
ini the House of Commons, where the same
points were raised. I do flot know that we
can ventilate At to any greater extent than
we have already done. It can be taken up
again to-morrow morning. The whole point
turne on whether that word «"shipper
should remain in the clause.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middleton) frgm the
committee reported that they had made
some progrese -with the Bill, and asked
leave to sit again to-morrow at the firet
Sitting.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I move that both
NATIONAL TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILthese -recommendations be referred to the
WAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
on Internai Economy.
FIRS REAINU.Committee
Hon. Mr. POWER-It appears that the
A message was received f rom the House
Senate ie eingularly favoured just now. We
of Gommons with Bill (119), an Act to have had twa Speakers to-day, the hon.
Railamend the-National Transcontinental
member who is in the chair, and the hon.
way Act.
member who bas filled the chair during the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Will the leader of greater part of 4,his ei.ting. It seemes ta me
that, if we are ta staind on strict order,
the House explain the object of the Bill?
these recammendations should have corne
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The object of this from the hon. gentleman who now fille the
to the Government
Bill is ta give authority
chair.
ta operate the National Transcontinental
Hon. Mr. LOUGIHEED-During the unand also ta acquire by lease, or
Railway
je
otherwise, the Lake Superior branch of the avoidable absence ai the Speaker, there
recamGrand Trunk Pacifie, pending the taking nothing ta prevent hie making a
over af the entire system by the Grand mendation.
Trunk Pacifie, which it may possibly do in
The motion was agreed tc.
the near or dista.nt future.
DEVELOPMENT 0F AGRICUITURAL
The Bill was read the first time.
RESOURCEfi.
CONTROVERTED) ELEOTD>OMLN;JON-\
I-NS ACT AMEND'MENT BILL.

MOTION.

Hon. Mr. DAVID maved:
That In order tu provide larger rnarketa for
trafflo to our
A message was received from the House our industrýee3 and rtmnunerative aur population
Unes, to Increase
Communs with BiUl <109), an Act to transportation the. pragrela., the wealth and the
cf
and ta pramte
amend the Dominion Controverted Elections beat Interest af Canada, every possible amutatanc. should be gives la order ta secure the deAct.
velop-ent of aur BaieIulturSa re.ouromu
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Would the leader
He eaid: Every one admits -that fgri*uIexplain the object of that Bil?
ture ie the most solid foundation of the welHon. Mr. 10-UJGH EED-The abject of this fare and prasperity ai a community, the
Bull is ta adopt a speedier method af 8ettliflg best element ai its moral, religions and
controverted elections than we 'have at the national character and that no where more
than in Canada that truism muet be
present time an the statute books.
is no country whose
duplicate acknawledged. There
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Ie that a
destinies depend more thar. Canada upon
of the Bill defeated here yesterdayP
the tilling of its soul, upon the development
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, that was an of its agriculture -and colonization. The teramendment ta the Supreme Court Act re- rible war which je oovering the earth with
specting appeals. This ie an entirely differ- ruins, and floods ai blood and tears, shows
ent Bill.
clearly that agriculture is the safest source
o! wealth, the least hiable ta financial perHon. Mr. WATSON-One Bill is for the turbations, the bones and sinews ai humanpurpose of lengthening appeals and the ity. Ail the natives ai Europe are looking
ather is for the purpose of shortening them. ta the United States and Canada to obtain
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That view may the food required ta replace the foodstufi s
destroyed by war, ta refll their granaries.
possibly be taken by my hon. friend.
When the war ie aver there will be thonwas read the first time.
The Bill
sands ai people, ai destitute people who wil
APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS be pleased to came ta aur shores, who will
RECOMMENDED.
be compelled ta leave their desolated couna refuge where
The Acting Speaker presented ta the House tries in order ta find herehomes for themrecommendation regarding appointments, they will be able ta rebuild
It must be most
promotions a.nd superannuation of Senate selves and their famîhies.
by the gratiiying ta us that we ehould be called
employees and a recommendation.
mission, a misSpeaker of the Senate (lHan. Mr. Landry), upon ta fulfil such a noble
sian so beneficial ta mankind and ta aur
the same.
regarding
FIRST

READlING.

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middleton).

APRIL 9, 1915
country. But we must be prepared ta do
what the Empire. wbat the whole world
expects, wh.at the most sacred interest ai our
country requires. Providence, wbich. bas
been good ta us, which bas bestowed upon
aur country sucb great favours, bas given
us the means ai *fulfilling that mission. W.
have millions, about four bundred millions
of uncultivated land ta supply the world
witb the food it will require and ta give ta
millions of people the homes and bread tbey
wil need. Unfortunately the last census
bas establisbed that wbile ini the last ten
years aur rural population bas increased by
only about 500,000, the population of our
towns bas increased by one million twa
hundred and fifty tbousand. Ail those wbo
have at heart the moral, national and
inaterial progress ai aur cauntry bave deplared that state ai things. We have done
mucb ta improve our transportation systema,
ta build up aur national industry. We bave
spent millions and millions ai maney for
the construction ai railways, and we have
dane mucb ta develop industrial production,
and ta meet the requirements of Europe
wben tbe war is over. But industry needs
population in order ta secure the borne, the
national market, and railways aima need
population in order ta prasper. Wéll, colonization and agriculture will give the
population required if we do aur utrnomt ta
promote their developrnent, ta keep our
people on aur eoil, and indue the immigrants to came and mettle in our rnidst.
But even if w. could rely upon a large
immigration at least for smre time, we bave
aur own population ta provide for, w. bave
tbousands of people wbom we must keep
and be giving the ineas ai living there. And
what better for tbe country end for tbern
can we do than encouraging them ta settie
on aur ricb lands?
It may b. said tbat colonization is
essentially a provincial question, ibut nobody
can deny that the Federal Goveroment is
interested, in increasing the population in
order ta increase its revenue. Thegreater tb.
population the greater the customs and excise duties. Sa that if we reduce tbe question ta a question ai dollars and cents tbe
interest

ai

the

Federal

Government

is

clear. But as I bave stated there are
motives and reasans ai a higber order which
sbould induce us ta increase population by
the development ai aur natural resources
ai our country and especially ai agriculture
and colanizatian.
How can that be done?
I bold in my bands a book, a pamphlet
wbich is mast val*uable and contains the

best information and gives the most forcible
arguments on that question. It is entitled
" Back to. the Land" and bas been published by the Board of Trade af Port Arthur.
This most interesting littie pamphlet shows
what bas. been done in other countries to
promote agriculture and colonization and
sbould b. done here. Allow me to make
sme quotations:
The *atate of MInnesota, undor chapter $87 of
li gêneral la.ws for 1911, ha» oloared nme ton
or fifteen acres on each homemtead and la now
offering marne to mettiers; tonna fifton Por cont
cash and balance at end of 40 yoarm. wt Interest st four per cent Per am'um.
In about 1883 the Argentine Republlc gave 250
acrea to thoir Pioneer »Mtters and advanced. to
them $1.000 each In Improvements and machinery, aggregating about $50.000.000, repayable
ln ten years, with lut. rest et live per cent in
ix yeara thoy aecured 1,200,000 Iimlgratm and
over $750,000,000 British gold ta be invested
In their republlc.
In 1895 New Zealand lent about $15.000.000
at five per cent ta its farmers as the farinera'
alleged that. owing ta the low price paid for
farin produets. they were unable ta pay the
current rate of eight Ver cent.
In 1899 there wam flfty-live per cent more
land under cultivatian than in 1890, and an
increame of over twenty-two per cent in lits

population. Ba muccecaful bais the pollcy been
that the tate bas wow lent about $65.000,000
andi It bas suffered no Ione and han a surplus
profit of $1,500,000.
M!r. Charles MeIntyre, In the Canadimu.
Courier of March 22, 1912, stated: "But the
best Illustration for our purpose may b. found
in Ireland. There the British Governinent ban
not only advanced rnoney to tenante for the
purpose of acqauiring their land. In fee simple.
but It bas aIma advanced ,noney for the erection
of cottage. In the country districts."
Australla has advanced over $82,000,000 to
ber farmers.
Aiter having pointed out what the United
States, France and Denmuark have donie in
that direction, the author of the .book oites
the opinion af Sir George Paish, the leading economist in the British Empire, who
writes as follows in the London Statist:
For years millions of dollars have been
poured out on new railway Unes and ather
necessary undertakIngs. It la very desirable
that Ébundance of capital ehould now b. provided for farming and minlng In order for one
thing that the great suin of Capital sPent In
Canada in recent years may -become productive

and for another that the world's supplies of
food may be largély increased.
There should. be a three-fold Increase In the

present decade in the output of aur farma,
forests, mines, fisheries and manufacturing In-

dustries.
Railway!s, banoe, traders, investora, the~
People theinselves, muet ail ca-operate.
But upon the Dominion Government and
upae> the several governinents resta the speolal
duty ce doing ail they can ta stimulate the production.
The extension of liberal credits to agriculturiats ta enable themn ta expand their opera-

SENATE
The Government can do nothing more
tions la one of the most pressing needs of the
moment and xno time should be lost in provid- practicai,. more useful, more patriotic.
ing such accommodationl.
The motion wae agreed to.
Almost ail the leading newspapers of
The Senate adjourned until il a.m.
have endorsed these
Toronto and Montreal
views and pleaded eloquently in behalf of to-morrow.
the great cause of agriculture and colonization, and have urged. the Governinent Wo
do what is being done elsewhere- withi s0
THE SENATE.
much success. There may be differencea of
opinion on the stepe Wobe taken in. otder
Wogive a practical effect Wothese patriotic
Saturday, April 10, 1915.
views. But ail agree that the Government
ahould assist ail those who are eager Wo The Acting SPEAKER took the Chair at
return Wothe land which they abandoned, Eleven o'clock, a.m.
but have not the means of so doing, and
Prayers and routine proceedings.
give financial aid generally Wo ail those
settle on our lands
who would be pleased Wo
GRAIN ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
get a living iu the firet
if they were able Wo
their settlement.
REPORTED FROM COMMrrrEE.
or thse 1two first years of
Speciai consideration should be given to
The House resoived itef into a Comthose who want to settle iu wooded regions
the arnendmnents
the clearing of the land is so hard, mittee of the Whole on
where
be better nioved 'by the House of Gommons to Bill
No money can
Bo difficult.
Woamend the Canada Grain
mnvested than. the mouey spent in increasing, (S), An Act
the number and wealth of our rural popula- Act.
(In the Coniniittee.)
tion. Let the Government do -for colonization what they are now doing fer agriOn clause 4-120a:
culture. Let them include every year in
a certain sum of money for
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It bas Ïbeen prothe Budget
colonizaition purposes. on condition that poeed, in order to meet the difficulties that
such sunis of money shail be used in have tbeen pointed out-that there be an
assisting the destitute settlers in the man- interpretation- plaoed en the word. «"hipner best adapted Wothe needs and require- pers "wbich -would read as follo'ws:
The .mouey in
mente of each province.
Shippers. as referred to in 120a and 120b of
certain cases might be given Wo coloni- this Act mean any persona who ahip grain by
zation societies ofiering ail the guarantees vessel from any of the elevators aituated at
required. The Goverument have lands Fort William or Port Arthur.
where they could give effect to those suggesHon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That is all right.
tions and the great railway companies
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If the bon. genshould be induced Wofoliow -their example.
But I do not think it advisable to tleman 'will aocept that interpretation it
we
enter now into the détails of that projeet, wiIl remove the diiffeiulty under which
let us firet try to have the principle have Ïbeen labouring.
adopted, and it will be easy to have mit Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-That dccc not
applied in the moist proper and practical cover it. With whom does the responsiway and in accordauce with the constitu- bility restP If, lor instance, a shipper west
tion. Persoually I would have no objection o! Fort William 'b.eoomes a shipper under
to use if neceseary the money which it was those conditions.
proposed Wogive to highwaye, for the pur.
Hon. Mr.. LOUGHEED-There would be
pose of facilitating the carrying out of
This -would be a no -western shipper. He might 'be the same
scheme.
this national
most practical meane of gettiug rid of that individual, but hie ahipuments would only
bone of contention, but both objecte arc be those of a rtiipper from the 'terminal at
good and may be pureued. Anyhow, wheu Fort William or Port Arthur.
the destinies o! a country, when its prosHon. Mr. DAVIS-Clayse 120a says that
perity and welf are are at stake, when !rçim the board ehall receive and in'vestigate ail
one end of the country Wothe other there ,coniplaints as to ehortage, etc., and shal
is but one opinion, one feeling in behalf have power Woassess or apportion the loss
of a reform of vital importance, the money arising f rom such shortage. Supposing
required to give satisfaction to public there ie a ehortage and the board cannot
opinion muet be found.
Hon. Mfr. DAVID.

APRIL 10, 1915

ascertain on whom the responsibility reste, the cleareing honse and the sh.ipment may go
friend
whether the carrier, the eastern elevater or to the port of destination, but my hbon. fariner
the
the other party; under this provision the muet elimiiiate from bis thought
'board will have power to assese the differ- west of Port Arthur or Fort William except
ent parties te cover that leas, each one to it be that he ie an operator or -large shipper
pay a certain amount. They might aay te dealing i cargoes.
the carrier, «'You pay -the whole thig."
Hon. -Mr. EDWARDS-I cannot ee it
that way.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yea.
'Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I think that je giving
Hon. MT. CASGRAIN-There je a clearing
teo iuch. power te the -board. If they on- bouse now at Port Arthur and Fort William,
not ascertain how the loss occurred, but a'nd at -that point the grain loses its identity
decide th-at the bcs je there, they wilb say, absolutely. It je ail put together and the
'It i. amongst you people, and we wiil ehipper weet of Fort Arthur hnd Fort Wilapportion it amongst you.' They *might liam disappears entirely and a new arrangesay te the carrier, "*You pay two-tteirdu ment ie made, the firet shipper having disand these other parties pay one-third." I appeared in the clearing house.
do not think it 'would be f air to give the
Hon. Mr. GORDON-This appeare a
iboard that power. I think it should lie
divided among ail the parties at the end very wise provision. On only one point cen
I eee how objection can be taken, and that
of the season.
is if I ehould lack faith in the board. It
Hon Mr. THOMPSON-The evidence ad- je a good thing always to have any comxduoed in the inquîry -might show that the modity measured by an independe'nt man,
carriers themeelves were the guilty parties. hecause thon, iu case of shortages or overWe muet assume that a ïboard o! this char- weight, it is easier to make adjustnient. To
acter would get the entire information with demonstrate what I mean, I would point out
respect te the shortage aIl along the Une.
years in the city o! Quebec the GovThe bioard woubd not 'have any personal that for haî had a board of cullera who
erninent
feeling againet the carrier, and would adtimber and their measurement ie
just a matter o! tis hind aecording te the measure binding on both the buyer and
evidence, and failing in doing that, Hfthey final and it alwaye works out satisfe.ctorily.
could flot find any evidence therie inight lie seller, and
a fair division, but I do not think they
Hon. Mr. KERR-That doee not met the
would arbitrarily say. -Well thie party case. The man we want to protect te the
should pay -it ail."
owner o! the wheat who has shipped it to
forgets the elevator at Port Arthur and is given a
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-My hon. friend
that the board is eitting in judgment on it- receipt for that grain. T do Dnnt care what
The western elevatere are entirely name you give him, he le the western shipself.
Having delivered t-hat wheat te the
under the control of the board. There are per.
three parties to this matter, tihe westen elevato>r and haviug obtained a receipt for
elevator, the carrier and the elevator at the it, he te entitled to get what that receipt
other Bide of the lakes. Then there le the calle for.
shipper*and the board, and that board will
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He is entitled te
b-sitting i judgment on iteelf and ite that -and tie gets it, but when he. comea te
officials. I object te that feature o! the Bill. ehip it out he cornes within the Act.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Even a western
Hon. Mr. KERR-The elevator ie reaponfarmer may be constituted a ahipper froin
if he chips a sible to huma for that quaxitity of grain and
Port Arthur or Fort William
to Liverpool
car load of grain to an elevator to be -stered -if he wi.shes te ehip the> grain
there
for him, and afterwards ordere the ship- and it turne out for some reason that upon
is a ehortage, why should he be called
it by boat.
ient of
to make up that shortage, the elevaor being
Hon. MT. LOUGHEED-No.
responsible for it? The shipper ehould not
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Who doee thon?
he held responeible for any transaction that
practioe le occurs after the wheat arrives st the eleHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The
against.
that a shipper purchases a certain certifi- vater. That ought te be guarded
encate. He may have iu a particular elevator The elevator owners ehould not be
buehele of grain for which fie may couraged to have -any interest in a ehortage.
100,000
rehold a certificate. He may seil that certi- They issue their receipt anid should be
their
ficate ta -an operator or may hand At into eponeible for the qua'ntity of wheat
S-26
REVISED EUITON

-SENATE
he je entitled to look to the elevaibor te
make u.p the shortage.
Hon. Mr. GORDON-The answer to that
je, the chances are 99 in 100 thsat be 'will
get ail hie grain.
ýHon. Mr. DAVIS-But the fact remains,
as7 the hon. senator f rom Toronto bas eaid,
that the ehipper, 'whether a sinail ishipper
froni the West, or a big shipper, is entitled
to the quantity of grain for which he holde
a receipt. They do not give hixn baok hie
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yee.
own wheat; lie gets a receipt for a certain
under the ainount of grain, the sanie as he vould for
Hon. Mr. .EDWARDS-Now,
in the lbank. Suppose he
Act he je being made responsible for some- so much money
hae 20,000 bushels in the elevator, and he
thing in whieh he has no concerfi, and for
20,000 Ibusbele ho shipped
'wbch he hae -no responeiibility in acay orders tihat the
wheat is out, .he beomee a ahipper under thie
It is true'that
shape or form.
hae been introduoed
pooled,. as my -bon. friend eayé; but even axnendment whioh
the farmner who ehipe a carload from the this nornilg.
Now he orders that that grain be shipped
elevator becomes tihe shipper, and hie reunder the Aot. out, and after it goes acrose the lake, if
eponeibility follows hitu
they corne back on
My humble opinion je that that is flot a ehortage ie found, if miesing grain did
In that case
him.
rig'ht.
flot go acrose in the ship and was flot in
Hon. Mr. GORDON-How ie xny bon. the elevator on the eastern -side of the
friend going to cure that? You 'have already lakes, it muet be in the elevator fromn
-in that elevator say 500,000 buehele of which the ehipinent was made.
wheat and you give orders te have 200,000
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That ie what the
bushels loaded oni a vessel te corne east, board will find.
and instead of having it rneasured by tihose
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-If the shortage occurs
men w.ho are under the -board, yen have il
in the ship, or if the ehortage ie diecover*measured by your own men.
ed in the elevator east of the lakes, how
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--No. you cannot:
can the ehipper be held reaponsible? My
that.
Hon. Mr. GORDON-I am eupposing hon. friend says the board will find the
the case. I amn not talking about The board ie given power to apportion
that te 'he
be
thiis Bill. I eay supposing you havé your loss, but I say the shipper ehould not
He takes h-~ -- ain
own mien te weigh out this 200,000 'buehels named in the Bill.
that you want te ship out, and later on a there in the same way ae a man deposîts
shortage às found -when it reaches àts des- nioney in a bank.
tination, say Montreal.; what are you going
Hon. Mr. MITCHEÀLL-Whether they are
to do about it? What better position 'will weetern or eaetern farmers that are conyou obe in then than you wvould ho ifit had cerned, they ail agree to pool their wheat
been ahippod 'by those Govern7nent officiais? in an elevator.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I would answer that in
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No, they do not pool
tbie way. The case that my bhon. friend their wheat.
pute is this-the western shipper delivere
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Of course they do.
the elevater at Port Arthur
bis grain teo
ehowing that he bas that
Hon. Mr. MITÇHELL-That wheat is put
and gets a receipt
much grain there; alter-wards 'he givee in the elevator and each man gets the
directions te have that grain forwarded. came kind of certificate, whether he be an
Thon a ehortage je discovored. No'w he eastern or western man. When the wheat
has net done the weighing or the abipping je delivered ont, if there is a ehortage,
out froin that olevater; he has had nothdung who je going, te pay it? I think we had
te do wit'h the lose; why should he sufferi better insert a clause providing that the
Having delivered hie grain and got bis re- Government ehould pay for it.
ceipt aie je entitled te cay, " I want rny
r WATBON-The hon. gentleman
Hon.
grain delivered« at Liverpool; 8hip it there."
in caying that if the
And unlese the full quantity of gr&in foix je perfectly right wheat they ehould be
a receipt je ehipped ther( elevatore pool the
'wbieh ho holde

receipt calls for. At the end ofthe seaeon
it turne ont that they have an extra qu-antity of grain and tihey ahould maýke up aîny
-shortage froin that.
Hon. Mr.'EDYWARD)S-I have no desire
te be contentious in this matter, but I amn
unable te see that thie euggested change
improves the position. The man who stores
-his grain ini the elevator at Port Arthur
and 'wante te 5hip it, becoines the ehipper.

Hon. Mr. KERR.

APRIL 10, 1915

They do flot pool it in
he]d responsible.
the *elevator, but they get the grain, and
the Government hau taken contrel of the
The Government
shippmng of the grain.
weighmaster weighs the wheat in and out.
Why should the shipper be mixed up in
as the hon. gentleman
this matter
from Alberta said, the grain was in the
elevator at Fort William and shipped te
the elevator on-this aide, and the shipper
han haed nothing te do -with the weighing
cf the grain. It is outaide cf hie contrai
He cannot go into an elevator
entirely.
and check the 'weîght or central it in any
Surely the Government, who unway.
dertake through their official, weighmaster,
te take contrai cf the grain, should be responaible for the shortages cf either the
elevator or the carrier! The statement was
made here yesterday that a surplus cfnearly hall a million bushein of wheat was
in the elevators at Fort William.I
think they should make up the loases.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-They were acting
for the shipper.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The shipper has
nothing ta do with it. It je entirely eut
How much would he get
cf hie contrai.
if there were a surplus? The Government
have undertaken te conduct business which
the people should conduet privately. They
have undertaken that through the commission and the elevater system, apparently
te do aomebody same good. 'rhere is tee
If the
much cf this clans cf legisiatien.
Government are going te conduct this
business, let them take the respansibility.

surplus? They get 'junt what they put in
the elevater. If, on the other hand, a
shortage occurs, he must get out w'hat he
put in. If the ions occurred on the boat h.
han nothing te do with that.
Hon. Mr. GORDON-I do net ses what
hon. members are driving at whexx they contend that by eliminating the word "ahipper"
it is going te have the denired effect. If you
have a quantity cf wheat in an elevater,
the 'board is going ta undertake te get that
out for you. Having done th-at, what mare
do you expect them te do? If At in found
afterwards when it reaches destination that
a sho-rtage existe they are baund, under the
ternis of the regulation, te try and find out
where it is.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-In western Canada a large ainounit of grain is raised. T here
is a clans west of Port Arthur who buy and
seli wheat. Generally speaking, as I understand it, the elevators at Port Arthur are
simply warehounes for receiving, storing
and delivering wheat. The western farmer
frequently dce ship -bis wheat into Port
Arthur, and it goes inte these warehouses.
He gets a receipt for what he delivers; he
hau ne agent at Port Arthur. He perhaps
neyer han seen Port Arthur and neyer will.
He has notbing te do with the r-eceiving or
the shippingof it, but under this amendment
he will be made responsible for ail thc mietakes that may occur et Port Arthur as far
as his grain in concerned.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And the carrier, tee.

Hon. Mr. MITCHELL-Are they making teeo. I think if my hon. friend will study it
a chrge or
i?
1he will sec he is entirely wrong.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes,' the charge ie
Hon. Mr. GORDON-He in not mnade renupposed ta be sufficient ta pay ail expenses. sponsible.
They maintain a Government officiai, there.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Yes, he is. What
They employ weighmastern who are receiving about $75 a month. The position cf would put thie Act in proper shape would
weighmaster is probably a much more im- be a simple declaration that the dealer or
portant position than a bank manager, shipper west of Port Arthur shall not b.
because he is handling hundreds of thou- responnîble under this Act for shipmentn
sands af bushels af wheat. At the aary that take place from Port Arthur. Junt what
he receives he would probably b. a small shape it should b. put in I do net know.
cheap man and might make mistaken. If In my humble opinion the Act in its prenent
the Government are going ta conduct the shape i.s net right, and may impose penalties
syntem, they nhould have the elevator r.- an any shipper west cf ,Port Arthur for
sponnible and make up the lasses ta the which he in in no way responsible.
carrier.
Hon. Mr. KERR-There is another way
Han. Mr. DAVIS-If the shippere get cf locking at the matter. A western man
receipts for e-certain quantity of grain and nhips te Port Arthur and deposits et the
,a big surplus is found at the end of the elevator so much grain and gets*a receipt
year, will t.hey get a.ny portion cf that for it-an, obligation on the part cf the

SENATE

vould have the right to attack the bill of
1ading and show that a mistake had been
nade.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I want my hon. frîend
to ans'wer this question. Supposing I arn
awestern shipper and I ship to Port
Arthur 100,000 bushels of grain, and I get
at Port Arthur a Government receipt?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Not necessarily
a Government receipt; my hon. f riend must
not forget. that the Government is the
owner of only a couple of terminal elevators. Ahi the others are owned by prîvate
parties.
Hon. Mr. KERR-The warehousernan
issues to me a receipt for 100,000 bushels of
grain. I go to rny friend across the way
and say 'I have 100,000 bushels of grain
whieh is worth so much rnoney; 1 would
like to seli it." He says; " I will take it";
he pays me for it, and 1 transfer it to hirn.
H1e then has the right to have it forwarded.
The warehouseman at t'he end of a year
says, "I have conducted my business in
such a way that I really have not kept
track of things as I should. I have issued
te somebody a receipt in excesa of the
quantity I received, and I have only so
much grain te deliver," why should I,
havmng consigned a certain amount of grain
and got a receipt for it, have te make up
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-Why place the for a shortage at the warehouse? Surely
warehouseman in this respect in any the 'warehouseman should have no higher
different position from the ordinary ware- obligation or no lower obligation than to
hanse mani?
account for 'what he acknowledges that he
us assume has received.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Let
that a shipper stores with a warehouse man
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
a certain commodity, and ho instructs the will not deny that the court would have a
warehouse man te ship that cornmodity te right to make inquiry, to investigate as to
sme distant port; the carrier of that corn- where the mistake lay. What hon. gentlemodi.ty cornes back and says: - I did not men are doing now is seeking to oust the
receive from the warehouse man the quan- rightof the commission to make any intity mentioned in the bill of lading." He vestigation as to where the mistake arose.
would have a rîght in a court of lmw te say
Hon. Mr. KERR-Your legisiation will
that a mistake had arisen, and would have
destroy that receipt altogether as reprea remedy against the shipper.
senting any value. A man would corne
Hon. Mr. KERR-Against the elevater tû you with a receipt for 100,000 buehels
man.
of grain and offer to seli it; you wvould not
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The elevator buy from him. You would say: "« It is true
man does not own the grain. He is sirnply there is a receipt here for 100,000 bushels,
warehousing the grain. H1e is nothing more but it may turn out that you delivered only
or less than the agent of the shipper. The 50,000 bushels; there rnay be a mistake
shipper is the, owner, and in common lam, sornewhere."
the shipper would be liable for any mistake
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-In the first place,
that might have arisen in the shipment of
iA seems te me that the shipper is the
bis gooda te any point, notwithstanding
is the shipper. The one
the f act that the bill of hading rnight show seller, the seller
to whorn the wheat is consigned is the purThe carrier
sornething te ýhe contrary.

elevator to account for, that much grain.
By some iitake in the management of that
elevator they have either wronghy weighied
his grain, or made an over-shiprnent te
some one else, leaving the man who has his
grain deposited there short of this arnount.
Is that a reason why the shipper should
be obliged te submit te an asseasment for
shortage' He is not responsible any more
than a man who makes a deposit in a bank.
The bank receives my deposit and rnixing
up the money with everybody else's money
and if at the end of the year it turned out
that the bank paid out teo much te some
one depositer, should they have a right te
deduct that from my deposit? Surely not.
These elevators should be in the saine
position. Why should they be allowed to
recoup themselves for some mistake which
they made and which they cannot account
for? They receive the grain and they are
bound te keep it until you tell thein to ship.
And when they are instructed to sliip, thîey
are bound te ship the quantity for whichi
they issued a receipt. The grain is consigned te smre person and that person is
entiUled te receive the proper quantity.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-I cannot understand why we should surround the shipper
with greater protection than he is entitled
te under the common 1mw.

Hon. Mr. KERR.

APRIL 10, 1915
situation as far as 1 can seize it, frorn a le-sRi
point of view is this: The western farmer
who grows the grain sends it te the elevator,
which is a Goverument institution, just likê
a postal savings Ibank. Re sends, te that
elevaton 10,000 bushels of grain, and gets
from the Governinent officer a centificate te
the effect that he has delivered to the elevaton 10,000 bushels. The law should corne
right in here and say that his responsibility
and liability cease with the obtaining of the
certificate. He bas put 10,000 bushels in
the Governmnent elevator; that grain loses
its identity, and goes in with other grain
until the elevator is filled. Then an order
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. gentleman is given for the Bhiprnent from that elevater
mistaken. The purchaser looks of 100,000 bushels to Liverpool. The farmer's
is altogether
te the warehousernan.
10,000 bushels goes in among the 100,000 and
Hon. Mr. WVATSON-Sure.
is shipped. When it reaches Liverpool it
Mr. BEIQUE-He carnies the cer- is found that instead of 100,000 bushela only
Hon.
90,000 bushels has been delivered. The purtificate of the warehouseman, and the shipper also looks to the warehousexnan. The chaser has recourse against the seller, as
one hon. aentlemnan says, but we know that
warehouseman stands betwveen the two.
the farmen practically is the final seller,
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Hear. hear.
and the purchaser wou]d have recounse
seller
ordinary circurnstances;
Hon. Mn. BEIQUE-And it is his business against the buying infrorn an ordinary 'wholeif he was
to see that the quantity for which he issues sale bouse or any ordinary retail store he
the certificate is there. 1 quite appreciate would have recourse against the seller; that
that there may be an unavoidable mistake, is a principle of common lew. But Parand that the recourse at common law Diament has a right te corne in and supershould be preserved, but it should not be sede cornmon Iaw, and put safeguards
a recourse which would faîl on any inno- anound the application of the common law.
cent party. If 1 understand the wording If the seller was an ordinary seller, without
of the clause, it is to this effect, that the any protection to the purchaser except hie
wanehouseman, who might be loose in his own honesty, then he would be responsible,
accounts or in his way of dealing with th4 and no Parliarnent would undertake to supreceiving and shipping of the goods, would
regard in
be entitled to show that he has a defieji Sersede thè cornron law in that this case
ta position of that kind. But in
of so much and then to levy this deficii the seller is not an ordinary seller; be ià
uponu a numben of parties who wene per -under
the protection of the Governnuent;
fectly innocent, and who should not bie he bas his goods stc>red in a Governrent
made contributonies to the deficit.
warehouse; and iL becomes the duty of the
Governrnent warehouse to deliver his goods.
Hlon. Mn. KERR-Quite 80.
If the goods are not delivered, then this
Hon. Mn. BEIQUE-I think the clans e legisiature can corne in and supersede the
should be worded in such a way that thi ecommon law restricting the nesponsibility
proper necourse will be kept, but that thu to the elevator nian or the elevator authore
recourse should be dependent upon thE ities, or the Governrnent institution. That
e
warehouseman proving where the defici, is within' their power and rigbts, and on
existed, and letting the party exercise hi 8 the present occasion, I think it ought te be
recourse against the party responsible.
wîthin the discretion of this House and ParHon. Mr. CLORAN-I arn not a practica 1 liament to se legisîste that the fariner who
grower or shipper of grain, but in listenin g holds a Government certificate showing: that
to this debate I have asked myseif how th ea certain arnount cf grain has been de.llverlegal side of the transaction would presen ted, shahi net be held responsible if a shortitself to the courts. I have listened t oage is discovered later. Limit the reabout ten or twelve gentlemen apeakin gsponsi'bility, as f ar as -t.he purchasers
about seventeen times eaoh, and they ar e are concerned, te the Governrnent offialthough in
elevater,
in the
ail divided in regard to this matter. Th e cials

chaser. The purchaser has recourse against
the seller, flot against the warehouseman
who stands in. between.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is where he
should have it.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-Not a ail. The
seller has recourse against' the warehouseman, but the purchaser has his recourse
against the mnan that sold hirn the wheat,
no matter what intervened, and the man
who sold hirn the wheat -will have -bis recourse against the elevator. That is the
way it is, as I take it.

406

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It was proposed
wouid
purchaser
the
law
common
at Port Coiborne,
,a right to prosecute the seller that each of the elevatorshave
of
it be made clear to Kingston and Prescott shall, in respectand
for non-deiivery. Let
civilized cargoes ioaded at such elevators, pay
ail purchasers of grain in -the
receiving elevator at Montreal
world that they must look to the elevator allow to the
date of onewho are Government officiais. or Quebec the value at loadingone thousand
authorities
poor farmer who sixth of one bushel per each
That would protect the
ioaded.
hands his grain over in good faith, saying: bushels of grain so
The vessel shall pay and aiiow ta the rehave sent 10,000 bushels down ta you;"
«'I
the value at ioading date
and the warehouse and the authorities of ceiving elevatorai one bushel per each one
have not sent o! one-quarter
the Government say, -You
The thousand busheis of grain carried.
10,000, yau have oniy sent 9,500."
That the receiving elevator at Montreal
would then have no kick; lhe would
farmer
his responsibility or Quebec shall guarantee at unioading the
accept the certificate,
shall give to the
and liabiiity for that grain on deiiverY bill of lading weîghts, and
full quantity shown
should cease right there. Now that. is the vessel a receipt for the
legal point of view. I submit it is a change in the bill cf iading.
This arrangement was sought ta be
from the common law, but when the purCommission,
chasing public are on their guard they will brought about by the Grain
men and
knaw to wham to, trace the shortage in the but it was iound that the elevater
shauld occur. It is only fair the carriers could not agree among themdelivery if one
arranged
and right that the tarnier, who has in good selves as to doing this and it was
in
faith and honesty delivered his goods to tliat the shipper should bear his share carofficiais, should not be left addition to the elevator nian and the
Government
A misapprehiension seemns te exist in
open to, be prosecuted for non-delivery. 'riers.
have to the minds of many hon. gentlemen that
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We will
elevators; there are
arrive at a conclusion on this subject. and these are Government
elevaitors.
mave the adoption of the only a -couple of Goverirment
I therefore
Hon Mr. WATSON-The hon. gentleman
an
clause. If any hon. gentleman has
axnendment to, move he had better move it. must admit that every bushel of wheat is
weighied -under Government supervision.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-As amended?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I quite admit
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, I move the
not relieve the owner of
adoption cf the clause as it appears in the that, but At does
the elevator cf responsibility for shortage.
amendment.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I was under the imHon. Mr. DAVIS-Are you putting anypression that in practice it has been found
thing in that amendment defining the
that there was a surplus rather than a
word "shipper"?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, I propose shortage.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I amr- informed
-maving it aiter we adopt the amendrnent,
overages and
êiecause this would have to corne in as an that certain elevators have
cf the word "shipper." other elevators shortages and that the one
interpretation
couniterbalance the other.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The reason ai the ad- will practicaily my knowledge any decided
There is net te
ditionai clauses te the Bill is that important
overage upon the whole.
shortages have been found to exist.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE- This Bill would not
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Grain Comthe apportioning of the surpluscs.
mission thought that they had brought <-over
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, under 120b
the carriers
about an arrangement between
observe it is provided
and the elevators as te the distribution of my hon. !riend will
shortages which occur from time to time. that:
The board may make regulations governing
An agreement was drafted by which it was
the disposition of
proposed that they shouid ail contribute a the responsibility for, and grain upon delivery
percentage of grain, and that they shortages and overages of -te a vessel or fromn
certan
an elevator
sainle f
should contribute a certain proportion for of vessel toromn elevator, and mnay assess in such
an
a
shrtaes.
metingthee
o
the urpse
nanner and in such amount as it may deem
shrtags.
o meeingthes
the urpoe
and proper. contributions from elevator
Hon. Mr. WATSON-You say that agree- just
operators, water carriers an~d shippers, or from
carrier any of thein, in faveur of the board or otherment was arrived at between the
wise for the purpose of providlng against such
and the elevater man.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN.

APRIL 10, 1915

responsibility: provldlng thaît nathilie contalfled
In this section shall lrit the powers of the
buard under the precedlng section.
So that it proposes placing in the board
the fullest power to deal with the entire
question. Hon. gentlemen will appreciate
that this is a very difficuit question ta solve.
It is surrounded with ail kinds of difficulties. Disputes will arise and there should
be sorne tribunal for the purpase of settling
tbem.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That is perfe-etly right.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is what is
doue.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Yes, but you give
them i power ta assess the ýyho1e loss on
one man.
is rather
Hon. Mr. BELCOUET-It
strange that at this stage one woiild need.
information, 'but I should like to ask what
is the praotice Ibetween the warehouseman
and the caerier? Does the warehouseman
not procure from the carrier a receipt for
the 'wheat which the warehouseman 'bauds
over to the carrier?

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE- Would the object be
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
attained if the huard were given power to
make propen regulations and ta investigate
Hon. Mr. BELOOURT-I do not ee
for the purpose of enabling the party who
the party where the difficulty arises in determining
sbould recover to recover against
responsibility.
who should stand the loss?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The difficulty
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is what the
1now is that il falls an the carrier.
Bill provides.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The carrier canHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I cannut appreciate
mucli wheat he is '
that, because it is sought te distnibute that flot passibly know liow He only finds out
upun the innocent as well as the taking on his ship. If ail the hatches
shortage
after he unloads il.
guilty party.
in a ship are closed after it is loaded, the
The wheat is
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, that does wheat must b. there.
not neces s&rily follow. IL is proposed to weighed at Fort William by the Governempower the huard ta detec.mine, if pas- ment men end il is -weighed again at
sible, by whom the loss should be sus- Montreal by other parties. There shoixld
tained, but there may be a conditioù of be Government weighing at both ends.
thingsHon. Mr. LOUJGHEED-The GovernHon. Mr. BEIQUE-But the hon. gentle- ment will, I believe, have Government
man will admit that if the board cannaI wfighinasters at bath ends.
acertain -vho is responsible, they will disHon. MT. WATSON-There is no protribute the loss among innocent parties.
ýosition before us for Government weighHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is to be masters at the receiving end.
withîu the discretion of -thée board. There
Han. Mi. LOUGHEED - T-hey have
might be such a loss as would warrant the
huard in saying: " We cannut determine authority to do that.
the responsibility, and consequently cenHon. Mr. WATSON-I think -that is
not distribute or assess."
At
wheze the great trouble has arisen.
DAVIS-Does nxy hon. f niend Fort Willia-n they have scales of sufficient
Hon. Mr.
mot think -in the case I nientianed a while capacity tu weigh accurately.the cargo inago. that a great rnany ai the shippers te the vessels, but at the receiving end,
would abject to that because the board where tîhey unload, they have not scales
will be sitting ini judg-ment un theniselve8? of sufficient capacity to 'weigh as they
The Government elevators are a party ta unload the vessels. There is a lot of guessare
this. 0f couxse, if you can locate who is work, and the carrier is told: " You the
responsible for a certain loss it can be ad- short su many bushels." If ve hold
justed, 'but where he cannaI tbe locat-ed, carriers responsible they should have sanie
and it must be apportionied, you are giving check. If yau pool 'the wheat, as bas been
pawer to the buard toaessess that as they suggested, you get the benefit if there are
deem proper. The Txght way would be tu overages, 'but you -are asking the shipper,
pool il and assess everybody alike. Put w.ho bas no control over a bushel of this
in the ýbig shîpper, the terminal elevator, wheat, and no zight to go into an elevator,
the carrier and the party acrass the lake. to stand lasses which might cSur through
It should be divided arnongst four parties. dishonesty.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Suppose that carHon. 'Mr. GORDON-You are forgetting
go ie 20,000 bushels short notwithstanding
it proteets the ehipper.
thst
the issue of certificates?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I arn not forgetting
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-The lasw eays the
anything. Yeu have three parties, the elecarrier and the shipper; so far carrier ie responsible.
vator, the
as the receiving elevator ie concerned. there
I-on. Mr. LOUGHEED-He muet have a
le; no responsibility at ail.
chance te show that some mistake aTose et
Hon. Mur. LOUGHEED-I move that the the rece.iving point or the point of delivery.
committee rise, report progress and ask
Hon. 3fLr. BELCOURT-He may do that in
leave to mi again. Il hon. members have a court o! law.
amendrnents to offer, I hope they wilI be
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He je not content
prepared with them when we again go into
waged for
committee. Th.is ils an important subject to do that. Thi-s'war. has been
the eleini the public interest that the 15 years between the carriers and
and Ait j
bone vators concerning the carrying of grain and
matter should be aettled. It has been a
some solution be
of contention for many years, and as the it je proposed now that
of the Grain Act now veste hsd.
administratioyn
in the Government, they axre very anxious
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Could my hon.
that it ehould be carried out as in the Bill. friend tell mie 'why the receipt given by
It is proposed, if this Bill goes through, that the carrier should flot be conclueive the
weîghniasters should be appointed at ail re- saine as the other?
ceiving points. The authority is now vested
Hon. Mr. MITGHELL-They will not
in the Govern ment to do that, and conse- give a receipt in that way.
whereby
<Quently a systern will be adopted
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The carrier canit is hoped there may be a satiefactory adwhich have been not give a weighing receipt because it je
justment of those disputes
goipg on for the last 15 years. and concern- weighed inte his vessel from the elevator.
ing 'which, np to the present time, there
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-He should check the
has been no solution.
weight.
Hon. MT. BELCOURT-I undergtand my
Hon. Mr.- LOUGHEED-He must neceshon. friend te say that if this Bill goes sarily take the certificate of the weighthrough, the Government will appoint weigh- master.
masters at the point of receiving and the
Hon. Mr. BELOOURT-I rose for the
pointa pof delivery.
purpose of ascertaining if the carrier did
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They have 'weigh- give a receipt to the warehouee.
He doee
masters at the point of! delivery.
or does not.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-If that is so I amn Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He gives a bill
unable to see why there je any necessity of lading the same as any carrier does.
for the legisiation, because the matter wil]
Hon. Mr. BELOOURT-Why ehould he
take care of itsel!.
give a receipt for sornething he cannot
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
check?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-The warehouseHon. Mr. CASGRAIN-He cannot check
men at Fort William give the shipper hie the weight.
receipit. That ought te be conclusive, and
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Ie a man bound
he should be able to negotiate that.
to give a receipt for sornething when he
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We have made does not know whether he has received
that conclusive.
it or not?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-The carrier cornes
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-This should be called
along and takes delivery from the warehouse a Bill te release the carrier from responeiof the quantity of grain and gives i Te- bihity.
ceipt for it. Why should that be treated
Hon. Mr. GORDON-I should like to cite
differently? Why should not that be conin the interest
.dhe warehousernen? The carrier one case where I think it ie has a certain
clusive to
A shipper
and gets of the ehipper,
takes hie grain down to Montreal
an elevator, say 500,000
hie receipt there. Why do you wandi legis- quantity of oate in
bushels; he has a way bill also for-500,000ý
lation?
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

APRIL 10, 1915

bushels as being shippsd. IL ie alterwards to appeal. At the pressent time the applifound that inetead of having shipped 500.- cation ie limited to the court from which
000 bushels, only 4n0000 bushels were the appeal cornes. I therefore move the
shipped, and there was a shortage cf 20,000 second reading cf the Bill.
bushele. That means there is 26,000 bushels
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
of grain in the elevater belonging te the was read the second time.
shipper. and hie has a right te get it and
NATIONAL TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILwilI get it.*
WAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.,
in the
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I observe,
discussion which took place in the other
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second
Houe, that the minieter in charge of the reading cf Bill No. 119. An Act to amend
Bill suggested that hie had not any clear the National Transcontinental Railway Act.
conception cf how it would work out, but
He said: The object cf this Bill ie to
proposed i sa a sort cf compromise. Csr:, give authority to the Governmsnt cf Cantain ompls.ints were made by carriers and ada to enter into negotiations for the lease
elevator men. The shortage occurs where or acquisition by other means cf the Lake
the carriers deliver the csrgo. There are Superior ibranch of the Grand Trunk Pacific
ample facilitiez for wsigbing their cargos Railway. As hion. gentlemen are aware,
inte the veseel, and iA should net be much the Government of Canada has constructsd
They have the National Transcontinental railway from
trouble te weigh the cargo.
net the right te do that, but it should be Winnipeg te Moncton, which, under the
permitted. They have net sufficient f acili- contract, has te be eventually, it is hoped.
tis te allew a vessel te unload as fast as operated by the Grand Trunk Pacific. The
and the difficulty Grand Trunk Pacific with the view of seaurshe should unload,
occurs there. Perhaps it would be as well ing connection with the head cf the lakes
te let 'this amendment stand for another built a branch, known as the Lake Superior
session because it is a controversial mat- branch, from a point on the main lins of
ter. I do not ses why, because the carrier the National Transcontinental railway
bas trouble and finde loases and shortages, known as the Superior Junction, te Fort
the shipper ehould be brought into -it.
William. Inasmuch as the Grand Trunk
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-You can inove Pacific je net in a position te enter upon
an amendmenit. My hon. friend seems to and take over the National Transcontinental
railway at the present time, for reasons
desire te strike eut the 'word '#shipper."
not be mentioned, and which
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I do net want and which need
and a discussion cf
'think that any member of this may be controversial,
I do net
which will not probably prove illuxninâting,
Houe wants te take responsibility for that.
by the Government that in
It is a technical subject and hard te under- it je expected
enter upon
ought to know, the meantime they will have te
stand, and the department
the National Transcontinental railway and
but it is eimply a compromise matter, and
road from Winnipeg te MoncI do not ses why we should take in an inno- eperate that
that road advanne protection for hiui- ton. In order te operate
cent party who has
tageously it will necessitate the Governself. I would suggest that it would be welI
ment acquiring, by lease or otherwise, the
for the minister to consider the dropping of
Lake Superior brancb, so ithat grain and
the word "ashipper"' fer this session.
other producta may be carried fromn WinniHon. Mr. ROSS (Middleten), from the peg te the head cf the lakes. Hon, gentlecommittes, reported that they had made men are probably aware that the main-lins
progrese with the Bill and asked leave te cf the National Transcontinental dos net
sit again this afternoon.
touch either Port Arthur or Fort William,
and is a very consîderable distance from
WINDING-UP ACT AMENDMENT BILL. the head cf the lakes. It je therefore te
SECOND READING.
the advantage cf the Governimsnt and
Hoiû. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the second equally advantageous te the intereets of
reading cf Bill No. 122, An Act'te amend the Grand Trunk Pacific. If the Government of Canada ehould operate the Natthe Winding-Up Act.
He said: There je nothing much te be ional Transcontinental railway, it je altoeaid about this Bill except that it permite gether likely that it wiul ibe in the intereet
an application te be made te the court te cf the Grand Trunk Pacific that thsy ehould
which the appeal je te be made for leave net operate the Lake Superior branch, but

SENATE

410

full discussion of this question, but there
is a possibility of a great deal of interest
being taken in this question in the West,
because any arrangement made between the
Government and the Grand Trunk Pacifie
wiIl affect the West. The Grand Trunk
Pacifie aie operating this road now, and it
is a most important piece of work in connection with the western end of the line,
whieh ruma right through to Prince Rupert.
The Government have not heen disposed to
be any tooý lenient in their arrangements
with the Grand Trunk Pacifie. It would
ha a serions thing for the country if thîs
legislation should in any way hamper the
operations of the Grand Trunk Pacifie with
regard to the western businessï. This uine
was built for the purpose of opening up
and developing the country, through the
West especîally, and for the purpose of
competitien, s0 that the farmers throughout
the West would have the henefit of lowcr
rates, and it is most -important. in the
interests of that western country, that that
competition should ha carefully maintained.
This clause, as I understand-it, net only
deals with. the section of the line from
Lake Superior Junetion down ta Port Artbur, 'but aise with the terminais and oither
works connected therewith, 'which do not,
if I understand grightly, belong to the
Grand Trunk Paoific-4hat there wMl be
other oxfipanies connedted w.ith this
work-and this firet clause of this Bill enables the Government to take 'hold o! these
works as weIl as the actual uine froin Lake
Superior Junction to Port Arthur. The Government proposes 'that any arrangement ta
extend for a longer period than five years
shaîl, if I understand the last c-lause, be
submitted te this Parliament; fbut in the
event of its .being made for a shorter tinie,
we shahl have nothing te say 'with regard ta
Hon. Mr. -THOMPSON-Automatically. the maLter. Clause 8 of Vhis Bill reads very
I understand the Goverinient reserve the nuch -the saine as a suggestion that w-e
right to give running rights over that road were inaking the other day in regard to
f rom Winnipeg- to Moncton. If they stili the Governient railway-that the legisiaheld a lease of the branchi road belonging. tion for -that should 'ha subm'itted te the
to the Grand Trunk Pacifie a!ter the Grand ratification of Parliament.. Possiibly the
Trunk Pacifie took over the main line, it stand that we taok at that time may have
might affect their operation of the main had some effect in causing the Government
line.
to consider that this was a good clause to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That would not put in the Bill.
occur. Any agreement drawn up between
The motion was agreed te, and t'he Bill
the parties would make provision for that. was read the second time.
The Government of Canada would be only
too glad to have the Grand Trunk Pacifie DOMINION ELECTIONS ACT ÂMENDMENT BILL.
take over the National Transcontinental
SE)COND RE.ADING.
railway and operate its own hranch uines.
Hon. Mr. -LOUGHEED moved the second
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I do not suppose
it is advisable for this House to go into a reading- o! Bill No: 110, An Act to amend

rather that the branch should be operated
by the Government.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-What is the arrangement at the present time between
Winnipeg and Port Arthur?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-An arrangement
had been entered into between the Government and the Grand Trunk Pacifie, by
which they might operate that portion of
the road from Superior Junction to Fort
The Grand Trunk Pacifie have'
William.
been under an arrangement to operate from
Winnipeg to Fort William.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Is there any termination to that lease?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, 1 understand that there is.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Section 8 says
that the lease shall be for not more than
five years without ratification of Parliament. If after four or five years the Grand
Trunk Pacifie should take over that portion
of the line, why should flot the Government
Supposing
lease terminate at that time?
next year, or the year after, the Grand
Trumk Pacifie take control of the road from
Winnipeg to Moncton, the Government
should not have any right over this brancb
lins.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Government
would net. Whatever agreement is drawn
up between the Government and the coinpany would make provision for ail proIf the Grand Trunk
bable éonditions.
Pacifie should take over the National
Transcontinental railway, this lease of the
Lake Superior branch, between the Government and the Grand Trunk Pacifie, would
necessarily fali to the ground.

non.

Mr. LOUGHEED.

APRIL 10, 1915

the Dc'mdnion Elections Act. He said:
This short Bill and the amendments proposed, have to some extent teen ibrought
&bout 'by the Represtqitation Act which was
passed ini the session of 1914. "The firet
clause proposes substituting certain words
in lieu oi those vwhich are to -be -found in
the present Act, owing to the ch-anges of
naine in the Bepresentation Act. The second places the provinces cf Saskatchewan
and Aliberta in the saie position as tLhe
other provinces occupy in case a candidate
dies after nomination. Clause 3 deals, with
the granting by employers cf en heur for
voting purposes. Clause 4 amnende the
French version cf -the satne Act. 1 move
the second reading cf -the Bill.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I do not propose
to make much objection to this Bill, 'but I
should like te point out that under ikhe
first clause of th'is Bill, 'which deals ith
certain constituencies in the province of
British Columbia, the eleotions in these
constituencies are to Ibe held on a date auhsequent te the date of a general election.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The clause makes
a -change ini one case from the whole Kooutenay riding, wthih is represented iby one
menmber at the prosent time, te West Kootenay,- which will be represented by oe
member, and leaving out of the questâon
East Kootenay, .wbich will also te represented by one memiber under the Act. If
it 'was desirable te delay the holding cf an
election for the West Kootenay riding, it
would ïbe just as desira-ble to hold the eleclien later for the East Kootcnay riding;
the conditions in the twc ridings are prao.
tically the -same. In the north they are
served by the main lins o! the Canadien
Pacific railway; in ithe south thsy are served,
Iby the Crowenest Pass line of the Canadian
Pacifie rail-way; and in the case o! West
Kootenay by the Kettîs Valley; and they are
served north and south in the East Kootsnay by a lins which will conneet Golden
with Fernie in East Kootisnay; and in West
*Kootenay they are servsd by the boat hunes
of the Canadian Pacifie railway up and down
the lakes. The only part o! the riding in
which dlaim can be made cf any difflculty
in getting in communication with the
electors is inj the north cf the riding, and it
would apply just as much ini the case of
East Kootenay as in the case of 'West Kocrtenay. 1 do noît cousider that those deferred
elections are good things. When I Tau in
Yale Cariboo which includsd both the

Kootenay ridings as defined in the Representation Act 1914 my coustituency was
inuch larger than it is to-day, yet -the electien was held on the saie day as the
general elsctions and we did riot have any
particular difficulty in arranging matters at
that tiins. and therefore, I do flot quite see
why this West Kootenay riding should be
put in the list of exceptions to-day.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-But my hon.
friend must remember that it was the lats
Governinent that placed Kootenay ini the
list of defsrrsd elections, and ws on-ly take
part of it now -and place it in the dsfsrrsd
lust.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I think the preseut
Goverument might have shown that they
wsrs superior by takiug it all out.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If it is a sin to
deal with it ahl, we have only half sinnsd.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I might point out
that there is much more reason for placing
Comox-Alberni iu this list, because that
takes in the whole cf the north part of
Vancouver islaud.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Eventually they
will be ail in.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
was read the second time.
DOMINION CONTROVERTED ELECTIONS ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.

Hon. Mr. LOUG4HEED ânoved the second
reading cf Bill No. 109, An Act te amend
the Dominion Controverted Eleetiois, Act.
He said: For sme time past t.here bias
besu a feeling, particulaxly in the House,
and also backed by public opinion, that
soins change should take place ini the procedure of the trial cf controverted eleotions.
A committee of ba<th aides of the House cf
Commons was appointed during -the preseut
session, represeutative, I thi.nk, cf the leading men on both sides of politios, who gave
a very cousiderable amount cf attention and
industry to the preparation o! this Bill. The
policy runuiug through the Bill is that of
doing away as far as possible wi.th the delay
&hat -bas characterized the trial of contreverted elections in the pust. It is proposed
te dispense with much, il not all cf the preliminary objections which surround the trial
of controverted election cases, and to render
the trial of those cases more suinmary than
lias been the case in the past. It is cer-

SENATE

tainiy in the public interest that this should
be dons, anid as tiz Bill is the product of
both sides of -the House of Commons, wbo
have agreed upon the deeirabiity of embodying thie poiicy in the statutes, 1 have
no doubt that 'it will receive the hearty
approval o! both sides of thie Bouse.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I can on.ly say that
I think ws ought-to congratuiete the leader
o! the Government on this Bill, because
anything that 'tends to shorten up and do
away with the deiay causpd in those election
trials wili be better for the country.
The motion was agreed Wo, and the Bil]
read the eecond time.
The Senate adjourned until 3 p.m.
Second Sitting.
The Acting SPEAKER took the Chair at
Thrse o'cloekl.
Routine proceedings.
PURCHASE 0F DEMONSTRATION
FÂRMS IN MANITOBA.
INQUIRY DROPPED.

The notice of inquiry being called:
By the Honourable Mr. Watson:
APril 7-That ho will inquire of the Govern-

ment:
1 How many demonstration farine have the

Government purchased in Manitoba?
2. When purchaaed?
3. Wbere located?
4. What acreage In each case?
5. What price per acre in each case. and from-

whom Purchased?
liIon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have communicated Wohon. gentlemnan the answers Wohie
questions, so that this inquiry might be
dropped.
The inquiry was dropped !rom the Order
paper.

ABSENCE 0F S'PEAKER LANDRY.

aimeelf is at hand. If that is not an abnormal situation, I shouid like to know what
When a iaw is prowould be abnormal.
posed to this Chamber it must be under the
supervisionl and jurisdiction o! the Speaker.
There muet be fair debate, and it muet not
be choked off by the Sergea.nt at Arme
You muet have a f air,
or anybody elose.
free and full di.euseion of 'the question before the Houe. What do 1 find? I find
Ihat the laws of Canada are to-day being
passed through the Upper Chamber in epite
of and in defiance of the Constitution. The
laws that we are passing to-day and recommending.t.o the Governoir Generai are bei*ng
enacted without an officiai head. It je true
in the Rouie of Conmmons up-to-date they
have an officiai head -but not eo in this
Chamber. I wili lay before the country the
fact that there je no officiai head in this
hon. body.
I do not ses the use o! laying it before
this House. Under the Constitution a member of the House can be narned as a eubstitute, on one condition, that the absence
of the Speaker of the House is unavoidable.
That je the exprsssed wording o! the conetitutional. Act. I put this question to the
House-I do not put it to the leader o! the
Government, who a! ter ail iseoniy a leader
of the Tories in the Housee-ie the absence
o! the Speaker nominated by the preeent
Government unavoidable?
He says bimsel! it is not unavoidable. I
endorse hie position, therefore ail the legislation thsît ie sbeing paseed now is contrary tW the Constitution. It is only in
case of an unavoidabie absence o! the
Speaker that a stibstitute can be appointed. 1 ask why should t'heee proceedigs go
on in thie House in apite o! the constitutional fact that the Speaker is not unavoidably absent? I! the Hon. Speaker sent to
this House a message that he was unavoidably absent, then. we would in due course
4be obliged te appoint a substitute, but no
such message hae been sent and under the
circunietances I ask why.lie is not replaoed
officially by an Order in Council? 1 get no
answer.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Before the Orders o!
the Day are prooeeded with I arn compelled
to call the attention o! this House and alterwards the country to the !act that a most
abnormal situation a.nd condition o! things
existe the Senate at the present moment*
-most abnormal Woeay the lest. I have
my own conjectures as Wothe cause o! it.
What the resuit will be I do not know.
Here is the Senate of Canada in regular
session passing iaws that are intended to be
binding on the country, without the competent authority being present, although he
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The leader o! the
House is also unavoidab]y absent.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-What arn I going to
do? 1 'wan-t Woplace myseif withidn the
Constitution. I have no feeling in the matter. The late Speaker is no friend o! mine.
I arn a deadly opponent o! his and he is
likewdse of mine. Here'is the Parliament
T
of Canada 'without a head. W hat am I

APRIL 10, 1915

8everal hon. GENTLEMEN-Orders of
going to do? Mf I take rny seat I caunot
Doe any '-on. gentleman the day 1
talk any more.
The SPEÂKER-Orders of the Day.
prefer te take the responsibility of acting
for the Government in this matter> I amn
CAJNADA GRAIN ACT AMFENDMENT
eiimply looking for an answer to my ques-.
BI!LL.
tion. In spite of the Sergeant-at-Arme or
anybody else, the leader of the House <wll
IN COMMITTEE.
regret that he used the words lie did.
The House resolved itself into a Comrnittee
of the Whole on Bill (S), An Act to amend
Hon. Mr. GORDON-Order, order.
the Canada Grain Act.
Hon. Mr. CLORkN-Who is there te cal
(In the Committee.)
order? On my own aide I have Ibeen called
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-We have had a conte order by the leader of the House, the
late Sir Richard Scott and Sir Richard siderable amount of discussion about these
Cartwright, but I have 14ved thein down, two clauses, izoa and 120h, and it was
and I live through the third indignity. the thought at one time- that we might arrive
insult was Vhrown at me by the so-called at sorne definition that would be satisfacleader of the Government, to call in the tory to hon. gentlemen of this House as to
Sergeant-at-Arms te silence mue. It 'would the -word "shipper," but after careful contake him and his uwhole 'blooming Tory sideration it seems that no satisfaoctoTy deGovernment Io do it. Cali in -the Sergeant- finition can be arrived at. I therefore beg
at-Ârms toebcoke off free discussion. I to move:
'will stand for no buIl-dozing stuif like that.
That in 120a the words "and shippers-' be
Take that down.
struck out and the word "and" be inserted
Hon.
down.

between

"elevator

operators"

and

"*water

Mr. WATSON-It is being taken carriero" and that In clause 120b the sme

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That la -what I want.
Bring me a glass of water; that will be betber titan Scotcoh. I arn f ranit and frise, 1
don't go behlind or under the table wlien I
'want it. I arn no hypocrite. I arn disposed te be plea8ed that the Government
bas taken this position. What I vant- te
know and what the country wants te know,
is 'w.hy the Speaker, nominated hby the bonservative Government four years ago, le
not in bis place to-day. This House is. and
this country is e.ntitled te that information. The press of the country have taken
bold of the matter, and have put the Senate
down, not on the low level, but on the high
level of a labour union. The Senate is on
etrike. 1 should like to know why lt la
on strike. One of the members of the
Goverument was asked the question. and lie
said «'I arn here in the Senate te aob as a
peace-iniaker." I asked hi=u if he came te
facilitate the settlement of the dispute betweeu employer and empl9yee, snd he
said, «"%Vell I amn here as a conciliator.»
What I want te know from the leader of
the Government, notwithstanding the facit
that I amn sorry for him-and he 'will get
that until he dies from mne, his policeman
and Sergeant-at-Arms don't frighten me a
bit-I want to know froni the leader of the
Tory minority in this Hlouse if they are
prepared'to stand by the actions of their
own nominee, Speaker Landry, or not.

amnendment be mails.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-WS had botter
deal with 120a firet, and have the' arnedmuent applied to 120a before we consider
120b. I shoisld like to îknow the -sense of
the Chamber upon the arndment alrpqdy
rnoved.
The motion in arnendment was carried
en a standing vote, contents 17, non-contents
8.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I beg to move that
the same clause be further a.mended by adding the following at the end thereof:_
. In making such assessment due regard rnay
be had to overages, if any, of grain in the hauds
of any of the parties concerned.

Thie je to embody in -the first clause
the principle thet is ernbodied in the
second clause and which is a-proper principle. It is merely direoting the board thaï,
if they find there is a shortage of aay 50,000
bushels, but that on account of certain shipments there is a surplusage ln the elevator
of 50,000 or 60,000 bushels on other ehipments, 'then they mnay not grant any compensation to the parties who are actually
covered.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I should like to
point out to my hou. friend that if this
question of overages is te apply at a particular time, namnely at the time when the
complaint mentioned in the Bill arises, it

SENATE
the Grain Growers Grain Co., take the Great
Northern Elevator Cornpany, take somne of
the Alberta companies, the Saskatchewan
Cornpany, who take grain frorn the farmers
lu the interior, and very frequently the
ownership continues clean to Liverpool. Lt
is mixed. If there is a befter selling price
than could be got by exporting it the grain
men seil at Fort William, but there is
a rnixed ownership acrose t.he lakes
and at Fort William. I may say that the
overage or shortage in an elevator is not
determined from day to day. Lt mnust be
donseat the close oi the season. We pro-.
vide that there sh-al be a we.igh-up by the
Government each year iu August, sud that
weigh-up is like a ledger acicount in the
bank. It will show either an overage or a
shortage, as the case may be, sarne grades
long, sud some short, aud so on. We have
a first-class systern of handling grain te
Fort William, ibecause we have absolute
Goverumeut inspection. The shipper, wheHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I draw attentiou te ther hie continues te own the grain or flot,
the fact that I have not used the word ships his grain to Fort William, and it is
" shall." I do not make it imperative. I graded and weighed *by Government offimerely say thst in making such asýsessments ciais. He bas nothiug to say as to the
due regard may be had ta overages, if any, quantity or grade. The Goverument offio! grain in the hands o! any of. the parties cials settie that. You can appeal frorn one
concerned. It ie in harmony wit.h the 'board to another, but eventually the Govclause.' The clause is for the puripose cf ernent take absolute control, and govern
granting relief, leavîng At in, the hands oi the quantity and quality. The shipper has,
the board te grànt relief, and it is in order to risk the vicisoitudes, rernernber, bethat the board may be empowered to exer- tween his point of shiprnent, and Fort
to
cise their proper discretion takîng fite William. He runs the gauntiet. He bas
settie that with the railway people, 'but
account averages, if, there are any.
once it is there, and he gets a Goverument
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-This las a very coin- certificate, we should pass no legisiation
plicsted question, and as the lion. leader of w'hieh wou]d impair that certificate. Supthe House has said, very difficult te under- pose 'the owner happened to be a large imstand, se that we cannet corne to a con- porter in Liverpool, and he said, "*No
clusion, on the spur cf the moment. I longer is a Canadian Goverument certifiheartily agree with the amendinent that ,este worth a 'button, it cannot be relied
should be struck upon," what.position would cur grain trade
the word "shippersout, because hie does not participate in be in? I think we should go further-perhaps not to-day, but at some future time-sny overage ln the transaction.
-and supervise the weighing of. grain on the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-But hie does in the east side of the laites, as we supervise it
shortage.
at Fort William. The Goverument officeiai
Hon. M-Nr.YOUNG-Yes; Why should bauds out the weighit to the shipper aud hie
lie suiffer in the shortage wheu lie do-es net -must accept it. It is final. The cargo is
put into a vessel snd is carried across the
participate in the everage.
lake, and the moment it gets across priHon. Mr. CLORAN-That is the point. vate individuals weigh it, and they
that cargo contains and it may
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I wish te disabuse the say what
be against the certificate of the Goverument
minds of members o! the House on another
William. There are three
point which. bas crept iu, and that la that officiai at Fort
parties te the transaction, the elevator at
there is a cessation of ownership at Fort
and the receivWilliam in the transmission of graiu--that Fort William, the carrier
is a difof ownerghip. That is ing elevator at this side. If there
there is a change
ference in the weight, some one of these
only partly true. Take that large company,

destroys, se to speak, the Iaw of overages
which must necesssrily apply to a condition
which is distributed over the entire year.
That ie te say, there ms.y be an overage in
an elevator at a paTticular time, but the
question is as to whether that overage will
continue during the whole of the operations
of the year as te that partîcular elevator.
If that overage is te be distributed at a
particular time when such a complaint is
made, then what about the Ternainder cf
the year? Supposing other shortages are
complained of? The question of maints.ining an overage it eeems to me must be observed, if you are going te set in motion the
distribution of the overage at a specific time.
I arn not sufficiently familiar with the operation o! elevators, but I should judge the
quesftion pretty mnch setties itself in the
operations of the elevator dis.tributed over
an entire aeason. I ask xny lion. friend il
lie has considered. that point.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

APRIL 10, 191-5

5
415

year was Il pounde short on 100 bus.heis."
That je not very much. My friezid the sent'4or from Alberta (Hon. MNr. Talbot) move 1
the other day for a return showing ho'w
the weighing turned out. Now, -the overeges that my friend taiks about sbouid be
accounted for in Ibis vay. When the
Government officer receives grain at Fort
William it je veighed accurateiy. -He can
do so because hie bas good machinery for
that purpose. The overages shouid iit ar'me
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Why cannot hie tva' be taken charge of by the Governusent
check it?
and placed in the barik account against
that mnay flot be accounted
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-He can watch, but it these shorta.ges
to check. A veesel is in port for.
je difficuit
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We propose
ready to load. An elevator je notified that
that veeeel je going to load there and they doing that in the next clause.
etart elevating the cargo and putting il into
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-But tlie surpluses in
the ehipping room. The Government officiai the higher grades shou]d b. pretty high,
je standing there to see tnat it is weighed because it is very dry, clean grain, and
correctly.
there shouid b. no vaste. At any rate my
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Why cannot the hbon. Iriend's amendment 'willi be preparatory to this further step that je going to be
captain check the weig-htP
taken next yeer, -because these overages
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Suppose the checker viii eventueliy surely be t.aken over by -the
and the Goverument officiai agree, and the Government and placed in an account so
veseel comes acroas the lake and je' found that wbere a shortage arises that cannot
to b. 1,000 buehele short. Supposing the b. eccounted for, they yvill assume that the
captamn provee hie did not take a bushel overage viii show in th. Fort William end,
out of the hatches. The presumption then and it wiii b. that niuch added to that
ie that the elevator on tbis aide got the account.
benefit of the thoueand bushels. You have
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-What occasion je
no Government officiai at thie end; it je there for legisation?
received by a private individuel. The GovHon. Mr. YOUNG-These shortages arise.
erninent shouId etep right in and receive The captain of -the boat Baya, "I1 did not
Ihat wbeat, and then you will have an move a pailful ont clf thal -boat; I have deefficient verificetion. That is how it should iivered you ahl I got." They went to probe done. There je a mieeing link It would- perly empower th. commisaion to hold
be quit. eaey to eay to the Canadian Pacifie court and divide th. responsibility btveen
railway elevator or any elevator on tbis the three parties, who may henhefit 'by il if
eide of the lake : " We are going to put it is an error. If the commission cen find,
you under Government supervision and your that the error je et Fort William, or et Ibis
manager wiii be an officer of -the Govern- aide of -the lakes, or that the captain bas
ment and -wili have to give bonds and meke wet wbeat in the abottom that b.e cannol
x'eturns to the 'Government the samne ae je
or something aise, it je esar
don. et the elevator et Fort William." that there shouid 'be a revising board. of
If that were done, you would have a dis- that kind to deai vith the matter. I am
interested party weighing the grain when in fevour of thet legicletion prov'ided it
it was received on tbis aide of the lake, and does not go outside reesonaibly and fairly
it vould b. a questioa between e Govern- of whet shouid be provided.
menrt. officiai on one aide of the lekes, and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbat amendmnent
a Government officiai on the other. This cornes in et the end of the clause?
wvould give better satisfaction and there
would be no chortages. Not long ago, ini The OHAIRM&AN-The axnendment je that
taiking to e prominent elevator man on nt tb. end o! ifJO these vords b. added :
" In niaking such assessment due regard may
this eide of the iakes, I asked. bim: -" Hlow
of an>
to overages If any,
did your elevator turn out iaet year?" H. b. had p3arties concerned." in the bands
of the
quentity of grain.
hed handled a greet
The amendment vas egreed to.
]liq answer vas: "My average for the

three must benefit in the end. It ie bard
to determine, because the Government
officiai at Fort William will ewear, - I delivered the goode into that vessel;" the
captain of! the vescel will evear, -I neyer
opened my hatches until I got to port."
Yet when the wheat is -weighed out it ie
found to be 1,000 buebels ehort. The captain
has flot one word to eay at Fort William.
He bas got to eign up for the full bill.

Ideliver,

SENATE-

416

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The Grand Trunk
Paoific are operating ithe railroad from
Winnipneg to Lake Superior Junotion.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand
that is the case.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I arn glad the Gevernmen-t has corne to this decisien. The
railroad- from Winnipeg 'La Moncton has
cost the outntry hundreds of millions, and
at it-his very la'te date the Government
undertake ta operate their own railroad.
It is hetter late than iiever. Tthis railroad
was most expenaively, and as f ar as my
experience goes, substantially buit. It is
probably one of the best consLructed. Tailroads on the continent of Amerioa. For
the past Vwo or tbree years large sections
of that railroad, as the leader of the Government has said, have been- allowed to
f ail into decay. The hon. senator frcm
Mille les (Hon. Mr. David) asked ithat
the railroad should be opera'ted in Quebec.
It would be better 'La oper-ate the Tailroad,
even if at a loss, just -the same as the
IN COMMITTEE.
railThe House resolved itself into a Commit- country is a-unnmng the Initer.oonial disunder
tee on Bill No. 119, An Act ta amend the way froni Halifax ta Mantreal
adveantageous circurnstaloes.
National Transcontinental Railway Act.
Canada for 40 years has talerated these
Committee.)
(In the
expenditures and voted maftey ta caver
On eu-belause 4 cf clause t.
-deficits in the operation cf the Intercalonial
built at a tremnenHon. Mr. BOSTOOX-The Ïhon. gentle- railway, 'withaut regret,
But liere is
mnan did not tLell us this morning what doua expenee ta the country.
Tailway,
is ait the present tume withb a new Natianal Transcontinental
-the arrangement
and the the 'hest part of which is being operated by
the National Transcontinental
Grand Trunk Pacifie,
Grand Tirunk Pacifie about the operation a priva.te company, the Winnipeg, the other
frani the Pacifie ocean to
of that road te Buperior Junction.
,half, froin Winnipeg ta the seaboard, was
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Grand Trunk net an undertakmng that any man who
Pacifie for ireasons which. I meed net state, wanted dividends for his country would
does not propose taking oveir -the TaiIIoad have undertaken.
But once the country
at ithe pissent 'ime. Nego'tiations are etiii expended the maney to 'build that road, I
going on between thie Goveîn.ment and the think the present Gevernment should not
Grand Trunk Pacifie loQk.ing ta the taking have been se tardy in taking over and
over of the vailroad. 1 inay say, hon. operating it for the benefit of the country
gentlemen., that in 'my opinion there is through which it passes.
There may be
very littie prebability cf these negotiations blame te be attached te the originating of
resuiting successfuily, or in a satisfactery the scheme and the carrying of it through,
arrangement beîng oa-rried out at *an ea-riy but the people to-day find more cause for
date; consequently the ra-iiroad will have blame in the fact that the Government of
te be eperated iby some one.
the day, having a road fit for use by
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The whole length of princes or dukes, as the Canadian Pacific
the railread froni Winnipeg 'to Moncton? Railway used te say in their first days,
has neglected te operate this road on beHon. Mr-. LOUGHEED-There is no half of the people of this counitry.
piebabiiity o! any other corporation interThe clause was adopted.
vening te operate the iailroad; the -respon
sibiiity -of maîntaining the railroad, -and * On subelause 6:
preventing dt fallîng dnto a state cf de*
6. The Governnient Ra1ways Act shali apply
cadence, and operating it in the public to any Une of railway including terminal faciliinterest will, therefore, fail upon the Gev ties and accommodation works leased or
acquired under this Act.
ernment.

Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then I inove the
amendment toe ubelause 4 as qamended.
The motion was agreed te.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The saine amendment will apply ta strike out the word
.. shipper " and insert the word " and"
between the-elevator and ws.ter carrier.
The amendment carried on the samxe division.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then I anove the
adoption of subelause 5 as amended.
The motion was agreed ta.
Hon. Mr. ROSS, froni the committee, reported the Bill s amended.
THIRD READING.
Bill No. 122. An Act te amend the Winding-up Act.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
NATIONAL TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.

The CHAIRMAN.

APRIL 10,. 1915

Hon. Mr. WATSON-Might I aak the
minister what position will the Grand
Trunk railway west of Winnipeg be in
when the« Government exercise the power
Will they have any
given by 'this Act.
priority of right to Lake Superior or will
they be shut off at Winnipeg?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No, there wil
be a running arrangement between the
Government and the Grand Trunk Pacifie
It will be quite
-to the head of-the lakes.
manifest to hion, gentlemen that it is in
the "intereet of both parties that 'there
should be an interchange of traffie, or that
running rights should be given. -The intereat of the public is likewise in the interest of the road.
.Hon. Mr. WATSON-I arn more intereat«l in the settlers than anything else.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The interest of
the road is so wrapped up ln the interest
of the settier that he must necessarily be
Practically he is the mos-t
considered.
important factor in the traffic of the road.
The subclause was adopted.
On subclause S.
8. Any contract for the lease of the uaid
Lake Superior Branch for a term of more than
live years, or for the acquisition of the samne,
shall be Bubject to the ratification of Parliament

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-What la the objeet of
making the term five years. Parliament
meets every year. If we have any right to
ratify it, we might as well ratify it for one
year as for five years.
Grand
LOUGHEED-The
Hon. -Mr.
Trunk Pacifie in leasing this to the Governiment would certainly desire to lease it
for more than one year.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-lt might 'be that they
would want it, but would the country want
it'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is the objeet. It would .be impractieable to enter
into a lease every year, because the Grand
Trunk Pacifie would not know when it
would be thrown back on their hands.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-It seems to me it
would be more in order for the Grand
Trunk to give the Governmént running
powers over this branch titan the Government to give the Grand Trunk Pacifie such
rignts, because the Grand .Lrunk with 2,000
miles could furnish more traffic for that
road than any accumulation the Government could off er.
8-27
REVISED

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Government
will have to rely upon taking ail Grand
Trunk Pacifie traffic at Lake Superior Junction and carrying it to the head of the
lakes.
Itie clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr-,GIRROIR, from the committei,
reported the Bill without amendment.
DOMINION ELECTIONS ACT
MENT BILL.

-MEiiD-

REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.

The House resolved itself into a Committee of -the Whole on Bill No. 110, An Act toi
amend the bominion Elections Act.
(In the Committee.>
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I always thoughit
right
the
privilege.
the
was
it
and the duty of the Speaker, whien leaving
the Chair, to designate the senator who
was to replace hini. I have seen the leader
of the Governinent suggest the name of a
senator to replace the Speaker.
Hon.. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-It is
always done.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-He has just done it
now. I have understood for the last 15
years that it was te privilege of the
Speaker, when leaving the Chair, to
designate the senator- who would replace
him.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Speaker
looks invariably to the leader çf the House
to indicate the member whom the leader
desires to take the Chair.
has it
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Never
occurred in my 15 years' experience except
during the last two days. Neyer has the
Speaker waited for any proposition from
the leader of the House.
On ctiuse 2:
2. Section 105 of the said Act ls amended
by striking out of the second and third lines
tilereof the words: "Provinces of Saskatchewanl
and Alberta and the."

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-What is thft meaning"
of that clause?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-When Sask atchewan and Al'berta -were territories, there was
a special provision as to the death of a candidate. Now, since they have become provinces, Alberta and Saskatchewan are piaced
in the same position as other provinces
with rèspeet to bte deatit of a candidate.
EDITION

SENAT E

On clause 5-form of nomination paper.
and the old arrangement stili continues as
to the Yukon Territory.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Will the lhon. leader of
the House tell me what is the difference
The clause was agreed to.
between this nomination paper and the old
On clause 5,.
nomination paper? There must 'b. some
1. lnserted Imm£d!ately change in it. I ihave not got the Act here,
The followlng section
after section 136:
13ÎA. Every employer shall on pollng day but it reads very much like the old one.
give to every voter in hie employ at lea--t onie
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I will look it up
addltional bour for voting other than the noon
hour. and shall make no deduction in the pay of for my hon friend.
such employees nor impose or exact any penalty
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Where ie the change?
fromn any employee by reason of absence during

such hour.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Just in the
2. This section shalh apply to railway coinpanies and to the Government Rallways and address at the bottom.
their employece, witb the exception of emnHon. Mr. GIRROIR, from thie Gommittee,
ployees engaged in the running of trains and to
whom such time cannot be given without In- reported the Bill without amendment.
terfering with the mannlflg of, the trains.
ELEC.DOMINION CONTROVERTED
Hon. Mr. BOSTOOK-Can thre hon.

gentleman tell us why this ia asked for?
Was if a public demand?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My recollection is
that At bas been agitat-ed in labour circles
for some years, that the workingmen
should -be given two hours for the purpose
of voting.
Hon. Mr EDWARDS-It la just giving the
workingmen a longer time te vote.

Hon.. Mr. DAVIS-I suppose the. Government have axot taken into consideraition 'that
ehere are a grat numnier of railway arnployees who cannot vote on election day,
and also a large body of commercial
travellers who axe deprived of their vote.
While other people, not as intelligent, are
allowed to vote. Something should be done
in tis regard.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I think at soxue
time we will 'be progressive enough to make
provision for inatters of that kind.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do not think thet
Parliament bas any right to make an employer pay an employee for hours when hie
does not work.
The' clause was adopted.
On clause 4:
-Section 237 of the French version of the said
Act le amended by inserting immediately after
the word "donne" in the second line thereot, the
following words: "par écrit."

Hon.
mean?
agent?
left out

Mr. BELCOURT-What does that
la that with reference to the offcial
Tihe words -"iuwrîting - have been
o! the French version.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

TIONS ACT AMENDMENT

BILL.

IN COMMIT'TEE.

The Ilouse resolved itself into a -Committee of the Whole ini Bill No. 109, An Act
to amiend the Dominion Controverted
Elections Act.
On clause '2:
Hion. Mr. DAVIS-This Bill is an old
friend with a new face. I have been in
Parliament 19 years, and every year we
find amendments to *the Controverted
Elections Act. We find a lot of legal minds
in the country using their time and bramas
for days and days to discover the best
means for dealing with controverted
elections, but I laul to see where they put
in as niuch time to prevent corrupt
If they had doue that, I preelections.
sume they -%ould not need this Bill that is
now before us 1 have flot seen any legislation to put an end to the corruption that
is taking place in ail the constituencies
over this country; yet if would be quife
simple and easy to do it, and 1 could suggest a plan whereby they could stop it, or
nearly stop if, at once. They should mnake
a law that nobody should go into a constituency to canvass or work but the people
who belong to thaf constituency and the
Let the candidates go
two candidates.
and carry out that election among the
people they know, and keep the automobiles and heelere and whisky peddiers
and ail that sort of thing out of the constituency. If they did that you would have
purity of election8. Hon. gentlemen have
occupied their time on this Bill, which 1
understand is for the purpose of getting
rid of election petitions more quickly, but
I was much surprised the other day when
we had a Bill which, if it had gone intoý

APRIL 10, 1915

law, would have had th~e effect of lengthening the time on election petitions. But, as
1 said, if they 'would devote the saine
amount of labour to finding some means to
prevent the corruption that ie going on in
ail the constituencies, we would not need
to put in so much Urne on a Bill of this
Everybody knows that wben an
kind.
election is on in this country, especially if
it- is -a îby-election, Government ernployees,
although paid by the Government of this
country to do public work, will be found in
constituencies from one end of *the
Dominion to the other in automobiles
peddling whisky and ail that sort of thing,
and yet no action is taken by the Government to stop it. Look at the election in
Macdonald, Manitoba, which was a disSuch men were
grace to the country.
gathered from the four ends of the country,
80 that farmers could hardly drive tn
market with a load of grain because of
the automobiles and such things on the
highways. If a constituency happens to be
riear a city. as Macdonald was near Winnipeg, you find four or five hundred autos
These
out in the country on that day.
people have no interest in the election
except that they want to support somebody,
and they are -not taken out loir fun. It ia
pretty nearly time that the Government
ahould make smre effort to stop such practices, and it could be done by adopting rny
suggestion.

Chancery to be a truc copy of the voters' Efst
used at the election In the electoral district to
which the petition relates shali be conclusive
evidence that the petitioner could lawtully
present the petition; and if thec petitioner was
a candidate at such election. or If there are no
votera' liste, an affidavit by the petItioner that
he waa a candidate or a duly qualifled voter
at such election, au thec case may be, shall be
conclusive evidence that the petItioner could laW-

fully present the petition.Y
I wouid ommend to the minister the suggestion to substitute for the word "conclusive" in the last âIne but on~e the word
".sufficient." If you use the word conclusive" this state o! things xnay happesi, that
upon investigation, when a petâtion i8 being
tried either on preliminary objeotiona or at
the trial itself it may turn , ou«t that the
petitioner was not really qualified, had no
right to bring the petition at ail. If we us;e
the word "sufficient" you have ail that y3u
need. in order to enable the petition to be
tried. yet it would not close the door to the
other side to show that the petitioner waq
not qualified. I suggest the word "sufficient" be substituted for the word "conclusive."

Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middeton)-I lhink that
word "conclusive" is the most valuable
word in the 'whole section. The whole ohject of this Bill le to get rid cf thie pettifogging work thaît has been going on inth
st 20 years in the courts as to whc, had
the right to file a petition. I know that in
our province there has been a great deal ni
The CHAIRMAN-Discussion on the trouble over that. I am quite certain that
principle of the Bill je hardly ini order when the joint commnittee that dealt with this bail
dealing with the clauses; it would be in those Nova Scotia cases in view when %bey
order en the second reading.
put in those words. Now, once and for ai],
lot us settle this thing, that if the petitiùnar
The clause was adopted.
was a candidate and makes an affidavit that
On clause 3:
he was a candidate or that hie was a voter,
Section 6 and 7 are repealed.
that would end it and there would be no
objection or discussion
Hon. Mr. BOSTOOK-What is the effect more preiiminary
about it. If hie rnakes a false affidaviit hie
of that repeal?
can be prosecuted for perjury. The whole
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Sectiori 6 deals dbject is te avoid preliminary equabbling
with affidavits, and section 7 with prelîimin- and get down to s trial as quickly as posary objections. An object of t.hi. Bill is to sible.
do away with ail preliminary objections.
Hon. Mr. BELÇOURT-That may be so,
Hon.- Mr. BELCOURT-I should like te but if you use the word '«sufficient" You
go back to clause 2.
answer ail purposes and you do not cioee the
2. Section 6 is repeaied and the following in door to showing that the affidavit was faise.
substituted theref or:
Hon. Mr. ROSS-But you do not ehow it.
s5. A petition may be presented to thc court
Y-ou do not close the door by a prosecution
by any one or more of the followiflg persona:
(a) A candidate at such élection; or
frperjury.
(b) Âny person who had the rigbt to vote
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-That îs inot tihe
at such election.
2. The production of the voters! list contaifling point.. IVe are net dealing with a crilminai
ini the
the name of the petitiafler as set forth
ioffence now, and the part.ies have a right
petition certified by the Cierk of the Crown in

SENATE

1'2. If at any tirne, upon an ex parte applicato be protected in their civil procedure as
respondent.
the petitioner
well as in a criminal matter. In the word tCon of eitber the court that. or the intereste of
in the
it abpears te
"sufficient" you have ail you require.
justice, it is desirable that the examnination of

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would ask my
hon. friend if that is a real matter of substance? The only object cf -there being a
petitioner -is to set the machinery in
Dues it make any difference
motion.
whether it le A. B or C that sets it in
motion? Should the A" be s0 complicated as to poeovide whether "A" should set
it in motion, or whether -B" is better qualified, or whether "«C" should initiate -the
proceedings? It seems to me that, that
does not go te the substance of the matter.
The electorate is net interested as to
whether the proceeding- bas been started
by t.he right man or the wrong man; the
question 'is bas there been a corrupt or
an irregular election.
That I might say is the principle that the
committee attempted to ernbody in the Act,
that ail those preliminaries are net matters
of substance at aIl, but that the main thing
i., to get down te the question of the election
and as to whether the will cf the electorate
has been carried eut in the candidate who
lias been declared elected.

any witness sbeuld be proceeded with forthwlth.
the court may grant and erder for the examnina.'
tien of such witness, and the previsions of sections twenty-three, to thirty, both Inclusive,
shall, se far as applicable, apply te sucb
witness, his examtination and evidence!

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
seems Wobe an omission in this clause. I
de not see any provision for further investigation where witnesses have left the country for the purpose cf avoidîng giving evidence. We do know that in many cases witnesses have left the country for that very
purpose, and the result bias been that in
some of the most corrupt elections the candidate has retained his seat becs.use the witnesses could net be reached. I know cf
cases cf that kind and where the candidate
was asked how it 'was îhe eucceeded
in retaining his seat and he very quietly
said, "The witnesses could net be obtained,
they vere in the United States." Vie live
se close te the border cf a foreign country
that witnesses cati easily be got rid cf. I
can cive a nutmber cf instances cf that kind
both; in the province cf -Quebec and the
province cf Ontario. If there is -a provision
The clause was adepted.
in the law that gives power Woa judge Wo
postpone the trial until these witneosea are
On clause 5:
secured, I do net see it in this section;
5. Subsection 2 cf section 12 ia repeaied«and
there may poésbly be such a provision in
the foflewing in substituted therefor:
11. In case any petition ie presented, the the cemmon law.
sitting member whcse election and return in
petitioned against may, flot later than fifteen
days aCter service of such petition against his
election and return, file a petition cempiaining
of any unlawful and corrupt act by any candidate at the same election who was flot returned or by an agent ef such candidate with such
candidate's consent or privity. Such Petition
shall contain sncb particulars of the complaint
therein set eut as mnay be necessary te prevent
surprise or unnecessary expense to the respondent and te insure a fair and effectuai triail
and rnay be in form "1B" in the schedule te thi
Act."

Hon. Mr. *POWER-What is the change
as te the cross-petition?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is changed
to some extent. For instance, these words
have been incorporated in it -euch particulars cf the complaint therein set eut as

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The court would
always have authority te adjeurn the case.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I calI attention to
the tact that legrisiation is being passed and
there is ne quorum.

The CHAIRMAN-There are 16 members
on the floor cf the House.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The cemmittee bas
been passing legislation with only 12 mentbers present.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mýiddleton)-I think
there is* machinery provided for the trouble
the heon. member speaks of. I refer te section 20, subsection 2. If witnesses should
disappear, that fact weuld be breught te the
attention cf the court and it would stand
ever until they ceuld be obtained.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is provided

may be necessary te prevent eurprise or
urinecessary expense te the respondent and
te insure a fair and effectuaI trial."
for.
The clause was agreed Wo.
The clause was adepted.
On clause 10:
Onl clause 13 (section 66 ot the Act)10. Section 22 is amended by adding thereto
the followîng subsection:
Hon. Mlr. BELCOURT.

Deposit in case et appeal.

APRIL 10, 1915

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-This clause refera
to the deposit and states that such deposit
rnay be made iu legal tender or in 'bille cf
-any chartered bank doing business in
Canada. Why ia there a differ ence there
in regard to a depositP Clause 3 says - Sueh
deposit may bie made in gold coin, Dominion
notes or in the bilsof soine chartered bank
doing business in Canada." Why is there a
difference in the wording>
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is the same
thing.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It seems the same
thing.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I do not see why it
was necessary to refer to Dominion notes
and gold in one case and not in the other.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
have been cases in which the judge has
thrown out the petition because the deposit
was made in bank notes. It was declared
net to be a legal deposit.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The statute defines what legal tender is.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 15. (Section 80 la repealed.>
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Thet section deals
with abatement by death of the petitioner
and the substitution of a new petitioner.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-No provision to
take the place of 80.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Oh, yes, a substituted petitioner may bie brought in.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Yes, if he is unavoidably absent.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. Thompson, from the committee,
reported the Bill without amendment.
CONTI'INGENT ACCOUNTS 0F THE
SENAiTE.
CONSIDERATION

POSTPONED.

Hon. Mr. POWER moved the adoption cf
the Tenth Report of the Committee on Internai Econorny aud Contingent Accounts.
He said: The report is a very brief one
sud I trust will meet with the approval ef
the House. The first clause of the report
provides that the -recommendation o! bis
Honour with respect te the three persone
narned, Messrs. Garneau aud Larose snd
Miss O'Brien, be concurred in. Inasmuch
as this recommendation of His Hon. the
Speaker follows a request cf the House that

he should make it, the committee of course
recommends that it bie adopted. Then the
report recommends that the recommendatiens with respect te Mr. C. H. Jones sud
Mr. Byron Nicholson be adopted, provided
that suth adoption be not held te be a precedent. In this case there is a geed deal
te be said against the recommendation; but,
with a view of promotiug harmony. the cernmittes have agreed te recommend that his
htinour's recommendatien with respect te
these twe gentlemen be concurred iu.
Paragraph 3 is that the recommendatien
with respect te Mr. A. L..DeMontigny and
R. A. Benoit be net concurred in, and the
resen is that the House is precluded from
concurring.
The committee presented their seveuth
report on the 3lst March. That report
dealt* with the recommendations o! His
lionour the Speaker that Mr. Demontigny
hbe transferred and that Mr. Benoit succeed him, and that they be placed lu higber
classes than they were in. That recommendation was referi-ed te the cemmittee,
aud they reported in their seventh report.
,Rhich ia te be found at page 268. Mr.
Benoat has already been graded iu. the
Heuse cf Commons and we did net think
.that the grading sbould be disturbed. This
report e! the committee was sdopted. by a
very consideraible majority cf the. Rouge.
The committee could net reoexnmeud the. reversai ef the decision of the Hense, if forno other reasen, on acceunt of the existence
e! the following rule which hon. gentlemen will find at page 368:
..An may or reselutien or other vote of the
1Senate order be rescirded: but no such erder,
-resolution or aLlier vote rnay be resclnded
unies five daye' notice be given and at least
two-thirds of the Senators Present vote In faver
of its recision provlded that te correct irregularities or mistakes, one day's notice onlY shail
lie sufficient.
In the face cf the solemu resolution cf
the Senate aud o! this rule, it is feit that
we are net now in a position te deal with
the recommendation with respect te the
trausiators. At another session, perhaps,
there may be a chance te do it. I have the
houeur te meove, seconded by the hon.
Mr. Thompson, that this report be uew
concurred in.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-.Wou1d
the han. gentleman have auy objection te
allowing the consideratien ef this report
My
te 'be postponed until Monday?
reason for asking is that I have net
given it that close attention that the cern-

SENATE

I was under the impression
that the clerk having made such a report
ta the Speaker, and the Speaker having
made certain recommendations, amicableI
arrangements could be come ta and the
whole matter settled without ariy furthterI
difficulty. I must confess that I noticed
for the first time the rule which my hon.
friend refers ta, and I should like te have
a littie time ta look inta it. The comxnittee.
I understand, have simply re-affirmed, notwithÉtanding the report of the Clerk ta the
Speaker, their former decision.
mittee have.

I f I were the leader of t;he Government
and I saw such a thin House, I would
nove an adjournment and would not allow
legisation 'to be passed by such &aslim
I . would ask the hon. senator
Rouse.
to make his motion for Monday afternoon.

Hon. 'Mr. POWER-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
hon. friend says that they -have done that.
It is out of the province of the Senate ta
change that report in the line of the recoinmiendation of the Clerk and the Speaker
until five days' notice has been given. It
is unfortunate that we should have these
troubles. Of course, if my hon. f riend dedines, I shahl sinmply move that the order
be discharged and set down for Monday
at the first session.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Hon. gentlemen, the
ho-a. inember for Hastings has asked me a
question.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have the floor and
I do not want the senator from Halifax
ta be putting ft>e out of business.
The SPEAKER-Yeu ought ta give the
member for Halifax an opportnnity tÀ
answer the question.
Hon. Mr. POWER-While I regret that
there should be any further delay and that
this condition of tension which has existed
for a long timne now should continue further, still in the face of the serious nature
of the request o! the hon. gentleman froin
Hastings and his standing in the House,
speaking as one of the inembers of the coinmnittee, I amn satisfied that the report should
stand over until Monday.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-There are two motions before the Chair.
The 6PEAKER-Moved by the Hon. Sir
Mackenzie Bowell, seconded by Hon. Mr.
-Baird, that this question be postponed until
Monday at the first sitting o! the House.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN--I am in favour af the
motion of the hon. màember for Hastings,
but Monday morning will ;be just as bad
There is tbarely a
as this afternaon.
-quorum present now. There are only sixteen members on the floor of the House.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I want ta give the
members from Brockville, Montreal and
Toronto a chance ta be here.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-They should stay
here.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-They are not here
and why should this House decide questions with a bare quorum?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
no objection, if the Senate is willing, ta
have it for Monday afternoon. but the motion is in the hands of the Speaker.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-You can make the
motion te read Monday afternoon.
Honl. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
made rny -motion and it is in the hands
of the Speaker.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-I ask in order to
safeguard the interest of the members who
are absent to have it Monday atternoon.
The motion was adopted.
The Senate adjourned until il c'clook
Monday.
TME SERATE.
Monday, April 12, 1915.
The Acting SPEAKFR took the Chair at
Eleven o'clock, a.m.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THIRD BEADINGS.
An Act to amend the NaBill (119,)
tional Traunscontinental -Railway Act.-Hon.
Mr. Lougheed.
Bill (110,) Au Act ta aniend the Dominion Elections Act.-Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
Bill (109,) An Act to aniend the Dominion Controverted Elections Act.-Hon. Mr.
Lougheed.
CONTINGENT ACCOUN'TS 0F THE
SENATE
CONSIDERATION 0F TENTH REPORT
POSTPONED.

The Order of the Day fbeing oalled:
Consideration of the tenth report of the
Standing Committee on the Internai Economy

APRIL 12, 1915
and Contingent Accounts of the Senate.-Han. better determiine the question whether 'we
shail postpone consideration af the report
Mr. Power.
Hon. Mi. 'LOUGHEED-I have been until this aiternoon, or take it up item by
asked aon behalf ai the Speaker, who ia un- item nowP
avoidably absent, ta allow the report ta
Hon. Mr. BOSTOOK-I was only pointstand until this aftarnoon. 1 hope the ing out that we wilI be in a peculiar posiHouse will see its way ta aoccede ta the tion.
request.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-1 miove that the
Han. Mr. CLORÂN-Why did not the report'stand over until the afternoon ait'when I ting.
han. 'leader accede ta my- request
easked him ta do the saine thing?
The motion woos agreed to.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do- not Object ta
DELAYED RETUItNS.
allowing the controversial matter in thie
repart ta stand, but hon. gentlemen will
Han. Mr. BOSTOCK-This House, on my
notice that the first paragraiph .of the report motion ol March 25, page 320 in the Min<page 458 ai the Minutes) is one in 'which utes) ordered a return from the Financs
the comnittee recommend that the reon- Department about trust companies. I
mendations of bis Honour the Speaker should like to ask the hion. leader of the
with respect ta the cases al A. F. Garneau, Government whether there -will be any
F. b. Larose, and Miss K. C. O'Brien be chance of getting that return before proapproved and concurred in. That is a mat- rogation.
ter ta which there îs no difference a! opinHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I will make inion, and 1 think it 'would be better ta adopt
the first paragraph and let the controversial quiry at oncee about that.
matters stand until this afternaan.
The Senate adjourned until three o'olock
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do not think any- this afternoon.
thing ai the kind. That report has ta be
taken as a 'whole, and nat piecerneal. By
Second Sitting.
adopting the first paragraph, we would be
The Acting SPEAKER <Hon. Mr. Bolduc)
endorsing the principle, and acoepting the
as a 'whole. I arn opposed ta that. took the Chair at Three o'clock.
report
I think the Speaker is oppased ta it also,
Routine proceedings.
and any. hon. gentleman in this bocuse who
has respect for the Chair will oppose it-not
ABSENCE 0F SENATOR LANDRY.
'tha-t 'we are opposed ta the recommendaHon. Mr. CLORAN-Before t'ho Orders
tions in the report, #but 'because we tlùnk
the report should èe considered as a whoile, of the Day are ealled I wish ta rise to a
question of high, il not supreme, constituand nat as a piecemeal repart.
tional privilege, notwithstanding -the f act
Hou. Mr. BOSTOCK-I r2hould like ta that 1 arn stili at large and not in tihe toils
this report.
point aut in connectian 'with
af the Sergeant-at-Arms. I vieh to call atthat cIausa 2 af the report, il adùpted as it tention to -the f act that constitutionally this
stands, wauld put the Senate in a peculiar branoh o! Parliament is without ani officiai
position.
head-a very important question ta raise,
The Senate adopted report No. 6, oi the and a very serious question to decide. On
InternaI Econorny and Cantingent Accounht the 8th of this month, the Han. 6pea'ker
Coninittee:
declined, albhough within the .precinots af
6. That 'Mr. Siméon Lelièvre, second clerk the House, to take bis officiai chair. When
assistant, act as clerk of petitions and cierk ta the inembers «f the House met in the
the Committee on Standing Orders.
Chander they were informed by one o! the
Now this re-port an page 458 woju!d puit officiels af the House that the Hon. Speaker
Mr. C. H. Joncs, 'who has 1>.,Am doing this was unavoidably absent. That is my ques'work up ta the. present time, in thie posi- tion of privilege. The statement ta my own
tion ai cont;nuing ta do that work sud aisa personal knowledge, was erroneous. The
acting as Clerk ai the Minutes. The posi- Speaker was flot unavaidably absent, ac-w
tion, therei'ore, would bo that the Hom'e, cording ta his owni test.imany, yet the etatebaving adopted a' report on the 6th April, ment was made ta the House that he was
appointmng Mr. Siméon Lelièvr-unavoidably absent. Il that had obeen the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Without desir- fact, it became the duty ai any member of
ing ta interrupt my han. friend had we not the b-ouse ta nominste a suppleant--some-

SENATE

body to fill hie place vhich. vas done. That
was aecompiished under a mistake of tacts,
not -borne out ày the testimony of the only
man who cou'ld prove it, the Hon. Speaker
himaeU. The statement made by tht officiai of the Senate thet he vas unavoidabiy
"seent vas not correct. He vas absent, it
je true, byut not unavoidabiy absent. Nov,
the constitution laye down the rule that the
Speaker t-an only be replaoed vhen he ie
unavoidably absent. That elemrent melacking in the condition of affairs to-da-y. He
v-as not unavoidab'y absent any more than
he je now, 'behind 'those doors there. Il
this is net tranegressing the constitution
I should like ta kn'ov vhat transgressing
is. In the ibeginning of this dispute I put
the House on its guard, reminding thei
that all the pro4ceedings and adi t1e -legislatien passed under these conditions could
be appea]ed from-'and upset in any court
of justice. We are not acting legaily, or
cons-titutionally since the Sth of April. 1
amn not appealing to the leader cf t-he Governiment on this question. Hebas nothing
týo do vith it any more than any other senatar. It is fer the House te rnaintain its
dignity. te -maintain its power 'without restriction, and ta maintain At in regard te
the future consequences.
Hen. Mr. BEIQUE-Has the hon. gentieman a motion te make?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I arn calling tlhe attention of the House ta a higŽi and eu!prerne

then it is the du'ty of the Governmnent, and
not of t~he House, teo replace him. That ie
the constitutional question. We have
no right -to replace Ris Honaur the Speaker
who is not, accordingto the constitution.
uxiavoidably absent, but we eau cali upon
the Government to perforin its obligatiou
towards Parliament and nominate a ncwv
Speaker. Why have we not done eo? Thiat
ie the point. Cannot the hon. senator
froin De Salaberry 8ee that, as a constitutional legal man of great ability' It is up
te the Governinent, once an officer declines
to perform his function, te replace hini
and naine a new man. Nov the Governuiont
has not done that. The House hias undertaken illegally, irregularly and unonstitn-tionaily to replace -hum, and ail I arn doing
now is to place it upon record, for the
benefit of lawyers to corne and of future
legisiators, that the legielation that bas
been passed and ail proceedingla that have
been adopted by this House since the 8th
of April hast are absoluteiy irregular, illegal
and unconstitutional.
CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS 0F THE
SENATE.
MOTION.

con-stitutionai question.

The Order of the, Day being called:
Conslderation of the tenth report of the
Standing Conilttee on the Internai Economy
and Contingent Accaunts of the Senate.

Hon. Mr. BEIQIJE-I arn asking the hon.
gentleman il he bias a motion to make or
a rernedy to suggestP
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Is it ne.cessary te
make a motion on a question o! this kind'
I say no. I arn calling the attention of this
'hon. House ta these facts without snaking

This report has
Hon. Mr. POWE.R:
been already discussed te a certain extent.
It is short, and though hon. gentlemen are
familiar with it, .1 shall read the thre
paragraphs vhich wiii be f-)und on page 438
of the Minutes:
Your commnittee have considered the reportas

a motion.

Hon. Mr.

of the

WATSON-Whbat

about

remredy?

Hon. Mr.

CLORAN-We

viii geît

of

fll.rk

the Senate.

dated the 9th of

thereon
the April, instant, and the recommendatons ta yaur
of Hia Hanour the Speaker. referred
cornmnktee on the 9th Instant, and now beg to

the recomniend:

1. That the recommendatians of His Honour
the Speaker. with respect ta the cases of Mr.
Mise
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The Speaker je ab- AL L. Garneau, Mr. Charles H. Larase and are
C. O'Brien,
the hion. mebraymasK. mansbased on reports which recommandations
of the Clerk of the Senate.
sent. Has
ny
memier
dated the Sth of April. Instant, be approved and
to suggest of èbringing in the Speaker?

rernedy later.

In-

LORN-I rn ciin theat-concurred the recommendation vtth respect ta
Hon.Mr.
2.That
Hon.Mr.
LORN-I m calin theatfention ai the hon. House to an anomalous Mr. C. H. Jones, and Byron'Nicholson, be
adopted, provided that such adoption shall fotý
and unconstitutional condition of affairs.
1
be held ta conatitute a precedent.
3. That recommrendations with respect to.Mr.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-What ie the remedy?
isforA. U. de Mantigny and Mr. ]E AL Benait be
Hon.Mr.CLOAN-he
concurred in. This question vas desit wlth
LORA -Thereinedy ifrnot
Hon.Mr.
the Governrnent to appoint a new Speaker in the seventh report of thecominittee, adapted
Il the Speaker of the House declines to -sit, by the Senate on the let Instant.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

APRIL 12, 1915

As to the first parsgraph I do not suappose
there can be any division of opinion in the
committee. Bis Honour the Speaker made!
recenimendations with respect to these
three servants of the Bous, Mr. Garneau,
Mr. Chas. Larose and Miss O'Brien. Those
recommendations were based on -reporte
froin the Clerk of the Senate, and are conourred in and approved of iby the coinmittee. As -a matter of convenience it
would be better to take up the report clause
by clause. I therefore move that the fi:st
clause be concurred in.
Bon. Mr. CLORAN-If the committee efnd
it a duty to concur in ons-third or onefourth, or one-haif the recomniendations of
the Speaker. I do flot see why they did not
endorse other recominendations which he
has mnade to this honourable House. The
adoption of this report piecerneal is not fair
to Ris Honour the Speaker. It is not fair
to hirn, because the comrnittee acceptcertain of bis recommendations and reject
others. I hold that the Senate should stand
by the dignity of the Senate-I will not say
the Speaker, fer he is to he here for only
two or three days. Be is not standing for
hie personal rights rnerely; he bal, been
demanding respect for the right cf the
Chair under the law. The committee cornes
here with a halfway measure, in a picayone
way, and maya te the Speaker, «'Well, yen
are right with regard te three recominendations, and wrong with regard te others.That is no way te deal 'with the Chair.
1 regret that this Bouse has not been able
to appreciate the stand which the Speaker
has made with regard te the rights of the
Senate. It hasbeen treated as a persenal
matter, rn5re or less. As I stated on a former occasion, I amn no political friend of the
Speaker, but I arn wîth him in regard te
law, and if he is right in regard te smre
of these recommendations, ho muet be right
in regard to the balance, accordirng to law.
BOWELLHon. Sir MACKENZIE
My impression is that the suggestion
frorn
nmade by the hon. gentleman
Halifax is a correct one; more particularly when there is a portion of the report
which the Bouse rnay approve of. To move
the adoption o! the report en bloc would
cornpel one to vote against the'-report because he did net approve cf one particular
paragraph though approving of the others.
I intended te make the suggestion myseif
that the report be considered clause by
clause. 1 arn speaking for myself rnerely,

but others rnay be of the marne opinion. 1
concur in the first two paragraphes; I have
objections to -the third paragraph. When
it cernes up for consideration it cau be discussed and rejected or approved.
'The motion was agreed te, and the firat
paragraph was adopted.
Bon. Mr. POWER-The second paragrapl
reads as follows:
2.. That the recoenmendatJons with reePo te
Mr. C. I. Jones and Mr. Byron Nicholson, be
adcpted, provided that .uch adoption aball flot
be held te constitute a precedent.
I may say that this paragraph is, te a certain extent, ini conflict with the previeus
action of the Bouse, but the inembers of the
comrnittee were so anxious te promote
harmony in conducting the business of the
House, that even though they had some
doubt as to the complete propriety of their
course, they mnade this recommendation.
I move that the second paragraph be concurred in.
Bon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Before that motion
is put I want -te deal with the question I
raised this morning. If hon. gentlemen will
look at page 416 of the Minutes they will
report o! the Standfind that when the sixtl%
ing Cornrittee on Internai Econorny was
adopted, the. sixth paragraph'cf that report
read as followsa
That Mr. SI.méon Lelêvre, second clerk au
sistant, aet as clerk of petitions and clerk o&
the Commlttee oni Standing Orders.
That report was adopted"by the Senate.
The reconimendation with which this present report deals, which was 'put before tii.
Bouse by the previous Speaker and which
appears on page 452 cf the Minutes says1. That Mr. C. H. Jones, clerk. uucceed MÇr.
Soutter, auperannuated. and In addition to his
present duties, take charge of the minute.
Now I understand that Mr. Joues at
present is Clerk of Petitions and Clerk of
the Committee of Standing Orders. Therefore, if we accept this paragraph of the report o! the committee 'we wili be appointing two clerks te do the sanie work. We
have already appointed Mr. Siméon Lelièvre
te do that work, and we are now asked te
appoint Mr. Jones te do the sme work.
If it is the desire cf the Bouse that the sixth
report o! thie cornrittee should b. altered
se that w. can adopt this paragraph, then
I subrnit that under our rules we ought te
gîve notice and rescind the sixth paragraph
o! that report o! the Internai Econorny Cernmittee already adopted by the Senate.

SENATE

Ânotiher way wouid -be to sim.ply strik-e
out the name of Mr. C. H. Jones in 'the
second paragraph. cf this report; and In
order te put 'the matter straight I make
that motion in amendment. The motion
would then read:
That the recommendatione with respect te
Mr. Byron Nicholson be adoptéd, provlded tha.t
such adoption uhali nlot be held te constitute a
precedent

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I must
confeas I do not know what that reonxuend.ation, is.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The present report
deals with the recommendation cf the
Speaker, given on page 452 of the Minutes,
and the immediate way -of dealing with, it,
I submit, would be te strike eut the words,
-Mr. C. H. Jones and" in the motion as it
standsHon. MT. DANIEL-Supposing this motion is carried, would the hon. leader cf the
Opposition kindly explain te the House what
would be the different duties cf Mr. Jones
and Mr. Lelièvre?
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-The position, as I
understand it, then, would be that. having
aiready adopted the 6th report cf the Internial Economy Committee, which appointed
Mr. Jones te succeed. Mr. Soutter, as Clark
of thle Minutes, and Mr. Siméon Lelièvre,
second clerk assistant, te act as Cierk of
Petitione, and Clerk of Committee en Standing Orders; there wouid. be a division cf
duties.
The motion agreed te.
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS-I meve in amendinent
te that motion that the lO0th report
of the Standing Committee on Internai
Economy and Contingent Acc.unts abe net
accepted, but that the recommendations
made and presented te this House on the
9th cf this month, and signed by the Clerk
of the Senate, and by His Hon. -theSpeaker
cf the Senate, be accepted and adopted as
they stand.
The SPEAKER-I declared the motion
carried. The hon. gentleman must wait untii the 3rd paragraph has been considered.
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS-I was on my feet before the motion was put, and I think the
Speaker was toc hasty in declaring the moetion carried.

Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-We have already
adopted the 2nd paragraph.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The motion of the bon.
gentleman from Repentigny (Hon. Mr.
Legris) is altogether irregular. In the first
place'the hon. gentleman's motion proposes
to rescind the action taken .by this House
on two occasions, first, when we referred
tVis report cf His Hon. the Speaker to tjhe
Committee on Internai Economy, and then
again, when we decided to deal with the report now under considerautioh clause by
clause; and it is perfectly clear that you,
cannot, in the middle of the consideration
of the report, propose that we shall adopt,
in place cf this report, some other report
which is contrary to the previous decisions
cf the Heuse. I have the greatest respect
for the opinion of the hon. gentleman froin
Repentigny, but I must say that that would
be a niost irregular prooeeding.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-The
motion made by the hon. gentleman,
perhaps with a slight change, is quite in
order. He could meve that the third paragraph of this report be not concurred in,
but that it be referred back to the ceinmittee for further consideration.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That would be al
right.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
understood his amendinent was to send the
whole report back. We have concurred in
the first two paragraphs. The hon. gentleman could make à motion that the thîrd
recommendation be not accepted, but that
it be referred back to the committee with
instructions to do so-and-so.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-No objection to
doing that.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The, opponents of
that report have been caught in a trap.
Now the friends cf the report are protesting
againat the amending cf their report clause
by clause. The trap was clear to me, but
I would net be caught in it. The hon.
gentleman frein Repentigny (Hon. Mr.
Legris> is perfectly within his rights in
inoving the amendinent te the second
clause, and when he states on the floor of
the House that he was on his feet in time
te move it; in spite cf the decision cf the
Chair, I say he was right, 'because I was
looking at both cf thein.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-At the one time?

Hon. Mr. DANIEL-It has been decided
already te take up this report, section by
Hon.
section, and that is what we are doîng.
eyes.
The amendment would net be in order.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK.

Mr. CLORAN-Yes, I have twe
If the hon. gentleman frein

427

APRIL 12, 1915

Repentigny (Hon. Mr. Legris) wishes to
press bis motion, lie is perfectly in-order,
but let me tell the opponients of this report
that they are in a trap, and will have liard
work to get out of it.
The SPEAKER-Will the lion. gentleman
change bis.amendinent in tlie direction
suggested by the lion. gentleman froni
Hastings?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The Speaker bas no
right to make that suggestion.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Order, order.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The Speaker is not a
debater.
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS-My motion may be
anîended by adding "excepting the first
paragrapli,- applying- it to the 2nd and
3rd paragraphs, the first paragraph having
been adopted.
The SPEAKER-The lion. gentleman
from Repentig-ny (Hon. Mr. Legris) has
moved, seconded by the lion. gentleman
from Ottawa (Hon. Mr. Belcourt), that
paragrapis 2 and 3 of the lOth report of
the Standing Committee on Internai
Eeonomy and Contingent Accounts b. flot
accepted, but that the recommendations
presented to this House on tlie 9th of this
month, and signed by the Clerk o! the
Senate and by Hia Honour the Speaker, be
accepted and adopted as tbey stand.
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-We have already
adopted paragrapli 2, and consequently the
amendments are out of order.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Has the Speaker declared paragraph 2 adopted? I do not s0
understand it.
The SPEAKER-I said it was concurred
in.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Strike
out the word "two" and make it read the
"3rd paragraph."
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS-I will accept that.

-

Baird,
Belth,
Botock.
BoYer,

Daniel.

Non-Contents.
The. Hon. Mesrs.
Mitchell,
Owéne,
Power.
Ratz,
Ross (Middlesex).
Rome (Middleton)
Talbot.
Thibaudeau,
Thompsofl,
Watson,
Yeo.-23.

Davis.
Dennîs.
Farrell,
Gillmor,
Lougheed,
McoCalI.
MeKay
(Cape Breton).

The motion to adopt the third paragraph of the report was agreed te on a
division.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I move the adoption
of the report as a whole, as axnended.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I should like to
know what the effect of the adoption of
the report will be.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That the report WilI
be adopted as a -whole.
Hon. '.%r. BELCOURT-That is a very
wise remark, coming .from the chairman,
%ho lias manoeuvred this whole thing.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I rise to a question
of order. The hon. gentleman has no right
to attribute manoeuvres to me. I neyer
did any manoeuvreing. Whatever I did,
I did in the'open day; and I arn not going
to allow any hion. gentleman to use sach
language about nme.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-It was beoause
the manoeuvers were made in the open day
that I made the assertion. Are De Montigny and Benoit ziot to be employedP
Hon. Mr. POWER-Ye-s they are.to be
ernployed, and at good salaries, too.
The motion was agreed to on a division.
SUPPLY BILL NO. 1.
BILL INTRODUCED.

Hon. Mr. Lougheed introduced Bill
No. 123, An Act for granting to His
The House divided on the amendmnent, Majes-ty certain -sums of money to t.he
*hich was rejected on the following publie service for the financial years enddivision:
ing Tespectively 31st Marci, 1915, and the
3lst Mardi, 1916.
Contents:
the hion.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK -Can
The Ilon. Messrs.
gentleman say wliat is the total amocunt
Qirrior,
Béique,
LaRivière,
of the. Bill?
Beicourt,
Lavergne,
Bowell
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes. 1 should
Legris,
(Sir Mackenzie),
Poirier,
Çloran.
read this statement then hand it in so that
Tessier-i 2.
Desaulles,
Forget
it may appear on the Senate Debates in

SENATE

for
order that hon, gentlemen may peruse it Voted Fund Capilast
tai
very much more satisfactorily at leisure
session....$51,721,765 00_
than considering it momentarily. It is as Voted for Capital Fund this
follows:
session......1,588,845 61
$53,260,610
Appropriation Act No. 1, for 1914-15 andi
1915-16.
$222,886.171
1914-15.
Schedule A, being composed of Items ln1915-16.
(a) Supplernentary Estimates.
vote numbers 380 to 382 for
fichedule B la coxnpoued of the
seed grain relief to settlers
Main Estimates presentedl and
ln Alberta and Saskatchepassed by the BHoume of Comwan, and to distressedl
<nons during the present sesCaniadians abroad.. .. ... $10,401,958 25
sion, votes numbered 1 to 379
Supplementary
(b) Further
Inclusive, for the fiscal year
Estimates for varlous serending March 31, 1916, and
numbers 383 to
vices, vote
chargeable to4,364,541 14
451.. .. ............
Consolidated
Both of the above have been
Fund.. . .$105.766.718 57
passedl by the Bouse of CornCapital
mons durlng the present ses44,092,075 00
Fond. . ..
sion and for the fiscal year
$149.858.793
ended March 31,1915, chargeSchedule C is composed of the
able toSupplementary Estimates for
Consolidatefi
the fiscal year ending March
$13,227.653 78
F'und .. .....
31, 1916, presented and passed
Capital Fund.. 1,538.845 61
by the House of Commons.
votes numbers 452 t0 497 InTotal, for
clusive, and chargeable to.. $14,766,499 39 $14,766,499 39
1914-15
Consolldated
Fund .. .. $4,600,140 16
Capital Fund. 2.037,400 00
The Appropriation Acte of last
6.637,540
session provàded for the services of the year just cloced.
1914-15. voted and d1hargeable
Making a total aznount voted
to-_
for services of 1915-16 of .. $156.496,333
Consolidated
The estlimated amount authorFund.. . .$125.105.249 52
40,367,183
iaed by statute for 1915-16 in.
Capital
Fund.. .. 51.721,765 '00
$176,827,014 52
Total voted and statutory
The achedule (A) now before
for 1915-16........$196,863,517
addlthe Bouse provides an
tional arnount by vote for the
14,766,499 39
year 1914-15, as above stated.
Sununary, 1915-16..
Total voted ScheTotal amnount voted for the
B
for
dule
$191.593.513 91
year 1914-15 of .......
Consolidated
The estimated arnount authorizFund.. .. .....
31,291,657 71 Total voted Scheed by statute. 1914-15, was. .
for
C
dule
Consolidated
Total amnount voted and authorFund. ......
Ized by statute for the year
1914-15...........$222,885.171 61
Sumniary.

1914-15.

Voted for Consolidatefi Fund
th's session ..

64

57

16
73
49
22

$105,766,718 57

4,600.140 16

Estimated statutory expenditure

Voted for Consolidated Fund
last session . .$125.105.249

61

$110.366.858
40,357,183

73
49

Total for Consolidated Fund. . $150.734.042 22
Total voted Schedule
B, Capital Fund. . $44,092,075
Total voted Schedule
C. Capital Pond. . 2,037,400
46,129.475 00

52

13,227,653 78

Estlmated statutory expenditure
Total authorlzed for Consoli....
dated Fond.. .. .. ...
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

$138.332.903 31
31,291,657 7:
$169.624.561 0:3

à

il

Grand

total, 1915-16..

$196,863,517

22

The Senate adjourned until to-morro'w at
a.M.

-

-

APRIL 13« 1915

TME SENATE.

Tuesday, April 13, 1915.
The Acting SPEAKER took the Chair at
Eleven o'clock, a.m.
Prayers a'nd routine proceedings.DISQUALIFICATION 0F SENATORS
ROBERTSON AND MACDONALD.
REPORT 0F COMMITTÉEE ADOPTED.

Hon. Mr. POWER presented the report
of the Comniittee on Orders and Customos
of the Senate and Privilleges of Parliament,
to w.hom was referred the report of t.he
Clerk relative to the absence of the Hon.
Jas. E. Ro~bertson, and the Hon. W. J.
Macdonald, during two consecutive sessions
of Parliament, and moved that the report
-be concurred in.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The report êtates
tha't no good reason hias -ben given by Dr.
Robertson for his absence. I should have
liked-and I think a great iiany other senators would blave liked-to know what is
meant by the expression "« no good reasons.,
We *have not the reasons to criticise. -but
the comniittee says that no good reasons
are given. The committee muet understand
that tlhey are flot the final judge in a matter of tthis kind. It muet be decided by
the 'Whole House in .full session. In this
report we are iblandly told that the Hon.
Dr. Roibertson has given no good reason
why his seat should not hae vacated. I do
flot -appeal te the Governmneirt,-ecause
they *have nothing to do with it-'but I
appeal to the House to see th-at the rights
snd privileges of the active members of
t.his Chauvber should *be protected. I arn
nt asking any favour for Dr. Robertson,
but the committee should 'have piaced
before the House hîs letter, or whatever
explanations hie gave. It je not *for the
committee ito say that the reasons are no
good.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-He gave no
reasofle.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I might say, in
answer to what lias already been said, that
the words - no good reason " are a clerical
error in the report. No reason whatever
has been given.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That je something
sensible. It is just as well to cail attention to the expression used.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND--The report will
be corrected in tha-t respect.

The report was amended, and concurred
in.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I move the resolution declaring the seats of the Hon. Dr.
Robertson, and Hon. W. J. Macdonald
vacant.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The hion. gentleman
cannot proceed with hie motion without
giving notice. I ask for a ruling on tfhat
point.
Hon. Mr. POWER-This is a matter affecting the privileges of the House, and a
question which affecte the priviieges of the
House je always in order. No notice je Tequired.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I should like the
lion. gentleman to point out in any o! our
-books bis authority, statutory or otherwise,
for 'hie position. If the hon. leader of the
House proceeds with this resolution without giving notice, hie is doing se againet
the rig-hts and rules o! the House.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-This motionrrequires no0 previous notice. It ie simply a
consequential motion which necesearily foilows the report.
The motion agreed to.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I move that a
copy of the resolutionHon. Mr. CLORAN-Wait a minute; the
former motion wae not carried.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Chair declared it carried, and I 'move that a copy of
the said resolution ha preerted to Hie Royal
Highnees -by such members of! this lieuse as
are members _f the Privy Council.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I really do flot understand t~he attitude of certain members of thie
House; stili I can pase it over. I have bad
on the Order Paper notice of a resolution
dealing indirectly with this situation. I
was going to drop it to-day in view of the
resolution brought up in the committee in regard to Hon. Dr. Rolbertson's seat. I have nothing to 8ay with reference to the Hon. Mr.
Macdonald's seat. That became ipso facto
according to our constitution, vacant, but
I -have îheld and etili h.old that the seat of
the Hon. Dr. Robertson is not yet vacant,
and will not be until the present eession of
I hold-ae a great
Parliament prorogues.
many other people hold-that an extraordinary- session for any purpose, whether it
be a war session or a session to award a
railway contract-

SENATE

again to
and that
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-I rise to a point of together might not vote more money, 24 hauts.
last longer than
session
order.
Wlho is going to contend, in the face of the
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-Is that a part of the constitution, that these two sessions, called
Ltrap?
for extraordinary purposes, should constigentle- tute regular sessions of Parliament, absence
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-If the hon.
from 'which would neces.sitate the disqualiman takes bis seat I will tell him.
fication and unseating of a senator? I leave
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I 'hope -the bion. that to the common sense of the memibers of
this House. That might have happened
gentleman will ssy something sensible.
have heen
is nothing be- last fali. Two sessions could
'Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-There
called inside of 30 or 60 days, giving the
f ore the Chair.
members of Parliament the barest notdce,
suffcient to get them here to attend ita the
The motion was declared carried.
a hurwas an- business of the nation. There was anothoer
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There
ried cali last August. Supposing
other unotion.
session had be-en called hurriedly, the teThe SPEAKER-The last motion bas not suit might bave been the disqualification
been declared carried, but I hope the hon. of nearly bal! the mernbers o! this House.
The hon. gentleman fromn Fredericton, the
gentleman will speak to the point.
from Rothesay and many other
CLORAN-That, is what I am hon. member were doing their best to get
Hon. Mr.
who interrupted senatorE who
doing. Is the hon. senator
here. were flot able to be present. That
me satisfied that the motion is not carried,
of Parliament iasted only two or
and that I have a righit bo speak b the moa- meetingc
three davs. Some of the members were abtion'
sent from home on legitimnate busine F;
Hon. Mr. TAYLOR-The hon. gentleman some of them were dn foreign couniin
here
bas a right ta speak ta the motion. I thoug'ht tries, and unabke to Teach
Will bon. gentlemen contend,
time.
it was carried.
under these circumstances, that these
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I am not responsible
hon. meinbers should be diqqualified?
the hion. gentleman's thoughts.
for
If you do. then you wilI siinply abdicate,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE 3OWELL-I do your powers and your rights and privilegeî:.
not think the hon. gentleman is responsible I do not want to -be caught in tbiose difficulties. I will be on hand W'henever the
for anything.
me, if God gives
hold that this re- Governot General calis on if 1 were ca'lIed
-Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I
me health and strength; but
commendation ta bhie Governor General de- away on legitimate -business, lor instance
claring the seat of the Hon. Dr. Robertson to the Antipodes or to Europe or Asia, and
vacant, and ta have it refilled, is not within could not get i>ack here on a -week's notice,
the power or jurisdiction of this Parliament or even on thirty days' notice, 1 could
at the present moment. I hold-and my stili 'be bere in time for part of a regular
contention has not been yet upset by any session. This is a matter of common sense,
authority-that an extraordinary session of fait pla.y, and of common honesty to
called by any Government cannot, under the youts.elves, hon. gentlemen, because you do
constitution, become a session for the pur- not know when you will ibe caug1ht. 1 was
pose of disqualifyina any hon. member of moved ýby these consideratione ta take lihis
this House. To admit such a proposition action, and I ask the House to deciare tha-t
dangaerous etraordinary sessions -o! that kind are
a
admit
to
be
would
It not such sessions as are provided for in the
practice and dangerous principle.
may happen in the course of the year that British North America Act, whereby senan-y Government may be obliged ta cail a ators who fail to attend forfeit their seats
special session of Parliament ta meet an in this Chamber.
That session o! Parliament
emergency.
The motion was agreed to.
might last only two or three days, just as
August. The Government
the one did last
COST 0F TRANSLATION.
called Parliament itogether last August ta
MOTION.
pass an appropriation of 350,000,000 for war
purpo-ses. Suppose a month after thatHon. Mr. DAVIS moved:
m~hich migbt happen-the $50,000,000 were
That a special committee be appointed to
ail spent, the Government would be justified,
cost of translation in this
if act would be obliged, ta cali Parliament inquire into the
Hon.

Mr. CLORAN.

APRIL 13, 1915
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I have no abBouse and the Bouse of Commans with a view
to invite tenders for the said service in the jection ta this investigation taking place,
Senate.
but it shauld be done when Parliament je
He said: There bas Ïbeen a- great deal ci sitting and not during recess. I would eugdiscussion and controversy in this House gest ta my hon. friend that he renew his
in the past 'with regard to the cost of motion at the apening et next session, and
translation, andi I think it 'would be well then a committee-either one et aur standto ascertain what proportion it -bears to ing commnittees or a special cammitteethe cast of the service in other departments could be appointeci ta examine into the
of Parliament, with -a view ta deciding
whether the work s'houldr fot be let by ten- translation branch of aur service.
der. In order ta have the maitter investiHon. Mr. LA RIVIERE-Hear, -bear.
gated I -would move tbhat a committee conHon. Mr. DANDURAND-I might inform
sisting of Messrs. Boyer, Ross (Middleton),
D.an.iel, Thompson and the mover be ap- my hon. friend that there are two branches
pointedi lor the purposwe of investigating of the service in both Heuses; there is the
and finding out the cost ef the translation translation et speeches, which might passibly
in this House, with authority ta rnake a be done by cantract, although we proceed
on a. different line, the idea of that work
-report ta the House on tihis question.
being dane by contract having been disHon. Mr. 'LA RIVIER-It is rather late missed after some experience in bath
in thie session to obring up a motion of this branches of Parliament, I believe,
before iny
kind. When I wa-s a niem-ber of the House
time. Nov *here is another branch of
of Commnons, I had the 'honour ta be chairman o! the Debates Gammittee, and we transzlation -wh'ech concerne aur laws, Bille
studied the question at the time. It -was which come before this House, which eurely
found impossible to let translation hy ten- cannot be done by contract, because, the
der, -because we could not find out before- work muet praceed from 'day ta day as Bille
hand what vere the qualifications of those pase treim one Hause ta the other, and be
w'ho tendered for the 'work. I believe it haci continuéd by these tranelators after the
been tried previously in this very House, session ie over. It le work requiring minute
and it was found tihat the service was un- attention and a high degree of skili, and I
satisfactory. Translation is not ordinary arn quite sure that investigation will diswork, s my bon. friend f r<m De LorinAer close the fact that that part of the transrîtated the otler day; it is. fot every day lation muet remain in the bande af afficials
you ean. find a gooci translater. For such of bath Houses ot Parliament.
work a ma«n must have a, great knowledge
Hon. Mr. MITCHELLr-To my knowledge,
et languages, and muet be quite a scol-ar. the InternaI Ecanamy Committee of this
We must bear in minci that aur debates and
publications are exehanged wi'th foreign Houee. have been working.on this question
caunitries and how -would lt do ta senci books for yeare. I do not see what greut abject'
to France, or ta atiher European counitries, can be gaineci by appointing anothor comneven ta Russia, that were not properly trans- mittee, or haw Vhey can arrive at a conlated? It would be a disgrace ta this coun- clusion as ta whether the tranela-tors are
try. I hope my hon. friend, now that hie good or not. If aur present tranelators are
has drawn the attention of the House ta not qualified, let us apply to some eduthis matter, wîll drap hie motion for the pre- cational institution where -we can get qualilied transiatars, pay the price for satissent session at learyt.
factory service.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-In reply to niy hon.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middleton)-As I unfriend, 1 would say that it does not necessarily follow as a result of an investigation derstand, the abject a! this cammittee is ta
that we should have the work done by con- discuss the question as ta whether the
tract. The abject of my motion is to in- translation is well done or not well1 done,
vestigate and find eut whether thie House and ta secure and collect ail the informaispayinig more than ehould be expended tion that -can be got -as ta the relative cosi
for this work. If we find that it should be of tra-nslatinga in this House and in the
done under contract, I assume that the work House of Gommons, with any ather incould be done in that way just as well as dformation there is ta bhe had on the subject,
it is done now and perlmps better. Hawever, with a view ot eeeing 'whethér or not it
the abject et this motion is ta ascertain would ;be better te have the work done ;by
whether this House is paying more than iA tender and contract, ratlher than as we
should pay for the work that is being done. are doing it now: I do not tfihink it is toc

SENATE

late in the session to undertake the inýestigation. We have to-day and to-morow, and it is just possible 'we may have
fie day atter. 1 do flot see why we should
not have some officer from the House of
Commons, who knows aiýl the facts, to give
evidence -before the committee and tell us
just bow the work is done there and what
it costs, and compare it with the cost of
the service !here. Even if we did make a
report this year I do flot suppose it 'would
-be acted on, but we miglit get ail the information that is to 'be had and have it
classified, and then members -would have
it before themn at the opening of -the session next year, and action might ibe taken.
Hon. Mr. LARIVIERE-I -have just one
word in answer to niy bon. friend. I do
not see th-at it is proper to calculate in
dollars and cents the va-lue of the kind of
translation that we require for this House.
WVe require the 'best -%ork, and we expect to
psy the 'best price for it.
Hnn. Mr. MITCHELL-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (lMiddleton)-Tlie ide-a is
to get the hest work for the Ieast money;
that is the proposition.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The cost of translation for the extraordinary session in August
lest would be only a few dollars. The cost
4
is relative, depending on the num ber of
reports and BUis; if the Bis are short it
does not cost s0 much to translate; if
they are voluminous, running from ten to
sixty pages the work will cost more. So it
is a-Il a relative matter and no committee
'can get at the 'bottom of the matter. I
Lgree with the hon. -senaitor from Prozencher <Hon. Mr. La Rivière) that this
question of translation is one which affects
the intellecitual standing of Canada throughout the vworld. Our documents-blue-books,
scientîfic reports, royal reports, governor's
speeches, Hansard, tand so on-are distributed to probaibly every legislature
throughout the world and to public libraries. Wh'at standing would we have in the
world's community if a professai of a University or a statesman of a foreign country
should find our reports full of errors and
-bad French or -bad English? As the hon.
gentleman says, the .best tailent must be
engaged, and you cannot get the be4t
talent by contract or by tender; you must
select your men and place them at the head
of the translating bureau, just as a rector
of a university seleets his professors. You
cannot get professors by tender, you have
to select themn from every quarter of the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middleton).

earth, because of their fitness for 4the work
of teaching. We must nut deal with this
matter in any picayune fashion. Ourý public documents have to go to the world in
the purest of Englîsh and the purest of
French, and that must necessarily cost a
little money. You can get men, who profess to be translators, at $1 a day, but what
will their -work amount ta? You must get
the best talent. To translate some documents requires absolute skill, scientific and
otberwise; he must have a knowldege of the
arts, of business, of finance, a knowledge
of everyth.ing under the sun in order to
translate from one language into ancither.
Where are wve going to get men with such
attainments and talents? It would not be
fair to offer them a paltry salary; the salary slîould be in keepîng with the talent
possessed by the transiator, just as fees are
paid ta lawyers according to the amount of
talent and knowledge .they have of the law,
or ta niedical nien for their skill and know~ledge. Lt is the same in the various professions, and Parliament should seek such
nwn. I 'hope that the hon. member from
Provencher will insist on bis point, and
that he and bis friends in this House will
see that for translating documents from.
Englisha in-to French, -whîch aiter ail is nînet-enths of the work, the Ïbest talent ahail be
employed so that Canada iwill net be disgraced in -the public libraries of Europe or
the cabinets and legislatures of otiher countries

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-This motion seems to
have created quite, a disturbance in the
zninds of hon. gentlemen in this House.
Hon. Mr. GIRROIR-Might I ask the hon.
gentleman what reason there is for proposing to invite tenders for the t-ranslators a-ny
more than for the other positions ln this
House.
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middleton)-I have taken
an interest in the Internal Economy Committee, and have been informed that the service in the Senate costs twice as niuch as
in the House of Commons.
Hon. Mr. GORDON-What does it cost?
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middleton)-I do not
know, but I have had that statement on very
good authority, and there must bie some
ground for it.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-We have had,
within the last fifteen years, comparative

APRIL 1:3, 1915
of work in
statements at ieast two or three times been granted in this 'branch for one want
the In- this House every year, and I
before the Debates Committee and
are paying more
ternai1 Economy Committee on this veTy to find out whether we
In
qjuestion of comparative cost Ïbetiween the thaon we should psy for that work.
in the other House and regard to the talk &bout having cultured
translation done
science and
th.atdone in this House; and we -have corne men -who 'are up in -arts and thing, I supof
to -theconclusion, after looking into it, that finance and ail that kind as good transiawe were riot paying more for the transla- pose we« should have just
&re
tion here than the House of Gommnons w'as tors in tèhe House of Gommons as there are
here; and I do not know whether they
paymng.
up in arts and science and finance -and eli1
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middieton)--Has not the other arts that my bon. friend taîks
the -cost in this House iner-eased very grea'tly about; they. may 'be, -but translation is
in late years?
translation.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The cost of the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Yes.
tr.anslation, no.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I suppose if the transHon. Mr. DÂVIS-Yes.
lation is flot properly done we 'wouid have
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-I hear the word some way of arriving at lt. I suppose my
"yes." It has flot cost more than the dif- hion. friend, Who îs up in arts and aIl thaît
ferent services of the Senate have cost. The sort o! thing-, has arr.ived at a conclusion as
inerease has -been general, and more especi- to whether the work, was pro-perly done or
ally t'hrough the -application of the Civil not, from reading French Journals of this
Service Act upon the staff of the Senate; House or those of the House o! Gommons.
but if you will compare that !branchi of We want investigation. Some of my hon.
the service with the other branches I think friends assume that this House is going to
you will find that my information is cor- prorog-ue.to-day or to-rnorrow. I do not see
any signs of prorogation. There is a lot of
rect.
very important -legisiation that Ihas laot
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I did not know, when corne to us yet, that has not even passed
I moved tbhat innocent littie motion, lihat the other House,- and while we are 'waiting
stir up such a tempcst.
I was going tmo
we might -have this committee appointed. I
-Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-There is no assume that in ane day 'we could have aH
the information we require reported to this
tempest.
enV
use;
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-In answer to my hion.
not he appointf riend Who asked what reason there is for why the committee should
the motion, I would tell hlim the large in- ed.
Hon. Mr. GIRROIR-I do not think the
creases granted in the cost of this branch
of the work in the Senate in the last year hon. member who has just taken his seat
or two, and I wanted to find out 'whetiher has made his case iany stronger; in dact, I
we are justified in making t'hose large in- think the discussion which h.as taken place
creases to the salaries of transistors which since I asked my question ma-kes 'bis case
my hon. friend talked about. My hon. weaker. The lion. gentleman from De Lorifriend fromn Montreal got 'wrathy on this inier (Hon. Mr. Dandurand) hias stated
subject; his speech nîight very weil have that the increase in the expenses o! the
been made after the committee had re- offieers of this HRouse has been proportionported, if their report did not suit him. a'te-that there has Ibeen no gremier InIn the meantime, wha't harmn can the eom- crease in the expense attending translation
rnittee do? I want to know whether or not than in the other offices.
The mover of this resolution complains
the cost of translation in this House is
more than it should be, and whether it is that there lias 'been an unwarranted indune properly. If this committee find that crease in the oost of translation. If there
the work is done properly and the cost is Las been an unwarranted increase in tihe
nu more than it should be, they will say expenses of this or of other offices, hie had
su; on the other hand, if they find the work better include ail the offices in bis motion.
is not done properly, and that the cost is and foilowing out the argument he hias
excessive, they wiii :report that to the advanced, 4the only conclusion we can
House, and the su.bject will lbe discussed. arrive at is th-at we should have anin
They are not going to tear up a'nything; vestigation as to the charges and expenses
we 'want information and I think we are in connection 'with -bhe officiais of this
entitied to have it. Large increases have Housze, with a vierw of calling for tenders
REVISED EDITION

SENATE

for a]l the 'work of these officiaIs. Let all
the positions be put up at auction, and -let
the Iowe-et tenders get them. If we are
going to be ridiculous we might as well go
it who]esale. Amend the resolution and
put in a-il the offices, including the Speaker's.
Hon. Mr. GORDON-From the arguments
advanced by the 'hon.- gentleman from
Prince Albert it would appear that hîs
motion is not opposed provided he elimma-tes from it that part which 'would give
this House power to have the translation
done by contract. That part of it seems te
?be on a par twith g-iving out -book-'keeping
to tender. One of tihe most important matters in connection with this House, as I
look upon it, is to have the transl.ation
as neariy correct as possible, and, although
1 am not conversant with the French ianguage, I have no doubt in my mind that,
even under present conditions, as I think
my hon. friend intimated to us not long
ago, it is bard to find competent transThe hon. gentleman who fhas
lators.
brought in this motion does not question
the charaeter or correetness ef the tr&nslation which we have been getting; and il
that be the case, and if he has no ground
for bringing this motion forward other than
that of expense I would adviée him to
withdraw bis motion and brîng in a similar
motion in respect te some other thingo,
which te my mind require investigation,
and other expenditures 'would Êtand the
pruning-knife 'better lihan this special department. I would suggest th-at he bring
in a motion to reduce the expendaiture upon
the preparaticu of large quantities o! useless books that are distributed both wbile
the House is sitting and during the recess.
Hion. Mr. D AIS-After the eonvincing
argument I have just hdstened to, there ap.
pears te be a- feeling iii the House that it is
Tather late in the session to take up tihis
niatter; I therefore esk leave te withdraw
the motion with a view to presentingl it
next year uat the operiing" of the session,
when iwe wiil have more time to give it
cbn sideration.
Hon. '-%r. BOYER-Bafore the motion is
dropped, I may tell my -bon. friend that he
has wasted noe money in discussing this
motion thasi any economy 'Which could he
reaiized in the tran slating. We have been
st At forty minutes..

Hon. Mr. BOYER-My hon. friend ii quite
an economàst in these, matters. Why be so
very parsimonious in regard to translation?
1, for one, want ail the translation I can
possibly get, and I want the very beut.
Many documents that we are entitled to are
simply published in English and neyer
translated into French. Take, for example,
the question asked by the hon. gentleman
from Arthe'baska the other day wifjh regard
to ja monthly publication called Conservation, which furni8hed very interesting information. That document should be spread
through the country, not only through the
English portions of the Dominion, but
through French Quebec, and through French
Ontario, but it has neyer been translated
into French. 1 suppose it is not considered
worth while that we of French extraction
should possess some knowledge of it, or that
we know it better than those -who are supposeil to read it? 1 belong to an institute
where it was decided to pnblish the addresses of members of the institute in
French, and what happened? They had to
send to Paris for the very best authors, we
might say. who could put into correct
French the speeches delivered in English,
But,
Italian, German, and even French.
alter ail, the expense of translation cannot
be so very enormous. ,If it has cost the
country one or two thousand dollars more a
year than hon. gentlemen think it should,
it strikes nme there are plenty of other useless expenditures to which the Senate and
House of Gommons a-te subject where we
mýight economize far better than by poking
into one paltry department, which has the
translation of whatever lovely speeches my
hon. friend can make.
The motion was dropped.
SUPPLY BILL.
SE>COND READING.

Hion. Mr. LOUGHEED moved tohe second
reading of Bi1l No. 123, An Act for granting
to His Majesty certain sums of money for
the Public Service of the financial years
ending- respectively, the 31st March, 1915,
and the 3lst March, 1916.

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I draw the attention
of the House to the fact that the amount
appropriated in the Supply Bill this year is
greater than it has ever been b-efore. We
have neyer, as far as I know, voted a Suppiy
Bill amounting to two hundred and twentyHon. 'Mr. WATSON-We have nothing else two million odd, for the purpose of this
country. At the present time, when Our
t'O do.
Hon. Mr. GIRROIR

APRIL 13. 1915
revenues are dimînishing, it seems an enormous sum of money to be voting in this
way. We have had the statement of the
Finance Minister in whicth hie estimates the
expenditures for this year, 1914-15, at
$ 190,000,000. 1 presume, therefore, that the
aniaunt appropriated ini the Supply Bill may
not ail be spent; but even when we compare
the Finance Minister's estimated expendirevenue of
estimated
ture with the
$130,000,000 for the saine year 1914-15 iwe see
there is a deficit cf $60,000,000 ta be provided for. This at the present time, when
money is very scarce and it is «Iifieult to
arrange finances, is a very s.erious pros-

1896-97..
1901-02..
1905-06..
1910-11..
1911-12..
1912-13..
1913-14..
1914-15..
1915-16..

37.829,778
58,050,709
80,139,360
117,780,409
136,108,217
168,68 9,903
163,174.394
130,000,000
120,000,000

Going back to the year 1896, ,.nd taking
ft -in five year periods, we find the total
receipts in t1he year 1896-7 were $37,000,000
cdld. The total expenditure at the sarne
t.ime wae $42,000,000. In 1901-2 the total receipts were $58,000,000, and thle total exIn 1905-6 the rependitures $63,000,000.
ceipts were $80,000,000, and the expenditures $83,000,000. In 1910-11 the reoeipts
were $117,000,000, and the exipenditures
$122,000,000. In 1911-12 the receipts were
$ 136,000,000 and the expendiiture $137,000,000. In 1912-13 the receipts were $168,000,000 and the expenditures $144,000,000. In
1913-14 the receipts 'were $163,000,000 and
the expenditures $186,00M,000. 1Those figures
are taken from the public accounts and are
the exact figure-s issued by tihe Government.
Anything th-at we have further is simply
an estimiate of the Finaiice Minister .which
lie states in Iiis Budget speech. For instance, hie gives the following figures: in
1914-15 lie calculated his revenue at $130,000,000. and bis total expenditure at $190,000l,000. In 1915-16 his revenue vwas $120,000,000, and taking into -accounit tie sum of
$15,000,000 lie lhas to provide for taking Up
treasury bis tha-t will shortly faIl due, bi-s
S-98i

pect for the country <to face. It -bas Ibsen
said on several occasions by membera of
the Goverument that they a-re very much
burdened by the commitments whiclh the
late eovernment leýft behind them. It may
ibe interesting if I, for a'lfew minutes,
place be.fore the House soine figures deaiing with that question; but before attempting ta show how certain money has been
exipended, 1 want ta put *belore the Hanse
the figuree of the revenue, and expenditure,
te show how .both have been increasing for
some years past. I give the following table
of receipta and expenditures chaoegeabie te
Consolidated Fund Account, -and aiso the
total receipts and expelditures.

38,349,759
50,759,391
67.240,640
87,774,198
98,161,440
112,059,537
127,38-4,472
140,000,000
140.000,000

37,829,778
68,052,333
80,141,393
-117,884,328
136.108,217
160,690,427
163,174,394

42,972,755
63,970,799
83,277.641
122,861,250
137.142,082
144,456,877
186,241,047
190,000,000
199,000,000

total expenditure, according ta tlhe Budget
speech, would corne up to $199.000.000. 1
would draw hion. gentiemen's attention too
'the way the revenue bas increased du-ring
those years up to 1912-13, and of course -the
expenditure has gone up as 'weli, but 'W-en
we compare the year 1911-12 -with the year
1912-13 the receipts hiad increased by $32,000,000 o4id over the yea' 1911-12. The expendi'ture had on.ly inécrea.sed, IbY even
million odd. The congequence was tihat
in the year 1912-13 the GovernmenIt ?were
in the happy position of 'being a~ble te decrease the national de.bt of the country by
twenty-flve million odd. It se'ems 'when
they came into thlis happy position theY
did not approve of this condition of tihings.
They apparently set to work to see how
they could spend more rnoney, -because they
did not think it was a. good 'th'ing for the
country ta be pay.ing off the national débt.
We find therefore that in the Ye-ar 1913-14
the recei*pts decreased Iby over $5,000,000,
Ithe expenditure increased by $41.000,000.
The Government, tjherelore, tbrought about
a condition of things wh.ih 'Was exactly
opposite ta -what it was Îhe year before.
and instead of being aibe tao decrease tho

SENATE

nation-al ds'bt in the year 1l913-14 they had
to increase it by over twenty-one mnillion
dollars. If we compare the expenditures
on capital accounit in those .two years 191213, and 1913-14, we may -have some idea
as to what extent the Government has been
callsd upon to provide money to meet these
commitments to which they fell heir as
successors of the late Government? Taking
the nioney expended on capital account for
ths year 1912-13, we find that the Governinent paid out:
Amnount pald on Capital Account.
For the year For the year
1913-14.
1912-13.

National Trangcontin-.
.. .. $13,767.011
ental railway
Quebse bridge........1,512,825
1,099.063
Hudson Biy railway.
I .t-r;.,Oonoial and conraelways and
nected
2,406,987
miscellaneous . . ..
Prince Edward Island
103,001
railway ...........
2.259,257
Canais. ............
Public Works.......6.057,514

$27,205,661

$ 12,6 70,100
2,604,105

4,498,717
4,347,999
129,574
2,829.661
10.,100.016
$37,180,175

For the National Transcontinental railway
For the Quebec bridge,
uver $13.M0,000.
$1,000,M0, for the Hudson Bay raiiway
$1,000,OOt the Intercolonial railway and connected railways and iniscellaneous $2,000,000,
to the Prince Edward Island railway
$ 103,000, for -the canais $2,000,000, for public wrks, $6,000,000, making a total for
1912-13 of $27,000,000 paid out on -capital
account. In the ysar 1913-14 they paid to
Transcontinental railway
National
the
$ 12,000,000, a million less than .the year before. For the Quebec bridge they paid ont
$2,000,000 which would represent ons million
more than the year before, sn that on those
two itemis they viers about even. For the
Hudson Bay railway they paid $4,000,000,
but hon. gentlemen wili remember that the
Governmnent have said ail aiong that they
are as niuch commi.ttsd to the Hudson Bay
railway, and they are as anxious to see it
conîpleted as the late Government, so that
they cannot complain on ths score -that they
hiad to psy out in 1913-14 some $3,000,00
more than in 1912-13 for the purpose of
bringing that road. to completion. -Then vie
get to the Intercolonial railway and connected railways -and miscellaneous, for
which they paid out on capital account
$4,000,000; to the Prince Edward Island
railway they .paid out $ 129,000, canais
$2,000,000, and public works $ 10,000,000.
Hon. gentlemen wiii ses from those figures
that t.he increase on the Intercolonial railHon. Mr. BOSTOCK

ways and connected railways was over
$2,000,000, and on public works over
$4,000,000, so that -the increase of $6,000,000,
there was due, flot to any expenditure that
was put upon the shoulders of the present
Goverrrment, owing to the action of their
predecessors. but due entirely to the action
of the pre'sent Government themselves. This.
I think, to some extent refutes the 8tatement made by the Government that the increased appropriation they are cailed upon
to make is due to the action of their predecessors. The other day, in giving a few
figures to the House, I tried to show. in
dealing with these questions of the expenditure oi money from the Consoiidated Fund,
that in that case also the expenditure vias
largeiy due Vo the extravagant way the Govwith the adminiernment hiad been dealing&
stration of the country. Tien, if vie look for
a minute at the money paid ont by the present Government under the heading of railwav subsidies, vie find that in the year 1913,
this Governmient paid ont for total railway
subsidies $4,935,000. For the year 1914 they
paid out $ 19,036,000, and that, when coinpared with the largest amount paid ont by
the late, Government during the time they
viere in office for subsidies to railways,
namely $3,201,000 shows a very considerable increase, not attributable in any way
to the action of the late Government. We
rnay further take into consideration for a
few minutes the way the trade of this country has been moving for the last fevi years.
The trade of Canada has been increasingconsiderably. If At shows that the country is
prosperous no one will take exception to the
trade increasing ibut vihen we take the Votai
exporta and imports of the couxitrY we
find; taking the 'saie years &s, I have
taken -for the receipts and expenditures,
'-that the Votai exports, the total imports
and the grand Votais are as follovis:
Grand
Total
Total
Total.
Imports.
Ex'porta.
1896 . .$121,013,852 $118,011,508 $239,025,360
386,903,157
190,415,525
1901 .. 196,487.632
550,872,645
294,286,015
1906 .. 256,586,630
472,247,540 769,443,905
1911 .. 296,196,365
1.058,264,449
692,032.392
1913 .. 393,232,057
650,746,797 1,129,744,725
1914 .. 478,997,928
Hon. gentlemen- wiii notice that whilst
-the total trade of the country in the year
'1914 had increasQed over* that of th-e previons
year tby $71,000,000, the exports for the samie
period had increased by $84,000,000, and
the importe had decrea.sed by $41,000,000;
ws therefore lind that in consequence of
this decline in the import trade of the
country in the year 1914 th-e revenue h-as

APIRIL 13, 1915
comes here 'for
fallen off very considerably. This 'being the man, woman and child that
the purpose of making a home in Canada.
third year that tihis Government bias been
resources of
responsibie for the policy of the country. It means that they develop the
as
their figures show that their poliey is tend- the country and-provide work for others
trade of well as for themmelves. Therefore, 1 say
ing towa.rds increasin-g the export
the country and decreasing t~he importe. that the Government should most certainly
The 'whole speech of the Finance Minister, do ail that they can to stoIT this decrease of
-when he vas talking on his Budget arrang- immigration into Canada and find somes way
mente, was to the effeet that he had to of turning the tîde and bringing it back te
find a large -amount of revenue for the pur- what it was in the year 1914. 1 have put
pose of! carryxng on the business of the these figures before tihe House and before tlie
country, and !because bis revenue was fa- country in order that people may hbave an
ing off, hie had to largely increase the duties opportunity cf studying them, of consideron many articles; 'but if the 'import trade inc, themn for themselves and cf realizing
of the country was failing ibefore the tariff the direction in which this country is movewas raised, as it -bas ibeen this sesaion, we ing at the present ime. The whole connmuet expeet to see the import trade of the dition cf -things is very serious, because
country decrease considerfbily when we get these figures I have given to the House deal
the returns, for the present year, and the with enly the ordinary business cf the
consequence oi that wil1 be, the Finance country. We have to add te those the exMinister 'will flnd that, instead of bis re.v- pense that the country is under at the preenue increasing as hie hoped At would, his sent tiînie on account of the part we are takfigures will fâll considera;bly short o! w'hat ing- in the terrible war which is raging in
lie has led the eountry to expedt. The de- Europe. The expense in connection with
velopmient and progress of tis country is that war is not in any way included in the
very largely concerned wjthi the question figures which 1 have given; and when those
Mf immigrat4on. This country is one of are added to the figures that 1 have already
enormous territory. 'but very smnall popula- submitted, it shows a very tremendouf.
tion conlpared with the tremendous area financial burden placed on this country, but
we hbave to deal with, and it should tbe the if -the people realize the situation and really
object and aim of every Government, as looks seriously int-o the matter, I do flot
much as possible, te bring immigrants here. think there is any doubt that Canada will
But 'we find at the present time thiat im- eventually come through successfuily.
migration into Cainada is fallinrg off very
-considerably. O! course the hon. gentleHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is net My inman may say. that this is very largdly due tention te follow my hon. friend in the into the present, condition cd! affaire through- cursions which hie has made into the realms
out the 'world, and possibly we should net of trade, o! commerce, o! finance and exbe tee ha-rd on the Governuient if thie im- penditure, but I should like te say that the
miîgration into this country faîls very con- Supply Bill which is before us on the presiderably this year; 'but at the same Vime sent occasion is rather an exceptional one.
it' shouki be pointed out to the Governpassing through extraordinary
ment that their most determined efforts We have been
conditions involving expenditure which,
should tbe put forth -in order to inerease the
ordinary conditions, Would not have
immigration into Canada. The immigration urîder
underimmigrants came occurred. 1 have ne intention of
returns sh-ow that 354,257
taking anything like a survey of the expendinto Canada in 1911-12 and 384,878 imi-ý
which the Government has been comngrants in the year 1913-14. -In 1914 theré were itures
eut some o!
168,M5 immigrants. That will give hon. pelled te niake, except te point
the extent to the extraordinary obligations with which we
gentlemen some idea o!
whioh the immigration into Canada bas de- *have been faced, and which we have been
creased in the last period for which we were called upon te rnieet, and whîch necessarily
Supable to get returns. For the year 1915-16 iA have very greatly added te the present
*ply Bill. In looking through this Bill, 1
has b'een estimated that the immigration
in about seven or eight items appro'will not amount to more than 50,000 to ifind
amounting te f43,000,000 which in
75,000 people. Hon. gentlemen have only tc ipriations
thal former Supply Bis we would not have been
think for a few minutes to realize what
means to this country. Consider the amount called upon te provide. Take, for instance,
is
of money that every immigrant necessarily the matter of seed grain, for which there
We have
f
the amount o: an appropriation cf $ 10,5W0,00.
brings into the country,
work that the country obtains from every rbeen called upon te make an extraordinary

SENATE

expenditure, in connection with the ferry
to- Prince Edward Island, of nearly two
million. We have been called upon to make
provision for the Hudson Bay railway of
five and a haif million. In connection with
the Transcontinental Railway we have to
provide five millions for expenditures to
be miade at once. On the Qudbee -bridge an
expenditure of three' and a haif million is
provided for in connection with the Welland ship canal, five and one-haif million
in connection with the Trent canal, one
and a half million, and nearly ten milIlion
--or to be accurate fine and a haif millon
1
'h~cargeaible to rivera and 'har bours, thIis
amount ibéing chiefly for dry-docks. The
policy of building dry-docks at our great
national ports is one that has been sanetioned by both parties in Canada, and provision bas been made to meet expenditure
in that particular direction forthwith. Consequently in those, few items which I have
pointed out 'we find appropriations approximating, $43,000,0O0. My hou. friend went
back, I think, te 1896. The appropriations
which I have mentioned in connection with
tihose few items would represent a- greater
expenditure th-an Canada made in 1896 in
its entirety. Hon. gentlemen will therefore
have te rernernber, to use the expression of
a well known Lilberal statesman, that we
livie in'a gro*ing time, and consequently
the expenditures «re relatively great. 1
have pointed this out, net apologetically,
but éimply *by way of explaining the inereasing demande that are made upon the
exohequer of Canada from time te time, and
for which, te maintain our national progress, we have to provide.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-There is one
question to which I ehould like te direct
the attention of this, Chamber, whioh interests vitally the present condition of the
country, and w1hich. fias a considerable effect
upen the development and prosperity of Canada. It is the imm~igration policy o~f the
present Government, whi&dh, in my opinion,
deserves serious criticism. We -have not
received during the last few months, any
considerable immigration from. Europe, and
1 suppose it wdll take some time before the
proportion ef settlers which we used te receive will begin te knoek at our doors. The
present Government, after the election of
1911, sreemed to take for granted that harving
carried tihe day on the cry Vhat trade betiween north. and south *was undesiralble,
from the ffouth te the
immigration
nerth sbould be discouraged as well, and
aîl the efforts that ha-d been made for
years past to get proper immigration from
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

the Western States have been abandoned.
These efforts made by the late Government
to get that class of immnigrants 'had been
quite sucefsful, &nM thousands and thuusands of the best class of immigrants reached the Northwest through the CanadianUnited States western boundary.
Now, ilhere bas Ibeen conaiderable of a reduction in the immigration from that area,
due tn the fact that the Government bas recalled a number of agents and bas closed.
a number of agencies téroughout the United
States. As a result, immigration from those
parts of the country bas considerably diminisbed. It seemas te me that the Government should revise its policy, and resume
that one wbicb was s0 advantageous te the
Northwest. I arn quite sure that the representatives here from the West will bear
mie eut when 1 say that immigration frei
the neighbeuring country was of as high a
standard as any that came frein Europe and
that it is greatly te be regretted that that
.policy was discontinued.
lion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-In
what way bas it been stopped'
Hon. 'Mr. DANDURAND-It has been
stopped by the recail cf a number of immigration agents which the late Government
had througahout, tbe United States, and more
especial!ly throughout the western States;
and the result of the recali ef those agents
bas been quite apparent in a marked diminution ef immigrants fromr the United
States. It seems te me that if the policy
wbich prevailed before 1911 had been continued, the Northwest couild to-day preduce,
by the increased number of immigrants,. a
larger area cf good creps te the very great
advantage ef this country.
Hon. Mr. ROCHE-Since I have come
into this House I have been informed by
those who are well-qualified to expound our
functions and duties, that At is not the right
and privilege ef this House te question any
ef the items iii a Budget which is presented,
but that tlue House must either accept or
rejecet the financial grants given te the King.
Therefore, any discussion ef items is net
practical, but uxerely advisory; that is, we
cannot bring the argument te a test vote for
The
the reduction ef any special item.
whole nuust be accepted or the whole must
go. The leader of the Government in this
House presented a sumrnary ef the many
details ef the Budget, and grouped tegether
a number ef questions which might or might
not have had some resemblance te ene an-

APRIL 18, 1915

other. There is no tinte to fully investigate
a coniplicated subject like this; there is ne
tinte to ascerta-in whether certain elements
that were grouped under certain heads rightfuily belong to those heads or not, and
whether the aggregate o! the aumas included
under those headîngs can be rightfully
compared w-ith those expended by the previous Government, in order te corne to the
conclusion whether tbis -Governinent has
been economical with the resources- placed
aI its disposai or whether it has been lavish
or extravagant. We have no details which
can Ïbe discussed and compared; but we muet
take the Bill with due gratitude cs At has
been pr.esented- a lump sum granted te His
Majesty with tbe formai assent of this
House. Amongast the itemis mentioned. by
lthe learned leader of the Opposition with
a view to contrasting the expenditures of

th. former Governiment witlh those of the
present Governuiient, is one of 10 mili>e expended on
lions or more to
Now, this Budget ie to run
seeds.
througfl the whole year, -and tIre agricultural year in this country 'will end &bout
September or October, and I see no credit
given for the sum whicit will be repaid by
the farmers and others-sunts Whc have
been secured as an offset te this teir million dollars. amongst other sunts which 'the
hon. gentleman has mentioned,'as aL justification for the la'rge public expenditure.
But il ie flot my purpose, it is net th. purpose of anybody, this year te severely critîcise any item o! expenditure, any action,
any legieiation, or anyt.hing wqiieh the. Goverrnîent may do. We give thent a free
band thie year; let thent go as thiey please;
ibul 'we will hold thern Tesponi1ble at aniother tinte for what they do. There is another item to which I might cail lte attention of thie learned leader o! the Government in this House, and that ie, sîthough.
we'have a diminisbing revenue, dimiuishing in amuount, diminis'hing in volume, tb.
expenses of -collecting th-at revenue have
net diminished, and lte nuniber of persone
who collect Ihat revenue, servante of lte
(Governmient, have increased two-'fold, tbre.fold, and four-bold; and I would direct hMs
attention when he -begins to put in 'ie
pruning knife et the beginning of! next sessioni, to see rwhether there are not too ntany
ineffic'ent public servants, and if the revenue of the country continues to decreaseas ~i probably wilI-whether or flot the
number of publie servants ougbt net to be
proportioned to the amount o! revenue
which is te 'be collected; -and if the revenue
be diminished, then will be th. tinte Éor

our Government to look into it, w'hether
the rksources of the country are not wasted
upon political lavourites or upon mnefflient
public servants.. I have pretty weil run
through the cursory remarks whioh I intended to make. I do not intend to criticise the Budget which is presented to titis
House, and it would be uselesa to do so
unless we are permitted, by ithe reguiations
of the Houe and iby the functions o! *the
Senate, to enter thoroughiy into the detaile
qnhich make up te great aggregate that
has 'been presented by the learned leader
o!c the Governnient.
The main motion was agreed te, and the
Bill was read the second and third tintes
and passed.
SENATORS 'MA.CDONALD AND ROBERTSON.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--Before rwe adjourfi, iy lion. .friend the leader o! the
Opposition su2gested very properly this
miorning that we Éhould pass a resolution
of es-teent to our ]ate colleagcues. I therefore beg te mnove:
That the memnbers of the Senate beg to convey to their late coUleague, the Hon. W. J.

Macdonald and the Hon. J. U. Robertson, the
expression of their sincere regret at the severance of the tie which has hitherto connected
thent.
They are vEry sensible of the vaiue of the
sérvices rendered to the country by the Hon.
W. J. Macdonald. who han been a member of
the Senate front BrItieh Columbla ince that
province carne into Cenfederation. a.nd by the
Hon. J. E. Robertson since hie entry Ittto, this
Ch.-nb r ai a m mbedr of the Seilate fia
Prince Edward Island, and they wlll long
cher*s'i plenuant recollc'tlons of thedr ldndly
r,.sence ln the Senate.
The motion was agreed to.
Moved by Hon. Mr. Lougheed:
That the Clerk of th'e Heuse be authorized
to convey this resolution to the gentlemen
named.

The motion was agreed te.
THE ROBES 0F THE SPEAKER.
Hon. Mr. BOYER-Mr. Speaker, before
we adjourn miight 1 inquir-e when 'w. may
expeet te see you in your officiai ro'bes?
It is rather shocking to us dentocrats te see
our guardian angel writhout hie wings, and
miussing his feathe-rs. Could flot some arrangement be made with our late Speaker
for the renting- o! those robes for the tinte
I think it wouid add a great deal
being'
to the dignity af titis Houe, and as we are
about proroguing we wiii eut rather a poor

SENATE
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-The fact is tha4 for
the last several days the thermometer at,
the door bas indicated a temperature in
this House of from 75 to 80 degrees. I believe at the present moment it is 73, and that
is couler than usual. There is no neceasity
for anything of that kind. I may say that
yesterday afternoon or the afternoon before,
alter the Hanse had been in session in a
Several hion. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear. very -hot room, an hour after the adjournHon. Mr. BOYER-Have new officiais mient took place I came in here. Ahl the
been appointed who do not know their bus- doors were open, the air was practically ail
iness, who do flot even know the time an right, and the temperature had corne down
a. cock? Or is it part and parcel of the to 68 Farenheit. That, I tak-e it, is about the
Government pohicy 4eo continue to deceive temperature at which this room should
be kept ail the time. It is nat too bot for
the country.
the yaung blooda of this Asembly, and iit is
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hion. gentle- hot enoug-h, I think. for the comfort of those
nman's duty is to adjust his wvatch to the ivwho, perhaps, require a little more warmth
,"un.
and heat than when they were 21 or 22
Mr. BOYER-I will bet mine against years af age. 1 thought ai asking for the
Hon.
appointnient af a coinznittee to con-sder this
-o u rs.
iliatter, and report ta the House. but the
The Senate adjourned until 3 o'clock.
session is practically closed, and, unless the
coiiiiiittee should neet during recess and go
Second Sitting.
over this natter, 1 do not see that there
The Acting Speaker took the Chair al could be any good result from il. 1 thought
I would take this opportunity of stating te
Three o'clock.
the Hanse that, practicaily, no one deems
Routine proceedings.
it bis duty to regulate the ventilation and
temperature of this Chamber. The diffiVENTILATION 0F THE SENATE
culty, ta my mmnd, could be very easily
CHAMBER.
obviated. Ail it requires is a little care and
being
matter
the
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-Before the Orders ù' intelligence, and
the Day are called, I saould like to draw thoraughly iooked after. Next session, if
the attention of lion. gentlemen to a sub- same improvement dues noV take place in the
ject tbat I think la of much more importance meantime, 1 shahl bring the matter up again.
to them than is generally believed. I refer
It is absoiutely disgracefui that 'the
ta the very unsatisfactory way in which. this
The rrembers ai this Chamber are needhessly
Chamber is he-ated and ventilated.
ta ait in a bot hanse, as this is
air that we have been breathing for the last compelled
naw, day after day withaut any one being
several weeks is such as should flot be imfor seeing that it is praperly
posed upon any deliberative assembly, and responsible ventilated.
beated and
1 arn quite satisfied, from the observations
that I have been making during the last fe,%v Hon. Mr. BOYER-lt is rallher a curiaus
days, that nothing but a littie care and coicidence that the motion ai my hion.
intelligence is required to keep this Cham- friend, hike the mation af my ather lion.
ber in such a condition of heat and venti- friend from Saskatchewan, is brought in
lation as would be suitable and agreeable at the end af the session.
to ail the members of this haon. Hause. As
Han. Mr. DANIEL-It is only within the
1 understand it, this Chamber la heated by Iast çweek or so that the matter bas been
a system af, cold air coming in over hot braught ta my attention.
During the wmnpipes. That air, as far as 1 can learn, is ter the conditiions ta which I abject are
not brought directly humi the outside, but not so noticeable.
through passages underneath this building,
Hon. Mr. BOYER-But it bas taken the
and is not pure,-not 6uch air as should
months ta tell us of
be introduced into this Chamber for hion. hon. geiiileman twa
Allow
the danger we have been running.
gentlemen to breathe.
me ta 'tell him that if, at the end ai the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Hear, hear.
session, hie found the atmasphere s0 vile,

figure when the Governor cornes in if wehave
only got to show hlm one of us in plain
eloth'ing. I have anoVlher grieva-rnce. In
the Publie Accounts ve pay every year a
sum of money for booming the noonday
gun, 'which is supposed ta keep us straight
in timie; now, to-day that noonday gun was
fired five -whole minutes .before 12 o'elock.

Hon.

Mr. BOYER.

APIRIL 13, 1915

4
441 *

A was due to the uiisavoury Bis brought stated in the public press. It has been due
ta the vitiated air and the atmospheric
in more than the want of ventilation.
poisons which. my -honC friend bas describhear.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Hear,
ed. This will account for our disturbed conHon. Mr. BOYER-But the hon. gentle- dition. I understand that draughts and curman should have told us; he might have rents of poisonous and vitiated air wiil altaken the trouble to analyse the atrnosphere wsys resuit in a disturbance of the atmosof the House after a week's time in the phere, bôth moral, physical and otherwise.
beginning of the session;. then 1 'would
Hon. -Mr. DANIEL-Irritation.
have told every one of_ my friends who
and
came, "You are going to be podsoned,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I hope, now that
at the end of the session it will be worse the end of the session is in view, we in
yet." There is no doubt that the alt- going away may attribute any little friction
mosphere of the House is kept too hot, or agitation wbicb disturbed the Senate
but with the old system of radiation wa during tbe lest wveek not to the moral conhave, it is practically impossioie to con- dition of our niinds, but rather to the
trol it. Yesterday we had a draft in tthe vitiated conditilon of -tbe atmosphere procorridors strong enough to sweep our hats duced by the poisonous air whîch has been
away; but when 1 made soine reinonstrance purnped up froni the air chamibers belowv.
about it the caretaker told me it was the
unanimious wish, barring my awn, that we
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-1 quite agree with
should go through this draft. So wbat are the lest speaker with regard ta this matter.
you going to do about it?
I rise ta endorse tlhe position taken by the
one need not hon. senat6r froni St. John. He bas sugDANIEL-Well,
Hon. M-Nr.
Coinstand right in front of the doorway al gested that if the Internai Econamny
niittee wanted to do somnething useful they
the tixue.
shauld take up this matter. That is a very
Hon. Mr. BOYER-No, but you bave to proper suggestion.
cross it.
the
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Without
Hon. Mr. DANIEL-I might say that recommendation of the Speaker.
the only place in this whole building 'that
I know of which is properly ventilated, or
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-Without the recoinventilated at ail, is 'the Chamber of the mendation cf the Speaker. That propoThere they have a sition I think is timely. and the Internai
House of Commons.
system of exhausting the foui air and Economy Committee ought tai take it inte
bringing in fresh air by fans, and although serious consideration. It le a subject whicb
that Chamber ie the samne size as this, would givP tbem a lot ta do, and something
and they have three times as many mem- useful ta do. The committee, under the
bers there, you neyer find the air in the enlighitenied and very effective management
House of Gommons stagnant and so bot of its chairman, migbt be able ta acconias to he almast irrespirable, as we find the plish -rometbing. In regard ta the remsrks
the air of this Chamber to-day; s0 titat of the lion. leader of the Government ta
the matter can be arranged, and arranged smooth off the situation as it is ta-day-unsatisfactorily, if proper staps are taken teo paralled in thé history cf any Parliament of
do so.
the British Dominions or o.f any other Pararn very glad liament-we ail take bis remarks in the best
H9n. Mr. LOUGHEED-I
my hon. friend from St. John bas directed of spirits. There is no doubt that there is
tthe attention of the House to this very a condition cf things in the Senate to-day
me tbat ougbt not ta exist, that jeopardizes al
It has struck
important matter.
within the last, week that there was some- the legislatian we are passing; and of course
thing wrong in the atmosphere of ithe a snxiling remark or a soothing proposition
Senate. I must say that I attempted t0 will nat destroy the eff ecte of what is going
on now in the absence of the, official bead
analyse 'it in. every possible wayof the Senate. I bave several times put this
Hon. Mr. KERR-Too much bot air.
hon. House on its guard that we are acting
and irregularly.
Hon. Mr. LOÙUGHEED-But it remained illegally, unconstitutîonally
the Governet last for my hon. frîend from St. John ta 0f course, if the hon. leader of
v4tiated
strike on a very happy solution as to what mient thinks that it is due ta the is conwell under- *atmosphere of thie House, which
the trouble bas been. I can very
of Public Works,
stand now why the Senate is agitated, as *trolled by the Department

SENATE
to replace Sir W. Price and I think Mr. Scott
would be the best man they could get in
Quebec. The commission is composed of
one English and two French members. Sir
Wm. Price having resigned, an Englishman
should take bis place. Mr. Scott bas been
for a long time the head of the Quebec and
St. John Railway. He knows ail about
transportation and is the best man that
could be appointed to the position. 1V is
for the Government to appoint this man.
I would also împress upon the hon. leader
The Senate adjourned until to-morrow at the necessity for having a head appointed
at once. I hope the Government will flot
e'leven a.m.
delay any longer.
the Government ougbt Vo be able to do
something in both respects. Empty is the
c-radle; the cradie of our liberties ie empt>
and the House is filled with vitiated atmosphere. Now iV is up Vo the Government Vo
put out the vitiated .atmosphere and bring
in a new baby for the Chair.
Hon. Mr. BOYER-Mr. Speaker, beforewe adjourn migbt I draw-your attention Vo
the fact that your rival bas just looked
through the door.

THE SENATE.
Wednesday, April 14, ]915.
The Acting SPEAKER took the Chair at
Eleven a-.M.
Prayers and routine proceeding.-,
FRENCH

TRANSLATION
6ERVATION."

0F

"CON-

Hon. Mr. LAVERGNE-I should like Vo
ask the hon. leader of the Goverument in
the- Senate, will t~he Government Ïhave the
weekly paper "Conservation" translated
intio French. The h4on. gentleman told me
the other day that the matter was under
consideration. Has thart consideration (been
had, and is the 'work of translation going
on?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I may say Vo my
bon. friend that iV is stili ébeing considered.
QUEBEC

HARBOUR

COMMISSION.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I should like to
put a question Vo the bon. leader of the
Government in regard Vo the ehairmanship
,of the Quebec Harbour Commission. It is
very important that the bead of that commissoion should ibe appointed at once. The
season of navigation is about Vo open, in
fa-et iV is open at Quehec, and there is no
commission. We ail know that Sir William
Price has sent in bis resig-nation, and we
Also know that iast week a delegation
the memiasked that
from Quehec
ber -from Montmagny, Mr. L'Esperanoe,
be appointed Vo take the place. The deputation w'hi<dh presented the petition was
1 am
headed by members of Parliament.
informed now that Mr. Gravelle, or Mr.
Letelier, one of the twvm commissioflers,
bac, retired to make room for Mr. John P.
Scott. An Englishman shouid (be appointed
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

THE ABSENCE 0F SPEAKER LANDRY.
Hon. Mr. BOYER-My hon. friend s!houid
have added that they might appoint a 'head
to the Senate. I regret to seee à1r. Spea:ker,
that you once more appear -before us naked.
This style of living is becoming quite indecent. I trusted that our new Speaker's
tailor w,.ould have 'worked overtime so as
to -have hlmi properly clot'hed, or, if he bhad
-borrywed the w'hoie costume irom the -albsent Speaker, that the Chinesel Vo whom the
wa>shing was entrusted might bave hurried
it up. We have 'bad nice sunny daya to air
and dry it properiy; and our Speaker sbould
appear in proper costume. I &hould lîke
Vo ask the 'hon, leader of the House *who
signs documents during the, etrike? Are
there any officiai beads of the Senate who
can validate ail the documents" mwhi-ch require to be eigned during this.strike?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is a constitutional question Vo W'hich we 'wili get no
answer, as usuai.
'ERROR IN THE MINUTES.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-1 rwiglh to ibring
Up a question Wh-ich should -be settled at
once. 1V is ail very well in speaking 'here
Vo refer Vo the presen't occupant of the
Chair as the Speaker, 'but I think our Minutes of Proceedings should be more accurate. For severai days we find at the head
of our Minutes of Prooeedings, -"Members
convened, Hon. Jos. Bolduc, Speaker." I
ask the House if there can ýbe two Speakers
of the Senate. We know there is a Speaker
occupying his room in this building.
Hon. -Mr. DANDURAND-Officiaily -we
know nothing. We. are directed -by what is
taking place'at this table, and I was in
a
hop-es the gossip around tebidn
ceased.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I have the floor,
and the hon. gentleman from De- Lorimier

APRIL 14, 1915

may say or th-ink what hie likes; I do flot
say much, but I say these entries in the
Minurtes, -"Hon. Joseph Bolduc, Speaker,"
are flot true.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Yes.

he were responsibis for the situation. He
is no more responsible for the situation that
exists to-day in the Senate than any other
rnember of tl*e Chamber. It le not a Governrnent question; it is a question for the
Senate, on its own basis of right and privilege, toact, flot the Government. The enly
tîme that the Government cau act la when
the House declare that there is no Speaker,
or that there is a Speaker who 'declinee ta
act; then will be the time for the Government to take action. If the Speaker declines
to aet, it 15 up to the Gov.erniment to replace
hlm. We should not be appealing' to the
leader of the Governmsnt in this matter; hie
lias absolutely nothlng ta do with it.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The question
has been put as ta the right of the Speaker
who vas appointed to continue to sit as sucli
f roin sitting ta sitting without being renomina.ted or rs-eleoted ta the position. No~w
the Act, chapter 12 of the Revised Statutes,
says:

-H Mr. OHOQUETTE-You znay cafll
on.
him Speaker pro-tem or whs.tever you like. I
maip.tain, as a constitutional question, aecording to ithe report rmade iby the Clerk
of the House the ofher day, 1that, after the
meeting at Whieh lie was èalled. on to preside
was over, hie was no more Speaker than I
was. That iGmy contention; it is.a fferious
one. If the senator for De Lorimier contradicts me I arn sorry. I deny him the right
to stand up in1 the way hie did, as hie always
dos pretending to lead this House, which
I deny his rîght to do. As a constitutional
question, I nmaintain that when the Clerk
of the House reportel that the Speaker was
unavoidably absent and the Hon. '-%r. Bolduc was appointed by thie House to act as
Speaker, hie was ln the Chiair riglitly so
Whenever the Senate la informed by the
far; but 1 miaintain thiat as sooli as thiat
the unavoidable absence
sitting: was over lie had no more -righit to be Clerk at the table of Senate may choose s.ny
of the Speaker, the
called Speaker, or to be Speaker than 1 hiad, Senator ta preside as a Speaker during much
unless on a new report by the Clerk of the absence, and such Senator shouid thereupon
Ho4lse, he be again called upon ta preside. bave and execute ail the powers. privileges
the Speaker hlmSpeaker
We ishould flot go through this childish busi- and duties of the Chair, untilanother Speaker ln
or
self resumnes
ness of sending abroad the etatement thatý appolnted by the. Governor Generai.
Mr. Bolduc is Speaker when hie is not. As
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That'e it; another
a member of this House 1 proteet against Speaker.
that; we cannot have two Speakers in the
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-(Continuîng
Senate.
reading):
Hon. Mr. TESSIER-Mway r ask the hon.
Every Act done by any Senator acting as
leader o! the Hous if it is true that Hon. aforesald should have the samne effect and
Mr. Ls.ndry lias rssigned as Speaker?
validity as if the Act had been done by the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have no knowledgwe that hie has.
Hon. Mr. TES6IER-May I a.sk- him if it
is possible to have two Speakers?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Let that go
down.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Put that on record.

Speaker hlmnself.
It seeme ta me that those ternis are clear
enougli te satisfy my hon. f riend from
Grandville. I apologize to hlm for show-

ing sorne irritation when hie rose to speak
abýout this matter, because I confess, from
what has appsared in the press in the last
thrse or four days, I have feit aggfrieved at
incidents which have occurred in the Senate on thie question.
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hsar, hear.

Hon. Mr. M-\ITCHELL-I do flot suppose
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Wh,'Io is responsible?
that the two hon. gentlemen who have just
spoken know any more about ex-Speaker
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I cited that
Landry than the House does, and the sen- clause the other day, so that there le nothing
ators in this House are not supposed to newv in it for myseif. What I dlaim ie that,
know whether Mr. Landry is eick or not.
under this law, the Speaker is not unavoidHon. Mr. CLORAN-I would point out ably away. WVe ail know that; the House
that the Government hbas absolutely nothing knows that; the present occupant of the
to do with the procedure of this House. We Chair knows it, for lie was in bis room the
address the leader of the Governrnent as if other day.

SENATE

Several hion. GENTLEMEN-Order, order.
The House adjourned until 3 o'clock, this
afternoon.

Second Sitting.
The Acting Speaker took the chair at 3
p.m.
Routine proceedings.
SUSPENSION 0F RULES.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved:
That from and inclusive, of to-day, and until
the end of the session, Rules 23f, 24a. b, d, e,
and h, 63, 119, 129, 130 and 131 be auspended
in s0 far as they relate to Publie or Private
Bis.
He said: There is only one Bill to corne
down, the one which relates to the votes
for soidiers, and it is very desirable that we
should discuss it to-night. if possible.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No, we will flot.
Hon. Mr. KERR-We are at a crisis now
and want to get through wjth the business
as soon as we can, and I hope the hion. mernber, after thinking the matter over, will not
press his objection. We are ail anxious to
deal with the Bill in the best way possible.
Could the hon. leader of the Hrius- tell us
which Bill is coming down? Is it the Bill
relating to the votes for soldiers?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The titie of it is
Votes for Soldiers.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And nurses.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I have seen three different Bis.
Hon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-The Bill I refer
to is the Iast Bill.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-It is the latest
edition.
Hon. -Mr. LOUGHEED-Yps, the ]atest
edition.
BOSTOCK-I presume my hon.
Hon. M.%r.
friend would not insist on tlie second readdng to-night if it was thought desiraible to
take a littie time to coneider the Bill?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It wouid 'b entiriely in the hands of 'the House. It occurred to me that, as the Bill is made up
largely of details, we might go into committee, and if it is found in any vwaoy too
coniplex for hion. gentlemen to grapple with,
,without further delay, we will let it stand
over until to-niorrow.
The SPEAKER-Jt being six o'ce1ock, I
do iiow leave the Chair.

The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Çould we have
the assurance that the Bill to which my
hon. f riend refers will be distrîbuted to the
members through the post office as soon as
possible, so that we may read it over and
become familiar with its provisions?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
the leader of the Opposition and I have just
seen the Parliamentary Counsel who assures
us that hie wili endeavour to have the Bill
here by eight o'clock. It is in the printer's
bands.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-C.')uld we not
have it distributed before that hour?_
The Senate adjourned until eigilt o cloc<,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If we receive A
p.rn.
time, it will be distributed.
before that
After Recess.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Bccause until
we know its contents it woulL be rather
VOTES FOR SOLDIERS BILL.
difficuit to consider it in comiiiittee.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LOIJGHEED-We of course %vil
consuit the w'ishes of the House, but I proHon. MIr. BOSTOCK rose to inquire upon
pose that we shouici go as far as w'e eau the introduction of Bill 111, intituled: "An
Act to enable Canadians on Active Military
the present war te exercise
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I give thc hon. leader Service during
the Senate- tair notice their electorai franchise," into this House:
of the Governnient in
1. If the British Government or the Se-crethat the Bill cannot be proceeded with
War in that Governmexlt have
unless Aitl printed in both languag-es. Ihe tary of State for with a view of ascertairnng if
the habit of insisting been approached the necessary permission to
absent Speaker was in
tbey would give
on measures being printed in French and

allow the Act to be placed in operation outside

of Canada?
English before dealing with them.
2. Does the Government consider it necessuppose we sarv to approach the authorities in France with
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETT-I
the same object?
will dispense with that to-night.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE.

APRIL 14, 1915
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I move that this
Two conBill be read the second time.
iiderations necessarily enter into the ineaqare, one being the policy of the Bill and-the
other the method or systemn by which. it is
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The answers to proposed ta carry it out. I venture ta say
the hon. gentleman's questions are as foi- that no valid or substantial objection can
loirs: The answer ta No. 1 and No. 2 is no. be taken«ta the principle of the Bill. The
The answer to the 3rd question ris "yes, euh- exercise af the franchise by every elector
ject to the paramnount oYbligations af his entitled tô vote is considered one of the mast
military duty.valued -o! the rights ai citizenship, and a
right which 'lie should be assisted in every
VOTES FOR SOLDIERS BILL.
possible way ta exercise. I-t is not necessary
for me ta eniarge in any way upon the deFIRST AND SECOND READINGS.
sirability of every citizen casting his ballot,
A message was received from the House 1 also venture ta say that under no reasonof Commons witih Bili Ne. 111, An Act ta en- able ciTcumstances shauld the elector be deable Canadian soldiers on active military prived of his vote. The trend of ail legisservice during the present war ta exercise lation bas been ta assist the elector ta exertheir electoral franchise.
cise his franchise. Almost every Parliament
finds us arnending aur electian Acts for the
The Bill was read the first tirne.
purpose ai overcoming difficulties which
Hon. 'Mr. CLORAN-Before the hon. leader niay be found in the way of the elector
mioves the second reading of the Bill I freely exercisîng his votinga. In this parsbould like to supplenient the question put ticular case it should be considered absoby the hion. leader of the Opposition and lutely incumbent on Parliament that the
the answers by the hon. leader of the Gov- troops which Canada -lhas sent ta the conernment. 1t is quite pertinent ta the que- tinent af Europe and1 who are to-day on
tion before the House, and the inquiry active service, should be assisted by legiswhich I shaîl place on the Order Paper is lation ta exercise that franchise which, if
they were in Canada, they would enjoy.
as follows:
The service 'wbicha they are* rendering,
wlt inquire of the Govern,Senater Cloran
flot only in the 'interest of Canada but in
ment asl follows:
1. 110w many, If any, of the one hundred the interest of tihe whole Empire, should
thousand citiz3nB of Canadla at preeent umder be, and ts, one ai the strongest reasons W'hy
arms ln the defence of Canada and the British the Parliament of Cwnada should devise
Empire, against the Gerinan, Âustrian and!
Ïbe enTurkish Governments and armies have peti- means -whereby that franchiise may
tioned the present Government or the Parlia- joyed sby those rwhio are serving the Empire
ment of Canada to paso and enset a law to in the field. I venture ta say that hall.
secure and provide for them the right to cant gentlemen wiil not dispute the principle
their ballots at any generai, or by-electlon, for which. is em:badied in the Bill, and whidli is
federal purposes of the Dominion of Canada
the fundamental poldcy of the legislation
drnn the present war.
which we aTe now considering. The duty
That is a fair question and I must say is, therefore, thrown on Parliament ta say
that I put it with a feeling of pride after whether it is possible ta so c.rysta-llize that
my experience of hali an hour. I subrnitted prin-ciple into legisiation as ta perit ai
this question to every soldier I met on the the 40,000 Canadian soldiers who are now
street cars and on the tho-roug-hfares. They in Europe t-o-day an active service, serving
did not know who I, was when I put the tlieir King and country, ta exercise freely
question to them, but they said, "That is their franchise ta the saine extent as the
right, we are soldiers of the Kin-, and we citizens af Canada who have stayed at
want no0 politics. We are no party men, and home will vote at the next general election.
want no vote of that kind.- 1 amn glad to No-w the vorking out of thie method or sysbe able to put this question ôn the Order teni whereby this ean be put in operation
I have should not require extraordinary ingenuity,
Paper under the circumstances.
given the answer of aIl the mien who are .should not require any great resourcefulleaving to-morrow to fight the enemy, and ness on the part of legisiatars. When seri1 have their names here. They do not want ously considered, and worked out, it wiii
ta *be bothered with thig kind af petty poli- ba found-andl it must appeal I think ta
tics, and 1 arn proud of.the aoldiers of Can- every intelligent mian-th-at a systoem bhas
in this Bill been devised surrounded by al
ada.
3. If permission le obte.ined. will It be possible for the volunteer to exercise his franchise freely and untramdled by regulations
lnherent to the enforcing of mnllttary duelipllne?

SENATE
the neoessairy safeguards for the exercise pro'bably conclude that this sygtern ea. Ïbe
of ithe voting rigfhts of every soldier on ca'rried out with the saine satisfaction to
active service et -the tume the general-elec- the voter ihat any systeni in vogue in Caxiof a
tion -is 'held. Very 9hort]y, the systein for ada, w-ill be carried out et the Uie
bas been dëvised is this: it general election. There ie also provision ci
Europe which
very
is proposed that when th-is Act cornes into a somewhat different character, 'but troops
operaion -a -ballot shall le prepared, as much along 'the saine limes as te the
appeara in. the aichedule to the Bill, and who are. on active service in Canada. The
the
tihe necessary papers aind instructions should details will be found worked out inicorn-b. sent 'te -the troops who are on foreigu Bil, and wh.ich, when- we go into
service. Those documents vwill lie sent te mirttee, may lie further diseussed.
the secretary of the Higli Cormdesioner.
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-W-hat are the
Upon 4,he writs for election issuing, in- qualifications for taking an affidavit efBtruotion-s will be sent by cable te the sec- fective in Canada? By 'what meens 'would
retary.ci the High Commissioner te deliver a party lie qualified te take affidavit'
te the chie! paymaster, who is etationed in
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The oornranding
London, the necessary papers for distrib>ution arnongt the troeps in Europe. The officer will tie suthorizèd te administer the
chie! paymaster will send te eaeh regimental oath to tJhe*vot-er, the sanie as a retumniing
pa.ymaster the necessary documents te -be officer would.
handed to the. cemmanding officer of every
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I should like to ask
camp, or unit, or~ corps, that may b. either the hon. gentleman if this Government, or
i. England, in France, dn Belgium or else- any other Government, has any right to
where. This -will place the men under such pass aony 1egislation outside of the four
commanding officer at once in touch with corners of this country. How en we pass
ail the information necessary as te the legisiation to do something in Be]gium, or
election 'which is about te take place in Flanders or any other foreign land? Your
Canada. They will net vote 1for candidates; affidavits 'would flot b. rwort~h the paper
tbey will vote Mor the Goveinnient or fer they are -written on-a piece of irnperULnthe Opposition. The cornxanding office? in ence.
charge of! any particular undt, or corps,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If lion. gentle'will iniform his men of the right which
lias been ëxtended te thei 'by this legis- men prefer that the Bill be debated and
lation, cd! their ieing entitled te vote, of read a second tiine to-night. it 'would prothdejallot being given te theni te be rnarked baibly admit of our disposing of! it -et an
'with the a&me seorecy that is observed, in earlier hour then if 'we deiferred i~t until toan election conducted in Canada. Attac'hed rnorrow. What does my -lhon. 'friend the
te each envelope in which the. ballot 'will leader of the Opposition say a'bout that?
be secretly enclosed will be an affidavit
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I wa-s going to sugwhich the voter will make as te all the
gest to my hion. iriend that I should move
particulars necessary and as te the elec- the adjournnient of! the debate in order to
toral district where, if in Canada, he %vould take tlhis matter up to-morrow nioraing.
vote. When the ballots are marked al
The Bill bas only just come up to us; it is
e
those documents -will lie returned in -- aled in a very mucli amended forni as compared
packages te Canada and distributed through- with the iormi in whic'h At was first ci, al
-out the various electoral districts te wvhich introduced into thi. other House; and I
they epply iby the Clerk of the Crown in think dt requires careful consideration lieThe candidates repîesenting fore we express an opinion upon it.
Chanceîy.
both political parties, oi independent candidates, wîll be duly notified by the. ret.urnHon. Mr. THOMPSON-I understood the.
ing officer of eaeh electoral district cf those hon. gentleman to say that if those Cenpapers havîng been received and of their adian soldiers were in Canada they would
being opened in the presence cf the repre- have the right to vote. Now i. the province
sentat-ives cf aIl candidates, preois-ely as f rom wihich' I corne, 30 days' residen-ce
a. ballet biox would Ïbe opened.
would net give any volunteer, if hie were et
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I guess they vould home, a chance to vote in New Brunswick;
rather see thern put in than se. them hie 'wou]d have to b. a Tesident 1 year there.
In that respect the Bill dif ers frorn the
taken out.
people at homne would
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Hon. gentlemen, franchise which the
is concerned. I
in perusing the particulars cof the method have, so fer as oui province
that
*which bas been worked eut in the Bill, will understood the hon. gentleman to sey
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

APRIL 14, 1915

q%

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, he would
we rnerely extend to them the privilege they e; 1 arn not questioning that. What I arn
would enjoy if they were in Canada. Arn 1 buestioning is the passing of legisiation
right?q
'hereby w-e could legielate for those o!
'wbatMr. LOUGHEED-No, we have ex- Phiom we bave no officiai knowledge es te
Hon.
of tbem, oever. We have officiai, knowledge
tended the franchise as to many
very member of the miiitia, buzt it would
in fact as to ail.
meutteily impossible for the Government
Canada to investigate the case. of every
Hon. Mr. WATSON-If this Bill is to ~f
one
stand over until to-morrow there is taken alleged reservist who miglit appear in France
r Belgium or sny other country, -and say:
phase that 1 do not thiùkl has been
ini the .0 I came from Canada and arn entitled. te
up in this House, and I do not think
House of Commons either; it is the inten- rote."1
tion to give ail soldiers on actuive service an
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I arn incUned to
opportunity to vote.
,hink there would be ne trouble at aIl in
,etting a. Ilst of those zeserviste, t>ecause
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED- No, not al,
,bey could net very 'well live in Canada
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Ai who, if they were without the permission of the Governin Canada, 'would have a vote in Canada? ment, especiall1y i-1 ordered. te return to the
co1ours. There would be ne more difficulty
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
n getting a list from the consuls repreI wish te in- senting Tbhe different countries ef aIl those
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Tben
returned than there would
form the bon. gentleman that there aTe reservists who
of the volunteers who
several thousand of our naturalized Can- be in getting a list
citizens who are fighting in the went to the front.
adian
trenches and who have been there from the
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I understand
commencement of the war. 1 refer to the that the bon. leader of the Oppoeition de
reservists who joined tbeir regiments mn net intend te speak to-night. 1f se, does
England, Ireland, France and Belgium. I lie injtend to move the adjournmeiit o! the
krnow that I am safe ini saying that a good debate? In that case I suppose it is better,
many thousands of those people went from espeeially for those w'ho are against tfhe
western Canada. Now, no provision is made prrneiple of the Bill, te give- their views
in this Bill for taking their votes thoug new. I am againat the prinoiple o! the
1 think it is just as practicable te do so BdiU, and shail vote against il, and against
ini their case as in that of the people re- aniy amendinent that may be efeéred, beferred to. You. are rnaking an invidious dis- cause, being against the very principle of
tinetion between the volunteer wbo bas gone this Bill, it is time lest te diseuse amendte the Old Country in a regiment from Can- ments. I do net like te speak ibelore the
ada, and the citizen of Canada who has leader of the Opposition, eo if he intends
gane back te join bis regaiment in England, te ruake somne remarks in a general way, I
Ireland, Scotland, Belgium or France-4be amn willing te give way te himreservist. I knew that some of tlhose peop]e
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Anewer your own
have lived in Manitoba during the last 10 leader.
or 15 years, that they are naturalized. subjects in Canada, coming bsck from France
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I arn not anand Belgium, yet there is no provision for s-wering any leader, Paut if the leader o!
bhem irn this Bill.
the Opposition, or any ene else fs willing
toDspeak on the principle of thbe Bill hfore
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I think the reason the second *-reading and before adjourning
is quite ianifest. The Goverument of Can- tbe debate, I arn willing to give way, as
ada bas official knowledge as to ail members being one o! the humiblest and youngest
of the mnilitia who aTe upon active service, members et the House.
but as to reservists -they naituraily would
But if the leader of the Opposition in:tends
have no information whatsoever, any more to move the adjourument of the debate, 1
than they would have as to any person re- think it is just as well for me te express
turning to bis native country at any time. my views to-nîght. It being se understood,
thougli net wishing to speak after the leader
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Would you not
Goverument 1 may be allowed te
think the reservist would be entitled te .of the now, and urge that the principle o!
if be had been bere speak
exercise 'bis franchise
the Bill is wrnand it is just as well te
10 or 15 years?

SENATE

fight it out now. First, I think, that'the
Parliament'of Canada has ne right te pass
any legisiation Webe enforced in a foreign
It is
country, especially in the trenches.
not practicable to enforce such a law without the consent of the British and French
Governments. I say, as a matter of prin-iple this Bill ts ultra vires in s0 far as it
ïffects other countrie's. Even if we had tihe
consent of the British, Belgian and French
Governments it 'woul.d net (be practicable
to get these men tW vote. We nust net lose
sight of the fact .that 'the soldiere who are
et the front are noe under our control. They
are British soldiers, and we are asking the
officers to supply ballots Wo soldiera in
tranches, and aak the-m to vote. It seems
to me absurd, 1 heard the same expression
from the gallery of the House of Commons.
It seemed te me it is absolutely clear that
this legisiation is impracticable and useless.
Supposing now, as I hope it will be the case,
that the British Armies, with the gool
French soldiers *will push 'the Germans
back on to German territory, there will
be thousands, of soidiers in tren-ches
on the German soul, and we will ask the
British and French officers te carry the Ïballots into thesle German trenches, with the
affidavits te the 9oldiers wehen at any
moment the bugle may sovrnd, and an engagement take place. It is really absurd
and impradticable, and I think it îs wasting
the time of this House. I eay that we
ought te oppose the second reading of the
Bill and I think ail the members of the
other House will be satisfied if we throw it
eut, becauise they are only making pehities
cd this rnatter and nobody is serious about
it. The Government is anxieus te wave
the flag with this Bill, and we de net want
them te do that.
Hon. Mr. POPE-I object te the language
o! 'the hon. gentleman.
The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman bas
ne right te impute motives te members of
tihe other Hlouse.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I have a right
te say that that is the reason it is -brought
here. I say the Opposition rwere for-ced jute
a corner and Vhey d'id a littie flag waiving
tee, -but th-at is net a serious matter. I do
net regard this as a sensible Bill. Take
the first reason given fby my hon. friend
the leader o! the Gevernment. Rie says that
on a certain day after the 'writ is issued
the officers will take the ballets tW the soldiers in the trenches. Supposing it is possible fer themn te do that, Kitchener may
have u -uard *at the camp who will allow
Hon. Mr

CHOQITETTE.

no man te go theare. If these officers take
the -ballots tW the trenches there must be
some discussion in the trenchffs. The seldiers will net vote like blind men; they are
net allowed te see the paipers, but the soldiers -are net fools, they are intelligent men.
They are geing Weask the returning officei,
1Is there an election going cu?" Which
Government is in power? Who is the leader
o!f the Governnent? Who is the leader cf
the Opposition, and who are the candidates.
That ia the sert o! question the senslible
voter will put. We have that in cvery electien. A greait many memibers of! this
House came here withocut ever having
-feught an elecfâon, but these who have
been in electiens know v%~en the candidate
gees Wea voter he is asked certain, questions wvhich he must answer. In this ferm
of 'ballot it says, that I vote fer-ne name.
Surely he lbas a right te know who is lhe
candidate. Thiere are tens o! thousands*
of soldiers there. The returnîng officer is
obliged te ar'swer questions. Is he going
te cali a meeting- and address the eleùters,
and Say Wethemn -There is the Government
led by Sir Robert Borden-at least it 'was
se twe weeks ago, I do net know how i~t is
new. Perh&ps there may be a nest
Perhaps
ef traitors over there now.he will say, «"There is an independent
candidate; it may Ïbe Bourassa, Lavergne.

Blondin,

Sévigny, or scmebody else." Such

questions have te be nut and answered. The
more I think cf the Bill the more I am
oonvineed it is a farce, and a mockery tio
the soldiers who are at th4 4rent, that an
officer would go there without 'being able
1-e instruct these men for whemn they are
going te vote. Now they would say: Would
you vote for the Governmenît and the seldiers would say, "'Yes, vote for the
Governinent." Take the city cf Calrtay -be twoToycn
gr.There
didates 'both suppor'ting the Geommen't.
The seldier might say -I wish te vote for
the best ene, whe is he ?-, Well, they dion't
know-Vote for the Government. Are you
going- te consider the soldiers over there
are fools and ihlind men, whe will net put
questions, or are yýou going te appoint
men who will make speeches te the soldiers?
I do net say that the Government will ask
them te do that, but that will happen.
Even with the permission of Lord Kitchener,
Sir John French, and General Joffre-which
we 'have net got-the thing would be a
farce.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Do the hon. gentleman's remarks apply only te soldiers eutside of the country?

APRIL 14, 1915

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE,-So far, yes. I
think the election should take place alter
the war, when the soldiers will be able to
vote in their own couneury. If the Governmient is so anxious 'ta have them vote, let
them -hold the eleetion, say, three months
alter the waî. !Uhat would enable ail the
soldiers to 'return and give time to the
wounded and eick to ;be cured, and they
-example,
could vote here.

ijment ngandthethepolicies 'of theI
knowi
Oppositioni.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-And 'time 'to get the
prisaners released.

Governrepeat,
I do flot speak as a Liberal, because we are flot any more going to fight
electjone in this House, but generally
speaking, from 'what I have seen i-n the
papers, the Liberals are not afraid of an
electiof. *but viii Ibe glad to -have it now.
If you take the British Government as un
what are they doing? If I remember correctly the Iaw has been changed and
instead af a member of Parliament being
elected for seven years, hie is now elected
for a, term of five years. Acording te that
îoew 1 th-jnk an election should be held
this year, but I see by the press that bath
parties are going te agree to postpone the
election until al ter the war. It might be -in
the interers of the party, peirhaps, but it
would be -contrary to the Constitution, te
have an election no-w. If the Goveinmezit
are in a îîurry ta bring on an election it is
proba-biy because they are afraid that when
the, soldiers Teturn after the -waî, on aecount of the way they have 'been tieated,
they will vote against the Govei-nient.
They pr*bably think by 'this rneasure to
flatter tiheiT feelings, but tihe methoct le unconstitutional, impracticable, and uibsurd.
The first draft of the Bill contained a clause
which gave some assurance theit the officer8
would be appointed ln such a 'way as ta
give sa'tisf action and security to both
parties. Clause 4 of the Bill as it was firet
printed alter its int-roduction piovided:
aibeppntdyteGvrorl
Thr
nrI
theon
Thedi ahll bcuiertre appointed
nomination of the Prime Minister, and three on

Hon. Mi. CHOQUETTE-Yes-Uflder ail
these circumstances we would please the
soldiers in the trenches very much more by
giving them good rifles, goad boots, good
clothes, good binoculars and good tobacco,
than by giving them a ballot. The soldiers
at the front have suff ered greatly -for their
country, and I arn sure that they would be
nmuchi more pleased if the Governrnent retained the rnoney ta bie spent on this Bill to
buy cornforts and necessaries than to send
ballots te thern saying, "Here is a ballot, you
have to vote for my friend." This Bill may
have a good sentiment bahind it, but in this
country there are thousands of men who
can not vote on election day although they
are living here. Railway men' are eometimes obliged te leave before election day,
perhaips to carry soldiers'on their way te
the front. If an election takes place in June,
July or August, I know that in some counties below Quebec there will be two or three
hundred men who could not vote on election
day. I have suffered myseif fîom that
sometimes when I was a candidate. They the nomination of the Opposition.
There was some 'fairness in that. It would
go away by the end of May or the beg-inning
of June to Saguenay, Anticosti island, Gaspé
m ftngn
or Labrador anid are necessarily absent whenplcPo-harisnteecrutineers, but -w-hen I read the
It would be ten times regard to
the vote is taken.
see thiat that clause lis been
and more intelligent te revised Bill
easier, more legal herigt o vtebu threstruck out. I The insertion of that clause
civ thsepeole toavoehbter
ines
peope
thel
givergiall îighd
al
The à _owd'ht'hintel
is nothing about then la 'the Bill.
iln omk oecn
a
idea is ta make a kind of appeal ta senti- rvrmn
say, "This cessions to public sentiment.
mient so that the people may
lhere would
0f course the 'ballot formhave also the
lokiiislookng ate th sldirs.
Govrniiet
that the soldier will
!tertheshow
Govenmen
Why Ïhave riglît to vote for an independent candidate.
Thiere is no hurry for an election.
an eleetion before the end of the war? The It would be a question to know who are the
Liberal party is not afraid of an election, independent candidates, but by clause 4 it
but will be gi-ad ta go ta the country. But At wauld appear that the independent candiseems ta mie the best way ta inaure the right date lias no scrutineer. WVhat is the reasan?
of all these soldiers is ta have an eleotion flecause there are sa many independents
at a date when they will be here, and whien now? Perhaps some- af the Nationalists would
they will be back on their farmas, and ini corne 'back te their aId love and would like
their honmes-and in a position te vote with ta 'have scrutineers too; but the Govçrnintelligence knowing somethîng of the issues ment vas only pîopasing by fhat clause 4
before the people, knowing who -are the can- ta 'have so many serutineers, sud have no
didates in the field, and especially provision for an independent candidate.
S-29
REVISED

EDITION

SENATE

That is where the Government slhows so
littie sincerity. I arn not going into particulars on this Bill, hecause the main
point with me is the impracsticability of
the Bill and the imposiibility of put*,ing it
in force. It would he quite useless. I
shall-close these rema'rks by quoting from
a psper which was in the past an organ
of a memfber of the Government the Hon.
Mir. Blondin, and the origan o'f the
Deputy Speaker, Mr. Sévgny-I mean
Le Devoilr of Montreal. I do not agree very
often with Le Devoir, and very scarce]y do
I. read in it any articles th-at satisf y me,
though. it is a good paiper, has very able
men writ.ing in it, but very generally their
views are not mine at ail. On this question, 'however, I read the day -befoTre yesteTday an article by Mr. Heroux, with which.
1 agree. I have not -the time to read the
whole of it as I did not expect to speak
immediately, but later on; I shall read it in
French, bec-ause I like to have it appear
aos representing the views of the Na.tionalists, and so a wing of the Governrnent, in
the person of Hon. Mr. Bldndlin. It readà
seo:

with a litti& feeling on Vhs subjeet, but it
-is aIl ibecause I feel strongly on this quetien. I may bc wrong, &butanyhow you
will grant me the sincerity of my vie"s.
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, Iiear.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-This is not a
party question. I do not know what the
leader of the Opposition will say; he did
not speak to me about this measure and 1
did not speak to him. I wish to give free
expression to my views on this question as
on any other; I have been hooking over tne
Bill and followîng the debates in another
place, I have been convinced from the first
that this measure is against the constitution in this way-that we have no right to
legislate or pass laws which we are going
te try te put into operation in two or three
foreig-n countries, without having at least
ascertained if they wilh concede the permission te put them in operation.
Several hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear,

hear.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-More than that,

titis Bihl may as 1 have said before have te
German soil, because
vue de l'intérêt général be put into force on
Envisagé du poirnt de
Says et des réa ités,~ le projet est Indéfenda. I hope very soon the Frencht, Belgian and
du
ble et il ouvre la porte, comme l'indiquait English soldieril will be fighting the Gerla man people on their ovin ground. I raille my
discrètement un journal conservateur,
*Gasette '. aux pires abus. Parmi, ses dé- veice against the very principle cf the Bill,
fenseurs. les une. peuvent être de bonne foi: ce
sont ceuax qui ne voient qu'une chose, l'hom- and oppose the second reading. and shahl
mage à rendre aux vo ontaires, quelle que soit oppose any amendment that rnay be offered
la forme de cet hommage, et qui considèrent le on about the samne line.
bullet n de vote comme une sorte de médaille
(Ce, tains vouWe~nt même étendre
mniltaire.
Hon. Mr. ROCHE-I am net going to make
le droit de suffrage aux petits clairons et aux
gardes-mlilad.s.> Male Il est 0. craindre que. any remarks at this stage, but I should hike
pwur d'autres. le projet ne soit qu'une ma- te make an inquiry. I would direct the
n.ouvre des in-re à préparer la campagne khac< attention of the hon. leader of -the House
que tout annonce. ou le. libéraux aceepte- te line 21 in the second clause cf the Bill
ront le p ci et. ont-ils dOûse dire, et nous n'y
perdrons rien. nous avons même chance que and ask if he knows how many of the Royal
de ge-s Qu dépendent du Gouvernement pour Canadian regiment are now in Bermuda;
l'att.rbution de leurs pensions. etc., soient plu- and as there viere oome hundreds -previously
tôt disI os.5 à Île favoris r; ou l'a l- refuseront,
whether ail
et alors quel cri de guerre: l'opposition n'a pas unqualified te vote in Halifax,
voti u do n 'r à vos fils et à. vos frères QUI the soldiers cf that regiment, havi-ng mcvi
Pacriftent leur vie pour le pays le droit que increased pay, wiii be able, under this Bill.
posséle tout citoyen.
te poil their votes in Halifax, in the conThat is exactly the view I took a moment stituency where the Prime Minister is about
ago-that this question -bas been brought te run, and swamp the vihole vote?
up as a little flag-waving, to try to go one

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What is the quesibetter on the Opposition, if the Opposition
should fight the Bill. The article concludes tion?
as fllo'ws:
Hon. Mr. ROCHE-I ask how many cf the
Ce ne serait pas la première fois qu'on au- Royal Canadian regiment are in Bermuda?
rait essayé d'abriter sous le manteau du patriotisme de louches manoeuvres.

The end of the article ie qui-te'
and true, and I am gled for once
dorse 'what has been published by
voir. No-w, hon. gentlemen I have
Non. Mr. CHOQUETTE.

correct
to enLe Despoken

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I could net tell
mny hon. frîend that, but presumably every
miember of that regiment in Bermuda who
would have a vote in Halifax should certainly be .assisted in exercising hie franchise.

APRIL 14, 1915
if any, of the 101 thousand citizens of CanHon. Mr. ROCHE-But they will nat, and ada now under arme have petitioned either.
they have nat had a vote hitherto. This the Government or the Parliarnent of CanBill gives primacy te the Royal Canadian ada to have a law enacted wýhereby they
regimeat in caneequence af their pay being should be granted the right to vote while
bigher than it was before, ta thraw thern, fghting over in Europe or while under tent
Who had not votes before, on the electorate here in Canada. I arn no prophet, but when
ai Halifax.
the answer frorn the Gavernment cornes
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does my hon. down I venture te say that not one soldier
friend take exception ta the troape on active of the King, frorn officer te private, has
service having. votes in Canada no matter asked for this legisiation. And why. do I
wbat their qualification in Canada may be? make that prophecyP Why. that question
I put on the Minutes t 4 -night was an inHon. Mr. ROCHE-I only asked for an spiration juet befare 1 leit my home. On
explanation af t.he Bill. I only asked ha.w my way té this hon. House I met dozens
many would be qualified and placed under and dozens of the soldiers of the King, sorne
this Bill, on that constituency.
leaving for active service in Europe taHon. Mr. DAVIS-Swamp the electerate, morrow, Royal Engineers, privates and offiand inarch thein out the next imorning. Bet- cers. 1 had a copy of my question with
me, and I a'eked them, -What do you think
ter be ia Russia.
that " P-they not knowing who 1
CLORAN-I arn exceedingly about Their answer wvas - That is right; we
Hion. MT.
friend irom was.
pleased to follow rny hon.
W'e are Icaving for the
want no vote.
Grandville in this debate. He bas taken a trenches in defence af the Empire; we are
nianly attitude on the question; he has nat soldiers af the King, and wve knaw no polibeen afraid ta place his views before the tics, and want to know nothing about thern
public, whether they were adverse ta the until our return. WVe are of the echool of
interest af the Conservative party or ai the Kitchener, Who said, " I amn a Mînister of
Liberal party. That le an indication that the Crown, true, but I arn saldier first and
ail independence in this hon. House bas not have no party allegiance or no party poliiaded away, and bas not yet been banished tics." There ie the motte of the British
from the precincts af the Senate. We have Army given te it by the greatest leader
had an example of independence that must since Waterloo--the greateet icornmander
go down ln the political annals ai our coun- the British Arrny bas known since the
try as far as the hon. senatar frorn Grand- downi ail of Napaleon. There ie the motto
ville is cancernied. He bas been one of the given te the British Ârmy from one end of
most-will I eall it fierce --one ai the inost the Dominions té the other-" 1 arn a
true, one ai the moet faithiul, one af the soldier; I have no politice and arn no party
rnast devated champions af the Liberal cause man "; and I arn proud of the Canadian
the Liberal policy, ai the Liberal people, eoldiery ri;ght here in Otta-ý a, mnen who
and the Liberal Leaders in this Dominion have probably been strong Liberale or
of Canada before he went on the Bench, etrong Conservatives, answering me with
when he was a yaung marn since leaving " Well, eir, we are now soldiers of the
ita this hon.
the Beach he bas corne
King; we have no longer any politirs, and
Hause and bas displayed nothing but pure we want no vote; we don't want ta be
independence.
bathered wîth ballots in the trenches when
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I will ask rny we are pulling the trigger on the enemy."
han. friend as a favour té eut that out and
Hon. Mr. WATSON-H-ear, hear.
discuss the question.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Brava te our CanaSHon. Mr. POPE-I think the hon. gentle- dian soldiers. There is the position of the
man is quite right.
'3aldieyy of Canada. New; as the hon.
CLORÂN-I will diseuse the senator from Girandville has poiiuted out.
Hon. Mr.
a purpose.
question over the hon. gentleman's shauld- this Bill has been braught in for wave the
Tories ta
ers. 1 wisb ta say that the opinions and hrought in ta help the
doubt about
views put fortih sby the hon. senator are the fiag. There is not the slightesttl.e i-inerals
held, I think, by the thit. ThAv thoul't thait
views and opinions
should
vast rnajarity ai the people ai this country. would abject at once--which they
a
I had the honour this evening ta place on have done on a- question af principle.
ai the Hause a' notice of question of rizht, a question of decency,
the minutes
inquiry asking the Governrnent haw many, and opposed the measure; but as the senaS-29J

SENATE

tor from Grandville bas pointed ont,
the Liberals were weak-kneed in thre House
of Commons. They were afraid to oppose
the Bill because thre Tories would wave the
flalg &gainst tbem and eay, - Here, -look, the
Liberals did net want to give yen the right
te vote." Now, there is the whoie game,
but the aoidiers are on to it, and they wil
get on to it more 'When they have te stradd'ie
the spavined horses, and use blind
giasses and when they will have-oh,
God knows what they wiil have te
we
that
$50,000,000
'with our
do,
I venture te
spent since August hast.
say thiz, that îs the facts were known, te the
soldiers ini the trenoches te-day, as we know
them now through the Parliarnentary commnittees and tirrougir officiai investigationG,
not a soldier who is bleeding for bis King
and for hies country wouild vote for the
Government who have given the army
spavined hiorses and rotten boots, bad
giasses and all other misfits. Tire poor feliows there are kept ignorant of ail the facts;
they do not get the newspapers; they do not
get the printed documents ol Parlhiament;
they know nothing of what is going on in
Canada. The country will say te Parliament that yon are mockisrg the soldier who
is ahedding his biood in defence of the
King, -the Empire and his own Canada. You
are ainply mocking blin in sending ballots
and affidavits that nobody bas a right te
take in a foreign country ;-sisnpiy mocking
thre poor soldier. That le one of the reasons
that 1 arn opposed, 1-ike my friend from
Grandville, inot te the principle of the Bll,
but te the Bill ilseii. Thre principle of the
Bi@a is to give every mani a right to vote.
That principle us ail right, but thre application of the principie lis an outrage upon the
decency of military life. It is a crime
against the poor soldier in the trench te
bother him with politicai questions and
issues of which he knoivs nothing, whicb
may corne te-morrow or corne six 3nonths
from this, and on which he cannot cast an
intelligent vote. I say it is a crime on
i'htary dignity and decency to ask him te
accomplish a duty of that kind. Thre provisiuons of thre Bill te secure tire votes are just
as wî.se and just as profound as hurnan ingenuity can make themn, but tbey are absolutely useless; they are absodute'iy, also I
inigbt -say, dangerous. They are useless.
The baldots have te be transrnitted to tire
secreta'ry of the Higir Commissioner in London, or te thre paymaster in London; then
from tire payxnaster in Lonidon te the Higir
Commissioner, end then froni thre High
Hon.

Mr CLORA&N.

Commission-er Io the Clerk in Chancery.
Now, that takes some tirne. How is the soldier goang to vote for candidates that are not
yet nominated? The ballots have te, be here
befo're polling day. otherwise it would be
an outrage on the people xesiding in Canada to have baflots counted after poflhing
day-an oùutrage on their liberties and their
rights. Now how are the 40,000 eoldiers on
the firing Une throughout the different
countries of Europe te know who are the
:candidates between nomination day and
alection day ini the Dominion of Canada?
Howý wil the returning officer at the f ronit
have the time te go through the trenches
hand the mani his-bailot and have him vote,
seai it and swear te it?
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-You can't swear him.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Swear him, yes; what
is an affidavit if it does not mean to swear
him? That can only be donc after nomination or on the day of nomination; it cannot
be done before; a man cannot vote for a
candidate who is flot nominated; and it
wou!d be an insuit to ask a man, even if
he be the best soldier in the world, to vote
for people'who are flot norninated. Cannot
this House get on te that? How can a mani
vote for a candidate that is not nominated?
And there is only a nomination on the day
of nomination, eight days before the election. Now we will suppose that the returning officer in the trenches gathers bis
ballots and ships them over te Canada. He
cannot send them by aeroplane, for that
would be too risky under the circumstances; he cannot send them by wireless;
he has got te put thern in the post office.
Under present circumstances it takes sometimes two weeks te get here. The ballots
are brought here. As the hon. senater frorn
Grandville, I think in the most rnilitary
fashion, put it, the bugle sounds, 10,000
men leap from the trenches to defend the
English flag; there on the firing line the
Germans are levelling ail kinds of weapons
of deatli against them. Out of the 10,000
there are 5,000 or 7,000 slain; that is between nomination day and polling day.
Have dead men a right to vote in Canada?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Oh,
often voted before.

yes,

they

have

Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Does the Bill give
dead men the right to vote in Canada?
There are 10,000 or 20,000 who leap from the
trenches and charge the enerny. Most of
them are siain. The day before that morn-

APRIL 14, 1915

ing they have given their ballots te a certain officer. Are those ballots te be ceunted>
Hon. Mr.' DAVIS-If a shell struck the
ballot box what would happen?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Why cannot hon.
gentlemen sec how absurd the Bill is in
all its particularsP Net alone with regard
te the principle of the Bill, but in its provisions. I put that te the country. As far
as I arn concerned, I would just as soon see
a good dead soldier vote as many a live Tory
in this country; and if we only had the opportunity te go among those poor soldiera
in the trenches and tell them what had happened and what bas been uncovered and
unveiled ini the parliamentary committees
cf investigation in this country, not only
would they turn their ballots against the
Government, but I would net blarne them
if they would turn their rifles. I want te
say this right here now, that the Conservative pet, the Canadian manufacturer, has
sent more men te the grave, bas sent more
men te the hospital, bas put more men into
a state cf ill-health and bad condition, than
ail the German bullets and shrapnels since
the -beginning cf Auguat last.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That is true.
Hon. Mr. CLORÀN-More men have gene
home te die-oh, they didn't have a chance
te go home and die, they have died in the
camps, they have died in the fields from diseases contracted in those camps due te Uhe
treatment they received at the hands cf
Uic Government and their manufacturnera.
They have perished from pneumnonia, colde,
meningitis and all other diseases due te
the wanton, te the cruel treatment they have
received under military discipline such as
we have had. If with an appropriation ef
$50,000,000 we could net get f air treatment
and sound medical treatment for the soldiers, and good footwear and good herses,
what are w goiing te get with the $100,000,000 we voted yesterday? What guarantee fias the country that the $ 100,000,000
voted by this Parliament for special war
purposes will be better spent-that the soldiers will get the benefit cf it?
What guarantee have these men, who are
leaving their homes and families te up.
hold the honour of the country and secure
the safety cf the Empire that they wil
receive proper treatment? Put the question te the volunteers, the men under arms

in the cities by thousands, every day drilling, and ask thern if they want this; legislation and want a vote. Ask -the regiments
and battalions throughout the Dominion,
and I venture to say that you would not
get two out of ten who would ay, " We
want the ballot, and affidavit and want
to vote." I arn fot afraid of the legisiation.
I think it would redound to the interests
of the Liberal party if it went on the
statute-book, but that is not the question
which we have to consider. It is mot a
question of party advantage I arn looking
for, it is a question of the honour of the
country. Lord Kitchener and the officra
cf the British Army - must laugh a>t the
stupidity of Parliament in regard to the
expenditure of Canadian money for the
militia, we are held up to ridicule in the
best rnilitary circles in England and
Europe, and we are now going to place
ourselves at -the top of the ladder of
ridicule. We are going to give to dead
men the right to cast their ballots, and we
are going to ask men in the hospitals to
vote. How can the Teturrnng officer flnd
all the man who have served under the
British*flag? How can he flnd them in
hospitals or ahips sailing the straita or the
British channel or ocean? BUill these poor
sufferers have as much right to vote as
arybody else. Are they te be neglected.
Who is going te be sent with a ballot to
them. I mention all these facts to show
the absolute absurdity of the Bill. It is
It should not be
utterly- impracticable.
put ,on the statute-beok of our country.
For ail these reasons, and for the principal
reason that a soldier of Canada is a soldier
et England, and like Lord Kitchener ls not
asking for the ballot, but says, -"Iarn a
soldier of the King, and I arn no party
man." I shaîl vote against this Bill.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK moved the adj4yurnment of the deb&te until to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved that when
the Senate adjourn to-day it do stand adjourned until to-morrow at 10.30 a.m.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I object. The hon.
gentleman has given ne notice e! that.
The Senate adjourned until
to-morrew.

10.31 a.m.

OE'Y AIr L
14N.

454

THE SENATE.

of Canada and the British Empire against the

German, Austrian and Turkieh goverimeiLm
sand armies, have petitloned the present Government or Pariament of Canada, ta paso and
enact a Iaw ta mecure and provide for them
Thursday, April 15, 1915.
the right ta cast their ballots at any general
of
The Acting SPEAKER took the Chair at or by-electlon, for the Federal purposeswar? the
Dominion of Canada. durlng the present

10.30 S.m.

Prayers and routine proceedings.SABSENCE 0F SPEAKER LAND1ÊY.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN inquired:
1. la it a fact that the H-onaurable Senator
Landry, Speaker of the Senate, gave Instructions, written or verbial, on the 8th day ef this
present montb. April, 1915, te, the Clerk of
the Senate, autberlziflg hlm te declare and announce te, the Senate, that lie, the Speaker,
wouid net take the Chair at the atternoon
fer 3 p.m.. on the
sittlng of the Senate, called
abeve date of the Sth Instant, on accaunt of
causes or reasenu tha.t would make hie absence
unavoidable, eitlier personially or officially?
2. In it a tact that Hia Honaur the Speaker
imply lntimated ta the Clerk ot the Senate
that lie, the Speaker, decllned and refused ta
take or occupy the Chair, at such said sitting
on such said date?
3. Why the Government bas nat filled the
office of Speaker of the Senate ince the refusai
of the Hon. Senator Landry. on the Sth Instant,
the Chair of the Speaker cf the Senate,
to 1111
and to discliarge the functions and duties appertalnlng thereto, under the Constitution, and
provlded for by the Statute? ,
4. Dons the Government lntend te leave the
Senate In the present atate ot chaos until the
prorogation of Parliament, and thus Jeopardize
and constitutionality of ait the
the ,validity
proceedings and leglalation that the Senate
hs.s been, or may b. caied upon to adept or
Ince the aforesaid date of the Sth
reject,
instant?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Government

Hlon. Mîr. LOUGHEED-The Government
bas no knowledge of any petitions sucu as
has been referred te. As to petitions te Parliament, 1 cannot say anything. My hon.
friend will have as much information about
that as I -have.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The answer ai the
Government is that they have no knowledge af petitions. Have they been pigeonholed?'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do net know.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The answer ia net a
fair onie. The answer should be «"We have
ne petitiens and

the

Governsnient lias no

knioledg-e ai petitions." This is soinething
like the petitions ai the halfbreeds in the
Nort.hwest.

VOTES FOR SOLDIERS BILL.
DEBÂTE RESUMED.

The Order ai the Day being called:
Resuming the adjourned debate on the motion
for the second reading Bil 111, an Act to
enable Canadian soldiers or active military service durlng the present war ta exercise their
electoral franchise.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I wish to correct
the report of yesterday's proceedings ini the
Citizen this morning which bas been telegraphed abroad. The report of a portion
has ne knowledge whatever upon the sub- ef nîy remnarks read as fallows:
has
ject upon which the hon. gentleman
The Government la anilious te wave the flag
made inquiry.
wlth this Bill and we do net want themn te
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Then 1 may state, wave the flag; we do flot want them te damn
flag.
net to -the hon. leader of the House here theSenator.Pope-" I object te the language of
tc the Government who are responsible the honaurabie gentleman; lie mays lie does net
but
that they are quite at fauit. They do not care a damn for the flag.»
Senator Choquette--" I did not may that.
know what everybody knows. That is ail
That is the reasan the Bill la brouglit here. 1
I have te say. The Speaker need flot risc, say the Opposition in the other Hause was forced
1 anm going to stop right off.
into a corner and they did a littie flag wavlng
tea."1
The SPEAKER-No discussion is perThe report is inaccurate. I refer te the
officiai report, where 1 find the following:
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I kno-w that, but I
'The Gevernment ia anxious te wave the
have a right te make a simple remark. The
fiag on this Bill and we de net want themn te
Speaker dees net require te intervene.
do that."
Then the hon. meruber for Compton (Hon.
VOTES FOR SOLDIERS UNDER ARMS.
Mr. Pope) said -I abject to the lang-uage
INQUIRY.
of the hon. gentleman." 1 do fiot say who
rnitted on an inquiry.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN inquired:
is responsihle for the report in the Citizen
How many, If any. of the 101,000 citizens of 'but 1 wishl to protest ag-ainst it.

Canada, at present under arme, in the detence
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

APRIL 15,.1915
Hlon. Mr. BOSTOCK-In rising to discuss this Bill we have to consider the principle which nmay be said to he contained in
it, of increasing the franchise under exceptional ciTcumstances. I do not see that this
House should in any way deal with a question of that kind unless it is shown that
any large number of the people have asked
that the franchise -be extended in this way.
The answer given just now by my hion.
friend the leader of the Government, in
answer to an inquiry, says that the Government has no knowledge that any request
has been made for an extension of the franchise in the way proposed in. this measure.
Therefore, if there has been no den>and on
the part of the people for it, we are flot
antagonizing the people in dealing with
this Bill in any way thst this Chamber may
think reasonable and right. As we are not
dealing with a question of principle,
it hecomes a question of the advisability
of passing such legisiation
as this.
This Bill is naturally divided into two separate parts. The first part of the Bill deals
with the question of men who have volunteered for the service of their.country and
who are now outside of Canada, and, therefore, if this Bill goes into effeet they would
have the opportunity of voting should a
general election be brought on.
But 1
would direct hon. gentlemen's attention to
the I lth clause in the Bill, which says:
This Act ishall only remnain In force durlng
this present war.
That shows that this Bill has been
drafted and adopted for a certain purpose,
in order that, should a general election be
broughlt on while the present viar is in progress, this legislation inay be put into
effect. As soon as the war is over thîs legislation ceases, and it would appear to me
that the Government must have in contemplation the idea, of hringing on a general
election while -this war is raing.
Hon.
gentlemen will hardly conceive it possible
that any body wouid want to put this country into the throes of a generai election,
While this war is going on. The lule of this
Parlianient wiii corne to an end on the 6th
October, 1916, giving us at least 18 nionthb
within whichi a great many changes may
happen, changes th-at no one in this Chamber or outside of it can estixnate at the present tinie. The resuit of those changes may
be verv wide and far-reaching, and the ides
that this country should be involved in
the throes of a generai election, and discussing ail the issues brought before the
people under such circumstances, is almost

inconceivabie in the minds of those who are
anxious and interested to see that Canada
should do the very best she can in helping
the Empire. The effect of *this legishation
would be theat if a general election is brought
on, theni the men who are fighting for the
Empire outside this country would be put
into the position of discussing political
questions when their whole time, their
whole attention, their whole energy ehould
be devoted to acconiplishing the work they
have in hand, which is fighting for the principles which we ail s0 strongly maintain.
To one like myself, an Englishman, who haà
settled in this country, who has a son and
other relations fighting in the forefront of
the battie, it is inconceivable that their
time and thieir attention should be diverted
to the consideration of political issues in
Canada. To put it from the point of view
of the man at the front, I do not think that
any mnan wvho has volunteered and is facing
the possibiity of laying down his life for hie
country, would want to be put up against
this proposal of having to say whether the
one party or the other in Canada should be
returned to power at a generai eleotion he
has other and to him much more serions
things ta think of; also as .pointed out hast
night by my hon. friend from Portage La
Prairie, this Bill does not in any way appiy
to ail the men who have left Canada ta
fight 'iii Europe. There are large nunbers
of nien who are just as mnuch entitled te
vote as those in the Canadian Expeditioaary forces, -but who will not receive the
benefit of this legaislation if it becomes law.
There is no proposai to help those men
obt-ain a vote. WVe niay have Canaclians in
a British regimentz along aide of Çanadiants
i a Canadian regiment, and il this Bill
goes into force, those in the Canadian reginient vill -have a right to vote, while the
nien alongside of thieni in the trenches in
the British reginient wi]l 'ho refused the
right to cast a ballot. I think that this is
putting the whole situation in a very anomalous -position. Then, again, the passing
of this Bill puts Parlianient in the position
ai passing legisiation which we should flot
really be dealing- Nith. It has -been 6aid
that it is only ene'hling legirylation--to enable a certain sot te 'ho done, 'but we are
coming in contact with the military authirities in Engiland and probably briniging on
a conflict between the civil powers in Caniada and the military powers in England.
At present I do not think that we have
any righ.t to brin- up such a question.
What we should endeavouýr to dn, what I

SENATE

understand we have been trying te do al from this Bihl, we have a numb»er ai Canaalong, is ta represent ta the world that both dians who have heen on active service in
parties in thie country are a- unit 'with the Navy ever since the war began; and it
regard ta the prosecution of this war lu does seem te me thýat a seuse af justice
which the Empire is invo.ived, and that we would have provided that those men should
are also &trongIy behind the Briitish Gov- have a right ta vote, es wel1 as the men
ernment in our audeavours ta help themn who happen ta be iu the land forces. The
in the struggle in Europe. Thie very facit of other point is this: I have no objection ta
putting throug'h legielation of this kind any man who has volunteered te risk his
-would have the effect of showing to the lite in the service af the Empire and of
world that there was a conflict of opinion Canada having a vote, that is, provided hie
'between the people of this country and the will be iu ù position ta exerclise is right of
British Government. The paper this morn- voting independently snd intel'ligeutly.
iug onnounoed that the British Goverument
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-Hear, hear.
are considering t'he question of taking more
Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn satisfied that,
closely juto their counisels the different
dominions later oni when the time cornes under preseut conditions, the meu who are
ta discuss the ternis of peace. The British in the tronches Lu northern France and in
Governmeut have shawn Iby audh action Beilgium--and possib¶Iy whon the election
that they are prepared ta work in dloser comaes off will be in Germnry-are net in a
connection with the different dominions of position te vote indepeudently and intellithe Empire, -and that Vhey desire ta 'bring gently. That is my strengest objection ta
about a closer conuection. more harmony this measuTe.
bet-ween the separate dominions of the BritSeveral hion. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
ish Empire-in absolute contradistinction
whieh, as I tried ta
te this legisiation,
Hion. Mr. POWER-Hou. gentlemen know
point out, rnay -bring about a confliot be- that iu the case ai an afficer like the late
tween the military authorities in England lamented CJod. Farquhar, thre elightest intiaud the civil authorities ini thia country. mation on his port that he wished his mon
This Bill has -been ibroug'ht up ta us just te vote for one party or the other would
previeus ta the announicement of proroga- .carry nearly the whole vote of his regiment.
tion. It deals with a large question thsit That ie a moat unsatiefactory condition of
,would 'bear a great deal of discussion. In things.
order ta give it proper and uecessary conHon. Mr. POPE-They are nearly al
aideration, it should be discussed for a con&idera'ble leugth cf time. Il we are ta have Taries anyway and it would flot do any
'prorogation as has beau announced, it harm.
will be impossible ta discuss this Bill
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Mare Grits than
discussed in this Tories.
be
as it should
order le make it, if possible, a workable
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do nût know -what
measure. I do flot propose therefore ta do
more than possibl.y, et the uext stage of Col. Farquhar's politicai views were but
-the Bill, propose some amendmnents ta deal I say that bis soldiers are serving in the
with the motter along the lies on which I field undar officers who are much respected
and beloved, as mast ai the officers at the
have discussed it.
front now are. The expression on the part
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not propose any af an officer ai sympathy with one party
more than the lion. leader of the Opposition, or the other would carry the great bulk af
That is a most
te speak et any length, but I do flot feed the votes ai bis men.
Here
that I would be justified in allowing this unsatisfactory condition ai things.
Bîi. to pass its second readimg without we have mon living in this country watchuttering a, protest. The hon. gentleman ing the Parliamentary proceedings and
f romn Grandvilble (Hon. Mr. Choquette> last ithings that are happening day by *day,
evenin-g put the case against this measure these men having praperty here, and they
in a very forcilale and effective way, and 1 vote in virtue ai being citizens a! Canada
cordiaily endorse what lie then said. Td and property owuers; and yau can take
one or two points, I think it desirable ta a constituency where there is perhaps a
cali attention. One is that, in addition ta majorîty ai five hundred one way or the
the various classes of railway employees other, the vote of thaît majarity may be
and others, and men serving in English nullified by the vote of a single battalion
regaiments who are not te get any benefit serving in the trenchès, and the vote of
Mon. Mr. BOSTOCK

APRIL 15, 1915
that single battalion May depend on Vhe this kmnd .should flot pass. 1 canriot imagine
feeling of the officer who may happen to be who conoceived if. We have c>ntracted with
the boys that went to the front to take care
in command.
of their familles in their absence, and CenHon. Mr. WATSON-The man that marks ada wil*l be glad to have them back. We are
the ballots for tham.
doing our duty to the meni who have gone to
fight for. the Empire. The problem itself
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes, as niy hon. with which we are conifronted jE a difficuit
friend says, the man who marks the ballots one sufficiently difficul'V to solve without
IV je only necessary to state imcreasing it needlessly; anid I amn absofor them.
that position Vo show how wrong and im- lutely certain that the machinery ini conproper it je. I may be pardoned if I give nection with this meaaure will neyer work
a practical illustration of what I mean. out so tho.t soldiers at the front wiltl have an.
I have no doubt tha hon. leader of 'the opportunity of voting as men who exercise
Government in thie House, if there were the fran.chise should vote. At the front
an eleotiout Vaking place in Alberta, would there are entanglements of barbed wire
like Vo have the ,slection conducted in a fences, but there is more barbed wire in
To show what may this Bill than there i-s around the trenches.
perfectly f air way.
happen, and under conditions when per- Let us see how this Bill would work. Now
haps there was lees risk, one would Vhink, we will say it ie election day. The leader of
of any serious interfarence with the rights soine batitalion is the returning officer, and
of tVue forces Vo vote than would be likely at the time the vote is taken a battle is
in this case, I happen Vo be aware of an going on and the Canadians are in the thick
incident which. occurred in the elaction of of it: the deader of -that ba'ttalion is the
a member of the Housa of Gommons in returning officer, infused with a desire to
what is now thre province of Saskatchewan, help his political leader, and the stretcher
but was then part of the Northwest Terri- cornes u.p bearing a Canradian boy, wounded
tories. The principal Vown of the constitu- almoet unto death. The leader of the battency was a mounted police station ait
M.Jowis up and says. " John you are
which 88 mounted police were stationed talion and he says -~yes," and the leader
gone,"
The cariwhan thre election took place.
saye, " But 1 want you Wovote for Laurier
'didaite of whom I arn epeaking was an ex- or Borden before you die." Shame on such
and on the day of
ceedingly popular man,
legialation.
election 87 out of the 88 mounted. police
came down practically in a solid body and
Hon. Mr. POPE-He would noV do it.
voted against him, open voting. , One of
be
'tIr 88 was a resident who would not
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-I do not believe
either cajoled or cowed, and refused to the mothers and fathers of these boys want
That one any stuch lIegisiat.ion Vo pass through Parliavote against my hon. friend.
man was sent -down Vo Regina on urgent ment. What is -the vote ta be? It je Governbusiness on 'the morning of the alection. ment or Opposition. This would have been
You se what you are doing by passing tis a better ballot if it said -vote in faveur
Bill: You are putting into the hande of of Conservative intereets or Libexal interpeople who, I muet say, as far as our ex- ests." It je like the Irishbman comiing to
perience goes in Vhs country, ara flot par- the No.-th-West who asks, Is there a Govticularly ecrupulous in their election ernmenV i the country?" and when told
methodà, the power of ewinging a vote of that there is says, -Well, I vote again it."
anywhere from 50,000 Vo 100,000, and Vthe I do not think it does credît 'to the House
effact of trait would be that- VIe votes of to have a ballot, of thiat ki'nd sent across
VIe people on the spot, who understand the water a.sking our soqdiers to vote for
VIe position, would be nullified by the the Governmient or Opposition. If a n
votes of the men in the trenchas 'who do were asked whether lie would vote for
not understand the position and who wil the Conservative or Liberal intereets, and
vote as the officers wish them.
hie had an opportunity to consider the
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON-I do not hesitate question, hie might very well attach hie
to say tIrat I would do as much as any mark to eilher the one or tlie other;
other man for tIe soldiers a-t the front who Sherman said "«war je heU"- and this je
are protecting thîe rights and lîbert-ies of the first ime that any parliament in the
Can-ada. I amn not opposing Vhis Bili le. world ever invaded the precincts of that
cau-se of f.emdty to any party, but I oppose it domain with the franchise. 1V calls upon
bec.u.se I arn satisfied that legislation of men who are at the front in dîsturbed con-

SENATE

ditions to exercise the franchi2e. Tt waB
said a moment ago that the Bill makes invidjous distinctions. Reservists that have
gone fromn Canada, who -are as much intere&ted. in public issues here as the Canadian
soldiers are not allowed te vote, lit just
goes te -show that the more the Bill is analysed the worse it appears. Méen touch it
as though it were full of dynamite and ready
te ex!plode. This Bill had its origin in party
desire and must have been conceived by a
man who bas played the gaine of lufe with
loaded dice. I cannot see anything in this
legislation that would commend it te the
people of this country.
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS-Allusion has been
made to tihe principle involved in this Bill.
1 do not know wherein that principle lies'
and cannot understand it. I have no hesitation in saying that it is a bad Bill, and
is wholly unwarranted. No municipal council in the country would dare to make such
a law. For this reasen I cannot alilow the
second reading te pass without entering
My protest.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-There is no doubt that
this ia one of the worst measures ever
brought before* Parliainent. Tt is subveraive of ail constitutionsi. principles. It is
so, impracticable, se open to ail kinds of
fraud, {ihat I amn inclined to thin-k the Government probably hope that the Senate will
reject it, and will be happy if they do, so
that they rnay be able te say te the country,
"The Senate rejected the measure which
we prepared for the purpose of giving the
brave soldiers a votýe." I arn not ready te
render them that service, and I want to
leave to themn the responsibiliýty of carrying
eut this impracticable Bill. The Senate
would make a mistake if it assumed that responsihility. Therefore. altihough I am disposed to vote for ail ainendments which.
will improve the Bill, as the hion. gentleman
from Halifax has raid, and to give ail the
guarantees posisible thiat the vote will be
hionestly and independently taken, I shial
not vote against the second reading of the
Bill, but will wait to see what arnendrnents
inay be offered.

(In the Cominittee.)
Hon. Mr. KERR-The House will regret
'that the hon. leader lias flot in some way
deait with the principle of the Bill and endeavoured to reconcile themn to what is in
the -best interest of the country and the best
method of securing good governiment. It
must be regretted that this Bill should be
thrown at the Senate in this way and that
we should be told to ait down and take the
Bill in committee and mske any amendnients we thought proper. Where there is
a great principle in the Bill there should
be some exposition of the views of the Government upon it ibefore the House. Are the
Government in earnest about this? Do they
want this Bill passed? Do they think it is
in the interest of good governmeent that it
should be passed? Do they think it is a fair
Bill? Is it one *on which they are willing
to pin their faith, and pledge their respensibility as the Government of this country?
Before this Bill gees to committee we shoculd
have sorne assurance with reference to
these points from the hion. gentleman representing the Government in this House.
To my mind, dealing with the thing separately and individually, it is one cf the
most iniquitous pieces cf legislatiorr which
ever was proposed. It ia one which is fraught
with very serious menace to the freedoni
and propriety and purity of elections. Tt~
is une which aims at getting an unfair ad-,
vantage, and no party that ever attempts
to do such a thing cani expeet to have either
the support or approval 'of the honeet
people of this country. I say under these
circumstances Atis to bc deplored that there
is no one in this House to stand up for the
Gocvernment and say one single word in
coxumendation of this measure.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I take exception
to what nuy hon. friend hias said. H1e could
flot have heen in the House whien 1 introduced the Bill. If nîy hion. friend will look
at the debates, hie wv±ll find that 1 made a
speech stating what the principles o! the
Bill were. 1 venture to state that rny hon.
friend cannot controvert those principles.
My hon. friend lias ne right to make the
statement which he lias done. H1e is absoThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill luteiy incorrect. I should aise like to draw
attention te the fact that the second readwas read the second tixne on a division.
ing lias been carried, and we are now disHon. Mr. LOUGHEED moved the House cussing as te whether we shall go into cernresolve itself into a Committe of the Whole mittee.
on the Bill.
Hon. Mr. KElIR-Before we go into cernrnittee I arn entitled te say what 1 think
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON.

APR[L 15, 1915

in reference ta the course wvhich bas been
pursued in regard te this Bill.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hion. friend
bas no right te attributs qruestionabis motives ta ths Governmsnt or te make a statement which. ie absolutely incorrect s te the
position I took in introducing the Bill. If
the hon. gentleman will look at the Debates
he will find that I made a statement of the
principles involved.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I heard all the hon.
gentleman said. I never heard one 'ward
from himi ta indicate that *he personally
approved ai the Bill, or that the Gevernment had an honet conviction that it wae
their duty te introduce it, and to extsnd
the franchise as it ivas propased.
The SPEAKER-The language ai the bon.
gentleman je rather strong.
Hon. Mr. KERRI-The Bill je rather
strang. This ie a most iniquitaus intrusion
upon the riglit ai the soidier, who shauld
be leit fres and untraniinelled te carry on
the battie wbich be ie sent ta figbt. I say
this je one of the meet iniquitaus Bille in
that respect whîch I ever thought weuld be
introduced into an assembly like this.
The responsibility je taken by the Goverument; we have that much about it, but
who has said one word as ta thie bemng
proper legisiation, or about the new principles introduced bers, ai preeenting ta.
men in a foreign land, same ai whomn were
net British soldiere until they took tbe
aatb ta serve as soldiers, men 'who have ne
stake in this country and were bers fer only
a short perîod of two or three menthe, the
right te vote, ta decide what ie te be the
dsstiny of thie country, and which party
ie te govern this country fer a furtbsr terni
ai probably five years. I say there je ne
justification for it. I listened ta ail that
was said, and what 1 noticed particulariy
was how little was said and haw înuch was
leit unsaîd. 1 do net blame my hion. irisnd
for being disgusted with hiaving ta inther
a Bill like this.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I ask my hion.
friend te retract thiat statement. He bas
ne right te make it. He bas ne right te
attributs false motives ta me.
Hon. Mr. KERR-My statement is
qualified. I say if that je the reasont why
we have net liad the statement, we aught
te have it now. I think we ought net te
The idea ai the
let it pass unnoticed.
Government, on the last day of the session,
with prorogation ta taks place in two or

three hours, presenting ta the country and
asking the Senate ta endorse a Bill with ail
that this contains within its four corners,
and asking ta confer the franchise on
people who are figbting the battis of this
country on the continent, who are spread
over different countries, je impracticable.
This franchise ie only to be given ta a
portion of these men. There is a distinction between those in ans country and
those in another. What about those who
happen ta be in Egypt when the election
takes place? What will bappen ta those
in Constantinople, or those who snay be
sent ta South Afrîca ta fight in defence of
the Empire, when the elections corne on?
We have ne intimation of the date on
wbicb the clection will be beld, but we may
assume it is going ta be as sean as the
Governmsnt can bring it on. This is bsing
dane by men who 'have stood up in their
place in Parliamient (and soine outside af
Parliament have echoed the statement>,
that %vewere net alive te the responsibiiity
of aur position, and thiat they, forsooth,
wbo were hunting votes, unknown in their
method af working except when sxposed
in election time, are gaing te work this
thing out se as ta snap a verdict, and get
votes fer men who have ne right te be troubled or bothered about veting. What will be
thought of us as a deliberats body, being
the firet people who ever presentsd te an
army of men who are trying te carry our
flag on te victory, ballot papers asking
thsm to vote? What will be thougbt of
men who at such a time as this lose sight
of the great issues befare the world, when
the great batties ai the worid are bsing
fought in -the greateet war that bas ever
been known, a war in which the greatest
number of men are engaged that have ever
waged any contest, fighting for the lives
and liberties, flot only of the people of
this country but ai the world-what would
be thougbt ai thîs deliberative body, this
Parliament ai Canada gettî-ng down te the
petty question ai how to carry an election
by taking poils under circumstancees such
as are known in the province ai Manitoba.
and especially in the county ai Macdonald,
and that je te be called the f ree voice of
the people ai Canada, and we are suppossd ta confer a great privilege on these
people. Who is going te identify the meü?
Who je gaing te eay how they are to vote?
How many people are gaing te be allewed
ta canvas them before thsy vote? What
provision ai protection îe te be given ta
the men who are on the fightîng line, who
are under the officers known ta be inost

SENATE
prejudioed, and bigoted, and I was going
to say the most unprincipled politicians
ever known in this country. Some of
these men are there. We know them. We
know how they carried their elections, and
we know 4.hey have adopted met-hod-9 such
as have been approved of by men who are
members of the Government that i presenting this Bill. I say under these circumstances I cannot allow this Bill to go
one step further into committee without
making a protet against it as being the
most unjust, most unfair, and the *most
deliberate effort ever made to enatch a
victory. If an election is not 4.0 be held
shortly, why press the matter now? If
an election is to be held this vote must be
taken in the course of a few weeks. I say,
under the circumstances, it is the duty ol
every man who values the honour of bis
country and the character of our soldiers,
to protect them from such a vicious principle as îs involved in this Bill.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I shall not discuss
the principle of this Bill because the principle has been adopted.
Hcrn. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Hoear,
hear.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Whether good, bad
or indifferent, this Bill relates almost
exclusively to the other House. The House
of Commons, Government and Opposition,
iave examined and passed it. Now are we
ini this Chamber once more going to interfere with the domestic affairs, I may say,
of the other House? On too many occasions
we have butted in-the expression. although
flot very eloquent, I hope may pass-against
Bis adopted by the other bouse with the
sole view of making votes for one side or
the other.
Several hion. GENTLEMEN-Hew, bhear.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-We have rejected
here a Bill for the purchase of branch lines,
o! the Intercolonial Railway, with very
littie knowledge of the merits of the proposition, but simply, as it appeared to me,
because of a suspicion that the purchase of
those lines might, 'in the next election,
favour one party more than the other. I
maintain that this is not the attitude that
tthe Senate of Canada should take. We
should deal with Bis on their merits, but
wben a Bill is of such a nature as to relate
exclusively to the other House we should
pass it, especially when there is no important principle involved-and I may say
that there are very seldom, if ever, any
high principles involved in such legisiaHON.

MR

IKERa

tion. As I said, I shall not, because the
motion for the second reading has passed,
go into the prînciple of the Bill. Some parts
of it I would mysel! distrust; others I
would uphold; but I shall vote in this instance in favour of the Bill, because it is
one that, pertains to the other .House, and
the Senate bas nothing te gain Iby mixing
in matters in which we have little direct
concern.
Hon. Mr. CLOBAN-I arn astounded at
the statement just made by the hon. senator
fromn Acadia. He wishes this House to
adopt the Bill because it was passed by the
House of Gommons giving this House and
the oountry te understand that it was
unanimously approved o! by the other
Chamber. I protest against any such statement or any inference drawn from it,
because it is absolutely incorrect. If any
Bill presented by the present Government
has met with obstinate opposition fromn the
Liberal party in the House of Gommons. it
is this measure. Then why does the hon.
gentleman corne bere and try te influence
votes
the intelligence and get the
ground
on
the
Houue
this
o!
that this Bill was passed by the House o!
ýCommons--meaning that the House of
Gommons was unanimoue in its support?
He should have told hon. gentlemen, as the
country knows very well a4ready,that nearly
hall of the House of Commons was against
the Bill, and that bal! represents more
than two-thirds of the population of the
Dominion. The honu. senatoT ia mistaken
when .he thinks 'he can pull the wool over
our eyes in this regard. I want to tell him
this, th-at not only nearly half o! the House
of Gommons, but more than hall of the
Senate object to this Bill. I had occasion
last night te sita.te some o! my objections,
*but as I did not wish to detain the House
t-oo long I did not give them ail; but I
want te have this Bill go on record as the
Bill of " three F's."' What do the three
mean? In the firsit place the Bill
-"F's"is a freak; in the second place it is &
farce, and in the hast place it is a fraud;
the Bill of the three " F's, a freak, a ftarce
and a fraud. A more freakih Bill ba-s
neyer 'been p'roposed te an intelligent body
of legislators. It is a !reak, a fad, by which
-the Government o! the day thought they
could capture votes by displaying the old
fiLag.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I rise te a question o.! order. We are discussing the question Vo go into committee.

APRIL 15, 1915

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And 1 amn givizig rasons why we should flot go into committee.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The question
arises whaVher ive are to traverse the Bill
over again and discuss the princiiple, as
bias been done since I moved the motion.
I raie that -point of ooeder.
Hoon. Mr. CLORAN-The point of order le
thait what I arn saying isnot germane?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--No.
Hon. Mr. 'CLORAN-I arn talking to prevent the BiU from going into commi'ttee,
and il I were the leader of the Opposition
1 vou'ld not al'low it to go into oommittee.
I would kill it on thé spot.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Theni move your
motion. I eubmit there is no motion before the Chair except to go in-to cornmittee.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-W-hy did not the
Speaker rule eut the hion. senator lrom Toronto. Why did hie not ride out his friend
from New Brunswick. What is the matter
~wit.h -the point of order? It je directed
against nie alore. Ain I to Ïho singled eut
by any hlon. senator, from Calgary or otherwisep
The SPEAKER-Order.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I rise to a question of order. If hion. gentlemen on the
other aide of 'the House -choose te continue
the discussion of the principle of -the Bill
aiter the second reading '.as passed, why,
I amn content, but I arn going to perforrn
my duty by raising the question of order
as to whether the discussion of the principle is in order at this tirne.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Why did you flot do
it with tihe senator from Toronto?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The Bill has
'been read the second time; the Bouse lias
'been cornmitted to the principle of the Bill;
I therefore object to any discussion taking
place upon the principle.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do not dispute the
lion. gentleia-n's riglit to raise the object.ion, but why did lie net raise it when the
lion. senator -fromn Toronto was speakingP
The SPEAKER-Order.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN: That is the point:
arn 1 going to be singled «out? Why didn't
you raise that point of order before?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That is not the
point. The point is there is a motion to
go into cornmittee, and in that motion the
principle of the Bill cannot be discussed.

461

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That shows the animus of t-he whole business. The motion was
agreed to and the House went into tommîttee o! the Whole on the Bill.
(In the Committee.)
On clause 2--distribution of ballot papers:
Hon. Mr. ROCHE-Last evening I addressed to the learned leader o! the Government a very innocent question. I asked
him how rneny of the Royal Canadian Regiment were in Bermuda, and my hion. friend
was not so explicit as hie is on other occasions, because lie told us lie did not know.
I know something about the troops in Bermuda. I listened very. attentively to the
rernarks made by my hon. friend from
Acadia (Éon. Mr. Poirier), and I think that
the adoption of the views and the sentiinents which lie hias propounded would lie
niost destructive te the independence of the
Senate. The doctrine of passive obedience
in the state lias neyer been accepted. I do
not think that wc would lie justified for our
attendance here, or our positions as inerubers of the Sen4te, to give adlhesion to any
sucli sentiments, thât because sucli legishation lias been passed in the House of Gommons, even if it does affect only the representation of the Houe of Gommons, it is
not an object of interest or should not be a
subject of sohicitude for the members of the
Senate. a co-ordinate body, and by theory
and by practice equally înterested in the
proper representation in the House of Coin.
mons and in the Seniate withi any meniber
of the House of Gommions or aniy citizen
without representative capacity.
Several lion. MEMBERS-Hear, hiear.
Hon. Mr. ROCHE-There is no pret-ident
for a Bill of this kind enfranchîsing the
armhy, that I know of; it lias always beeti
avoided as a niost dangerous action to aive
votes to the British Arniy ini England. There
is a precedent for it, and that was in the
time o! George III, wlien thiere was a controverted election and lie enfranchised a
hundred or more of the Guards and sent
thieni into the bailiwick o! Westminster to
vote aginst the popular candidate, and rewarded thern for the service by giving them
a guinea apiece. Is that the kiiud of precedent we are to hiave for a Bill like thi§?
My objection te this clause of the Bill, and
1 wish to confine îny reînarks to this clause,
is as to its operation. These ballots are to
be sent to the commnanding officer in Bermuda, and wherever British forces may be
.to whichi a Canadian contingent is attached.

SENATE
be brought to bear upon this man by the
We do not know where they may be. We do regiment, and upon those associated with
be; we do not
riot know who the officers may
them, and by partisans, either paid or
know the operations they are conductîng. otherwise, imbued with those sentiments,
But at Bermuda there la a regiment which is a very dangerous phase. Ail these forTo assist
was stationed in Halifax.
malities that we have introduced into these
the views of the Conservative party clauses will 4be nugatory unlass that sentila.rgely, votes are to be given te ment is eliminsted altogether. What bas
and other officers o~f
the sergeants
Wher
sentiment *done already'
that
The effect of this Bill damage has it wrought in Cana:da and the
that regiment.
would ba- to enfranchise the whole of that Empire? 1 believe that that was one of
regiment, and as their domicile was hast the main reasons for the war; the Conservain Halifax, the whole of that vote would be tive party, the British press and all 'those
cast in a constituency in which elections interested in jingoism, conveyed the idea
are decided -by a very smiall niajority. that there wa6 seething revolution in CanIncidantal te that is the f act that the ada, ithat the people were flot loyal to the
Prime Minister la expected te be a candi- Empire, that if war should break out they
date in that very constituency; therefore would not go forward to defend the Emthis Bill bears directly upon that constitu- pire. thait they were disloyal to the core.
ency, with which I am vary famihiar. I believe that that was one of the inducing
Those sergeants, non-commissiofled officers causes which led the military party in
and others qualified have been canvassed Germany to precipitate this war.
It
Amongat them was brought about by the jingo press
on a previous occasion.
were emissaries attached te the Conserva- in England and by the re-echo of
tive party and working in their interest. that press in Canada producing thz'
Very many of those who were called ohd conviction
Liberal
whole
the
thait
soldiers had the idea, which wvas exten- party, one haîf of the electorate in
sivahy propagated, that the.-Conservative Canada, was inimical to Great Britain
party stood for British connection, thait and was only rejoicing in the opportunity
the Conservative party were te the last of severing the connection and of coming
man loyal and identifled with the interest out for independence or joining the United
of the Empire, but that ithe Liberal party States. Now, I say that those influences
were identifled with the French, or the will be brought to, bear upon the individual
rebellious party. or the non-conten-ts in soldier. No individual soldier will want to
Canada who are always in insurr2ction, al- vote against the Government; for the vicious
ways in rebellion, and always inimical part of this Bill is the insidious clause,
It was put thus
te the British Crown.
insinuates "«Vote for the Government or for
to one of tthem, and he gave his answer the Opposition which is against the Govern"In this ballot paper 1
very distinctly:
ment," and how will that be construed?
find the names of one Englishman and The man who votes ag-ainst the Government
three Irishmen, and 1 am going to vote will be told -"you are against the British
That vote did not
for the Englishman."
Empire, you are against the troops in the
extend to the politics which existed in that field, you are against British institutions,
division of 'the Canadian forces which is you are against the King." The man who
now in Bermuda and whomn we are sup- votes for the Opposition will meet the
What
posed to enfranchise by this Act.
of ail that, the ridicule and the
are the facts? The ballot papers are to obloquy
knows there is no prete, the comman-ding officer, they threats; that man he votes in that way. The
be issued
paym aster; the pay- ference for -hlm if
are to be given to the
mani who would vote for the Liberal party,
master wihh give themn to the captain over or for the Opposition, would know he was
the conxpany; the captain will give th2m
a doomed man. We are sending those men
te a sergeant over a unit; the sergeant
unhess to vote with a halter around their necks.
will hand them over to a corporal,
hon. friend talks about entanglement
he has been inducad to act as an active My
this is nothing else but
in the matter; and we may take and barbed w~ire;
partisan
preballot is te be asking a man to commit suicide in the field
every precaution that the
sent state of the British Army in the
handed in formally and precisely t
the enemy. He is not a free
commanding officer and an affidavit made confrontinghas not the benefit of our instituhe is the man that bas mani. He
hefore him that
elections men can be seen
his ballot, and so on, and that it is to be tions. xIncivil
All. thial and canvassed, their sentiments are known,
duly conveyed out to Canada.
their faces are known, and they know the
is provided for, but the influenc that -w
Hon. Mr. ROCHE.

APRIL 15, 1915
friend, first of ail 1 tell him that I have
experience in military votes, and I may
tell him also that if hie had listened as
well to the first part of my remark-s as hie
has to that part of my remarks, hie would
have seen that before those stipulations
are to bie carried out-that jes, the ballot
paper te' be marked--4he -men are canva'ssed -in a certain way before they go
to vote, and they are marched down. Tt
is quite clear that they might vote either
stiigm.a againet his naine 1because, thley know
but the influence
every man who votes. The ballet has for way before the officer,
exeroised in
has
its objeet the concealmeut ef the individual to make him votebefore been arrives before
lie
are al a pernicious way
and hie sentiments; but hers they
AIl those officers, or the great
canvaeeed before the election; they will the officer. them, are Conservatives, and
majority of
vote in squade, they will vote in platoons, will let things bie done whicli they ehould
they will vote for the Government becauso not. 1 know the military service from -the
they dare net vote for the Opposition; and top riglit down to the bottom, because I
that je the condition we put befere the have been amongst thein, and know how
soldiers iu the field.
they vote and know how it je carried out.
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Cape Breton ' -How Now, does that answer my hion. fricnd's
Now, may I tell you, Mr.
eau miy lion. friend reconcile the statement question?
which hie je just now niaking withi the fact Chairman, I know that you would flot rule
in the slighteEt iota eut cf the extreme
that in section 4 there je this provision:
interpretation of the law of Parliament,
4. The volunteer may thereupon mark the
you would net do any'thing
ballot paper as a vote for the Governmeut or and I think
the opposition or for the independent candidate adverse te me; and in deferenoe te you.
or for auy person for whom ho desires to vote, only to you, beeuee you want to preserve
in the preseuce of the said officer. but In such entire order on this question and fair play
a mauner as net te disclese te, the offier, or and not to give te onie person wlio only
any other person, how ho in votiug, and "Il
fold the ballot paper ne that lt cannot be read, epeaks very occasionally in the House, and
and shall then place the sarne lu the envelope then at no great length, wlien lie is exupon the back of which shall be endorsed a pressing hie sentiments on a subjec.t that
crtificate In form C, whlch certificats shal bie is vital, which je closely 'iden-tified with
sIgned by such officer, and shall oecurely close
our political riglits, that in this question
the envelope.
you would net inflict the extreme severity
DAVIS-Handýpicked; you of yeur ruling upen such an insignifleant
Hon. Mr.
have them aIl on the ticket.
iindividual as myseif.
The clause was adopted.
will answer my lion.
Hon. Mr. ROCHE-I
friend.
On clause 2. subelause 3:.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I do not propose to
The CHAIRMAN-The questions refer te
Thiat will be reached after a go into the detaîls cf this Bill, but I must
clause 4.
while. I hated te declare the hon. gentle- ask te be allowed te say a few words on
man eut of erder, but hie lias been eut cf its g-eneral features. In this Parliament we
order fer a long while. I think it is under- have the habit, and the very fortunate
stood that we are to get tlirough this Bill habit cf looking te the mother cf Parliabefore very long and if every person wvants mientS for our exaniple net only so far as
but also iii
te make a speech as long as my lion. friend Parlianient is concerned,
the question, the debate will nîcea4,ures dealing withi the development
has, eutside
andl the application cf politioal institutions.
hast ai! day.
It seenîs to me that we should examine
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-You eau say any this Bill iu the liglit of such institutions
old thing yeu want te in comnîittee.
as applied in England. If we examine
Hon. Mr,. ROCHE-I want te say, with jute this Bill what do we find? We find
ail due deference te youi, Mr. Chiairinan, that it je a Bill which makes an altegether
that your notions of order and mine are new departure. Heretofore the franchise
It
totally different. Yeu have ruled in one has neyer been exercised -by classes.
way, and I think in aniother, and probably has neyer been done in England. But
Now, in regard te the this Bill treats the military forces as a
act in another.
question that was put te me by my hion. dlass, and a-s such they are given the exer-

candidates; they may have a preference for
oue candidate in eue party or the other,
i j presented in this concrete
but fiere
form: you are a man votîng fer the British
jEmpire, veting in the field, and veting for
the King; and against it are the rebele,
the insurrectionists, those wlio are trying
te destrey law and order, and by the presonce cf the seldiers in the field thoy assk
each man. who votes Isiberal te put a

SENATE
of the army? I believe that there is nothing
cise of the franchise. It is the first time too good for the citizens, or the families ot
done here, and it has neyer been done
it is
the citizens, who go tW the front and risk
in England.
If we let
Now I desire Wecal the attention of the their lives in the present war.
the arrny, what
hon. gentleman as tW whet-her this Bill and politica interfere with
wiil,
It
this new departure is liable te produce good wiil be tibe consequence'
create -bias
wrongly,
rightly .or
or tW produce evil; and in examining the
question I may say that 1 amn not biased one against the army. There will probably
way or the other, or influenced by any poli- be a contention that the army has been
tical consideration. Wlhen Lord Kitchener serving one party or the other, and after
was called to the positioni of Secretary of the war, when the time cornes te vote penState for War at the outbreak of the war last sions to the members ci the arrny or their
August, his appointrnent was acclaimed al families, then this Parliament will be diover the Empire because he was known vided: one aide will be ini f aveur of penas a great soldier and also a great ad- sions te those who have been injured, and
ministrator. He was equally qualified to the other aide will be againat it. I draw
exercise the office in one quality or. the attention tW this very serious consideration;
other. The qual-ty of administrator does it is likely We do a very great deal of misflot dispel the idea that the occupant of chief.
the office should close his eyes to ail politiAnother consideration to which I cal]
cal considerations; but he considered that your attention is that the exercise of the
the position of a soldier-for hie in-tended franchise is common property and it is
to accept office as a soldier-closed al on account of that that it is surrounded
avenues We politics; and in taking office niot only in the exercise of my own franhie announced that as a soldier he had no chise, but I arn equally interested in the
Hon. gentlemen, those words proper exercise of the franchise by niy
politics.
were very significant unider the circurn- neighbour.
Can we guard against the
stances. It v-as an expressin of opinion dangers which are incident upon the exerby Lord Kitchener 4that as long as the cise of this franchise under these circurnwar existed, as long as he occupied that stances on the other aide of the water? Lt
office he considered that his duty was te is universally acknowledged that the oath
rneddle in no ehape or form in politics, *ill not be binding. that Parliarnent has
and he did mot even intend to *be Tespon- no jurisdiction outside of the Dominion of
sible for the political. acts or the political Canada; any fraud may be cornritted, and
administration oi the Cabinet of which he there is no rernedy against it. If anything
was ta form part. Now, that was for tbe of that kind were We happen, what would
purpose of -reassuring public opinion in be the consequences?
It would be a scanEngland, on accounit of what had taken dai, not only here, but also in England,
place a few months before, and it was for and France, wbere most of our soldiers are
Ibhis purpase, 1 take it of giving guidance now. Another consideration which we
tW ail members of the rnilitary force. should net iose sight of is this: that in
In Encland they are exceedingly care- passing this Bill we are ±mposing duties on
of the
proud
fui and exceedingiy
Suppose
thie officers of the British arrny.
standing and reputation of the army.» the British officers refuse We discharge
They give ai the consideration possible those duties, what would, be the conto the arniy and they do it as a niatter of sequences? Lt would bc a rebuke to this
duty towards citizens who are sacrificing Parliament. Should we expose ourselves We
their lives, and tbey do it also for the pur- occupying- a position of that kînd? Lt seemns
pose of inducing citizens to join the arfliy to nie we should not go outside of our
and render good service.
jurisdiction, and I repeat tihat this Bill is
If one goes WeEngland hie la neeessarily destructive of the true military spirit. It is
struck by the consideratiofi extended to the * hable ta place the arrny, or the person
arnîy. Monuments after monuments are whom the Bill is intended to protect, in a
erected for the purpose of expressing the *very false position.
devotion of the English nation for ail mern*
I quite realize that the subjeect of
bers of the army who do honour to the na- this Bill is a matter pertaining printien. If we import politics into the Canadian cipally to the House of Couinons, but
army, or the military men who are calledt I niust say that, as a member of this
upon tW render eervice in England as pari lion. House, 1 cannot abdicate my own
of the Englisli army, are we going to proteci judgiient, and I believe we are hiere to
the interests of the army, or of the neinbers
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

APRIL 15, 1915

express our candid opinion on ail measures.
If there is a measure as to which there is
only a doubt, the doubt should be given iii
favour of passing the Bill, because it was
passed by the House of Comnions, but if
we consider a measure-as 1 consider tis
Bill-absolutely vicious, I dlaim it is tur
duty to voté against it. It bas been stated
[bat 've do not represent aiyboidy here
but ourselves. 1 cannot agree, and I mnust
say no lion. member of this House will
agree to that. We are, in effect, appùinted
by the Cabinet of the day on the recommendation of the first minister, and we are
appointed because we are supposed to represent the sober thoughts of the people of
this Dominion.
The clause was adopted.
On sub-clause 8:
In the case of any doubt arising with respect
to the candidate to whom a ballot paper marked
for the Government shall be allotted, the question shall be determined by the Prime Minister
or some persan designated by him, and if
such question arises with respect to a ballot
paper marked for the Opposition it shall be
decided by the Leader of the Opposition or by
soins persan desIgnated by hlm.
Hon., Mr. DAVID-Where there are two
Independent candidates, or perhaps a
Labour candidate, an Independent and a
Socialiet candidate, who will decide, where
the vote is given for the Independent, as
te which candidate it shouid go?

Hon. Mr. IOUGHEED-Tbe ballot really
anticipates that the vote will be betvcen
Opposition
the Government and the
0f course, provision is not
candidates.
[t
made for an independeîit candidate.
would be impossible te convey to the
soldiers in the foreign field the personnel
of any of the candidates.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I am risîngc now, to
make a philosophical objection ta the disI find there is very litile philcussion.
osophy here, except that my hion. nieiglibour
on miy left (Ilon. MUr. Bayer) lias saine.
We are discussing a Bili whichi we determined ta put an end ta. It is adiuitted
that we do ziat approve af the principie.
The CHAIRM,%AN-It is not
The principle lias been adopted.

admiitted.

Hon. -Mr. CLORAN-And now we are proposing- aniendiients ta a Bill ta whieli we
are entirely opposed. What is the abject?
1 say the discussion is absolutely useless.
The clause wvas adopted.
S-30
REVISED

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I désire ta move
,lhe adoption of an additional clause dealng with the appointment of acrutineers.
1 think some provision should be. made in
the Bill in order te give security that the
-I
jaiots are properly and fairly taken.
..herefore move that the following clause be
added .to'the Bill:
1'There shall be appointed by the Governor In

Council six scrutineers, three ta be so appointed
upon the nomination ofi the Prime Minister and
three upon the nomination of the Leader of the
Opposition, one of each nomination who may
be present at the distribution of ballot papers
and envelopes, the making of - affidavits, the
marking of ballots, the closing of envelopes, the
posting of the sanie, and may exercise persanally or by duly constituted representatives ail
rights which may, under Thie Dominion Elections Act, be exercised by candidates or their
representatives at any pol. At least eight days
notice in wrtting of the date and place when
the vote oi said volunteers will be taken shall
be given ta uaid scrutineers by the Regimental
Oflicers who will collect the votes, as afaresaid,
such notice to be addressed ta such scrutineers
In the care of the Secretary af the High Coinmissioner for Canada in London if the Regimental Officers are in Great Britain and ta the
care ai the Canadian Cammissioner in Paria if
*
nid Regimental Otflcers are in France, Belgium
or Germany."

Hon. Mr. DAVID-Is that clause sîmilar
1o the one whicb was inserted in the first
draît of the Bii i the House of CommonsP
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-It is with the same
ides. to a certain extent, but it s not identica-17- the samne clause.
Hon. INMr.LOUGHEED-I understand
that a similar clause was discussed in the
Comnmons and rejected.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-No, I doubt that
stateinent. There wvas a proposition that
tlyree conimissioners be -.ppgir.ted, on-e fro'm
the Goverriment side, one fromn the Opposition side, and the two would have the appointment o! a third commissioner, and if
they could not a !gre-e I think, it w~as provided that the Chie! Justice of the Supreme
Court of Canada shouid be appointed the
third coxnmissioner, and ta have the full
charge of the running of the election or the
superintending of the voting- by the soldiers abroad. This wvas not accoptcd, but
the suggestion lhad been niade across the
Hanse thiat scrutineers slionld be a.ppoi*nted
by bathi parties, and a Bil]; of wvhielh I have
a copy, was print-ed and distributed by the
Minister o. Justice which contains the very
principie which is nowv being embodied in
thait aniendmient.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Why not adhere
ta the clause which appeared in the Bilil in
the Hanse of Cannions?
EDITION

SENATE

Hon. 'Mr. DANDURAND-Because that
clause only provided for the appointment of
three scrutineers to aot for both parties and
did mot give thea -the right to appoint
dèlegates or representatives, because those
three scrutineers ini the clause drafted by
the Minister of Jlustice had -the right te
attend at the taking of the vote, et the makinglof -the affidavit, etc., but it is quite evident that the three scrutineers could not be
in difieren~t places on the same day, and one
would require teo go te England, another.to
Flanders another to Belgium.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
that not complicating the working out of the
BRI. It seema te me that every additional
cl1ause of that cha.racter which you add te
the Bill makes it more impracticable thon it
mnight otherwise be, and when yeu consider
that the armies may be scatçtered hundreds
and hundrede of miles from each other it
makes the working eut ef the Bill stili more
difficuIt.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-The hon. gentleman apparently realizes that the Bill will
be very difficuit te carry out.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLý-I
think se, and I think yeu are cemplicating it further by adding the clause.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-We maust not
forget that we are doing it practically
blindly. We are asking regimental officers
te do work which. they may refuse te do.
We are asking regimental officers wbo may
be Canadians te carry on the election, and
these officers may spurn the idea, ef carrying on an election in the trenches; but if
the officers will act, it seems te me we
should add somne other 'kind of safeguards
which wvill insure the proper taking and
registering ef votes.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The more the discussion proceeds the more ridiculous the
Bill becomes. The hon. senator has just
read an aniendrnent. te the Bill that eight
days' notice should be given before the
veting-. Bear this in mind and study it.
Supposing the House is disqolved the Ist
of June. nomination day is fixed for a certain date, say 23rd June, and the election
on lat JuIy. What happens? No man can
vote or make up his mind until nomination
has closed. No man here in Canada can
tell who he is going te vote for; lie will
flot know until the candidates are declared
for the Labour party, the Socialist party
or any other party.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat
i s previded for in the Bill.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-These provisions, as
far as Canada is concerned, are sane, but
absolutely insane as far as the seldiers
a-broad are eoncerned. The provisions of
the electoral iaw et Canada are sane. The
provisions in this Bill for casting votes in
the trenches are absolutely insane. How
will a commanding officer, who is supposed te be a returning officer in the eleciion, tell who às candidate in such and
such a constituency, without being given
notice by the Government? How will he
be able te establieh that there are two
Government candidates, and ne opposition
candidate, and se on? And when the High
Commrissioner ini London gets hîs information from the Dominion of Canada, he
transfers it te the paymnaster, and the paymaster has to transfer it te somnebody else,
te the captain et a brigade, or te a regimental officer et any kind, and that takes
time, and then these men go inte the
trenches where they are fighting for us,
They
for our country and the Empire.
pull the poer men away frem the trigger
of his gun, and say, - Who are yen geing
te vote for?" The people ef the country
sec the absurdity et it, but 'bon. gentlemen with as much commun sense as the
ordinary citizen& outside these walls tell
the country that this Bill is net in faveur
ef tbe soldier and that it is te bis detriment. You have forty men in a trench,
and a returning officer gees into a trench.
and wants them te vote. You have twenty
You
Liberals and twenty Conservatives.
are geing te have a vote among tbem right
on the spot. They are fighting the cornmon enemny, and then you invite them te
cerne and fight political batties on behaif
et Canada. There is going te be a squabbhe
in that camp. Tories and Grits will be
fighting among themselves. As the hon.
gentleman from Toronto said, this is meat
It is a freak, a farce
vicieus legishation
and a fraud.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I

wouhd

point

eut te my hon. friend that the amendment

proposed weuld be unworkabhe on account
ef its very complicated provisions, and if
my hon. ifriend bas axny intention, as he
apparently has, et attemýpting te impreve
this Bill, 1 think the amendment should net
go any further than what was contained in
the origfinal Bill.

APRIL 15, 1915
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-My hon. friend should
flot object to ail the safeguards put around
the votes ef the soldiers at the front. The
people should have sorne rights. This Bill
reminds me of what Dooley eaid when
Dooley and
Hennessey
Were talking.
Dooley said te, Hennessey, "Weil, what was
ail the trouble about?" and Hennessey said,
"Oh, they want 'te vote over there-the
Englishmen want te vote," and Dooley said,
"«Why don't they let thema vote? I wou]d
give them a ballot, but I would do the
counting myseif." In this case they want
to do the counting themselves.
The amendment was carried on a division,
and the clause as amended was adopted.
On clause 4-Volunteers in Canada-issue
of writ.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I propose another
clause in order to carry out the idea which
I tried to elaborate when I was speaking,
that we should place this Bill in a poFition
that it shah., not go into eff et until sanctioned by the British Government. I do not
'think I need elaborate this any more.
I
made it clear to the House this morning.
The clause I propose to add reada as follows:

not sacrificed their rig'hts as citizens of
Canada te exercise the franchise given them
as citizens of this country.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I should like te ask
in what other capacity are they now on the
Continent.
Hon. Mr. LOUJGHiÊED-As
diers of Canada.

citizen

sel-

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If Lord Kitchener
were te, overrule the exercise of this right,
iwhat position would we be in?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would say thiat
Lord Kitchener has a great deal more
wisdom than toi attempt te do anything of
the kind.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Then there
should be no difficulty in testing the matter
and ascertaining bis opinion.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We arc satisfied
to take chances on that.

Hon. Mr. MITCHELL-I should like te
ask the hon, leader of the Opposition what
position would Lord Kitchener and Sir
John French be in provided they refuaed
te carry thia out? I do net think we are
'No proceedinga shall be taken or had under striking ait the root of the thing. This
sections 2 to 4, inclusive, of this Act until a whole franchise le the most ridiculous
declaration hias been obtalned front the Secre- t1hing that ever was enacted in any country.

tary of State for -War In Great Britain that a
full and fair vote of the sald volunteers may
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
lie taken wlthout prejudice to military dlscipto
me
the
whole
pohicy
Une and wlthout interference wlth the effIiency seeme
ef mnllltary operationu, and the sme duly pro- adopted hy the leader of the Oppoclaimed iln The Canada Gazette."
sition is a most disingenueus mode of

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I might point eut
to my hon. friend that Canada could not
accept any humiliating position sucb as
that embodied in the amendment. Canada
possesses an autonomy of a sovereign state
as to its franchise, and to say that Canada
niust apply to the Secretary of War to put
in operation an Act'solernnly passed by the
Canadian Parliament, and particularly relating te, the franchise of Canada, would
be se humiliating and se campromising ef
the dignity of Canada that I arn astonished
at rny hon. friend propesing it.
Hou. Mr. BOSTOCK-I should like te
point out that when these men agreed to
serve their ceuntry, they placed themselves
under niilitary diseipline and military rules,
and they are now under inilitary authority
and military discipline under direction of
the British War Office.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They are acting
in their military capaoity, but they have

S--3oi

killing the Bill and rendering it utterly unworkable. We have had denuniciations of
the Bill in very strong language. We bave
had one hn_. gentleman declaring it an invention et the infernal regiens, and comparing it with the declaration ef Sherman
when lie said, -"Waris hell." We have had
the hon. gentleman from Toronto exhausting
ail the diotionaries that ever were printed
te find adjectives sufficiently streng te
cendemn the whole nieasure. It seems te
me that a more strailutorward method ef
killing the Bill would he te test the opinion
ef tffe Senate upon its merits by meving
that it lie rejected, or voting against it
instead et mutilating it in such a manner
as te render it utterly unworkable.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Might 1 ask the hon.
gentleman what 'his honest conviction is
regarding this Bill? Is it one that should
pass or net? And if he thinks se. is -be prepared te make, a motion in that direetion'

SENATE

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman will find out what my view
is when the vote is taken.

On clause Il:
"This Act shall only remnain in force durlng
the present war."

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-In what wvay will
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-But the hion.
gentleman may only -bave occasion to vote the war end? Wil1 it be by a declaration of
peace or a treaty?
on the amendmen't.
Hon. Mi. LOUGHEED-When there is a
Hon. Sir MA CKENZIE BOWELL - 1
derelaration of -peece, I would say the war
recognize that.
would be at an end, a.nd it can only posHon. Mr. DANDURAND-This is a hranch sibly apply to one election. There is no
where we are supposed te be independent probability of more than one election being
and able 'te express freely our opinion upon held under the Bill.
the value of legislation which is brought
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I we.s hoping that
before. us. I wcould be very much interested
to know if -the hon. gem1bleman thinks that it might not apply to any election at a!l.
th-at part of the Bill which refers to taki-ng
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-If the hon. leader
the vote of the men abroad facing 'the enemy would recall some of bis historical knowlis one which commends itself to his own edge he would recolleet that wars have conjudgment.
ti'nued for seven years, and even thirty
BOWELL-I years.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
think the principle is ail right. Whiat
,Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-And one hundred
troub'les me is the working out of it. What years.
still makes it more difficult for nme to unIlon. Mr. CLORAN-Yes, this Bill shaîl
deratand is the action of the hion. gentleman
who has just spoken, and those by whom he be enforced while tbe war lasts. I contexid
isý surrounded. They are trying te make it that legisiation of this kind ahould not be
enacted, on account of its indefiniteness.
more i.mpractioable than it realy is.
It ,should be enforced for a stated time.
Hon. Mr. DANIDURAND-I do no believe Who is going te tell us whether the war wifl
the firet part.of this Bill is workable. I last one year or tenP If hon, gentlemen
have not yeît been oonvinced that the ma- want my impression-and that will not
chinery provided for taking the vote of the make the war end' any the sooner-my
one hundr-ed thousand Canadians who are opinion is that it will last several yeara.
in the British army, under the ctirection of We are only on the skirmish now.
Wait
a British officer in a foreign land, will ac- until we drive the Germans back into their
comphish the object intended, and I do not own country, and see how long the war will
thik the vote can bo- properly takzen, but last when the allied forces are bound to
at least an attempt can be made to sur- fighti the Germans on their own territory.
round the votiing with the elements of safe- It may last five, ten or twenty years.
guard.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Well, move an
Hon-. Mr. CLORAN-Probably one of xny ainendment, and fix a day..
]ast words wiLl be those I amn uttering now.
Hlon. M. POIRIER-Make iA nineteen
I will sacrifice ail rny convictions and opinions if the Government of the day can ob- ven vs.
tain f rom Lord Kitchener, the general of
Hon. Mr. ÇLORAN-I think the hon.
the British army, bis approvai of this Bidil, gentleman from Ottawa bas raised a point
and that lie will allow the soldiers under thiat oughIt to be taken into consideration.
his comimand te, be in-terfered with by pctty Tfhis leg-isiation sbould flot be passed in
politicians, party heelers aind se on. If the such au inidefinite way.
Governmient can obtamn bis approval I have
The clause was adopted.
nothing more 4,o say.
Hon. '-\r. LOUGHEED--Alýl riglit, wc wvill
try and get it.
Ho-n. 'Mr. CLORAN-Will the Government
communicate with Lord Kitchener?
The motion was agreed te on a division,
and the ciause as amended ivas adopted.
Hon. Mr. KERR.

On sub-clause 5 of clause 4:
5. The returning officer shall notify the returning officer of each of such electoral districts that soldiers have claimed the right to
vote in such district. and the returning officer
so notified shall forthwith forward to the camp
or base returning officer a certifled copy of the
voters' lists for his electoral district, if there
bc such lists in force, and as soon as can-

APRIL 15, 1915
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Agents nîay be
appointed on behalf of either tha Governnment or the Opposition.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Going back to subHon. Mr. DAVIS-And what about the
clause 5 of clause 4. What is hie sending Independent?
a list for?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It simpiy means
clause
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This
that candidates will have a right to ap-,
refera to volunteers in Canada.
point their agents; that is ail it means.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-But why is hie sending
Hon. Mr. KERR-Does the Governmen't
a iiglit te vote,
a list? If a soidier dlaims
and the list comes down and his naine is pass an Order in CounedIli Or when it says
nlot on the list, will bis statement that lie the Opposition, does it mean that the Oplias a right te vote be accepted or will the position would eleet one? Or doas it mean
that the leader of the Opposition will aplîst govern?
point? Those are both weii-defined perHon. Mr. CASGRAIN-His atatement is Bons.
accepted under oath.
the hion.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-If
Hlon. Mr. DAVIS-What la the use of gentleman wiil read sub-clause 8 hie wvill
tiending a liat if his statement is to be used. find
It seenis to me fooiish.
8. In add:ton to agents who, may be appointHon. Mr. CLORAN-Everything is fool- rd inac or.l nce with the Dominion Elections
Act to repreFent candidates at the pol, agents
ish in the Bill.
may be suppointed on behalf off either the GovSehedule B ernm nt or the Opposition.
The CHAIRMAN-Should
forni part of the Bill?
rea:ds
Well, if the hion. geifleni
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Pardon me for ask- through this clause hie will find that there
ing another question, which is goimg back, is no one who is given authority to appoint
but in subciause 8 of clause 4 on page 6 on ibehaîf of the. Government.
"'the Government or rthe Opposition" is
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Or the Opposition.
referred -te there wîlth regard -te the appointment of agents. N«ow, who ia te name
Hon. Mr. DANDURANJJ-Or the Opthe agents in behalf of tha Government or position, and the case of the Opposition is
Opposition under thia Act?
stili more vague than the Government, beHon. Mr. DAVIS-There la no authority cause the Government can by resolution
appoint somehody.
given to any person.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I apprehend
LOUGHEED-That is done the
Hon. Mr.
sanie as under the Dominion Ehections from the subsequent language of the clause
that these agents are entiraiy apart from
The Opposition la weii defined.
Act.
the agents who may be appointed under
Hon. Mr. KERR-Who is to speak for the Dominion Election Act, that the canthem'
didates may appoint agents.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Who is -to speak for
And such agents shall have ail the powers
thieni? Thiat is what I was trying to find of agents of candidates under the said Âct,
on
entltled to exercise the
Those agents are in addition to 'th;? and be of ail candidates in ailsaid pow4rs disout.
The Do- bebalf for the party by whlch suchelectorai have
agents named by the candidate.
agents
tricts
minion Elections Act provides for the agent been named.
but when At c>nîes
named by the candidate,
It .is the party that appoints them.
to an election who is to appoint the agent?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Who ia the party?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The two leaders.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They need not
Hon. Mr. WVATSON-It does not say it. be specifical]y held down to the provisions
Hon. Mr. LOU.GHEED-I presume that in the Dominion Elections Act; a party
would be represented hy the candidate,
would be by the candidates.
apoint the agent.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-But your presumip- and the candidate will
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Biit in addition to
tion is neot iaw.
do uiot agents te be appointed under the Dominion
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No, I
Act, that is the candidate's
think se; it la independent; it la in addition Elections
agents.
to the candidates.
didates have been nomlnated send by telegraiih
the names of the candidates nomlnated te the
returning officer for such camp or base.

SENATE

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-When ýhe has appcinted an agent hie is done.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Then you provide
for other appaintments by the Government
or Opposition. -Who is to name themP
What authorityP Who is the Opposition?
I can understand the situation that a person cornes along and says they are the
Opposition; but a fellow -says, " The Opposition's scrutmneer is here now;" that
Opposition has failed, consequently -he has
no standing at ail.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN--You will have no
trouble with that.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I have a question
&hat has not been answered yet.

Schedules B3 and C were adopted.
The CHAIRMAN-Subsection 8 of section 4 is amended as follows: After -the
word " Opposition -in the 17th line, page
6, insert "«Authorized by the Prime Minister and leader of the Opposition respectàvely
in the Hôuse of Couininons.The amendment was agreed to, and the
clause as amended was adopted.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Is .there not some way
by which my hon. friend mig'ht amend
this subclause 5 of clause 4?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I rnay say this
for the instruction- of the polling offleer so
tha-t hie may classify the votes for the var-ious districts and so on. It is isimply for
Mr. LOUGHEED-If there is any information.
Hon.
doubt upon that point it has been .sugHon. Mr. DAVIS-By this extended frangested that it might read as follows:
chise you a-re going to let people who are
iot ont the list vote il they want to.
lie appointed by either the Government
May
or the opposition as nominated by the Prime
Minister or the leader of the Opposition respectively.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Çorrect.
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-A1l right.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I do not believe it would be fair to do thit ini this
way. How would they appoint agents in
British Columbia or elsewhere? How could
you consuit them? -Why not put it by
the Chief Justice of the province?
Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-No, the parties.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I have not had an
answer to my question yet.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-WVhat is the
question, again?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I wish the leader of
the House would read subelause 5 of
clause 4, and tell me what is the sense
of se'nding voters' lists from the inside
constituencies to your returning- officer at
the camp unless you are going to use the
voters' lists? If you are not going to
accept them as final, what is the use of
sending- t'hým?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-For the purpose of information.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-If you are going to
acicept the statement of the soldier at the
camp that lie has a right to, vote at a certain place, and accept that as absolutely
final, what is the use of voters' !its?
Hon. Sir M~ACKENZIE
lias to swear to it.
Hon. Mr. BOYER.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHFE-. -1f they are on
active service and coule within clause 1
of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-But they are not voiters unless they are on tie liait?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Then how can they
dlaim to be voters if they -are not on the
list of voters? You are opening the door
to ail kinds of jobbery and sculduggery;
that is what it is and nothing else. You
eau vote them &bythe bagful. You are
leaving the door open; tbley can vote them
by the wagconload. I can see the fine Italian
hand in that. Again, like Dooley, they
'want te do the counting. I have no objection to any soldier voting, and 1 thiink he
lias a perfect right to vote -in the conistituency to -which he belongs if he is on te
list; but simply by som-ebody coming up
and -,aying, "I belong to the constituency
of Nipissing-," or something else, without
any proof, ibut just on his own statement,
and contrary to the list in that constitueîîcy, you are openin.g the door to ail kindis
of jobbery and ail kinds of crookedness.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It is perfectly obvious that the clause as it stands is quite
absurd. The point is very well taken. You
eould open tlîis clause for 30,000 menHon. Mr. LOUGHEED--Certe'inly, fbut
we fix the franchise or the qualification
under clause 1 of the Bill, and this other
BOWELL-He is simply for the information cf the returninz officer.

APRIL 15, 1915

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-But the franchise
rests on their being part of tlie militia.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-And then they eaui
vote; 5,000 men go and vote in one electoral
district.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
Hon. Mr. )PEIQUE-Where is it deifmed?
Hon. M r. LOUGHEED-It i s qual.ified by
clause 1. If you will read olause 1 you
ivili see.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-If the voters' list has
no control what is it iar?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-For the information of the returning officer.
Hon. \r. DAVIS-The voters' list is to
give the a.nthority to those entitled ta vote
in a certain constituency. If people are
cn that ]izt and corne into the camp they
can vote, the list will say so; 'but you rnake
provision for the list ta be sent ta the returnin- officer, and hie is not obliged to use it.
Anybody cani vote by going out and m.aking
a statement that hie belongs to this place
or that place. In close cojistituencies you
cani shove in enough ta turn the scale.
This thing- is quite obviaus. The naine of
this Bill should be changed to read, "A
Bill for the purpose of returning the Tory
party." That is exactly what it is for.
Hon. '-%r. TAYLOR, frorn the comrnittee,
reported the Bill with certain ainendinents.
The aniendments were concurred i. on a
division.
CHOQUETTE-I would ask the
Hon. M-Nr.
hion. leader of the House if hie intends to
maove the third reading now?
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, rny intention is to iniove the third reading, with a
view of having the arnendnîents go downi
ta the House of Commions, so that that
House rnay consider them. Hon. gentlemen
will appreciate the fact that it may take
saine little tiiîne ta consider those arnendients in the House of Coinons. as pro7rogation is fixed for 4 o'clock.
Hon. 'Mr. CLORAN-Have the Bill xeprinted and Vhen we can ail understand it.
Hon. -Mr. LOUGHEED nîuved the third
reading of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I have not taken
up one mnient's time of this House during
the procedure that lias taken place thus
far, and I only desire ta say a few words.

Like my hion. friend from De Salalberry,
while I believe it is perfectly within the
competence of this House ta deal with al
Bills which corne before it, I must at the
same tirne frankly say that I have great
misgivings as to dealing with a Bill which.
hias ta do entirely with the franchise of the
House of Commons.
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear. hear.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-That has been my
misgiving throughout. As te the nature of
the Bill, I think it is unfortunate. It la
unhappy, and regrettable that iuch a Bill
should be introduced. 'However, I arn ane
of those who frankiy must say thjat I think
this House should be very careful in deaiing vrith. it. The Bill is one which ha.
opened up a very great deal of political
controversy. Some have deait with it in
a judicial manner and somne have deait with
il politically. Taking the last century of aur
hîstory Canada lias certainly ipassed through
miany crucial stages -%'hen it wa's necessary
for bath parties on certain occasions ta
corne together and avoid party conflict,
because of grave questions which had ta be
dealt with. But Canada, looking ta the
future, hias before it by f ar the most crucial
period of its history. For rnany years pant*
Canada over-developed beyond her resources.
borrowed too largely abroad and went f ar
too fast; a check necessarily had ta corne.
That check carne just when thîls unfortunate
and unhappy waT forced iteel! upon us.
Thiat we bave to see -it throughi there is nto
question, but the responsibilities which wili
devolve upon Canada after it is through wil
l)e very great. What I desire ta say is that
tixis is a tinie ta deal with questions in a
patriotic wvay in the interest of Canada, and
this ie the tinie when politics should .absolutely disappeai.
Severai lion. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Ion. 'Mr. EDWARDS-If there ever was a
time ini the history of Canada when strangô
Iiieîi. ab.e mcýa and business meni should be
at the head o! affairs of Canada it is now.
Pehps niy lion. friends l)elieve that a
change o! parties would have that effeet.
No, lion. gentlemen, juet so lonlg as mexi in
Parliaiinent plilv the political gaine we cannot have the iiost desiiable conditions. It
is a finie when the Premnier should caîl in
the strongest men in Canada ta forrn an
Admîinistration. I arn not for a moment
crîticisiflg the present Goverinent, but 1
simlply say this. that noa political body, Lib-

SENATE

gral or Conservative, can govern Canada today in its best interests.
We have largely over-buit railways, very
mucli to the detriment of Canada; and if
there is one thing above others which might
be done it is this: the Administration should
appoint to-day a commission, and a very
strong commission, to inquire into that matter and determine as to our railway requirements, and make an inquiry as ta how
mucli railway that is already .buil-t
can be dispensed with in the best inte.rest
My hon. friend -(Hon. Mr.
of Canada.
Choquette) says "Oh," but hie is not coinpetent to express a view upon that question.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I beg- your pardon; I just said that this question lias nothing to do with the Bill before the bouse.
1 do not think it is the proper time to discuss railway questions now; and as ta hein.conmpetent, 1 admit the lion. gentleman is
perhaps more eomipetent than 1 arn, but 1
know soniething on that subj oct too.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-The remarks which
I am rnaking- are pertinent to the question.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Military railways.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Not military rail,ways, but il is pertinent to the question as
to the position in which, Canada finds itself
to-day. Now I do flot 'want to detain the
Hlouse longer. I just wish to give expression
to this opinion; let us to-day join as patriots, flot as politicians or as party men,
but join in doin- .that which wili resuit in
the best interest of Canada in the future.
Canada lias a probleni to work out such as
no country involved in this war lias, not
even Belgium. Canada hias a far more difficuit question before hier to-day than hias
any other country involved in the war.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Whlat about the soldiers' vote?
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I arn not discussing that.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That

is wflat you

ouglît ta discuss.

arn discussing
involved in
this debate and on whicli 1 desire to express an opinion.
The SPEAKER-Is it your pleasure to
adopt this motion for the third reading?
Hon. M'%r.CHOQUETTE-It is just as
well to settie that question now. Those wvho
are in favour of the Bili wvill vote for it,
and those agaainst it wilI vote ag-ainst it.
Honi. MNr.

EDWARDS-I

the question iviin lias been

Hon. Mr. EDWARDS.

Especiaily after the speech of my hon
friend, I have decided to move the six
months' hoist. It is not a question of being
patriotic at the present moment. I am as
willing to ho patriotie here and elsewhere
as nîy hion. frîend, but I do not consider it
patriotie -to vote for an absurd measure.
I do not intend to stand in this House
and pass this measure as a patriot beicause
the Biil before us is impracticable. I wish
ta put the question plainly. 1 move, seconded by the hon. niember for Prince Albert
(Hon. Mr. Davis) that this Bill be not now
read the third time, but that it be read
the third time this day six months.
Hon. Mr. CLORA.N-No, after the war.
On the motion hein.- put:
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I had hoped
that mv hion. friend from Grandevilie would
not niake the motion he lias made; it is iiiadvised and 1 personal:y ani very much
opposed to it. not that I have any love at
ail for the Bill whieh we are asked to pass.
To cali it by a miid name, it is the most
extraordinary piece of legisiation ever
enacted by this Parliament or by any
British farliament anywhere in the worid.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Why not reject it?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I think we are al
agreed as ta the principie of the Bill, that
every citizen whether a soldier or not,
shouid have a vote and exorcise the franchise if it can be dono properly; but that
the Bill is unworkable, and is going to open
the door to a lot of fraud, there is no doubt.
This Biii, being concorned more particularly with the House of Commons than ourselves, 1 think we ouglit to pass it.
Several hion. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. DELCOURT-I hope it will not
bring upon us too severe a censure froin the
Im1perial Parlianient. At the time when
Canada is seeking to lie taken into the
couiàsels of the M-Nother Country in matters
of Nvar, inatters of peace, and niatters of
Imiperial policy; at a time wvhen we are
trving to have a word to say and
the
something when
say
expect to
tinie of peace-making comes, 1 doulit
very- miucli if aur action in passing this
IBil
is goinor ta help that aiong and
is going in any way to givo the Iimperial
Parhiarnent and the p-eople on the other
4ide the idea that we have got to the stag-e
-) rnaturity, to tlue stage of reasoning whlen
oc ouL-ht ta be allowed to have a word in

APRIL 15, 1915

the foreigan counsels of Great Britain. I
have notbing more to say except to express
the hope that the soldiers whio are doing
great service for Canada are going to use
the weapen which we are putting in their
hands with a great deal more caution, sagacity, consideration and deliberation than
we have heen giving to the »passing of this
legislation.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-If' any argument
has been advanced to-day to reject thîs
Bill the hion. gentleman bas given it; and
wby in the face of bis argument that the
Bill is perfectly absurd and unseless aild
against the British position, bie is stili going
to vote for it, passes my comprebension;
but mny comprebension will make me vote
aainst the Bill.
The SPEAKER-The question is new on
the amienidnîient.
Honi. '\r. DAVIS-i want te speakz to the
anîendiiient as seconder. Let me say, te
start with. that I think it is an outrage on
the part of tlue Governinient to try to railroad hegishatien hike this through the House
in the dving lîours of Parliarnent, to choke
off discussion of it. Every year we find tbe
same thing; the most important Bis are
kept to the hast part of the session and rail,
Now we are
roaded througb the House.
tohd that Parhiament is te be prorogued at
4 o'clock, without consulting- us; we bave
nothing to say in tbe matter, I suppose.
As f ar as I arn concerned, 1 ain goina te
exercise my right te discuss tbis Bill If 1
want te, and at such length as I please.

something without consulting the people
in charge at the present time. The tbing
appears to me to be ridiculous. We pass
le-lislation here to do something outside of
th is country.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-We have amended it.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Yes, but it was not
right in the first place. You pass legisiation to take affidavits in Flanders, but you
have nio awthorîty to take affidavits in
Flanders or Germany or France or any
other foreign land. To my mind the wbole
thinga is ridiculous. Just imagine your
pack of beelers, as we will cali them, with
the ballet boxes on their back wbere the
sheils are bursting«, trying- to get votes.
Hon. Mr. WATS ON-They will not bie
there.
Honi. Mr. DAVIS-No, they will net bie
there. I niay repeat wvhat Dooley said,
Yen want te give them the vote and counit
themn yourselves. The thing is absohutehy
I am sorry that iny .lion.
ridiculous.
friend bas moved the six montbs' boist. It
Nvould have been better if he had moved
to ehîminate clauses 2 and 3 and the scbednies working in with those clauses, that
-veuld provide cutting eut the vote with
reference te our own country and giving
the men bere the rigbt te vote at home.
However, by giving it the six months'
hoist 1 do flot suppose you will interfere
with the vote of men here, because they
can go home and vote wbiere they behong.
At the saine time, it would probahly be
better if we liad left the Canadiani part in;
but as iny bion. friend bas rnoved the six
rnonthis' beoist, and a strong disease cails
for strong miedicine, 1 shall vote for it.

Several lion. GENTLEMEN-Hear, bear.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I quitc agree that, as
far as the vote taken on this Bill is concerned every lion, gentleman bas a right te
express his own opinion and vote accord- 1 do neot think the Governinent can be

ingi y. If iny neighbour votes for the ineas- sincere iii briinging this ineasure down. It
ure, 1 have nothing te say against hinm, but is the haughiiig-steck of the country. The
I bave gene into this tboroughly and -witli traditional policy of Great I3ritain bas been
w-bat intelligence I pessess, and I think th~e net t o introduce party polities in the Army
LilP is the mnost ridiculous proposition 1 or the Navy. Do yoý think you are going
I cannet concçive o! the te introduce absurd politics into the arîîi'
e,-ec heard of.
(ioveriimient bringýing in tlîis ineasure for in Europe anîd have eue part votig aud
any ether purpose than te try te miake Ithe otlier part net voting-? it is ridicuhous,
sortie cheap, very cheap pelitical capital and I shahl vote for the six iiontlîs' hoist.
The ainendiiient was dcclared lest on the
lion. friend knows, ai:.] c--~r
eut of it. MNV
!owing division:
in this leuse knows, tha
getlean
bon
when ene of our men steps on British soi
CONTENTS:
lie becomies a British soldier under the
The Henou rable Messieurs
control of the British War Office, and we Choquette,.
Montplaisir,
Power,
have nothiing more te say about bis actions.c lran,
Ratz,
Thev bave the rigbt te say wbetber bie shah] Davis,'
Roche,
go biere or ti.ere or what bie shall do; Ye, Dessaulles,
Thompson-12.
Lavergue,
bere we are legislating that bie shall do Legris,

SENATE

NON-CONTENTS:

The Honourable Messieurs
Edwards,
Baird,
Kerr,
Belcourt,
Lougheed,
Bolduc,
McKay
Bestock,
(Cape Breton),
Bowell
Ross <Moosejaw),
(Sir Mackenzie),
Rose <Middleton).
Casgrain,
Talbot,
Dandurand,
Taylor.
David,
Watson-18.
Dennis,

Hon. Mr. LAVERGNE-I move that this
Bill be not now read, as it is not printed
in French.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Too late.

Hon. Mr CLORÂN-Then I appeal from
the decision of the Chair
hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Too late.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is not too late, not
before the legisiation is passed.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-We can protest.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-A proitest does not
counit for anything I appeal from the
decision of the Chair,. seconded by hon.
Senator Lavergne, in the interests of bilingualisni.
The SPEAKER-T-be question is on the
decision of the Speaker; shall the decision
oi the Speaker be sustained?
Some hon. GENTLEMAN-Carried.
The SPEAKER-The decision of the
Speaker is sustained.
The Bill was then read the third time as
aniended, and adopted on- a division.
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock
this afternoon.

Hon. Mr. LAVERGNE-I do not care for
any of the gentlemen here; I arn ry own
boss; I do not recognize any boss. I arn a
senator, and 1 speak in rny own namne. 1
oppose this reading because it is an outrage on the French lang«uag-e. I know this
Goverrnent is flot willing« to give justice to
the French people. I have observed it on
niany occasions. I have asked rnany a tinie
to get F'rench documents, but could not get
them. Now it is not because this Bill is not
Second Sitting.
right otherwise, but because it is not printed in French, and the Governrnent has no
SPEAKER <Hon. Mr. Landry) took
The
right to, pass this Bihl unleas it is printed the Chair ast 5.30 o'clock.
and distributed to the membrs in French.
Routine prooeedinge..
That is a constitutional, right.

1 THE ABSENCE 0F SPEAKER LANDRY.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
The SPEAKER-In resarming my seat, I
the point
The SPEAKER-I believe that
would like to -ive only one word of explanais taken too late.
tion for my recent absence.
Somne hon. GENTLEMEN-No, no.
I shail not refer to the past on.ly to say
The SPEAKER-Thie question is on the that, though I attach very littie importance
to the fact thaï, ny last two decisiorîs have
third reading..
reversed, I con-fees that I feit deepdy
Hon gentle- been
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Ohb, no.
the defection of Conservative frîends which
mnen, the Speaker haslias beein manifested by the hostile vote of
cannot be any somne of themi by, the abstention of some
POWER-There
Hon. M.Nr.
otbers. Thiat reason alonie prompted me to
debate when the vote is beingu taken
preside over a House which failed
decline tVo
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-But the hon. sen ator to give me the expected support.
bas just declared, in answer to the member
Now thaj ail contentions matters have
froin Arthabaska, that his motion not to been sett1él, without any participation of
proceed furtber with the Bihl should be mine, I feel it my duty to take part in the
adopted on the -round that the Bill is not closiîîg of Parliamient, and to be at my post
in French; that is bis constitutional priyi- at tbis last call of the Crown.
leg-e.
I do so ail the more wihllingly because I
the best assurances that my
The SPEAKER-I ruled that this motion have received
Now you have a righlt to last decisions were strietly ini conformity
wvas out of order.
wvitli the law, and that action wild be taken
appeal froin my decision.
which will ensure the full recog-nition of my
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That is W-hat I want rights as Speaker of this House.
to do, if I can get a seconder.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Is tbere any comnment to be made on that statement?
Hon. Mr. LAVERGNE-I will second it.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

APRIL 15, 1915

Some hion. GENTLEMEN-Order! order 1
order! The Chair is preeent.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It ia the firat time it
has been here for three days.
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Order, order.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I understaud this
matter just as we1J as hion. gentlemen. I
am askin.g the Chiair if -comment cari be
made.

absence of any such scrutineer or deputy scrutineer on behalf off elther party."
And by addlng lmrnediately after Section 3.
the followlng:
"'(3a) Sections 2 and S off this Âct shall fot
corne Into force until a proclamation by His
Majesty ln Council declaring themn to be in
ln The Canada
force shall be publshed
Gazette." .
Ordered. That the Clerk do carry the sald
Message to the Senate.
Attest
THOS. B. FLINT,
Clerk off the Commons.

The SPEAKER-No, there is nothing beHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I move that the
fore the Chair.
Senate does not insist on its amendment,

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No, only the person but that, it concuT in the ai-nudments made
by the House of Gommons as rea-d by the
in the Chair. I arn glad to see hirn there.
C]erk.
VOTES FOR SOLDIERS BILL.
The m~otion was agreed to on a division.
AMENDMENTS

CONSIDERED.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I move that a
A message wvas received from the Hou se message be sent to the Hou-se of Gommons
of Commons informing Their Honours that informing that House that the Senate does
thley hiad considered the -amendment made not insist on its aniendment but that irt
by the Senate to Bill (111) entitled an Act concur in tLie amendmients mnade by the
miflitary
to enable the soldiers on active
service durîng the present wvar to exercise
thieir electoral franchise. The message was
read to the House as follows:

House of Cornrons,
Thursday. làth April, 1915.
Resolved, That a Message be sent to the Senate to inform. their Honours that this House
doth not concur in the amnendments made by
their Honours to Bill No. 111. " An A4ct to enable Canadian Soldiers on Active Milltary Service during the present war to exercise their
electoral franchise," and that this House doth
propose in lieu thereof that the sald Bill be
arnended by adding to Subsection 2 off Section
2 the followlng:
IlThere shahl he appointed by the Governor ln
Council six scrutineers, three to be so appointed
upon the nomination off the Prime Minister and
three upon the nomination off the Leader off the
Opposition, such appointments to be made withln ten days of such nominations respectlvely.
One of each nomination may be present at the
distribution of ballot papers and envelopes, the
rnlaking of atridavits, the marking off ballots, the
chosing off envelopes and the posting of the
sa me, and rnay exercise aIl the rights which
may, under The Dominion Elections Act, be
exerclsed by candidates or their representatives
at any poil. The actual travelling and living
expenses off such scrutineers at a rate to be

House of Commiions.

Hon. Mr. DANDURAND-Before this
motion is adopted I should like to add a
few words to the debate which has taken
place on this Bull and on o'ther Bille which
have been passed and amended by thie
Chamber. I have heard through. the press
that complaints have bee¶1 made that the
mai ori'ty of the Senate, or the Senate itself,
had shown

con siderable tpartisoanship

in

their dealing with public Biils during the
present session. 1 should like to draw the
attention of the parties who have expressed
that opinion to the fact that the majority in
this Chamber lias oftener during the late
Administration than under the present Administration amended public Bills that
came from the other House. We dîd so with
considerable independence. The Senate has
been reproached because the branch limes
Bills whichi the Government sought to buy
by Order in Council and without sanction
of Pairliament, was so amended by the Senate that it liad to be rejected hy the House
I want to affirin tliat in
fixed by the Governor in Council, may be paid of Coninioln.
out off the Consolidated Revenue Fund, and 1910, whien there was a very large nmathey shahl be afforded facilities for the performance of their duties. The said scrutineers may
narne such number off deputies as they rnay
deemn necessary and said deputies shaîl have
and be entltled to exercise the powers herein
above conferred on said scrutineers.
That in Subsection 2 off Section 2 the followlng words be inserted after the word "votes"
in line 10 of the second page, "and shaîl give
in addition to the general notice a special
notice to any person whose appointmnent as a
deputy scrutineer under the provisions hereinaffter made have been notified to him and shal
permit any scrutineer or deputy scrutineer so
named to be present at said proceedings in the

joritx' in the Senate in sympathy with
the thiei Administration, a similar Bill

came11

before

this

Chamiber

for

the

l«easz-iig oi two branches that tapped
the Intercolonial Railway, or connected
w'Ili thie Intercolonial Railway in snme way.
This Chamber not only added a clause to
that Bill to provide that those railways
should not be liought without the sanction
of Parliamient. but addled that the Rail!vay

SENATE

Commission, which was then in control of

the Intercolonial railway, shoujld make a
report te Parliament upon the value of this
railway, in order that when these leaseswhich would be tantamount te a purchase,
inasmuch as they were 99-year leases-came
before Parliament we could judge, with a
full knowledge of the tacts, of the value of
Well, two years alterthe transaction.
wards, under the present Administration,
Parliament was asked te supplement that
Act and authorize the purchase of those
branches outright. Instead of surrounding
that Bi11 with ahl the safeguards with which
we had surrounded the Bill of 1910, we
simply added that ne such branch lines
should be bought without the sanction of
Parliament being given te it. Now, this
was rejected by the lower House. I amn
convinced that the Senate was then pretectina the interests et Canada. During this
session the saine Bill was broug-ht before us.
It contained a special clause which stated
that ne meney would be paid upon the purchase of those lines without the sanction
of Parliament. That wvas going in the direction, te a certain extent, et the amendment
which the Senate had made the year before,
and which had been turned down by the
Heuse of Gemmons; yet 1 arn sure the
Senate could have genie further and stated
that the contracts should be submitted te
Parliament for its sanction, yet we allowed
the Bill te pass. It is perhaps tee late te
make a review et the divers amendments
which the Senate judged preper te makes te
public Bills, but whenever the majerity et
this Chamber passes from the left te the
right, 1 hope that ur friends on the opposite side will show as great. a measure ef
independence as we showed towards the
preceding- Administration that had appointed a mai erity o! the members la this
Chamber. Now we are just passing a Bill
which we have amended. The Gemmons
refuse te accept our amendments and ask
When
us te take Qubstitute amendments.
they are examined closely they practically
tend te the saine end, but 1 think whien
our w'erk ia exainined it will be found by
the country at large that the Senate have
donc nothing but their duty in sug-gesting
those aniendments. We here are a branch
of Parliament having equal pewers with the
House of Gommons, and I should be very
sorry for the usefulness ef this Chamiber if
we did net exercise the severeign independence of our minds and consciences in discharging the duties that have been confided
te Us.
Hon. Mr. DANDURA.NP.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Following in the line
just laid down by the hon. Senator
Delerimier, 1 wish to answer a charge of
the Prime Minister of this country that the
Senate is a partisan body willing to do the
bidding of a certain man called the leader
of the Opposition. Here, on behaif of myself, and -I think on behalf of quite a number of other senators, I deny that charge
and throw it back at him. I amn fully justified la doing and saying so by the acts and
words of the senators who have taken part in
the debate on this Bill. What do we find?
We find the brightest intellects, experienced
men-not young men like myseif. but old
men--denouncing this Governrnent measure
as infamnous, vicious, impracticable, absurd, and se on. After denouncing the
Bui, they show their independence by
vot.ing for it. Now, what bas the Prime
Minister so say of that? Here are senators in this House wlio ýell the Prime
Minister and his Governmient that his Bill
is infamous, impracticable, vicious, ahsurd, and an outrage on the soldiery of
Canada; and yet they turn round and vote
for it. Is that not an illustration of their
independence? And the Government carried its Bill by six so-called independents.
That is the position, se far as th-is Bill
is concerned, and so far as the charge of
the Prime Minister agairist the Senate is
concemned. These are plain facts. They
are awful to state, but they are more
than awful to admît and to have to
swa]low. I hold that on this Bll the
majority are aceeptîng the rejection of our
amendments by the House of Gommons,
.and substituting some paltry aniendments.
Is that not independence? Is tihat net
giving the Government fair play; and the
Government intended -te have a mailed
leve to hold over the electorate of the
Dominion of Canada. That is what they
intended through this Bill--nothing else.
a mailed glove; votes that could be couinted
for them and against the Liberal party of
the Dominion of Canada. The people believe that the seldiers in the trenches
should not vote, that the Bill is a disg-race
to Canada, and will net be sanctioned if
Lord Kitchener holds to bis saying-" 1
am a soldier; no politica in the trenches,
ne politics for me in the War Office."
The Senate ef Canada shows its independence by swallewing such a Bill as
thiat. What has the Prime Minister te sav
against it? Is that net enough for mie?
,Hon, gentlemen, I tell you that w'hen the
country and the people ef Canada come
to analyse that Bill, and understand it, as

APRIL 15, 1915
Thon, after the Cderk of the' Orown ini
the soldiers of to-day understand it, instead of the ballots being thrown to the Chancery had read t.he titile of these Bills,
To these Bis the Royal Assent was proGovernmient the muakets will be turned
againat them; and I hold that the charge nounced by the Clerk of the Senate in the
made against this House of want of in- following words:
"In Hi s Majesty's«name, His Royal Highness
dependence and of awful paTtisanship 13
the Governor General thanks His Royal Subnot well based.
jects, accepts their benevolence, and assents
to these Bis."
The motion was agreed to.
The Clerk of the Crown in Chancery read
the Tities of the Bis to be passed -as folSUPERANNUATION 0F CIVIL SERlow:
VANTS.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There is a amal
matter which I desire ito bring to the atIn the report of
tention of the Senate.
the Internal Econoniy Conmmdttee superof the staff, proannuatinga certain
vision was not made as to the date when
the superannuation should go into operation, and the conscquence is that those
servants wvill be deprived of their superanimation, or of their salaries. 1 therefore
inove that the superannuation of Jos.
Larose, doorkeeper. and A. F. Roipli, curator of the reading roonm, do commence on
the lst of June next.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senaîte adjourned during pleasure.
THE PROROGATION.
After somne time the Senate was resumed.

An Act respecting a patent of John Millen
and Son, Limited.
An Act respecting Seed Grain, Fodder and
other relief.
An Act to amend the Yukon Placer Mining
Act.
An Act to amEnd the Gold anti Silver MarkIng Act 1913.
An Act for the relief of Edith Marguerita
Lyons.
An Act to amend the Inland Revenue Act.
An Act to arnend the Government Railways
Act anti to authorize the purchase of certain
railivays.
An Act to amTend the Criminal Code.
An Act for the relief of Cecil Howard
Lambert.
An Act to amend the Representation Act,
1914.
An Act to amend the Adulteration Act.
An Act to amend the Winding-Up Act.
An Act to amenri the National Transcon-tinental Railway Act
An Act to amend the Dominion Elections
Act.
An Act to amend the Dominion Controverted
Elections Act.
An Act to amend the Canada Grain Act.
An Act to enable Canadians on Active
Military Servic during the present war to exerclie their electoral franchise.

Mis Royal Highness the Governor General having conte and being seated on the
Throne.
To these Bis the Royal Assent wvas proThe Hlonourable the Speaker commanded nounced by the Clerk, of the Senate in the
the Gentleman lisher of the Black Rod to foulowing words:
" In His Majesty's namne, His Royal Highness
proceed to the House of Commons and
the Governor General, doth asecnt to these
acquaint that House that,Buis."
IIt is His Royal Highness the Governor GenAfter which Mis 'Royal Highlness the Goveral's pleasure that they attend him immediernor General was pleased to close the Fifth
ately in the Senate.Session of the Tw'elfth Parlianient of the
Wh'Io being corne with their Speaker.
Dominion of Canada, xvith the following
Then the Hionourable the Speaker of the Speech:
Ilis Royal
Ht'use of Commuions addressed
1-Ii2i'less the Governor Generai, as fol- Tlonourabic Octicmicit of the ,Seizate:*
Gentlemen of the Iiouse of Coizions:
iows:
in relieving you for the present fromn your
'May it please Your Royal Highness:
arduous duties 1 desire to thank you for the
The Commons of Canada have voteti the
Supplies required te enable the Goveromnent to
defray the expenses or the Public Service.
Iii the naine of the Commons. 1 present
to Your Royal Highness the following Bill:-

- An Act for granting to His Majesty certain
sumns of money for the Public Service of the
financial years ending respectively the Slst
March. 1915, and the Zlst March, 1916,' to
these Bills 1 humbly request Your Royal High-

mmess' assent.

Als;o An Act for granting to His Majesty aid
for Military and Naval Defence.

diligence and zeal with which you have discharged them, and especially for the timely and
effective measures which you have taken for
necessary co-operation with the United Kingdom and the other Dominions of His Majesty
in the tremendous war which has been forced
up-n our Empire. It is my earnest prayer and
my firm hope that the aid thus promptly and
generously giveni will contribute, in no small
measure, to that complete and unmistakeable
success of the allied arms .which alone can
bring an honourrible and lasting peace.

SENATE

As this great struggle proceed > there is no
and deabatement in the Intense earne;tnes
termination of the Canadian people ta unite
their efforts with those of all the British
dominions for the maintenance of aur Empire's
integrlty and for the preservation of Its Institutions and liberties. From Atlantic ta Pacific
the splendid response ta the cai for men has
fully equailed ail anticipations.
In common with ail the people of this Dominion, I have been proud ta learn that the
Canadien soldiers have sbaWn conspicuous bravery and efficicncy la the field of battie, and
that they have borne themeselves worthily when
ilghtlng aide by aide with the beet troops of
Uic Empire-

Gentlemen of' the Hou8e of Commons:
ln His Majesty's name, 1 thank you for the
liberai provision you have made for carrylng
on the affaire of the country and for meeting
the necessities of the war under the trying conditions whlch It has brought about.

Honourable Gentlemen aof the Senate:
Gentlemen of the Hanse of Comnians:
I bid y.ou now farewell, ln the earnest hope
that the terrible confiict ln which the Empire
la engaged may be brought ta a speedy and
favourable conclusion, and in the firm belief
that aur country under the blesslng of Divine
Providence, wlll then resume unchecked that
career of marked progress and abundant prosperlty which It la destined ta enjoy.

INDEX
PART 1-SENATOJIS
The. following abbreviationm are uued: lut IL, Znd R., Urd R., lot. 2nd and àrd Readinge;
-without remark or debate; Âcet., Âccountm; Âdjn., Adjourn; Adjd., Âdjourned; Amt., Amendment; Âmte., Amendmentm; B.. Bill; B.0., British Columbia; Can., Canada or Canadian; Com.,
Oommittee; Co., Company; Conadn., Consideration; Cor., Correspondance; Dept.. Department;
Goyt., Goyernment; Hie Ex., Hia ExceUlency thie Governor General; H. cf C., Bouge of Commonu;
Ineorp., Incorporation; Inq.. Inqulry; Mmn., Manitoba; Me., Massage; M., Motion; Me., moved;,
N.B., New Brunswick; N.W.T., North-wemt Territorles; N.,. Noya Scotia; Ont., Ontario; Parl.,
Parliament; P.E.I., Prince Edward Island; P.O., Post Office; Ques., Question; R.Â.. Roy-il
Assent; Rem., Remarks; Rep., Reported; Ret., Iieturned; Rýy., Railway; Sel., Select; 6 M. h.,
Six Months' Hloist; Withdni.. Withdrawn.

BEIQUE, Hon. P. L,
Bilingual School Question: rem., 115-120, 252,
276-078.
Canada Grain Act Anit Bill (S) : ln Com.,
rerm., 416s-414.
Comm-erial and Financial Intereets Bill, rem.,
28-29.

Criminal Code Act Aint Bill (74): rem., 272;
ln 0Cm., rom,. 286, 299-300.
Ottawa amnd N. Y. Ry. Co. Bill (2.4): reported
with anit, 73-74.
Savlngs Banks Interest rem., 341-342.
Sonate, Contingent Accoumte of the, rem.. 2'92,
3.93; (on Oth Report). 151, 352. 368
Sonate. Standing Orders of the:- rom., 14 6-147.
Votes for Soldiers .Bill'(111) : ln Cor., rem.,
463-465.
BELCOURT.

Hon. N. A.

Bilingual School Question: rem., 359.
Criminal Code Acit Âmt. Bill (74) : ln Cor.,
remn. 2S3, .284.
Dominion Contr.verted Elections Act Amt. Bill
(109) : ln Com., rem.. 419-42e.
National Wood Distilling Co. Bill (G), 3rd
B., 144.
Pollution of Navigable Waters Bill (B) : int..
21, 2n4 R, 25, m. M5; 3rd R, 73.
Premier Trust Co. Bill (E) : in-t., 59; 2nd R.,
96 ; 3rd RL, 153.
Senate, Contingent Accts. of the: rom., 297;
(on 6th report), 317-318, 352-354, 366.
Votes for Soldiers Bill (111). ln Coni., rem..
472-473%
Yukon Placre Mining Act Ait. Bill (67):
rom., 174.
BOLDUC, Hon. J.
Bihingual School Question: rem.. 155-157, 336327.

BOLDUC,

Hon.

J.-Cont.

Transcontinental Trains. Discontinuance of:
rein., 89-85.
Votes for Soldiers Bill (111) : ruling au Acting

Speaker on Lavergne's motion, 474.
BOSTOCK. Hon. H.
Address. The: mem., 6-10.
Britih Army Service Revolvers

Purchsae:

inq., 172.
British Columbia Botter Terme Corn.: nq., 45.
British Columbia Indian Reserves Corn.: Inq.,
30.
British North Âenerlce. mnt: rem, 2112-Z13.
British Columbia Southern Ry. Co. Bd11 (31):
int., 59; 2nd IL 76; ird RL 14U3.
Canada Grain Act Am.t. Bill (,S): in corn., 413.
Canada Preferred Ins. Co. Bill (42): Int., 59;
2nd R., 76; 3rd R., 1:29.
Canadian Northern Ry. Advances: Inq., 145.
Commercial and Financial Interests Bill: rem.,
27.

Criminal Code Act Âmt. Bill (74).: rem.. 324.
Customs Tariff Act Amt. B. (75) :rem., 195199.
Dom. Elections Act Amt. B. (110) :rem., 411.
Dominion Notes Bill (95) : rem., 290-291.
F'raser Valley Terminal Ry. Co. B. (55) : int.,
152; 2nd R., 152: 3rd R.. 184.
Bill (105) : rem.,
Govt. Railways Act Am.
302; ln Cor., rem., 326, 327, 328.
Jaffray, the late Senator: rem., 23-24.
Kettie Valley Ry. C. B. (51) : tnt.. 152; 2nd
R., 152; 3rd R., 184.
Kirchhofer, the late Senator: rem., 23-24.
National Wood Distilling Co. Patent Bill
N19): !nt., 59 ; 2nd R., 109.
NP.& B. C. Ry. CO. Bill (36): int., 69; 2nd
R.. 76; 3rd R., 143.

SENATE

BOSTOCK,_

Hon. H.-Con.

Oriental Immigration: Inq., 322.
Pacific Coast Dredging: inq.. 322.
Porcupine District, Alien Population in: inq.,
386.
Revelstoke Park Roads: Inq., 194.
Rules, Suspension of. rein., 154.
Seed. Grain and Fodder Relief B. (85) : 2nd
11:239-24 0.

Senate, Contingent Accounts of: (1Oth report);
rein., 423; 425-426.

Senate, Increase of the: remn., 244-245.
Session, Business of:- rein.. 34.
Southern Centrai Pac. Ry. B. (26):* Int, 43;

CASGRAIN, Hon. J. P. B.-Con.
Government llailways Act Aint. Bill (105):
remn., 332.
Montreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal
Co. Bill (52): int., 109; 2nd RL, 129; 3rd
R., 183.
Montreal and Southern Counties Ry. Bill
(13) Int., 3; Zrd R. 95.
Officiai Publication Distrtbution: remn. 98-99.
Senate, Contingent Accts. of: (on Oth Report),
371.
Transcontinental Train Coet: inq., 97.
Transcontinental Trains, Discontinuance of:
remn., 76-82.

2nd R-, 59 ; 3rd ]EL, 96.
P. A
Supply Bill Number One (123): remn., 434- CHOQUETTE, Hon.
437.
139-142;
Blingual School Question: remn,
Supreme Court Act Arnt. B. (121): rein., 360.
question of privilege. rem., 143; question
Trust Conipanies: M.., 233.
'Unemployment in Canadian Cities: inq., rein,
59-61.
Vancouver Lite Ina. Co. B. (45) : Int., 59;
2nd 1., 76; 3rd RL, 129.
Vancouver, Victoria and Eastern Ry. Navigation Co. B. (38) - int., 59 ; 2nd R., 76;
3rd R., 144.
Votes for Soldiers B. (111) : inq., 444, rei..
446; ln Coin., remn., 465, 467.
War Expenditures B. (76): in Corn.. rein.,
241-242.

BOWELL, Sir Mackenzie.
Bilingual School Question; remn, 245-251; 339.
Custoins Tariff Act Anit.. Bill (75) : rein.,
237-238.
Senate, Contingent Accounts of the* remn.,
295: (on 6th Report), 315-317; (lOth Report, rein., 421. 422.
Votes for Soldiers Bill (1111": in Coin., rein.,
467-468.
BOYER. Hon. A.
166-168;
Bilingual School Question: rein.
335-336.
Net Fishing in Lake of Two Mountains: M.
71; rein., 74.
Speaker, Robes of the: rein.. 439-440 ; 442.
Transcontinental Trains, Discontinuance of:
rein., 90-191.
Translation, Cost of: rein., 434.
CASGRAIN, Hon. J. P. B.
B.C. and White River Ry., B. (7): Int., 43;
3rd K, 95.
Canada Grain Act Aint., B. (S) : rein., '391392.
Colonial Bank of Canada Incorporation, B.
(69) : int., 142; 2nd E., 145; 3rd R., 153.

of privilege, 183; rein-, 337-338, 379-382.
C.M.B.-A. Bill (4) : rein., 185, 186.
Landry, Absence of Speaker: rein., 380.
Minutes, Error ln the: rein., 442-443.
North Ry., Purchase of: inq., 273.
Quebec Harbour Commission: rein., 442.
Senate, Contingent Aocounts of the: rei.,
295 ; (on 6th Report), 348.
Senate, Rtules and Standing Orders of: rem,
274-275.
Transcontinental Trains, discontinuance of:
remn, 168-170.
Votes for _Soldiers, B. (111) : rein.. 447-450;

454-456.
CLORAN, Hon. H_ J.
Ammonia Suiphate Tariff: inq., 30.
Bank Act Axnt. Bill (78): remn., 193-194.
Bilingual School Question: rein., 254-265,
#338-339.
Act Amendinent: rein., 213-214: ln
B.N..
coin., 218-219, 220, 227-228.
Canada Grain Act Aint. Bill (S) * ln Coin,
rein., 405-406.
C.M.B.A. Bill (4) : rein., 186-187.
Companies Act Anit., B. (A): 2nd R post.,
333-34:; withdrawn, 75.
(4) * in Coin.,
Criminal Code Act Arnt. I.
rein., 283, 286-287 ; rein.. 32,; 324, R2;.
Crude Oul Importation: inq., 30.
Custoins Tariff Act Arat., B. (75) : rem.,
204-205.
Debates, Omission in: remn., 43-44.
Dominion Elections Act Âint., B. (110) : ln
Coin., rein., 417.
Fuel oil Importation: inq.. 30.
Gold and Silver Marking Act Aint., B. (W):
rein., 189-190.
CGoverninent Railways Act Aint. Bill (105) :in
Coin.. rem., 328; rein., 331-332.

INDEX

DANDURAND, Hon. R.-Con.
CLORAN, Hon. H. J.-Con.
Landry, Absence of Speaker: remn., 374, 412Sonate, Contingent Accounts of the: remn.,
413; 423-424; Inq., 454.
294; on Gth report, 356-857.
Langelier, the late Sir Francols: rem., 21.
Supply Bill Nurmbor One (123): rom., 438.
Macdonald, Diquaifioations of Senator: remn,
Suprome Court Act .Amt. B. (121): rern., 362429-430.
363.
Com: remn.,
Votes for Soldiors B. (111):-li
N. T. Ry. Act Arnt Bill <119): ln Oom., -rem,.
466, romn., 475-477.
416.
Parliamnentary Investigation: rein., 333.
DANIEL, Hon. J. W.
P.E.L Parlty. Report: rem., 49-51.
Robertson. Absence of Senator: rem., 21; 129.
Douglas Divorce B. (D) : tnt., 69.
429-430.
Gordon Divorce IL ( ).: X., 330.
Officiai Publication Distribution: M. a.nd rom.,
Savings Ba.nk Intorest: rem,. 342-344.
98.
Second Session of 1914: rein., 142-143; M.
Sonate Chamber, Ventilation of: rein., 440.
pos t., 154-155.
Sonate, Contingent Accounts of the: on 6th
Senate Chamber, Ventilation of: remn., 441Report, 350-351.
442.
Sonate, Rules and Standing Orders of: rom.,
Mt
Senate, Contingent Accounts of: (on
275.
Report), rein., 350; (lOth Report), rein.,
425.
DAVID, Hon. L. 0.
Senate, itescission of Votes of the: rem., 128.
Agricultural Resources, Development of: M,
Senate, Standing Orders of the: remn., 146.
398-400.
Supretne Court Act Amt., B. (121): rein.,
Bi4ingual Sehool Question, M. and rem., 62360.
68, 382-384.
Transcontinental Trains, discontinuanco of:
B. N. A. Aint.: lin Com: rem-, 223-224.
remn., 38-41.
Criminal Code Act Amt. B. (74): ln Coin:
Translation, Cost of: remn., 432.
rem., 287-288, 823.
Votes for Sold.iers, R. (111) : rem, 445, 451Transcontinental1 Operations: inq., 20.
453; lnq., 454; in Coin., rem., 460,461; 466.
Transcontinental Tratis, Dlscontinusance of:
IL and rom., 35, 38.
CORBY, Hon. H.'
Votes for Soldiers B. (111) : romt., 458.
L 0. F. Consolidated Act Axnend. B. (2)
DAVIS, Hon. T. 0.
int., 58; 2nd -R., 75; 3rd R., 129.
Agricultural Iniplements Valuations: inq., 95.
COSTIGAN, Hon. J.
Agricultural Impleinents Importation: inq.,
126-127, 153.
Bilingual School Question: remn., 125-126.
B. N. A. Act Amt.: in Coin., rom., 217-218.
Fisheries Overseers, Flayînents made: M. 233Canada Grain Act Amt. B. (S) : rein., 387-388,
234.
390-391, 394, 395, 396.
B.:
Financial Interests
Commercial and
DANDUR AND, Hon. R.
rom., 29.
Address, The: 17-20.
Customns Tariff Act Aint. B. (25) : rom., 200Bilingual School Question: remn. 110-114.
204 ; in Corn., 231.
Dominion Controverted Elections Act Amt. B.
British Columbia and White River Ry. Co.
(109) : in Coin.: remn., 418-419.
B. (7) ; 2nd R., 59.
B. N. ýA. Act Aint: rein., 214-215 ;in Com.,
Fire Guardians: inq.. 96.
Hoinestead Inspectors: inq., 97; rom., 129.
222-223, 226, 22S-229.
Lamnbert Divorce B. (FF) : remn., 277.
Custonis Tariff Act Anit. B. (75) :rein., 236Official Publication Distributioni: rom., 98.
237.
Ottawa and N. Y. Ry. B. (24) :tnt., 43; 2nd
Criminal Code Act Aint. B. i.74) : rem.,
RL, 59 ; Brd RL, 96.
271-274 ; in Coin., 29S-299.
Seed 3;rain Purchases: inq., 74.
Governinent' Railways Act Arnt. B (10a)
St. '..twrence and Adirondack Ry. Co. B.
rem., 303-305.
('27): int., 59; 2nd R., 75; 3rd R., 143.
Huron anîd Brie Lonn andi Savings Co., B.
Translation, Cost of. M., 430-431.
(43) : int., 95.
Unemployment in Canadian Cities: rom., 130Marcil Trust Co. Inc. B. (53) : 2nd R.. 96;
135.
3rd R., 129.
Votes for Soldiers B. (111) : in Com.: rem.,
Montreal and Southern Counties Ry. Co. B.
470-471, 473.
(13) : 2nd R., 59.

s-31

REVISED

EDMON

SENATE

DERBYSHIRE, Hon. D.

EDWARDS, Hon. W. 0.-Con.

Senate, Contingent Accounts of: (on 6th ReAlexandear Divorce B. <EE): tnt., 244; 2nd
port), 370.
M, 244 ;' 3rd RE, 244.
Title and Trust Co., etc., B. (16): 2nd REL,
Bothwell Divorce B. (P) : nt., 144; 2nd RE,
75; Srd R1, 129.
170.
Votes for Soldiers B. (111) : in Com., rem.,
Dannell Divorce B. (R): Int., 144, Znd R.,
471-47-2.
170.
Gravelle Divorce B. (Q): tnt, 144; 2nd R.,
FARRELL, Hon. E. M
170.
Lohinan Co. Patient B. (44) : 3rd RL, 183.
Fenian Raid Bounties: M., 145.
Millen and Son., Ltd., Paternt B. (K) : int,
109; 2nd R.L 129; Srd ]E. 183.
FROST, Hon. F. T.
Mcîntyre Divorce B. (T) : tnt, 152; 2nd R.,
Federai Trade Coin. <Inq. and remn.), 30-82.
152; Srd RL. 152.
Panhiament, Pnuntung of: remn.. 279-280.
GIRROIR, Hon. E. L.
Thorndike Divorce B. (1): tnt., 96, 2nd R.L,
Âddresa, The: 4-6.
129; 3rd R., 144.
Dominion Revenues 1909-1914: ma. 74.
Van Buren Bridge Co. B. (29): tnt., 73; 2nd
Translation, Cost of: rem., 433-434.
R., 96; Srd RL post., 144.
GORDON, Hon. G.
DE VEBER, Han. L. G.
Tran scontinental Trains, Discontinuance of:
Alberta Central Ry. B. (4) . tnt., 43 ; 2nd R.,
87-88.
59 ; 3rd R-, 95.
Translation. Cost of: rem., 434.
M., 128-129.
Alberta, Gavenient Officiais tan.
Unemployment Ini Canadien Cities: rem., 138Athabaska and Northenn Ry. Co. B. (41):
139.
tint., 69 * 2nd R., 76; 3rd R., 144.
Calgary and Fernte Ry. Co., B. (49): tnt, JONES, Sir Lyman Melviii.
109; Znd R., 129; 8rd ]E, 188.
C. N. Ont. Ry. Bill (291) : tint., 43; Brd R., 95.
Delaney Divorce B. (CC): tnt, 183; 2nd R.,
C. N. Ry. Co. Bill (20): int., 1,09; 2rad R..
183; 3rd R-, 183.
129; 3rd RE, 171.
Northwest Life Insurance -Co., B. (O) : tnt,
144.
KERR, Hon. J. I.

~'m,41-43,

DOMVILLE, Han. J.
B. N. A. Act .Ant.: Ini Con., remn., 225,226.
Customs Tariff Act. Amt., B. (75) : (in Coin.),
230, 231.
Governinent Raiiways Act Aint. B. (105)
305-307 ; in Com., rem., 329-332,
rein.,
DONNELLY.

Hon. J. J.

Bilingual Schaol Question: rem., 163-166.
C.M.B.A. Bill (4) : rem., 185-186.
DOUGLAS.

Han. J. M.

Title and Trust Ca., etc.. B. (16) : 58.
EDWARDS: Hon. W. C.
Bilingual School Question: rem., 103-108;
question of privelege. rem., 126. 382.
Canada Grain Act Ait. B. (S): in Com.,
rem., 402, 403.
Customs Tariff Act Aint.,* B. (75) :rem. 199200.
Lohman Ca. Patent, B. (44) : Int., 170.
Savings Bank Interest: rem., 344-345,-346.
Sterling Life Assurance Ca., B. (71) : int.,
170 ; 2nd R., 170; 3rd R., 195.

Canada Grain Act Amt. BilI <S): rmm., 392393; In Coni., 402-404.
Empire Life Ins. Ce. Bill (59) : 2nd RL, 96;
Zrd R 129.
Huron and Erie Loan and Savings Co. Bill
(43): 2nd R.. 109; 3,rd R., 153.
.Taffray, The late Senator: rem., 24-25.
Kirchhoffer, The late Senator: rem., 24-25.
Toronto Termninais Ry Co. Bill (54) : int., 109:
2Ind R, 129 ; 3,rd R., 184.
Votes for Soliers Bill (.111) : in Com., rem.,
458, 459-460.
LANDRY,

Hon.

P.

(Speaker).

Appaintiments and Promotions recommended.
398.
Bilinigual School Question: 2153-254.
Landry. Absence of Speaker: remn., 474.
Langelier, The lata Sir François: rem., 21.
P E. I. Ps.rlty. Report: rem.. 49.
Sena-te, Contingent Accounts of: rem., 33;
on ryth Repart; reim., 309-3,14; 333; 9th
Report; rm., 3,35-; on 6,th Report, 348-350;
an 6th Report Ruling, 372-374.
Senate, Standing Orders of the: rem., 145, 14G,
148.

INDEX

LANDRY. Hon. P.

(Speaker)-Cou.

LOUGHEED, Hon. J. «A.-Con.

Crude 011 Importation: re>. ta li1on. Mr.
Cloran,30.
Custoins Tariff Mnt B. (75) Is>t., 182; 2nd
a, 195; rein., 205-210; In Coin., remn., 229;
3rd ]EL, 234.
LA RIVIERE, Hou. A. A. C.
Dom. Controverted Electi Ons Act Alnt. ]E.
Translation, Cost of: rein., 431.
(109) : int, 398; 2nd R., 411-412; ffl R.,
422.
LAVERGNE, Hom. U
Dom. Elections Act Arnt. B. (110) : 2nd RE,
Bilinguai School Queetiou: lnq.. 291.
410-411, Srd a, 422.
in Prench: n.
*'Oonoervatioe" Publicationx
Dom. Foresters' Act Orders in Council: )L,
171; rein.. 443.
100-101.
Votes for Soldires Bill (111): in. 474.
Dom. Lands Act, Orders In Council: M., 99100.
LDGEIS, HOM. j. H.
Dom. Lands In Ry. Belt., B.C., Orders in
Ad,Iress, The. 20.
Council: I. pont., 101-102; M., 109-110.
Bilingual School Question: -rein., 162-160.
Doms. Notes B. (96) : int., 280, 2nd RL, 290;
Srd R., 290.
LOUGHEED, Hon. J. A
Einergency Currency: rep. ta McSweehey, 45.
Address. the: 10-14.
Federal Trade Coin.: rep. ta Frost., 32-33.
Adulteration Act Anit. B. (114) : int., 334;
Fire Guardians: rep. to, Davis, 96.
358; in Com., rem., 385; 3rd R.,
2nd R.
Fisheries Overseers. Payments made: rep. ta
387.
Costigan, 234.
of:
Agricultural Iniplements, importation
Fuel Oul Importation: rep. to Cloran>, 30.
rep. to Davis, 127, 153.
Gold and Silver Marking Act Amt. B. (W):
Agriculturai Implements, Valuation: rep. ta
int. 170; 2nd R., 173; 3rdj., 188; in Corn.,
Davis, 75.
rein., 188, 189.
.Anunonia Suiphate Tariff: rer>. ta, Cioran>, 30.
:rein, 277.
Gordon Divorce B. (
Bank Act Anit B. (78): it., 170; 2nd R.L,
Govt. Hi'. Act Amt. B. (105) : lut. 280;
174; 3rd ]EL, 191-194.
2nd RL,' 301-802; In Coin., rein., 326-327;
Bilingual Schooi Question: rep. ta Lavergne,
3rd R-, post., 331.
291-292.
Hoinestead Inspectors: rep. ta, Davis, 97.
British Army Service Revolvers Purchase:
Inland Revenue Act Amnt. B. (115): 2nd RL,
rep. ta Hon. Mr. Bostock, 172.
330.
B. C. Better Terins Coin.: re>. ta Bostock, 45.
Inland Revenue Act Amt. B. (116): lut, 334;
B. C. Indian Reserves Corn.: rer>. ta Bostock,
2nd IL, 358.
30.
Insurance Companieb Extension B. (79). Int.,
B. N. A- Act Amt.: M> 211-212; in Coin, 220183; 2nd R. 210; lI Corn., 265, 266; 3rd
222, 226; rein.. 275-276.
R., 281.
Canada Grain Act Arnt. B. (S):. int., 145,
Intercolonial Ry.: re>. ta, McSweeney, 233.
2nd RL 173; 3rd R., 187; in Coin., remn.,
Jaffrai', the late Senator: rein., 22-23.
187, 18S, 387, 388. 389, 390, 391, 392, 396,
Judges Act Arnt. B. (93) : Int., 210; 2nd R.,
397, 400, 401.
241 ; Srd RF, 275.
C. N. Ry. Advances: rep. ta Bostock, 145.
ICirchhoffer, the late Senator: rein., 22-23.
Canadian Patriotic Fund B. (39) : int., 43;
Landri', absence of Speaker: rein., 386; rer>.
2nd R., 57, 58; ini Coin., rein., 72; 3rd RI,
ta Cioran, 454.
75.
Macdonald, Resalution re Senator: M., 439.
Civil Servants, Superannuation of: M. 477.
Moncton Subway on 1. C. Hi'.: rep. ta McCoal Importation for I. C. Ry.: rep. ta Power,
Sweeney, 97.
62.
Net Fishing lin Lake of Two Mountains: rein.,
Coin and Bullion Exports and Imports: re>.
71 72.
ta McSweeney, 145.
North Ry., Purchase af: re>. ta Cho4iuette.'
Commercial and Financial Interests Bill:
274.
rein. and M., 26-27, 28.
"Conservation" Publication lin French: rer>. N.B. & P.E.I. Ry., Purchase af: re>. ta McSweeney, 22.
ta Lavergne, 171.
N. T. Ry Act Aint. B. (119) : int., 398; 2nd
Criminal Code Aint. B. (74): int., 170; 2nd R.,
R., 409-410; lin Coin., rein., 416, 417; 3rd
210-211 ; lin Coin., rein., 266,' 267, 269, 281,
R., 422.
282, 2Sô-288; 3rd R., 322, 323, 324.
'Translator, Superanaiuation of French: Report preseuted, 152.
Trudel, Superannuation cf Mr.: t-m.. 3126.

S-314

484

SENATE

484

SENATE

LOUGHEED, Hon. J. -&--Con.

MaHUGH, Hon. G.--Con.

Cazuaity Co. Bill (5 8) : dnt., 95;- 2nd RL, 1-09
Ocean Ltd. Train: rep. to Mc8weeney, 274.
3rd RL, 153.
Oriental Immigration: rep. to Bostock, 322.
South Ont. Pu-c. Ry. Bill (M)5: Int., 43; 2nd
Pacifie Coast Dredging: rep. to Bostock, 322.
H., 59; 3rd R., 9,6.
Porcupine District Allen Population ln: rep.
Toron-to Mu.tern Ry. Co. Bill (28) : int., 59;
to Bostock, 386.
2nd R-, 7f, Ird RL, 14-3.
P. E. I. Parity. Report: remn., 54-57.
Representation Act Aznt B. (106): int, 334;
MOSWEENEY, Hon. P.
2nd ]EL,358, Srd R, 386;
Bilinguai Sehool Question: remn, 114-115.
Reveistoke Park Roads: rep. to Bostock, 195.
Robertson, Resolution re Senator: M.. 439.
Coin and Bullien, Experts and Importe: inq.,
144.
Rifles, Suspension osf: M. pest., 154; 3L, 444.
C. M. B. A. Council Bill (Y) : int., 171; 2nd
Savings Bank Interent: rem., 346-347.
R., 184.
Seed Grain, Fodder and other relief, B3. (85):
Emergency Currency: Inq., 45.
int., 210; 2nd R, 238-239. 240. 241; ln
.3
Interohonial Ry.: inq.,
Coin., rem., 278, 279; Srd R., 292.
Immigration Âdvertlalng: remn, 12.9.
Second Session of 1914: remn, 154.
Govt. Rys.' Act Aint. Bill (105) : remn., 307.
i8enate and H. of C. Act Anit., B. (57) : int.
Moncton Subway on 1. C. Ry.: Inq., 97.
43; 2nd R., 58 ; ln Coin., remn., 72, 73; 3rd
N. B. and P. E. I. Ry., purchase: lnq., 22.
RE, 76.
Ocean Ltd., Train:* inq., 274.
Senate Chaiuber. ventilation of: rem., 441.
Subna.rines, Purchase of: inca., 97; Inq., 183.
Senate, Contingent Accounts of the: (on 6th
Report), 320-321; remn., 325;. 333.
MITCHELL, Hon, W.
Senate, aittlnge of the, etc.: M., 154.
of: remn., 34.
Session, business
C. N. Quebse Hy. Co. Bill (.2): int., 43; 3rd
R., 96.
SubSrinee, purchase of: <Hep. to MeDouglas Divorce Bill (D) : 2nd R., 76; 3rd RL,
Sweeney), 97; remn, 183.
427-428;
96.
Supply Bill No. 1 B. (123) : ml,
James Bay and Eastern Ry. Ce. Bill (Z3):
2nd RE, 434. rem. 437-438. 3rd RL, 439.
int.. 43; 2'nd R., 69; Ord R., 96.
supreme Court Act Am.t., I. (121) : Int, 347;
2nd RL, 360; 361-362.
to MURPHEY, Hon. P. C.
(Rep.
Operations:
Transcontinental
David), 26.
Address, The: 2-4.
Transcontinental Train Cost: (Hep. ta CasB. N. X. Amendment, in Cern.: remn., 216-217.
grain). 97.
C. M. B. ýA.Bill (Y) : remn., 184-185.
Gov. Railways Act ArnL Bill (105) : rein.
Transcontinental Trains, Discontinuance of:
remn., 91-95.
387-3m08.
P. E. 1. Party. Report: rein., 51-54.
Transiator, Superannuation of French: remn.,
152, 153.
Unempioyxnent In Canadian Cities: remn., 136- OWENS, Hon, W.
138.
Votes for Soldiers, B. (111) : (Rep. to Bostock), 445; int, 445; 2nd R'L,445 ; (Hep. to
Cioran), 454 ; rem., 475.
War Appropriation B. <87) : int., 280; 2nd
R.. 290; 3rd R.L, 292.
War Exper.ditures Revenue B. (76) : int..
210; 2nd R., 232 ; in Coin., 241; 3rd R., C75.
Winding-up Act. Aint. B. (122) -, 21id R., 409;
3rd RL, 416.
Yukon Placer Mining Act Aint B. (67): int.,
145; 2nd R.. 170; (in Coin.,) 173, 174; 3rd
H., 190-191.
IIASON. Hon. J. (Colonel).
Bilinguai Schooi Question: rein.. 175-180.
2,cHUGH Hon. G.
Bhlinguail School Question: rein., 68-71.

Senate. Contingent
Report, 371.

Accounts of the : on 6thi

POIRIER, Hon. P.
,Bilinguai School Question: rein., 121-125.
Moncton ani N.rtLuinberland Strait Ry. Co
Bill (X) : int., 171 ; 2nd R., 171 ; 3rd R., 171.
Senate, Contingent Accounts of: on 6th Report,
369-370.
Votes for Soldiers Bill (111) : In Coin.; rein..
460.
POPE, Hon.

R H.

Bilinguýai School Question: rein., 157-16-2.
Brulé Grande Prairie -and P-eace River Ry Co.
Bill (;32) : int., 59 ; 2nd RL, 76; 3rd R., 143.
Delinege Divorce Bill (U) : Int., 1E52; 2nd R.,
152; 3rd R., 15,2

INDlEX

POPE, Hon. R

]E-Con.

IRATZ, Hon. V.-Co,,.

o3uthen Ry. Co.
lktwhietie a.nd Alberta
Incorporation Eill (60) : tInt., l09;ý 2nd RL.
-130; 3rd RL, 18.4.
Grain Growers Grain Co. Bill (H): int., 73.
2»d R:, 96; ffd R., 144.

Birdseli Divorce E. (J): int., 96; Znd RE,
129; 3rd R.. 144.
Brantford and Hamilton Eiettric Ry Co. B.
(6) : tnt.. 43; 2nd R., 59, Srd IL, 95.

ud RL, 76; 3rd ]E, 144.

B. N. AL Ant.: iom., 215-216.
Criminai Code Act Amt B (74): ln Com.,
rem.. 284-285.
Buppiy Bill Number One B. (123):- rem.,

Hon. W.
Pa.cific Peoce River and Athabska Ry. Co. ROCHE_
MMI (37): int. 59;

POWER, Hon. L. G.
Address, The: 14-17.
Appeai from Speaker's ruing, 254.
Bank Act Ant E. (78): rem.. 192.
Bilingual Schooi Question: rem., 180-182, 252,

253.
E3. N. JAL
Act Ant.: ln 0Cm., rem., .219-220,
224-225.
: rem, 184.
.:(Y)
C. %. B.
Coal. Importation for L C. Ry.: Inq., 61-62.
Commercial and Financtai Interests E.: rem.,
28.
Criminai Code Act Amt E. (74) : rom., 324.
Customs Tariff Oct Amt. B. (75): rom., 234236.
Govt. Rys. Act .Amt. B. (106): rem., 308309; ln Coin., rom., 328-329.
Macdonald, Disqualification cf Senator:- prosonts report, 429.
Minutes, Error ln: rom., 44, 280.

OMeWia

Pubication Distribution: rom., 99.

Robertson. Disqualification cf Senator: promonts report, 42.9.
Savings Bank Interest: Inq., 840-341.
Sonate, Contingent Accounts cf the: M. 33;
Sth Report referred back, 172; 4th Report
Mt Report, 232;
adopted, 175; presonts
me. adoptionof of 7th Report, rom., 292, 295,
296; mi. adoption of 6th Report, 309, 314315; 9th Report, M. 3S5; on Gth Report,
347-348, 356; lOth Report. rom., 421, 422,
423, 424-425.
Senate Standing Orders of the: rom., 146,
148-149; M. 274.
Sonate, Rescession o! Votes of the: M. 127128.
Sonate, Resignation of Empoyoo: rom., 280281.
Transcontinental Trains. Discontinuance of:
rom., 85-87.
Votes for Soidiers B. (111) : rom., 455-457.

438-439.
Votes for Soidiers B. (111) : ln Coin.
461-463.

rem.,

ROSS. Hon. W. B. (Middieton).
C. N. Quebec Ry. Co. B. (22) : 2nd RL, 59.
Sonate, Contingent Acets. of the: on Gth
Report, 364-365.
Translation, Cost of: remn. 431-432.
ROSS, Hon. J. H. (Moosejaw).
Moore Divorce E. (M) ; 2nd RL, 144; Srd R,
145.
Northwent Lîfe Inn. Co. E. (O) : 3rd RL. 156.

TALBOT, Hon. P.b
.Alberta Permanent Trust Co. E. (70):* nt.,
142; 2nd RL, 145, Srd a, 153.
Athabaska and Gran de Prairie Ry., E. (5):
tnt, 43, 2nd RL, 69; 8rd RE, 96.
Eank of Alberta, B. (62): ltt, 109,; 2nd RL,
130; 3rd RE, 163.
Deianey Divorce B. (ÂÂ): tnt., 183 2nd RE,
183; Srd R., 183.
Edmnonton, Dunvegan and B.C. Ry., R. (P):
tnt, 59; 2nd RE, 96, 3rd RL, 129.
Edmnonton. Dunvegan and B.C. Ry., E. (8):
tnt, 109; Znd RL, 109; 3rd RL, 129.
Harries Divorce, B. <Z) : tnt., 183; Znd IR.,
183; 3rd RL, 183.
New Divorce B. (C): tnt., 58; 2nd R., 76;
3rd R., 96.
Northwet Lifo Insurance Co., E. (O) : 2nd
R., 145.
Terminai Elevators: M. 127.
Western Dom. Ry. Co. B. <46) : int., 59; 2nd
R., 76; 3rd R., 144.
TAYLOR. Hon. G.

PROWSE, Hon. E. C.
Eari Grey steamer transferred:, M. dropped,
45.
P.E.I. Parity. Rop.: M. and rom., 46-49.
BATZ, Hon.

V.

Eeckett Divorce E. (V) : tnt., 152; 2nd R.,
152; Srd R., 152.

Anderson Divorce B (L): tnt, 109; 2nd RL,
144; 3rd R., 145.
Boydell Divorce B. (BE): tnt., 183; 2nd R.,
183; 3rd RL, 183.
Canadien N. Ont Ry. Co., B. (21) : 2nd R.,
59.
Canada Grain Act .Art., B. (S) : rem., 389390; 394.

SENATE

TAYLOR1:,

Hon. G-Con.

THOMPSON, Hon. F.

P.-Con.

Van Buren Bridge 00.. B. (29): 3rd R., 145.
Essex Termninal Ry., B. (9). int, 43; 2nd R.,
V'otea for Soldiers, B. (111) : rein.. 457-458.
.:
59 ; 3rd R., 95...iý
Lan-lbert Divorce, B. (FF) :ýkt,.o822; 2nd R.L,
WATSON, Hon. R.L
322; 3rd R, 822.
Bank Act .Amt. B. (78) : remn., 192-193.
2nd R.,
Lyons Divorce B. (DD) : tnt., 244;
B.N.A. Aint: (in Coin.), rein, 226-227.
244; Srd R. 244.
Canada Grain Act Ant, B. (S) : rem., 396;
Senate, Contingent Accounts of the: remn,
402-403.
296-297.
Canadian Northern Provident Insurance Co.,
Simcoe, Grey' and Bruce Ry. Co., B. (61):B. (N) : int, 130; 2nd R., 144.
lnt., 109; mnd R., 130; frd R., 184.
Canadian Western R>'. Co., B. (5 0) :: int, 109;
Toronto and Hamilton Ry. Co., B. (65): tnt.,
109; 2nd R., 130; 3rd R., 184.
.2nd R., 129; Srd R.L, 183.
Criminai Code Act Amt., B3. (74): rem., 323.
TESSIER, Hon. Jules.
Customs Tariff Act .Amend.: B. (75) ; (ini
Comte.) rein., 229-230.
Sonate, Standing Orders cf the: IL, 145, 147Manitoba and N.W. R>'. Co., B. (34) : Int., 59;
148.
2nd R., 76; 3rd R.L, 143.
Transcontinental Trains, discontinuance of:
Moore, Thomas Jefferson, Divorce, B. (M):
remn., 168.
Int~, 109.
THOMPSON, Ron. F. P.
Transcontinental Trains, discontinuance of:
remn, 88-90.
B.N..4 Aint.: i.n Coin., rein., 222.
Votes for Soidiers, B. (111) : remn., 447.
Gold and Silver Marking Act .Ant, B. (W):
remn., 188-189.
YOUNG, Hon. F. M.
G.T. Ry. Co., B. (10): int., 43; Znd R., 59,
Canada Grain Act Arnt., B. (S) : (in Coin.),
Srd R., 95.
Sonate, Contingent .Azcjnte of the: remn.,
96;
C.P.R. Co., B. (17): Int, 73; Znd P,
3-294; (on Sth Rep.), 818-319; 354-356.
3rd R., 144.
Trudel, Superannus.tion of Mr.: remn, 325.

PART IL-SIJBJEOTS
ÂDDRESS,. THE: Bostack. rem, 5-10; Dandurand, rem., 17-20; Girroir, rem.. 4-5 ,
Legris, rem., 20; Lougheed, rem., 10-14;
Murphy. 'I., 2-4; Power, rem., 14-17.
.ADULTERATION ACT
Bill (114).
-(Sec

BILL

ÂMENDMENT

AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMIINTS, VALUATION
0F«: Hon. Mfr. Davis, Inq., 95. 126, 153;
Hon.L Mr. Lougheed, rep., 95. 127, 153.
RMIOURCES,
AGRICULTURAL
MENT 0F: David, M. 398-400.

BILL.

DIVORCE

See

Bill

PRAIRIE RT.

ATHABASKA NORTHRN RT. CO. BILL. Sea
Bill (41).
AMMONIA SULPHÂTE TARIFF: Cioran:
30; Lougheed; rep. 30.
AUSTRAL
(48).

INSURANCE

BANKE AC'T
(78).

CO. BILL.

AMENDMENT

BANK 0F ALBEDRTÀ,, BILL.
BECKETT DIVORCE BILL.

TO:

378-379.

BILLS SERIATIM.
BILL.

ANDERSON, AN ACT FOR TEE RELIEF 0F
ADAM CLARKE (Sc Bill L).
ATHABASKA AND GRANDE
CO. BILL. Bs Bill (5).

BILLS A.SSENTED

DEVELOP-

.ALBERTA CENTRAL RÀILWAY CO.
See Bill (4).
ALEXANDER
(EE).

3ILINGUAL SCHOOL QUESTION-Co.
Lavergne, lnq., 291; Hon. Mr. Logris,, rem.,
to
Lougheed, rep.
Hon. Mr.
162-163 ;
Hon. Mr. Lavergno, 292; Hon. Mr. Mason,
reLm.. 175-180, Hon. Mr. McH-agh, rem., OR71; Hon. Mr. McSweoney, rom., 114-115;
Hon. Mfr. Pope, rom., 159-162; Hon. *Mr.
121-1 25; Hon. Mr. Powor,
Poirier, remn,
rem., 180-182.

BILL.

n.

Sec Bill
Se

Bill

Ses Bill <62').
Sec Bill

(V).

BILINGUAL SCHOOL QUESTION: Hon. Mr.
Beique, rem., 115-120, 252-253, 375-378;
Hon. Mr. Belcourt. rem., 359; Bon. Mr.
Bolduc, rem., 155-159, 336-337; Hon. Sir
Mackenzie Bowell, rem., 182, 245-251, 339;
H->n. Mr. Boyer, rem., 166-168, 335-336;
Hon. Mr. Choquette, rem., 139-142, 143;
26 4 ,
rem.,
question of privilege, 183;
337-338, 379-382; Hon. Mr. Costigan, rom.,
125-126; Hon. Mr. Cioran, rem., 254-264,
338-339; Hon. Mr. Dandurand, rom., 110114; Hon. Mr. David, M., 62-68; rom., 382384 ; Hon. Mr. Donneliy, rom., 163-166;
Hon. Mr. Edwards, rem., 103-108; (Question of privilege) 126; rém., 251-252. 382;
Hon. Mr. Landry. ruling, 253-254; Hon. Mr.

An Act relating to Rys. Int, 1.
(A) An Act te Amend the Companles Act.
Hon. Mr. Cioran, rom., 33-34; Bill wlthdrawn. 75; Hon. Mr. Domville, Ont., 20.
(B> An Act respoctlng the Pollution of Navigable Waters. Hon. Mr. Belcourt, int., 21;
2nd R.L, 25; Srd R., 73; Hon. Mr. Casgraln,
rom., .25;. Hon. Mr. Dandurand, rom., 25.
(C) An Act for the relief of William Ewart
New: Hon. Mfr. Talbot, int, 58; 2nd R., 76;~
rdIL, 96.
(D) An Act for the relief of Helono Susette
Baxter Douglas. Hon. Mfr. Daniel. mL,. 59;
Hon . Mr. Mitchell, 2nd R., 76; 3rd R. 96.
(E( An Act reupecting The Premier Trust
Company. Hon. Mr. Bolcourt, Ont., 59; 2nd
R., 96; 3rd R., 153.
(F) An Act respecting the Edmonton, Dunvegan and British Columbia Raiiway Company; Hon. Mr. Talbot, int., 59; 2nd R.,
96; 3rd RL, 129.
(G> An Act respectlng the Patent of The
National Wood Distllling Company. Hon.
Mr. Belcourt, 3rd R., 144; Hon. Mr. Bostock, Ont.. 59, 2nd RL, 109.
(H) An Act respecting The Grain Growersý
Grain Co., Ltd. Hon. Mr. Pope; Ont., 73;
Znd R.. 96; 3rd R., 144.
(1) An Act for the relief of Lottie Thorndlke.
Hon. Mr. Derbyshire, Ont.. 96; 2nd R., 129;
3rd R. 144.
MJ An Aict for the relief of Arthur Ernest
Birdsell. Hon. Mr. Ratz, int., 96; 2nd R.,
(-)

129; 3rd R.. 144.
(K) An Act respecting a patent of John
Millen and Son, Lignited. Hon. Mr. Derbyshire, Ont., 109 ; 2nd R., 129; 3rd R., 183.
(L) An Act for the relief of Adamn Clarke
Anderson. Hon. Mr. Taylor, Ont., 109; 2nd
L. 144, 3rd R., 145.

SEN'ATE

BILLS SERIATIM-Con.
BILLS SERIATIM-Con.
Hom. Mfr. Cioran, remn., 186-187; Hon. 1fr.
(Mf) An Act for the relief of Thomias Jeffer185-186; Hon. 1fr. McDonneiy, remn,
son Moore. Mon. Mr. Boss (MooSejaw),
Sweeney, tnt., 171; 21id R., 184; Hon. 1fr.
Znd R.. 144; 3rd IL, 145. Hon. Mfr. Watson,
Murphy. rein., 184-185; Hon. Mfr. Power,
Int.. 109.
rein., 184; Hmo. 1fr. Taylor, rein., 171.
(N) An Act respecting Canadian Provident
(Z) An .A#jt for thie relief of Thomas Bartin
Insuranoe Company. Hon. Mr. Watson,
Barrie,. Hon. Mfr. Talbot, Int., 182; 2nd R-,
int.. 130; Znd IL, 145.
183; 3rd RL, 183.
(0) An Act respecting The. Northwest Lkfe
(A-A) An Act for the relief of William John
Company. Hon. Mfr. DeVeber,
Insurance
Owen Delaney. Hon. 1fr. Talbot tnt., 183;
int., 144. Hon. Mfr. Rome (Moosejaw), Srd
Mnd IL, 183; Ord RE, 183.
R, 153. Hon. Mfr. Talbot, 2nd R., 145.
a
(B B) An Act for the relief of Edith May
(P) An Act for the relief of Austin MéPhail
Webster Eoydefl. Hon. Mfr. Taylortnt., 183;
Hon. Mfr. Dertiyuhire, tnt, 144;
Eo0thweIL
.2sd R.. 183; 11Td IL, 183.
2nd P., 170.
(C C ) Atm Act for the. relief of Wmi. Robert
<Q) An Act for the relief of Agneea Gravelle
Delan.eY. Hon .Mr. De Veber, nt,183; 2nd
Hon. Mfr. Derbyshire, tnt, 144; 2nd P., 170.
RE, 188; Ird ]E, 183.
(R) An Act for the. relief of Clara Elizabeth
(DD) An Act for the relief of Edtth MarDarnell. Hon. Mfr. Derbyshire, tnt, 144;
guerita Lyons. Hon. 1fr. Taylor, tnt., 244;
2nd IL, 170.
2nd R., 244, Srd R., 244.
(S) An Act to an-pend The Canada Grain
(E E) An Act for the relief of Charles Isaac
Act. Hon. Mr. Casgrain, (in Coin.), remn.,
Alexander. Hou. Mfr. Derbyshire, Int, 244,
391-392. Hon. Mfr. Cioran, (in Coin.), remn..
21nd RL, 244; Brd R, Z44.
405-406. Hon. 1fr. Davis, (in Coin.), rein.,
(F F) An Act for the. relief of Cecil Howard
387-388, 390-391, 394, 395, 396, 400-401,
Lamnbert. Hon. 1fr. Taylor, tnt., 322; 2nd
402, 407. Hon. 1fr. Edward, (in Corn.),
R., 322; Srd R., 322.
rein, 402, 403. Hon. Mfr. Kerr, (in Coin.).
(à) Arn Act respectlng the Pollution of Navirem. 401-402. 403-404. Hon. Mfr. Louggable Waters.
heed. tnt, 145; 2nd R.L,173;* rd R., 187;*
(3) An Act 40o ainend. the Railway Act.
(in Coin. rein, 187, 188, 387, 388-889, 397,
(4) An Act reapecting Tii. Alberta Central
400, 401, 404, 406, 407, 408, 413. Hon. 1fr. TalRailway Company. HcR. 1fr. De Veber, dnt,
bot (in coin.), rSm., 394. Hon. Mfr. Taylor,
43; .2nd R,. i9; 3rd. R., 9-5.
(in Coin.), remn, 389-390, 394. Hon. Mxr.
(5) An Act respecting-Tii. Athabaska and
Watson. (In Coin.), rein., 389, 393-394, 396,
Grande Prairie Railway Comnpany. Hon. 1fr.
403, 409. Hon.-Mr. Young, (in Coin.),
Talbot tnt., 41; 2nd R., 59; 3Srd RL, 95.
remn., 414-415.
(&) An Act reepecting The Brantford and
An Act for the relief of Alexander
(T)
Mlécntyre. Hon. Mfr. Der'byshire, tnt., 152;
Znd RL, 152; 3rd R., 152.
(U7) An Act for the relief of Violet 'Burnett
Delinage. Hon. 1fr Pope, int.. 152; 2nd R.,
152; 3rd R., 152.
(V) An Act for the. relief of Alice Beckett
Hon. Mfr. Ratz., tnt, 152; 2nd R., 152; 3rd
RL 152.
(W) An Act to aniend the Gotd and Silver
Hon. Mfr. Belcourt,
Marking Act, 1913.
remn., 189. Hon. Mr. Cloran, rem., 189.190.
Hon. Mfr. Lougheed. tnt.. 170; 2nd RL, 173;
Hon. Mr. Power, rein.,
3rd R., 188, 189.
173. Hon. Mfr. Thonipson, rein., 188, 189.
(X) An Act respecting The Moncton and
Northumberland Straft Railway Comnpany.
Hon. 1fr. Poirier, tnt., 171; 2nd R., 171;
3rd R., 171.
(Y) An Act respecttng The Grand Couneil of
the. Catholic Mutual Bpneât Association of
Canada. Hon. Mr. Choquette, remn., 184.,185;

Hamnilton Electric Rail'way Comipany. Hon.
Mi'. Ratz, tut., 43; 2'nd R., 59; 3rd R., 95.
(7) An .Act respecting The British Columibia
and White River Railway Comipany. Hon.
1fr. Ce.sgrain, int., 43; Ird R., 95; Hlon. Mfr.
Dandurand, 2Md R., 59.
(8) An Act respecting The Edmonton, Dunvegan and Bri.tish Columubia Railway Comnpany. Hon. Mr. Talbot. :Înt., 109; 2nd R.,
1.09 ; Zrd R, 129.
(9) An Act respect-ing Thi. Essex Terminal
Railway Compouny. Hon. Mr. Taylor, int.,
43; 2nd IL, 59; 3rd R., 95.
(10) An Act respecting The Grand Trunk
Railway Company of Canada. Hon. 1fr.
Thoinpson, int., 43; 2nd R., 59; 3rd R, 95.
(11) An Act respecting The Hudson Bay,
Peace River and Pacifie Railway Company
and to change its naine to -Winnipeg and
Hudson Bay Raiiway Company."
(12) An Act te Amend The Independent
Order of Foresters Consolidated Act. Hon.

IN DEX

BILLS SERIATIM--Con.
Mr. Casgrain, rem., 75; Hon. Corby, int., 58;
Znd R, 75; 3rd R, 129.
<13) An Act respecting The Montreai and
Southern Counties Raiiway Company. Hon.
Mr. Casgrain, tnt., 43; 3rd R., 95, Hon.
Mr. Dandurand, 2nd R., 59.
(14) An Act to ratify and confirm a certain
agreement between The Canadian Northern
Railway Company and The Grand Trunk
Pacifie Railway Company.
(15) An Act respecting certain patente of
Duncan Donald McBean.
(16) An Act respccting The Titie and Trust
to
Conmpany and to change Its name
"Che.rtcred Trust and Executor Cornpany." Hon. Mr. Douglas, tnt., 58; Hon.
Mr. Edwards, 2nd RE, 75; Srd R., 129.
(17) An Act respecting The Canadian Pacifie
Railway Company. Hon. Mr. Young, tnt.,
73; 2nd I., 96; SrdR1-, 144.
(18) An Act to Aniend the Criminai Code.
(19) An Act ta amend the Criminal Code.
<20) An Act respecting The Canadian Northern Raiway Comnpany. Hon. Mr. Jones, tnt..
rTd IL, 171.
109; 2nd R.L 129;
(21) An Act respecting The Canadian NorthSu Oigsaro Bailway Company. Hon. *Mr.
Jone., tnt, 43; 3rd R., 95. Hon. Mr. Taylor, 2nd R, 59.
(2Z) An Act .respeotiig The Canadien Northoui Quebec aRtlway Company. Hon. Mr'.
Mitchell, Int., 43; Ird R., 96; Hon. .Mr. Ross,
Dnd R., 69.
(23) An Act respecting The James Bay and
Mr'.
Compa.ny. Hon.
Italway
Bgastern
Mitchell, tnt, 4G; 2nd R., 59; 3Td R. 16.
24) An Act respecting The Ottawa and New
York Railway Company. Hon. Mr'. Béique.
rep. from Com., 73-74; Hon. Mr. Davis,
tnt., 43 ; 2nd RL, 59 ; 3rd R., 96.
(.25) An Act respecting The South Ontario
Pacifie Raflway Company. Hon. -Mr. McHugh, int., 43; 2nd R, 59; 3rd R., 96.
(26) An Act respecting The Southern Central
Pacifie Rallway Comipany. Hon. Mr. Bostock, tnt, 63, Znd R., 59; 3rd R., 96.
(27) An Act respeottng The St. Lawrence and
Aduondack Raiiway Company. Hon. Mr'.
Davis, int., 59; 2nd R., 75; 3rd R, 143.
(28) An Act respecting The Toronto Eastern
Rallway Comnpany. Han. Mr. McHugh. tnt.,
59; 2nd R, 76, 3md R, 14*3.
Buren
(29) An Act respecting The Van
Bridge Company. Hon. Mr'. Derbyshire, int.,
73; .2nd R., 96; Hon. Mr. Thompson, 3rd R.
post., M. 144; ffd R., 145.
('30) An Aot ta amend the Radlway Act.
(,31) An Act respeoting The British Columbia
Southern Railway Company. Hion. Mr'.
Bostock, tnt., 59 ; 2nd R., 76; 3rd R., 143.

BILLS SERIATIM-Con.
(32) An Act ta incorporate The Brulé, Grand
Prairie and Pence River Railway Company.
Hon. Mr. Pope, înt., 59; 2nd RL, 76; 3rd RL,
143.
(33) An Act to oonfirm certain agreements
made~ between The Canadian Northern
Ontario Raiiway Comnpany, The Georgian
Bay and Beaboard Railway Comnpany and
The Campbellford, Lake Ontario and Westcrn Raiiway Company.
(3.4) An Aot respecting The Manitoba and
North Western Rallway Comipany of Canada,
59; 2nd RL, 76; Srd
Hon. Mr'. Wataem, it.,
]E, 143.
(35) An Act sepcting The Niagara-WelIand
Power C.ompany.
(36) An Act ta Incorporate Northern Pacifia
and British Columbia Railway Comnpany.
Mon. Mr. Bostock tnt., 59; 2nd IL, 76,; 3rd
R, 143.
(37) An Act respccting Pacifie, Pence River
and Athabasca .Railway
Company. Hon.
Mr'. Pope, Int., 59: 2nd R. 76; 3rd R., 144.
(38) An Act respecting The Vancouverj Victoria and Eastern Railway and Navigation
Comipany. Hon. Mr. Boctock, 2jud RL, 76;
Srd R., 144.
(31) An Act ta amiend The Canadian Ptriotic
Fund Act (1914. Hon. Mr'. Bostock, rem.,
57, 58; tnt., 59; ln Com., 72; Hon. Mr'.
Loughecd, tnt., 43; 2nd RL, 57, 58; ln Cam.,
72; 3rd R-, 75.
(40) An Act ta amnd The Criminal Code.
(41)
An Act respecting The Athabaska
Narthern Railway Company.
Hom. ]gr.
De Veber, int., 59; 2nd R., 76; 3rd RL, 147.
(42) An Act respecting The Canada Preferred Insurance Company. Hon. Mr. Bostack,
tnt., 59; 2nd RL, 76; 3rd R., 129.
(43) An Act respecting The Huron and Erie
Loan and Savings Company, and ta change
Its name ta The Huron and Erie Mortgage
Hon. Mr. Dandurand, tnt.,
Corporation
95; Hon. Mr. Kerr, 2nd R., 109; Zrd RE, 153.
(44) An Act respecting certain patents of the
Hon. Mr. Edwards,
Lohmann Company.
tnt., 170; Hon. Mr'. Derbyshire, 3rd RL, 183.
<45) An Act respecting The Vancouver Lite
Insurance Company. Hon. Mr'. Bostock, tnt.,
69; 2nd R., 76; Srd R, 129.
(46)
An Act respecting The Western DominHon. Mr. Talbot,
Ion Raiiway Comnpany.
int., 59; 2nd R., 76; 3rd R., 144.
(47) An Act ta amend The Civil Service Ai.
Act, 1908.
(48) An Act ta Incorporate Austral Insur-ance
Company.
(49) An Act respecttng The Calgary and
Fernie Railway Company. Mon. Mr. De

SENATE

BILLS

BILLS SERIATIM--Con.

SERIATIM-Con.
R.,

129 ;

Srd

R.,

Veber, ml., 109 ; Znd
183.
(50) An Act reapecting The Canadien Western Railway Comnpany. Hon. Mr'. Watson,
lt, 109; 2nd R., 129; Srd R., 183.
(61) An. Act respecting The Kettle Valley
Railway Company and te ratity and confIrinan agreement with The Vancouver,
Victoria and Eïastern flailway and NavigaHon. Mr'. Bostock, i, 152;
tion Comnpany.
2nd ]EL,152; Srd R., 184.
(52) An Act reepecting Tihe Montrel. Ottsawa
and Georgian Bay Canal Company. Hon.
Mr'.Caagrain. lit, 109; 3rd R. pot., 129;
184; Hon. Mr. Dandurend, 2nd R.L,
Srd R.L,
129.
(53) An Act to Incorporete, Thse Mardi Trust
Company. Hon. Mr-. Dandurand, 2nd R.L,
96.
(54) An Act respecting The Toroento Terminais Xtailway Coinpany. Hon. Mr. Kerr,
Int., 109; 2nd R. 129;- 3rd R., 184.
(55) An Aot te incorporate Vancouver Terminal Railway Comnpany. Hon. Mr'. Bonteck, Itl, 152; 2nd R., 152; 3rd R.. 184.
(56) An Act te amend The Insurence Act,
1910.
(57) An Act te .Aaend the Senate and
House of Commons Act. Hon. Mr. Bostock.

remn., 68; Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell, in
Coin., rein, 73; Hon. Mr. Boyer, ln Coin.,
rein., 72; Hon. Mr'. Lougheed, l., 43; 2nd
]EL, 58; in Coin., rein., 72, 73; 3rd FL, 76.
(58) An Act respecting The Casualty Coinpany of Canada. Hon. Mr'. McHugh, int.,
95; 2nd RE, 109; 3rd R, 153.
(59) An Act iespecting The Emnpire Life
Insurance Comnpany ef Canada. Hon. Mr'.
Kerr', 2nd -Rt, 96; 3rd R., 129.
(60) An Art te incorporate Entwistle and
Alberta Southern Raiiway Comipany. Hon.
Mr'. Pope, int., 109 ; 2nd R., 130; 3rd R..
184.
(61) An Act respecting The Siincoe, Grey
and Bruce Railway Biil Hon. M'. Taylor,
int, 109; 2nd R, 130; Srd RL, 184.
(62) An Act respecting The Bank et Alberta.
Hon. Mr'. Talbot, Int., 109 ; 2nd R., 130;
3rd R., 153.
(63) An Act te incorporate The Cathoiic
Truth Society of Canada.
(64) An Act respecting a certain patent of
The Milis Equipinent Ceompany Liinited.
65) An Act respecting The Toi-ente, Hamiilton and Buffale Raiiway Ceompany. Hen.
Mr. Taylor, 109 ; 2nd R, 130 ; 3rd R., 184.
(66) An Act te Amend the Railway Act.
(67) An Act t0 arnend the Yukon Placer
Mining Act. Hon. Mr. Belceurt. in Cern.,

rein., 174; Hon. Mr'. Lougheed, int., 145;
2nd R., 170; ln Coin., rein., 173; Zrd R.,
190.
68) An Act to ratify and confIrrn a certain
agreement made between The Canadian
Pacifie Railway Company and The Canadien Northern Ontario Railway Company
respecting terminais et North Toronto.
(69) An Act te Incoerorate Colonial Banik
Cagrain. Int., 142;
(Canada). Hon. kr.
2nd R.. 145; Ird ]EL, 153.
(70) An Act te Incorporete The General Trust
Convany of Canada. Hon. Mr'. Talbot Int.,
14»; Ind IL, 145; 3rd R., 1513.
(71) An Act roepeoting The Sterling Lite
Assurance Comepany of Canada. Hon. Mr'
Edwards, tnt., 170. Ond P., 170 ; 8rci IL, 195.
(74) An Act te .mend the Crimnel Code.
Hon. Mr. BEique, in Coin. rein.. 267, 268,
272, 285, 299-300; Hon. Mr. Belcouit. in
Cern., rein., 246, 267, 268, 284, 285-286; Hon.
Mr. Bostock, remn, 211; ln Coin., rein.. 298;
rein., 324-325; Hon. Mr'. Davis, ln Coin.,
remn., 287-288, Z89; rein, 323; Hon. Mr.
Dandurand. rein., 211; in Ocrn., remn., 271272, 299; Hon. Mr'. Choquette, ln Coin., rein.,
182, 283; Hon. -M. Cloran. ln Con., rein.,
273, 2818, 286-207, rem, -323; Hcn. Mr'.
I.ougheed, imL, 170; Ond R., 21-0-211; in
Comn, nom, 246, 24q. 270, 271. 281, 282, 288,
197, 2«,; fl IL, 322; remn, 323, 324; Hon.
Mr'. Poirier, ln Coin., rein., 301; H-on. Mr'.
Power, ln Coin., remn., Z83; rein., 324; Hon.
Mr. Roche, ln Coin, remn., 184-285; Hon.
Mr'. Wa.tson, rein, 323.
(75) An Act to amend The Custorns Taritf,
1907. Hon. Mr'. Boetock, remn., 195-199;
Hon. Sir' Ma.ckenaie Bowell, rein., 237-238;
Hon. Mr. Cloraui, remn, 204-.206; Han. Mr'.
Dandure.nd, remn, 2364237; Hon. Mr'. Davis,
rein., 200-204; in Coin., rein., 231; Hon.
Mr. Doinville, ln Coin., rein.. 230-2G1; Hon.
Mr. Edwarde, rein., 19,9-20-0; Hon. Mr.
Lougheed, int., 182; 2nd R., 195: rein., 205210, 229, 2312; Srd R., 234; Hon. Mr. Power,
rein., 195; 234-236, 208; Hon. *Mr. Watson,
in Coin., rein., 229-2-30.
(76) An Act to supplement The Revenue required te meet War Expenditures. Hon. Mr.
Bosteek, in Coin., rein., 241-242; Hon. Mr.
Lougheed, Int., 210; 2nd R1, 2312; in Coin.,
rein., 241; Brd R., 276.
(7) An Act te anend The Senate and House
of Cominons Ac.
(78) An Act t0 amend The Bank Act. Han.
'.%r. Boetock, rein., 176; Hon. Mr'. Cioran,
rein., 191, 193-194; Hon. Mr. Gordon, rein.,
192; Hon. Mr. Lougheed. it., 170; 2nd R.,
195; rein., 192; Hon. Mr.
174; îrd R.

INDEX

BILLS SERIATIM-Coi.

BILLS SERIATIM-Oon.

rein., 465, 467. Hon. Mfr. Choquette, rein.,
Power, rein., 192; Hon. Mfr. Watson, rein..
447-450, 454. Hon. Mfr. Cioran, rein., 445,
191, 193.
461-453; ing., 454; ln Coin., rein., 460, 466,
(79) An Act ta authorize certain extensions of
Hon. Mfr.
468, Hon. Mfr. Dandurand, rei., 475-477;
turne to Insurance Conipanles.
Hon. Mfr. Davis, in Coin., rein., 470-471,
Belcourt, ln Coin., reqn., Z65;» Hon. Mfr.
473 a Hon. David, rein., 458; Hon. 3fr.
Lougheed, int., 183; 2-nd RK, 210; ln Coin.,
Edwards, in Coin., rein., 471-472; Hon. Mfr.
rein., 265, 266; 3rd R., 281.
Kerr, in Coin., remn., 458-460; Hon. 3fr.
(85) An Act respecting Seed Grain, Fodder
Lougheed, inL, 445; 2nd R., 445; rein., 445and other relief. Hon. Mr. Bostock. ren.,
446, 447; rep., 454; ln Coin., rein., 458, 461;
239-240; Hon. Mfr. Lougheed, int., 210; 2nd
]I, 475; Hon. Mfr. Lavergne, M., 474; Hon.
R., 238-239, 240, 241; ln Coin., rein., 2 ;;
3fr. Poirier, ln Coni., remn., 460; Hon. 3fr.
3rd R. 292.
Power, rein., 456-457; Hon. Mfr. Poche,
(87) An Act for granting ta His Ma>esty Aid
rein., 450-451; in Coin., 461-463; Hon. Mfr.
for Military and Naval Defence. Hon. Mfr.
Thoinpaou, rein., 457-468; Hon. Mfr. WatLougheed, int., M0; 2nd R.. Z90; 3rd R.L,292.
son, rein., 447.
(93) An Aot tio amend The Judges Act. Hon.
(114) An Act ta ainend thic Adulteration Act.
Mfr. Lougheed, int.. 210; 2Lnd
. 241; 3-rd
Hon. 3fr. Bosttock,ý rein., 3 5 8; ln Coin., 38 5.
R.. 275.
386.
Hon. Mfr. Lougheed, int, 334; 2nd
(94) An Act ta amend the Dominion Electione
R., 358; in Coin., 385; 3rçi R., 387.
Act.
(115) An Act ta ainend the Inland Revenue
(95) An Act respecting certain issues ot
Dominion Notes. Hon. Mfr. Bostook, remn.,
Act. Hon. Mfr. Lougheed, 2nd R., 330; 3rd
290-291; Hon. Mr. Lougheed, Int., 280; 2nd
R.. 330.
R., 290; 3rd R., 290; rein., 2-91.
(116) An Act ta arnend the Inlaud Revenue
<105> An Act ta arnend the Governinent RailAct. Hon. Mfr. Lougheed. int., 334, 2nd
ways Aot and ta, authorize -the purchase of
R.L,858.
certain railways. Hon. Mr. Bostock, remn.,
(119) An .Act ta amend the National Trans3102; in orn.. rein., 3X6,4 27, 328; Hom. ]Kr.
continental RaikwaY Act. Hon. Mfr. BOSCasgraioi, rein., 321; Hon. Mfr. Cioran, In
tock, in Coin., rein., 416; Hon. Mfr.
Coin., rein., 328; rein., 330-331, e34; Hoýn.
Cioran, lu Coin., rein., 416; Hon. Mfr.
Mfr. Dandurîend, rein., 303-3#5; Hon. 1fr.
Lýougheed, lut., 898;, 2nd a. 409-410; ln
Doinville, rein., 305-307; tn Coin, remn., 3.29;
Coin., re,., 416, 417; 3rd R.L, 422; Hon.
rein., 3»1; Hon. Mfr. Landry, -rein. 309; H-on.
Mfr. Tboinpson, rein., 410.
Mfr. Lougheed, lut...280; Znd R., 3014302; ln
(121) &~n Act ta ainend Uic Suprenie Court
Coin., Tei., 326-&.27, rein., 330; 3rd R., 334;
Ac.
Hon. 3fr. Belque, rein., 863.
Hon.
Hon. Mfr. McSweeney, rein., 307; Hon. Mfr.
Hon. 3fr.
Mfr. Beicourt, rein., 363-364.
Murphy, rein., 3,07-308; Hon. '.%r. Power,
Bostock, remn., 360-361. Hou. 3fr. Cioran,
remn., »SS-309 ; in Coin, remn., 32S-329.
rai., 360. Hon. Mfr. Daudurand. rein., 362(106) An Act -te amend The RPtArenent&tion
363. Hon. Mfr. David, rein., 363. Hon. 3fr.
Act, 1914. Hon. Mr. Lougheed, int., 334;
Lougheed, Int., 347; 2nd R., 360, 361-362,
2'nd R., 358; Srd R, 386.
363.
(109) An Act to amend The Dominion Con.
(122) An Act to amcnd the Winding-up Act.
'troverted Elections Act. Hon. Mfr. Bostock,
Hon. 3fr. Lougheed, 2nd R., 409; 3rd R.,
rein., 412; Hon. Mr. Davis, in Corn., rein.,
416.
418-419; Hon. Mfr. Loughced int., 398; 2nd
(123) An Actf<or granting ta Hia Majesty
IL, 411-41e; ln Coni., remn., 4.20; 3rd R., 422,
certain suins of mouey to the public service
Hon. 3fr. Ross (Middleton) :in Coin., rein.
for the fliiancial years ending respectively
419, 420.
31sf March. 1915, and the 3lst March, 1916.
(11,0) An Act to ainend the Dominion EiecHon. Mfr. Bostock, rein., 434-438. Hon. 3fr.
tions Act. Hon. Mfr. Bostock, rein., 411;
Dandurand. rein.. 438. Hon. 3fr. Laugheed,
Hon. Mfr. Cioranî. in Coin., rein.. 417; Hon.
int., 427-428; 2nd R., 434;, 3rd R.L, 434.
Mfr. Loughced. rein., 410-411; in Coin., rein.,
Hon. 3fr. Roche, rein., 438-439.
417-418; 3rd R., 4,22.
(111) An Act ta enabie Canadian Soldiers on BIRDSELL, AN ACT FOR THE RELIEF 0F
Active 3filitary~ Service during the prescrit
ARTHUR E. (Sec Bill J).
,war, to exercise their electorai franchise.
Hon. Mfr. Beique.. rein..463-465. Hon. Mfr. BOTHWELL, AN ACT FOR THE RELIEF 0F
AUSTIN McPHAIL (Sec 'Bill P).
Beicourt, in Coin., rein.. 472-473. Hon.
Mfr. Bostock, rein.. 446, 455-456; iu Coin., BOYDELL DIVORCE BILL (Rec Bill BB).

SENATE

BRANTFORD AND HAMILTON
RT. Co. Bill (Sec Bill 6).

ELECTRIO

RT.
WESTERN
AND
ONTARIO
AGREEMENT BILL (Sec Bill 33).

C0.

BRITISH ARMYY REVOLVERS PURCHASE:
Hon. Mr. Bostock, Inq., 172; Hon. Mr.
Lougheed, rep., 172.

AND
CO.
RY.
NORTHERN
CANADIAN
GRAND TRUNK PACIFIC IRY. C0. BILL
(Sec Bill 14).

B. C. BE'ITER TERMS COM.: Hon. 1fr. Boatock, inq., 45; Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rep., 46.

CANADIAN NORTHERN
(Se BAll 22).
BIL

QUEBEC

RY. CO.

B. C., DOMINION LANDS IN IRT. BELT 0F: C. N. RT. CO. ADVANCES: Honm Mr. Bostock,
rein., 145; Hon. Mr. Lougheed, remn., 145.
Hon. Mr. Bostock,ý rein., 101, 109-110; Hon.
Mfr. Caegrain. rein., 101; Hon. Mfr. Davis,
PACIFIC RY. CO. BILL (Sec Bill
rein., 102; Hon. Mr. ]Kerr, rein., 102;- CANADIAN
17).
Mr. Lougheed, IL, 101, 102, 109;- rein, 109110.
B. C. INDIAN RESERVES COL: Hon. Mr.
Bostock, Anq., 30; Hon. Mr,. Lougheed,
reply, 30.
BRITISH COLUMBIA SOUTHERN
BILL (Bee Bil 31).
BRITISH COLUMBIA AND WHITE
RY. CO. BILL (Sc Bil 7).

RT.

CO.

RIVER

CANADIAN PACIFIC RT. CO. .AND THE
CANADIAN NORTEERN ONTARIO RY.
BILL
CO. TERMINALS AGREEMENT
(See Bill 68).
CANADIAN PÂTRIOTIC FUND ACT (1914)
39).
AmEND)MENT BHTr.L (Sec BAill
CANADIAN PROVIDENT
BILL (Sec Bil N).

INSURANCE

C0.

B. N. A. ACT AMT.: Hon. Mr. Bostock, remn., CANADA
INSURANCE CO.
PIIEFERRED
212-213; An Coin.,' rein., 218, 276; Hon. Mr.
42).
BILL (Sec BAill
Cioran, rein., 213-214; An Coin., rein., 218219, 220; Hon. Mr. Dandurand. rein., 214- CANADIAN WESTERN RT. CO. BILL (Bec
215; An Coin., rein., 222-223, 226, 228-229;
Bill 60.
Hon. Mr. Daniel, An Coin., rein. 223-224,
225; Hon. Mr. David, An Coin., remn, 222; CATHOLIC MITTUAL BENEFIT ASSN. BILL
(Seo BAll C).
Hon. Mfr. DavAs, An Coin., rein., 217; Hon.
Mr. Lougheed, k~! 211-212, 217; An Coin.,
CATHOLIC TRUTH SOCIETY 0F CANADA,
rein., 220-222, 226, 275-276; Hon. Mr. DomrINCORPORATION BILL (Bec Bil 63).
ville, An Coin., rein., 225-226; Hon. Mr.
216-217; Hon. 1fr.
Murphy, An Coin., rein.,
CABUALTY CO. 0F -CANADA BILL (Seo BAill
Power, An Coin., rein., 219-220, 224-225,
58).
226;- ; Hon. Mr. Prowse, An Coin., remn.,
Mr. Roche, rem., 215-216; Hon.
218; Hon.
CIVIL SERVICE ACT, (1908) A.MENDMENT
Mr. Thompson, An Com., remn., 222, 227-228,
BILL (Sec BAll 47).
Hon. Mr. Watson, An Coin., 226-227.
PRAIRIE AND PEACE
GRAND
BRULE,
RIVER RY. CO. INCORPORATION BILL
(See Bill 32).

S).
CALGARY AND FERNIE RY. CO. BILL (Sc
Bill 49).
CANADA
S.)

GRAIN ACT AMT. BILL (Sc

CANADIAN NORTHERN RY
Bil 20).
CANADIAN NORTHERN
BILL (Sec Bil 21).

COAL IMPORTED F OR I. C. RT.: Hon. Mr.
ILougheed, reply, 6.2; Hon. Mr. Power, Anq.,

COIN AND BULLION EXPORTS AND IMPORTS. Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rep., 145; Hon.
Mr. McSweeney, inq., 144-145.

Bill COLONIAL BANK (CANADA)
69).

CO. BILL (Sec

ONTARIO RT. 00.

CANADIAN NORTH-ERN ONTARIO RY. 00.,
GEORGIAN BAY AND SEA.BOARD RY.
CO., AND THE CAMPBELLFORD, LAKE

BILL (Sec Bill

COMMERCIAL AND FINANCIAL INTERESTS
BILL: Hon. Mr. BBAque, remn., 28-29; Hon.
Mr. Bostock, mei., 27; Hon. Mr. Cioran,
rein., 29-30-, Hon. Mr. Davis rein., 29; Hon.
Mr. Loughee, M. 2.6-27, 2î.
COMPANIES
Bill A).

ACT AMENDMENT

BILL

(See

INDEX

IN
PUBLICATION
«*CONSERVATION "
FRENCH 0F: Hon. Mr. Lavergne, inq.. 171,
4-42. Hon. Mfr. Lougheed rep., 171, 442.
CRIMINAL CODE AMENDMENT
Bill 18).

DOMINION NOTES, AN ACT RESPECTINO
CERTAIN ISSUES 0F (Sc Bill 95).
Hon. Mfr.

(Bed

CEIMINAL CODE AMEINDMENT BILL
Bi-i 19).

DOMINION REVENUES, 1909-1914.
Girroir, M. 74.

(Sc

BILL

DOUGLAS, AN ACT FOR THE RELIEF 0F
HELENE SUZZETTE (Sacs Bill D).

CEIMINAL CODE AMENDMENT
Bill 40).

BILL

(Sec

EARL GREY STEAMER TRANSFERENCE:
Hon. Mr. Prowae, M. droped, 45.

AMENDMENT

BILL

(See

AND
DUNVEGAN
EDMONTON.
COLUMBIA RT. CO. BILL (Sec

CRIMINAL CODE
Bill 74).

CRUDE OIL IMPORTATION: Hon. Mfr. Cioran,
Inq., 80; Hon. Me. Longheed, rep., 30.
CUSTOMS TARIFF ACT (1907) AÂMENDMENT
BILL (Sec Bill 75).
DARNELL, AN ACT FOR THE RELIEF 0F
CLARA ELIZABETH (See Bill R).
DEBATES, OMISSION IN (Sec Bill A). Hon.
Mr. Cloraz, remn., 43-44 - Hon. Mfr. Lougheed,
remn., 4 4.
DEFENCE, AN ACT FOR GRANTING TO RIS
MAJESTY AID FOR MILITÂRY AND
NAVAL (Seo Diii 87).
DELA.NEY (WI. JOHN OWEN)
BILL (Seo BiIlI AA).
DELANET (WU!
(See Bill CC).

ROBT.)

DIVORCE

DIVORCE

BILL

DELATED RETURNS: Hon. Mr. Boyer, remn.,
102, 423; Hon. MT. Lougheed, rein., 1,02, 423.

BRITISH
Bill 8).

EDMONTON. DUNVEGAN AND B C. RT. CO.
BILL (Sec Bill F).
EMERGENCY CURRENCT AND GOVEENMENT ADVANCES: Hon. Mr. Lougheed,
rep., 45. Hon. Mr. MeSweeney. inq., 46.
EMPIRE LIFE INSURANCE
ADA BILL (Sec Bill 59).

0F CAN-

CO.

ENTWISTLE AND ALBERTA
RT. CO. BILL (See Bill 60).

SOUTHERN

ESSEX TERMI1NAL RT. CO. BILL
9).

(See Bill

FEDERAL TRADE COl!.: Hon. Mr. Frost
inq. a.nd remn, 30-32. lion. Mfr. Lougheed.
rep., 32 33.
FENIAN RAID VOLUNTEER
Hon. Mr. Farreil, IL, 145.

BOUNTIES:

DELMAGE DIVORCE BILL (Sec Bill U).

FISHERIES OVERSEERS, PAYMENTS MADE
TO: Hon. Mr. Costigan, M., 233-234. Hon.
Mr. Lougheed, rem., 234.

DEMONSTRATION FARMS IN MANITOBA,
PURCHASE 0F: Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rep.,
41.2; Hon. Mr. Watson, Inq., 412.

FIRE GUARDIANS AND FOREST RANGERS:
Hon. Mr. Davis, inq., 96. Hon. Mr. Lougheed. rep., 96.

DIVISIONS:
Senate, Contingent .Accounts of the: 367; on
Speaker's rulîng, 374 ; lOth Report, 427,
,Suprerne Court Act Aint. Bili (l121), 3 64.
Votes for Soldiers Bill (111), 47-3.

FORESTERS ACT, ORDERS IN COUNCIL:
Hon. Mr. Lougheed, M., 100-101.

CONTROVERTED ELECTIONS
DOMINION
.ACT AMT. BILL (Sc Bill 109).

GENERAL TRUST CO. 0F CANADA,
(Se Bill 70).

DOMINION ELECTIONS ACT, AIIENDMENT
BILL (Sec Bill 94).

GOLD AND SILVER MARKING
AMT BILL (Sc Bill W).

DOMINION ELECTIONS ACT, AMENDMENT
BILL (Sec Bill 110).

GORDON DIVORCE CASE: Hon .Mr. Cioran,
rem., 330; Hon. Mr. Davis, M., 320; Hon. Mr.
Lougheed, rem., 277; Hon. Mfr. Murphy,
remn., 277, 278; Hon. Mr. Taylor, >1. 334.

DOMINION GOVT., OFFICIALS
Hon. Mfr. DeVeber,.M., 128.

IN ALTA:

DOM. LANDS, ORDER IN COUNCIL:
Mr. Lougheed, M., 99-100.

Hon.

FUEL QIL IMPORTATION: Hon. Mr. Cioran,
inq., 30; Hon. Mr. Lougheed, reply, 30.

GOVT. RAILWAYS
Bill 105).

ACT

AMT.

ACT,

BILL

BILL

1913,

(Sc

SENATE

494
494
GRAIN GROWERS'
(sec Bill E>.

SENATE
GRAIN

CO. LTD. BILL

GRAND TRUNK RT. CO. 0F CANADA BILL
(Sec Bill 10).
GRAVELLE, AN ACT FOR TEE RELIEF 0F
AGNES (Sec Bill Q).
HARRIES DIVORCE BILL (Sec Bill Z).
NORTHIN
INSPECTORS
HOMESTEAD
WEST: Hon. Mr. Davis, lnq., 97; remn.,
129; Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rep., 97.
HUDSON BAT, PEACE RIVER AND PACIFIC
RT. CO., ETC., BILL (Sec Bill 11).
BIE LOAN AND
HURON AND
C0., ETc., BILL (Sc Bill 43).

SAVINGS

IMMIGRATION ADVERTISING: Hon. Mr. McSweeney, remn., 139.
INDEPENDENT ORDER 0F FORESTERS
AMENDMENT
ACT
CONSOLIDATED
BILL (Sc Bill 12).

KIRCHHOFFER, THE LATE SENATOR: Hon.
-col%.
heed, rein., a2,23;
24-25.

Hon.

Mr.

K'err,

rem.,

LAKE 0P TWO MOUNTAINS, NET FISHIN3
IN: Hon. Mr. Boyer, IL 71; remn., 74; Hon.
Mr. Lough4i>,d, rem, 71-72.
L.AMBERT DIVORCE BILL (Sec BIH FF>.
LAMBERT DIVORCE C ASE P, Hon. Mr. Davis,
remn, 2177.
LANDRT, ABSENCE 0F SPEAKER: Hon. Mr.
Bayer, r«n., 442; Hon. Mr. Choquette, lnq.,
286; Hon. Mr. Clor4n ,oen., 412-413-, 423424. inq., 454; Hon. Mr. Iâuxdry. remn., 474;
Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rep., 386; rep., 454.
LANGELIER, FUNERAL 0F TEE LATE SIR
FRANCOIS: Hon. Mr. Cloran, 21; Hon. Mr.
Landry, 21.
LOHMANN 00. AN ACT RESPECTING CERTAIN PATENTS 0F TEE (Sec Bill 44).

ACT,
REVENUE
INLAND
BILL (Sec Bil 115).

AMENDMENT

LTONS DIVORCE

ACT,
INLAND -REVENUE
BILL (Bec BIHI 116).

AMENDMENT

MACDONALD, EX-SENATOR, RESOLUTION
0F ESTEEM TO: Hon. Mr. Lougheed, M.
439.

BILL

(Sc

BiH- D D).

ÂMENDMENT BILL MACDONALD, TEE SEAT 0F SENATOR:
Hon. Mfr. Cloran, remn., 42e, 41-0; Hon. Mr.
Power, M. 4 29.
INSURANCE COMPANIES EXTENSION BILL
(Sec Bill 78).
MANITOBA AND NORTHWESTERN RY. C0.
0F CANADA (-Sc Bill 34).
EMPLOTEES: Hon. Mr. Lougheed,
I. C. RT.
rep., 350; Han. Mr. McSweeney, inq., 360.
MARCIL TRUST CO. BILL (Sec Bill 53).
INSURANCE ACT (1911)
(Bec Bill 56).

I. C. RT. REC-EIPT:S: Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rep.,
23N; Hon. Mr. McSweeney, inq., 233.
INTERCOLONIAL SUBWAT AT MONCTON:
Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rtýp., 97-98; Hon. Mr.
MeSwee-ney, ing., 97.
JAFFRAT, TEE LATE SENATOR: Hon. Mr.
Bostock, remn., 23-24; Hon. Mr. Lougheed,
remn., 22-21; Hon. Mr. Kerr rein.. 24-25.
JAMES BAT AND
(See Bill 23).

MILITARY AND NAVAL DEFENCE, AN ACT
GRANTING TO HIS MAJESTY AIr> FOR
(Sec Bill 87).
MILLS EQUIPMENT CO., LTD,. AN ACT
RESPECTING CERTAIN PATENTS 0F
THE.

MILLEN AND SON., LTD., AN ACT RE(Sec Bill
SPECTING THE PATENT 0F
K).
BILL
EASTERN RT. CO.

JUDGES ACT, AMENDMENT
93).

BILL (See Bill

KETTLE VALLEY RT. CO. AND THE VANCOUVER, VICTORIA AND EASTERN RT.
AND NAVIGATION CO. AGREEMENT
BILL <Sec Bill 51).

MINUTES, ERROR IN: Hon. Mr. Choquette,
rem., 442, 443. Hon. Mr. Cioran, remn., 443.
Hon. Mr. Dandurand, remn., 443. Hon. Mr.
L.andry. remn.. 44. Hon. Mr. Powell, remn.,
Hon. Mr. Taylor, rein.. 44.
44, 280.
MOORE, AN ACT FOR TEE RELIEF
THOMAS JEFFERSON (Sec Bill M).

0F

NORTHUMBERLAND
AND
KIRGEHOFFER, THE LATE SENATOR: lion. MONCTON
STRAIT RT. CO. BILL (Sec- Bill X).
Mr. Bostock, rean.. 23-24; Hon. Mr. Loug-

INDEX

MONTREAL AND SOUTHERN
RY. CO. BILL (Bee Bill 13).

COUNTIES

OF NAVIGABLE
POLLUTION
BILL (Bee Bill 2).

WATERS

GEORGIAN
OTTAWA AND
MONTREAL,
BAY CANAL CO. BILL (See Bil 52).

PORCUPINE DISTRICT, ALIEN POPULATION IN: Hon. Mr. Bostock, inq., 386;
Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rep., 386.

McBEAN, AN ACT RESPECTING CERTAIN
PATENTS OF DUNCAN DONALD (See
Bill 15).

PREMIER. TRUST
Bill E).

COMPANY

BILL

(See

P. E. I. PARLTY. REPRESENTATION: Hon.
Mr. Cloran, rem., 49-51, 53; Hon. Mr.
N. T. RY., COST OF SERVICE: Hon. Mr. CasLandry, rem., 49; Hon. Mr. Lougheed, 54grain, inq., 97. Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rep.,
57 ; Hon. Mr. Murphy, rem., 51-54; Hon.
97.
Mr. Prowse, M. and rem., 46-49.
McINTYRE DIVORCE BILL- (See Bill T).

NATIONAL WOOD DISTILLING CO. PATENT
BILL (Beo Bill G).
NEW, AN ACT FOR THE RELIEF
WILLIAM EWART (Bee Bill C).

OF

PROROGATION, THE:

N. B. AND P. E I. RY. PURCHASE: Hon.
Mr. LOUGHEED, reply 22. Hon. Mr. McSweeney, inq., 22.
NIAGARA-WELLAND
(2ee Bill 35).

POWER

CO.

BILL

NORTHERN PACIFIC AND BRITISH COLUMBIA RY. CO. BILL (See Bill 36.)
NORTH RY. PURCHASE: Hon. Mr. Choquette,
inq., 273. Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rep., 274.
NORTHWEST LIFE INSURANCE
(See Bill O).

CO. BILL

OCEAN LIMITED TRAIN: Hon. Mr. Lougheed.
rep., 274. Hon. Mr. McSweeney, inq., 274.
OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS, DISTRIBUTION
OF: Hon. Mr. Casgrain. rem., 98-99. Hon.
Mr. Daniel, M., 98. 99; Hon. Mr. Davis,
rem., 98. Hon. Mr. Power, rem., 99.
ORIENTAL IMMIGRATION: Hon. Mr. Bostock, inq., 322; Hon. Mr. Lougheeed, rep..
322.
OTTAWA AND NEW
(See Bill 24).

Ry.

BIL

PACIFIC COAST DREDGING: Hon. Mr. Bostock, inq., 322; Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rep.,
322.
PACIFIC, PEACE RIVER AND ATHABASCA
RY. CO. BILL (See Bill 37).
PARLTY. INVESTIGATION: Hon. Mr. Cloran,
rem., 333-334.
OF NAVIGABLE
POLLUTION
BILL (See Bill B).

PRINTING OF PARLIAMENT: -Hon. Mr.
Derbyshire, rem., 279-280; Hon. Mr. Power,
rein., 280.

WATERS

477.

QUEBEC
HARBOUR
COM.:
Choquette, rem., 442.

Hon.

Mr.

RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL (fee Bill
3).
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL (See Bill
30).
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMFI'T BILL (Bec Bill

ACT (1914)
REPRESENTATION
lIENT BILL (See BiH 106).

AMEND-

REVELSTOKE PARK ROADS: Hon. Mr. Bus.
tock, Inq., 194; Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rep.,
194.
ROBERTSON, ABSENCE OF SENATOR: Hon.
Mr. Cioran, rem., 21, 129, 429, 430; Hon.
Mr. Landry, rem., 23, 129; Hon. Mr. Power,
rem., 429.
ROBERTSON, EX-SENATOR, RESOLUTION
OF ESTEEM TO: Hon. Mr. Lougheed, M.
439.
RULES, SUSPENSION OF: Hon. Mr. Bostock,
1YORK
;. Hon. .Mr. Lougheed, M. post., 154;
M. 444.
SAVINGS BANK ACCOUNTS, INTEREST ON:
Hon. Mr. Béique, rem., 341-342; Hon. Mr.
Cloran, rem., 342-344; Hon. Mr. Domville,
rem., 341; Hon. Mr. Edwards, -rem., 344-346;
Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rem., 346-347; Hon. Mr.
Power, Inq. and rem., 340-341.
SECOND SESSION OF 1914: Hon. Mr. Cloran.
notice of M., 142-143; rem., 154; Hon. Mr.
Landry, 143, 155; Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rem.,
154.

SENATE

SEED GRAIN. PODDER RELIEF BILL (Siee
Bill 85).

SENATE,

SENATE AND COMMITTEES: Hon. Mr. Lougheed, IL 154.
SENATE AND BEOUSE 0F COMMONS ACT
ÂMENDMENT BILL (fiee Bill 67).
ACT

OF
ACCOUNTS
CONTINGENT
SENATE,
THE. Bon. Mr. Beique, <11h Report), rem.,
292-293; 9th report), 351, 352. Bon. Mr.
Beleourt (7th report), rem., 297; (on Mt
report), 817; (Sth report), 352-354; 6th
rereport), 366. Bon. Mr'. Bostoc, (1Mt
port). 423, 425-426. Hon. Sir Mackenzie
Bowell, (7th report), 294; (6th report), 315317, 319 ; (lOth report), 421-422. Hon. Mr.
Cioran, (6th report), 232; (9th report),.
Hon. Mr'. Cho350; <lOth report), 425.
quette, (7th report), 295; (9th report). 348.
lion. Mr. Dandurand, rein., 172; (7th report), 294.
Bon. Mr. Daniel, remn., 172;.
Bon. Mfr. David,
<9t11 report), 350-851.
(6th report), 232. Bon. Mr. Gordon, (îth
report), 297. Bon. Mr'. Landry, remn.. 33,
309-314, 325; (Oth report), 333, (9th reBon.
port), remn., 335, 348-350. 372-374.
Mr. Lougheed, (6th report), 320-321, 325;
(9th report), 356-357: IL, 477. Bon. Mr.
Power, M., 33; (Sth report). M.. 172; (4th
report), M, 175; (6th report), 232; (7th
report). M., 292, 295, 296; (Gth report), M.,
309 ; rem., 314-315; (on 9th report), M.,
335 ; remn., 347-348, 356, <10th report), M.
Mr.
421, 422, 423, 424-425, 426. 'Hon.
Rosa (Middleton), (6th report), 364-365.
Hon. Mr. Taylor, (7th report), 296-297;
(6th report!, 317-318. Hon. Mr'. Thompson,
(7th report). 293-294; (6th report), 318319 ; (9th report), 354-356.
CHAMBER. VENTILATION 0F:
SENATE.
Hon. Mr.
441.
Hon. Mr. Boyle, remn.,
Hon. Mr'. Daniel,
Cioran, remn., 441-442.
Hon. Mr'. Lougheed, ren.,
rem., 440, 441.
441.
SENATE EMPLOYEE, RESIGNATION
Hon. Mr. Power, remn., 280.

0F:

SENATORIAL INCREASE: Hon. Mr. Bostock,
(Question of Privilege). rem., 244-245.
SENATE, STANDING ORDERS 0F THE: Hon.
Mr'. Beique, remn., 146, 147. Hon. Mr. Cas-

ORDERS

0F THE-

grain, reom., 146, 151. Bon. Mr,. Choquette,
rern.. 274-275. Bon. Mfr. Cloran, rem,. 146,
147, 148, 149. Bon. Mfr. Daniel, rem., 275.
Bon. Mfr. Landry, rem-, 146, 148, 152.
Hon.
Bon. Mfr. Ljougheed, rem., 150, 151.
Mr. Power, remn, 146, 148, 151; ML, 274.
Hon. Mfr. Tessier, M., 145; remn., 147. Bon.
Mfr. Watson, rein., 275.

SEED GRAIN PURCHASES: Hon. Mr. Davis,
Inq., 74; Hon. Mfr. Lougheed, rop., 74.

SENÂTE AND BOUSE 0F COMMONS
AMENDMEN"r BILL (fiee Bill 77).

STANDING

Con.

SES SION, BUSINESS 0F THE: Bon. Mfr. Boatock, rein., 34. Bon. Sir Macenzie Bowell,
rein., 34, 35. Bon. Mfr. Casgrain, IL. 34.
Bon. Mr'. Lougheed. remn, 34.
SIMCOE, GREY AND) BRUCE RT. BIL,
Bill 61.

(Sies

RT.

CO.

SOT1HERN CENTRAL
BILL (fiee Bill 26).
SOUTH ONTARIO
(Sec Bill 25).

PACIFIC

PACIFIC

RT. CO. BILL

SPEAKER, ROBES 0F THE: Hon. Mr. Boyer.
rein, 439-440.
SPEECH FROM TEE THRONE: Page 1.
LIFE ASSURANCE
STERLING
CANADA BILL (fiee Bill 71).
ST.

CO.

LAWRENCE ANI) ADIRONDACK
CO. BILL (Sies Bill 27).

SUBMARINES,
Mcflweeney.
rep., 97.

0F

RT.

PUTRCHASE: Bon. Mr. Meinq., 97. Bon. Mr'. Lougheed,

SUPPLT BELL NUMBER ONE (fiee Bill 123).
SUPREME, COURT ACT AMEN]).
BilE 121).

BEILL (Siee

TERMINAL ELEVATORS, OPERATION
Hon. Mr'. Talbot, M., 127.

0F:

TITLE AND) TRUST CO. ETC.. BILL (Sec Bill
16).
THORNDIKE, AN ACT FOR THE RELIEF
0F LOTTIE <Sec Bill 1).
TORONTO EASTERN RT. CO. BILL (Sec Bill
28).
TORONTO, HAMILTON AND BUFFALO RY.
CO. BILL (Sec Bill 65).
TORONTO TERMINALS RT. CO. BELL (See
Bill 54).
TORPEDQES FOR SUBMARINFES PURCHASE
Hon. Mr. Lougheed, rep., 183; Hon. Mr.
McSweeney, inq., 183.

INDEX

-UNEMPLOY-MENT IN CANADIAIÎ CITIES:
TRANSCONTINENTAL OPERATIONS: Hon..
Hon. Mr. Boetock, inq. a.nd rein., 69-61;
Lougheed.
Mr. David, inq., 26: Hon. Mr.
Hon. Mr. David, reorn., 135-13-6; Hon. Mr.
rep., 26.
Davis, resn., 130-135; Hon. Mr. Ljougheed,
remn., 1619
RY.. ACT, AMEN»TRANSCONTINENTAL
MENT BILL (See Bill 119).
VAN BUREN BRIDGE CO. BILL (See Bill
DISCONTRAINS,
29).,
TRANSCONTINENTAL
TINUANCE 0F: HSn. MT. Cagraln. .om.,
76-82; Hon. Mr. Choquette, rem., 16YS-170*; VANCOUVER LIFE INSURANCE CO BILL
(Seo Bill 45).
Hofi. Mr. Cioran, rm., 38-41; Hon. Mr.
David, M. and rem., 35-1:; Hon. Mr. Gordoni,
BILL (Seo
rem., 41-48, 87-88; Hon. Mr. Bolduc, rem., VANCOUVER TERMINAL RY. CO.
Bill 55).
82'-86; Hon. Sir -Mackenzie Boweil, rem, 90;
Hon. Mr. Power, rem., 85-87; Hon. Mr.
VANCOUVER, VICTORIA AND EASTERN
Boyer, rem., 90-91; Hon. Mr. Lougheed,
RY. AND NAVIGATION CO. BILL (Sec
Tesuier, rein., 168.
rem.. 91-94; Hon. Mr.
Bill 38).
Hon. Mr. Watson. remn. 88-89, 90.
VOTES FOR SOLDIERS BILL (Se. Bill 111).
TRANSLATION COST 0F: Hon. Mr. BoyCr,
rem., 434; Hon. Mr. Cioran, rem., 432 ; Hon.
VOTES 0F THE SENATE, RESCISSION 0F:
Mr. Dandurand, rem., 431; Hou. Mr. Davis,
Hon. Mr. Cioran, rem., 128; Hon. Mr.
Girroir, rem.
M. 430-431, 433; Hon. Mr.
Power, M. 127-128.
433-434, Hon. Mr. Gordon, rem., 434; Hon.
Mr. La Riviei-e, rem., 431, 432,; Hon. Mr. WAR EXPENDITURES, AN ACT TO SUPYtois (Middlerton), rem., 431-432.
LEMENT THE REVENUE REQUIRED
.TO MEET (Sc Bill 76).
0F
SUPERANNUATION
TRANSLATOR.
FRENCH: Hon. MT. Oiorain, romn., 326; Hon. WESTERN DOMINION RY. CO. BILL (Sec
Bill 46).
Mr. Landry, preseiris report, 15i2: rem, 826;
Hon. Mr. Lougheed, remn., 152, 153, 326, Hon.
Mr. Watson. WINDING UP ACT AMT. B. (Sec Bill 122).

Mr. Thonpaon, rein., 325; Hon.
rem., 15 2..

TRUST COMPANIES: Hon. Mr. Bostock, M. 233.

YUKCON PLACER MINING ACT ÀMT. BILI.
(See Bill 67).

s 32
RBYIS8D

19DITION

