Canmd

-Mtbates of tje

benate

OFFICIAL REPORT
(HANSARD)

THE HONOURABLE JEAN-PAUL DESCHATELETS, P.C.
SPEAKER

1969-70
SECOND SESSION, TWENTY-EIGHTH PARLIAMENT
18-19 ELIZABETH II

VOLUME II
(April 7, 1970, to October 7, 1970)

Parliamentwas opened on October 23,1969
and was proroguedon October 7, 1970

Queen's Printer for Canada, Ottawa, 1970

22481-1

SENATE DEBATESApi7.10

THE SENATE

Tuesday, April 7, 1970
The Senate met at 8 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
DOCUMENTS

TABLED

Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Report of the Department of Trade and
Commerce for the period January 1 to
Mai-eh 31, 1969, pursuant to section 7 of
the Department of Trade and Commerce
Act, chapter 78, R.S.C., 1952.
Copies of Ordinances, chapters 1 to 9,
inclusive, passed by the Council of the
Nortlhwest Territories at its 41st Session,
January 1970, pursuant to section 15 of
the Northwest Territories Act, chapter
331, R.S.C., 1952, as amconded 1953-54,
together with a copy of Order in Council
P.C. 1970-4191, dated March 17, 1970,
-approving same, and a copy of Table of
Public Ordinances of the Northwest Territorics, 1956-1970 (First Session). (English text).
Report of the Departmcnt of Public
Works for the fiscal ycar ended March 31,
1969), piirsaant to section 34 of the Public
Works Act, chapter 228, R.S.C., 1952.
Copy of text of a Statement on Chcmical and Biological Warfare given by Mr.
George Ignatiefi, Canadian Representative to the Conference of the Committee
on Disarmament, on March 24, 1970.
Copies of tre1egrams and correspondencc exchangcd between the Prime Minister of Canada and the Premier of the
Province of Qucbec and certain officiais,
dated betwcen January 8 and March 13,
1970, with
respect te, the Niamey
Conference.
Copieýs of telegrans addressed by the
Secretary of State for Externai Affairs to
the Prumier of the Province of Manitoba,
dated March 17, 1970, with respect to the
Niamey Conference.
Copies3 of Report of the Atlantic Tidal
Power Programm-ing Board, dated October 31, 1969 -andi entitled "Feasibility of
Tidal Power Development in the Bay of
Eu ncvy".
Copies of a contract between the Govornmcnt of C-mada and the municipality
of Rocky Mountain House, Alberta, for
the use or employment of the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police, pursuant to

April 7, 1970

section 20(3) of the Royal Canradian
Mounted Police Act, chapter 54, Statutes
of Canada, 1959. (English text).
Report on Operations under the Bretton Woods Agreements Act and the International Developmnent Association Act for
the year ended December 31, 1969, pursuant to section 2 of the first-mentioned
Act, chapter 13, Statutes of Canada, 196667, and section 5 of the latter Act, Chapter 32, Statutes of Canada, 1960.
Report of the Northern Transportation
Company Limited, including its Accounts
and Financial Statements certified by the
Auditor General, for the year ended
December 31, 1969, pursuant to sections
85(3) and 87(3) of the Financial Administration Act, chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952.
HON. JOSEPH A. SULLIVAN
FELICITATIONS

ON HONORARY

FELLOWSHIP

Hon. John J. Connolly: Honourable senators, bofore the Orders of the Day are called,
and as we are flot pressed for time this evenîng, I think it appropriate to mention that one
of our colloagues, Senator Dr. J. A. Sullivan,
bas been honoured in bis home City of Toronto with an HIonorary Fellowship of the Academy of Medicine of Toronto.
Senator Su'llivan has been honoured by
learned medical associations and other scentifie bodies ail over the world. 1 think it is
particularly warming that this special recognition should be given him in his own native
city. I venture the opinion that perhaps ho
treasures this as much as lie treasuros many
of the other great honours that ho has s0
richly deserved. We ail congratulate hlm.
Hon. Senalors: Hear, hear.
The Hon. the Speaker left the Chair.
Hon. Maurice Bourget in the Chair.
CANADA-UNITED STATES INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL

M\EETING-

DEEATE ADJOIJRNED

The Sonate rosursied from Tuesday, March
24, the adjourned debate on the inquiry of
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud) that he will cali
the attention of the Senate to the 13th Annual
M\eeting of the Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group held at Washington,
Cape Kennedy, Houston and San Antonio
10-15 March, 1970.
Hon. Jean-Paul Deschaielets: Honourable
senators. on Tuesday, March 10, a dolegation
of twonty-four Canadian parliamentarians led
by the Commons Deputy Speaker, Mr. H.
Faulkner, M.P. and myse1f, left for Washington to attend the thirteenth annual meeting of

April 7. 1970

DEBATES
Apri 7. 970SENATE

the Canada-United States Interparliamentary
Group. The Canadian delegation consisted of
six senators, namely, honourable Senators
Willis,
Macnaughton,
Leonard, O'Leary,
Phillips (Rigaud), myseif, and eighteen
members of the House of Commons. The
American delegation was composed of delegates from bath the Senate and the House of
Representatives.
As honourable senators know, each year
since the start of these meetings in 1959,
twenty-four Canadian parliamentarians and
an equal number of United States senators
and congressmen meet in camera ta discuss
matters of mutual interest and concern ta the
two countries.
The 1969 meetings were held in Ottawa last
June, after which the delegates visited Jasper
andi Banff National Parks. Discussions at this
year's meeting were conducted as usual in
twa committees. Comrnittee I deait with
Trade and Economic Affairs. I had the hanaur
of presiding over this committee as ca-chairman with Senator Frank Church (Democrat)
from. Idaho. Committee II, on Defence and
Security Matters, was presided over by Mr.
J. H. Faulkner, M.P., and Congressman C. E.
Gallagher (Democrat) from New Jersey.
The Trade Comrnittee considered variaus
problems of Canadian American relations,
such as foreign investment policy, measures
ta control. inflation, the automotive agreement, energy policy, including water, ail and
gas matters, pollution and related problems.
The Defence Commnittee discussed questions
relating ta NATO and NORAD, the Arctic,
east and west relations, and palicies with
respect ta Communist China, Latin America
and the Caribbean.
As honaurable senators will appreciate,
these prablems are serious, prabably the most
impariant we have with aur neighbaurs ta
the south. Though these discussions taok
place at the parliamentary level, I am convinced that in due time they will help in
reaching, at a higher level, satisfactary solutions wîth bath countries.
I understand that the honourable Senator
O'Leary, who was the only delegate from. the
Senate on the Defence Committee, will speak
later in this debate and wfll repart on the
exchanges of views which took place in that
panel. Since I have mentioned Senatar O'Leary, perhaps it is an appropriate occasion ta
outline the outstanding contribution of aur
distinguished colleague during these meetings
in the United States.
Hon. Senalors: Hear, hear.
22481-14

Hon. Mr. Deschaiele±s: Honourable senators, I must inform you that for a period of
two weeks before we left Ottawa the Canadian delegates had briefing sessions at luncheon
meetings almost every day. They were
briefed by experts and high Governent officiais, and I arn convinced that few previaus
Canadian delegations have been as well
briefed and prepared for discussions with aur
American colleagues.
As far as I amn concernied, I confess, and
have no hesitation in saying so, that I learned
much during these briefings, particularly in
sa far as the problem of the Arctic is concerned and Canada's dlaim ta sovereignty
there. I have learned much mare from these
meetings than I had ever learned before. In
passing, may I say that I think it might be
useful to invite fromn time ta Urne some of the
experts who could give us much worthwhile
information on the problems of taday, such as
questions on the Arctic. However, this is a
matter which I leave ta the chairmen of aur
variaus standing cornmittees.
I think the occasion is appropriate for me
on behaif of the Canadian delegatian ta thank
those Government officials who spent long
hours with us in preparing us for this meeting. It may be of interest ta honourable senators ta know that in the Trade Committee
four honourable senators had the distinction
of leading the discussions, and indeed of
making the opeming statements on behalf of
the Canadian delegatian. I do not think that
the Senate has on previaus occasions taken as
active a part as we did at this meeting. I arn
happy ta report that honourable Senator
Leonard introduced the discussion on inflation;
honourabie Senator Macnaughtan introduced
the discussion on pollution; honourable Senatar Willis introduced the discussion on automotive agreements; and honourable Senator
Phillips (Rigaud) an foreign investrnent. 0f
course they ail fulfllled their tasks extremely
well.
On March 24 last, just before the Easter
recess, honourable senators had the privilege
of hearing from hanaurable Senatar Phillips
(Rigaud) an the topic he introduced sa ably in
Washington, investments in Canada. At the
end of his exposé in Washington, Senator
Phillips (Rigaud) made it perfectly clear that
hie was nat expressing the opinion of the
Canadian delegation, but merely his own persanal view on the debatable question of
American investment in Canada. Honourable
senators who have read the speech of honourable Senator Phillips (Rigaud), and who may
not share the views he expressed will, I hope

SENATE DEBATES
whether they were members of the Canadian
delegation in Washington or not, have an
opportunity during the course of this debate
to express their views on this important
problem.
Honourable senators will recall that the
Canadian delegation arrived in Washington a
few hours after the announcement by President Nixon of restrictions on the importation
of oil into the United States from Canada.
When an American colleague expressed his
regrets to me on the ill-timing of this
announcement, I told him that he should feel
perfectly at ease because, I submit, it would
have been more embarrassing to us had this
announcement been made the day following
our departure from Washington.
Honourable senators, since my colleagues
on the delegation will be dealing with the
topics they have introduced for discussion, I
am going to limit my remarks to the program
of this visit to Washington, Cape Kennedy,
Houston and San Antonio, Texas.
On the day of our arrival in Washington we
attended a reception given by His Excellency
Marcel Cadieux, the Canadian ambassador,
and his charming wife, in honour of the
Canadian delegation. I wish here to express to
them, on behalf of the delegation, our gratitude and thanks for their warm hospitality.
In the evening a delicious dinner was given
by the United States delegation at the National Portrait Gallery in the Smithsonian Institute, and the honourable Senator Phillips
(Rigaud) was invited to speak on behalf of
the delegation. As would be expected, he
made an effective and impressive speech, and
we were very proud of him.
There was throughout this trip a remarkable team spirit exhibited by our delegation.
On every possible occasion we used our best
talents, and I think we succeeded in creating
a favourable impression.
On March 11 the entire day was spent in
discussions at the two separate panels, and
after the luncheon, at 2 o'clock, before resuming the sitting for the afternoon, we were
introduced on the Senate floor by Senator
Church. On this occasion the proceedings of
the Senate were adjourned for a few minutes
to permit our American colleagues to shake
hands with the Canadian delegates on the
floor of that house. This was, according to
custom, an unusual gesture of friendship for
which we are very grateful to our American
friends.
After the meeting the four co-chairmen
prepared a press release for this thirteenth
[Hon. Mr. Deschatelets.]

April 7, 1970

meeting, as well as reports of both committees. Since these two official documents give
an accurate analysis of the discussions, I feel
that they should be printed as an appendix to
the Debates of the Senate for this day.
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Honourable
senators, is it agreed that these documents be
printed as an appendix?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
(For texts of press release and reports of
committees, see Appendix, pp. 818-20)
Hon. Mr. Deschaielets: On Thursday,
March 12 we left Washington very early in
the morning in two presidential aircraft for
Cape Kennedy where we saw Apollo XIII on
its launching pad, and Apollo XIV on its way
to being assembled. As honourable senators
can imagine, this was one of the highlights of
our visit to the United States, as was the tour
of the NASA manned spacecraft centre in
Houston the following d'ay. Since we have
now seen this tremendous, unbelievable, and
complicated organization, the launching of
Apollo XIII in the next few days will represent for us a new perspective. We are, of
course, most grateful to our American colleagues for this memorable tour.
On the evening of Friday, March 13, there
was a reception and dinner in honour of the
Canadian delegation. It was not quite St.
Patrick's day, but I may say that it was
honourable Senator O'Leary's day. He made a
remarkable speech in which he warned our
American friends not to take Canada for
granted, and told them that Canada's identity
was an irreversible fact. It is my hope-and I
make this plea now to Senator O'Leary-that
in his report to the Sen'ate he will repeat
some of the important statements he made on
that occasion for the benefit of his colleagues
in this house and of the Canadian press.
The visit to the astrodome at Houston left
us almost speechless. It might be of interest to
you to know that this beautiful covered stadium was built by local private enterprise and
is operating on a profit basis. With the kind
of weather we have in this country, I am sure
that all my colleagues share the dream that
some day it will be possible for us to build
such a sports entertainment temple in this
country.

On S'aturday, March 14, we arrived in San
Antonio, Texas, where we received the full
red carpet treatment. Awaiting us as we
stepped from the aircraft in beautiful, sunny,
70-degree weather, was a long red carpet on

April 7. 1970

Apri 7, 970SENATE
DEBATES

which 50 civic officiais dressed in red blazers
and wearing Texas stetsons stood waiting to
welcorne us to be'autiful San Antonio. San
Antonio, one of the most interesting cities of
the United States, and its wonderful citizens
spared no effort to ensure that we saw and
enjoyed every part of it. It is truly a tourist
city, if oniy for the sake of the Alamo, which
is inunortaiized i American history and song.
This fine old mission stili stands as a rerninder of the Texas revolution in 1836, between
Mexico and 'a few strong Texans. I rnust
interjeet here for the benefit of niy honourabie colleagues that San Antonio is a bilingual
city and that one heard as much. Spanish as
English. Through the city runs a beautiful
canal system, much like the one here in
Ottawa but, because of the more temperate
climate, it is utilized for tourist purposes on a
greater scale and for a longer period of the
year.
During the course of these visits the
news commentators asked for our impressions. I remember my wif e, on being asked
what she thought about San Antonio, saying
in her well-chosen words, "Well, I don't
intend ever to corne back to San Antonio. I
arn thinking of staying right here."
I had the pleasure of bemng presented with
a key to the City of San Antonio. I do not
know the exact purpose of this or what it
represents in practice, but I was very grateful
to them for presenting it to me. The Chamber
of Commerce presented me with a scroll
naming me Ambassador-at-Large for the city
as long as I keep putting the narne of San
Antonio in the news on every occasion on
which I have the opportunity to do so.
Hon. Mr. Cannolly (Ottawa West): You are
doing very well tonight.
Hon. Mr. Deschaielets: On Sunday at noon
it was with regret and sadness that we had to
say adios to the new friends we had rnade in
this charrning city, and also to our American
colleagues who had accompanied us on these
memorable five days. But, like the syrnbolic
yellow rose of Texas handed to each of us as
we boarded Air Canada to corne back home, I
am sure these friendships wiJI continue to
fiourish and grow through the years.
Honourable senators, this was probably one
of the most successful meetings we have had
with our American colleagues for many years,
and I would like to express to both our
American
co-chairmen,
Senator
Frank
Church and Congressman Corneius Gallagher, our thanks and gratitude for everything
they did for the Canadian delegation.

Next year these meetings will take place in
Canada, and I mnust tell you that we wrnl have
an enormous problem in matching this visit
to the United States. However, we will certainly do our best to give them the kind of
friendly reception we received.
In the remnarks I made before we left I
expressed the possibiity that part of the next
trip by the Americans to Canada could take
place in the heart of French Canada, namely
Quebec City. I told our American friends that
they cannot understand Canada and the problems facing us if they are not; acquainted with
the French fact. Therefore, I think we should
explore the possibility of taking them to the
heart of French Canada, which is Quebec City,
during their next visit. This invitation has
been received very favourably, and I hope it
will be possible to explore the feasibility of
such a visit to Quebec City next year.
Honourable senators, the importance of
these meetings is obvious. As an example,
over the years the problem of immigration
was on the agenda for discussion at two or
three meetings. Over the years complaints
have been expressed by Canadian delegates
that it was not possible to obtain visas to the
United States, even in some urgent cases,
within a period of under a year to a year and
a half, although a similar request from American citizens wishing to corne to Canada could
ho deait with in three weeks. When we reached
Washington it was agreed that the immigration item should be deleted from the agenda
this year, because we were told that following
the pressure by Canadian delegates at previous meetings a bill is actually before the
Arnerican Senate which will deal at least
partly with the complaints previously expressed by Canadian delegates. That is only one
example which shows that from the exchange
of views it is possible that some of the complaints on either side can bring positive
results. I thought I should mention this to you
at this time.
The general purpose of these meetings,
honourable senators, is to improve relations
between our two countries through the
exchange of ideas and the discussion of
mutual problemns. It is frue that we enjoy
cordial and friendiy relations with our United
States friends. However, as the honourable
Senator O'Leary said in his speech, our
American friends should not take Canada for
granted. We should try to understand on
both sides our respective objectives, which
are not necessarily identical, and we should
neyer cease to work at bettering our relations. I submit that this is one of the purposes

SENATE DEBATES
of these meetings. Let us hope th-at these
meetings, which have been held each year
since 1959, will become a well established
tradition for years to corne.
I know that you are most interested in
knowing the stand taken by the Canadian
delegates on certain important problems such
as the Arctic, oil, gas and all sources of
energy. I thought it was only fair, on my part,
to leave to those honourable senators who
were well prepared to meet their Arnerican
colleagues, the responsibility to inform you of
the discussions and especially the arguments
put forward on both sides.
I now corme back to an invitation I made 'at
the teginning of my remarks. These are
debatable questions and the most important
ones confronting both governments today.
You cannot expect to have a delegation share
identical views on these debatable 'and contentious mattcrs. This is why I am expressing
a personal hope that honourable senators who
do not share the views expressed at these
meetings by our spokesmen from the Senate
will take part in this debate at a later stage. I
think it would be most interesting for us to
have both sides of opinions expressed here,
and it would be very interesting for the
public opinion in this country.
On motion of Hon. Mr. O'Leary, debate
adjourned.
The Hon. the Speaker (Hon. Mr. Deschatelets) resumed the chair.
STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS
PROPOSED STUDY OF PROCEDURES BY LEGAL
AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
-DEBATE CONTINUED
The Senate resumed from Monday, March
23, the adjourned debate on the motion of
Hon. Mr. Martin that the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs be instructed to consider and, from
time to time, to report on procedures for the
review by the Senate of instruments made in
virtue of any statute of the Parliament of
Canada, and to consider in connection therewith any public documents relevant thereto.

Hon. Maurice Lamontagne: Honourable
senators, I hope that my intervention this
evening will have the effect of closing this
debate and not starting a new one, as my last
speech in this bouse did.
Hon. Senator Martin: You started a debate
last week too.
[Hon. Mr. Deschatelets.]

April 7, 1970

Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: That is for a further
debate which I hope we will have in this
house also.
I would like, in trying to close this debate,
to congratulate the Leader of the Government in the Senate for having introduced
this most important motion. I would also like
to congratulate the other honourable senators
who have made very interesting contributions
to this debate. I do not intend this evening to
discuss in detailed and specific terms the substance of this motion. Others have done this
much better than I can, and I do not want
merely to repeat what they have already said.
I intend rather to look at this motion in the
broader framework of the general evolution

of our political system, more or less in the
vein that was used so effectively by Senator
O'Leary, who preceded me during this debate.
I also want to look at the changing centres
of decision in our political system and the

evolving role of the monarchy, parliamentarians, both ministers and backbenchers,
and civil servants at different stages of that
evolution.
I would like in particular to try to describe

the fall of absolute monarchy, the rise and
fall of ministers, the rise of civil servants,
and
the
beginning
of
their
twilight
which I am sure will be speeded up if the
motion before us is approved. My experience

as a former civil servant, an advisor to the
Leader of the Official Opposition in the other
place, a Minister of the Crown and now an
elder backbencher, bas given me some knowledge as to how our system has evolved, es-

pecially since the early 1950's. One of the
main themes of our debate has been that the
doctrine of the supremacy of Parliament was

more a myth than a reality, and I agree with
this to a large extent. Parliament may be the
source of political power, but the exercise of

that power is done mainly elsewhere.
The view was also expressed during the
debate, that conditions had worsened recently
and that, somehow, Parliament was losing the

supremacy it once had. I do not agree with
tLis second proposition. On the contrary, I
believe that the supremacy of Parliament has
always been a symbol, and that it has tended
to become more of a reality only recently. I
am also convinced that this recent trend will
be further reinforced if the motion now
before us is approved and if effective steps

are taken to provide for a careful and continuing parliamentary review of delegated
authority.
To prove my point, I do not need to go back
to the first stage of absolute monarchy. It is

April 7, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

interesting, however, to see how the rise and
the minister himself, came to be beyond
fall of ministers came about. To describe this
the powers of a single man, except with
most interesting evolution, I will rely on an
the assistance of a public relations officer.
article in the Economist in 1947, entitled "The
Under these pressures, the minister
Twilight of Ministers". Its opening paragraph
gradually became a figurehead.
reads as follows:
The principle of complete royal subjec- The author goes on to say, referring to people
tion to ministerial control was firmily like the Honourable C. D. Howe, or our presembedded in the British Constitution in ent Leader in the Senate, that:
Only those ministers who combined the
the course of the nineteenth century.
most forceful personalities with a willingThough theoretically all-powerful, the
ness to work cruelly long hours could
monarch had, by the end of Queen Vicreally be said to be responsible for their
toria's reign, completely accepted the
own words and actions, let alone those of
position that he could do nothing without
ministerial advice and, indeed, that he
the department they nominally concould not refuse to do anything that his
trolled.
ministers advised him to do.
The author continues:
In Canada, a similar evolution took place at
But this gradual change was not apparent
about the same time. It started in 1791 and
for many years. The permanent civil
reached a very important moment in 1848
servants while engrossing more and more
when the principle of responsible government
of the reality of power, studiously prewas recognized. The Byng incident in 1926
served the outward forms of ministerial
merely served to formalize what was already
supremacy-as indeed, ministers in their
implicit. But this rise of ministers to a positurn, did the King. Just as laws were still
tion of great influence ceased with the outenacted "by the King's Most Excellent
break of World War II.
Majesty" and ministers spoke of their
The correspondent of the Economist goes on
"loyal duty" to the Crown, so also the
to say:
most eminent and powerful civil servant
would still refer to his minister as "my
But there is no such thing as finality in
master", and would begin his letters "I
human development. The cabinet had no
sooner removed the last formal check on
am directed by the Secretary of State. . ."
its power than it began to move elseThis long quotation sums up very well
where. Ministers, in the middle of the
twentieth century, were subject to three also what happened in Canada. I wish to
pressures which together made it impos- recall just a few landmarks which illustrate
sible for them to fulfil the role that the the fall of ministers and the rise of civil
Constitution, as then understood, assigned servants.
The civil service began to emerge as a
to them. In the first place, with the
new force with the recognition of the merit
advent of socialismsystem and the creation of the Civil Service
I am speaking, of course, of Great Britain. Commission in 1917. Fifty years later, the
-the subject-matter of state action was peak of its power was reached, I believe,
enormously extended. Secondly, the sub- when in 1967 full bargaining rights were
ject-matter of public affairs became more granted by Parliament to staff associations.
technical and difficult and this, coinciding
Hon. Mr. Martin: Was the Civil Service
with the growth of belief that it was a
positive advantage for a politician to Commission not formed before 1917?
have spent his formative years in a mine
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: It began in 1911
or at the bench, made it a rarity for a under Sir Wilfrid Laurier, but the Civil
minister to be able to understand the Service was organized on the merit system
papers that were put before him, even if only, I am sorry to say, under Sir Robert
he had time to read them.
Borden's Government in 1917.
Thirdly, the number of personal
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Why sorry? There is
appearances required of ministers-in
nothing sad about that!
Parliament, at conferences, and at lunchHon. Mr. Lamontagne: When I said that
eons, dinners and meetings of all kindsincreased so greatly that even these I was sorry I was speaking to the Leader
activities, hitherto pre-eminently those of of the Government (Hon. Mr. Martin).

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Flynn: The Commission survived
22 years of Liberal administration.

April 7, 1970

The special position of influence of the
Establishment was underlined again some
years ago when a minister was asked by the
Opposition to resign for having consulted outside experts, and when another minister had
to resign for having reached a dicision without proper consultation with his civil
servants.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I do not like that interpretation. That is your interpretation of the
Gordon affair.

Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: Some objections
were raised before the adoption of that
important legislation. For instance, it was
said that Her Majesty the Queen could not
bargain with her own subjects and that the
supremacy of Parliament could not be encroached upon by collective agreements.
The fact that, when this legislation was
before Parliament, these arguments were
not seriously considered, shows how removed
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: All right. Then let
our political symbolism had become from the me tell you a story which is supposed to be
new reality.
true and which illustrates the fall of ministers
Meanwhile, especially after 1935, the civil and the rise of civil servants. It is reported
service Establishment emerged and gradually that a Liberal backbencher who had ambition
became the centre of power within the fed- and a good sense of humour decided one day
eral administration, beginning when Mr. to write to Mr. Mackenzie King asking to be
Towers in the Bank of Canada and Dr. appointed to the cabinet.
Clark in the Department of Finance joined
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I knew this would come
Dr. Skelton who was already in the Departup, because it is a good illustration.
ment of External Affairs.
Generally speaking, at least until recentHon. Mr. Lamontagne: Yes, this is a good
ly, when the Establishment was united behind illustration.
or against a certain policy, its advice was
In his reply, Mr. King, who could then
accepted by cabinet; when there was a di- afford to be straightforward, told the daring
visionbackbencher that lie did not have the compeHon. Mr. Flynn: On what basis do you tence and the high intellectual qualifications
required for such an important assignment.
state that?
The persistent member, who was obviously
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: Just be patient.
not satisfied with that answer, wrote back to
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You suggested that you Mr. King saying, "My dear Prime Minister, I
wanted to close the debate. You are opening believe that you have misunderstood the
nature of my request. High as my ambition
up a new one.
can aspire, I did not expect, of
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: No. I am suggesting become a deputy minister; I merely course, to
wanted to
that your colleagues may have had that effect. be a minister."
When there was a division of opinion
I am sure the Leader of the Government
between officials of a particular department (Mr. Martin) could tell us more about that
and those of the Department of Finance, little byplay, but whether the story is true or
including the Treasury Board, then the views not, in my view it symbolizes very succinctly
of the latter would prevail at the cabinet the twilight of ministers in Canada.
table. I knew the situation personally,
when I was a civil servant, where two impor- [Translation]
tant groups of the Establishment were not
We should not jump at the conclusion, even
able to reconcile their views on a vital policy if this is the feeling of the Leader of the
issue. In that circumstance, as well as in Opposition, that the powers of senior officials
others, the cabinet failed to act.
have always been carried out along the sarne
The supremacy of the Establishment may lines and that they have never been subjected
have reached its peak recently when, as a to any kind of limitations. I think that posiresult of the implementation of the Glassco tive influence-and I mean positive influreport, deputy ministers were given impor- ence-was at its peak during the last years of
tant managerial responsibilities which had the St. Laurent régime, because, under Mr.
been viewed before as being too sensitive, as Diefenbaker, their authority was mostly negabeing too dangerous, as being perhaps too tive, according to the oft-repeated evidence
important to be exercised by ministers and given by the Honourable Alvin Hamilton and
had been transferred from ministers to the corroborated in this House by honourable
Civil Service Commission.
Senator O'Leary about two weeks ago. They
[Hon. Mr. Lamontagne.]

April 7, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

claimed that the plans brought forward by the repeated by all the main political parties.
Conservative government were systematically That is one of the factors which lead me to
believe that a new era has already begun in
blocked by the high-ranking officials.
If those claims have any truth to them Canada as far as the sources of political influ-and, of course, I was not there to check ence are concerned.
them-they are quite eloquent about the pow- [English]
Thus, a new period is emerging in our
erlessness of the ministers at that time.
country. I would describe it as the twilight of
Hon. Mr. Flynn: But you were not far civil servants. I do not mean by this that the
away, since you were sitting in the gallery.
fall of the civil servants will be as dramatic
I did not attend the as that of the politicians many years ago or
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne:
that it will correspond to the rise of ministers
ministers' meetings.
to their former position of influence. I mean,
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You could make signals to however, that the Establishment will play in
the future a more limited role than in the
the now Leader of the Government.
past 25 years, and that it will have to share
Mr. Speaker, I shall its privileged position as "near ministers" with
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne:
nevertheless attempt to concludenew sources of political influence.
In the first place, I believe that civil servHon. Mr. Flynn: In acting this way, I am
simply attempting to break the monotony ants will have less and less to do with the
of this theory which seems to me very development of new policies. Conversely, the
intellectual community outside the Civil Serlearned but hardly convincing.
vice will play an increasing role in the deterHon. Mr. Lamontagne: The honourable mination of new policy objectives and proposLeader of the Opposition could discuss the als. The rising number of royal commissions,
matter again with Senator O'Leary who stated of task forces, advisory boards and councils,
very categorically two weeks ago in this is an obvious sign of the shift which is
Chamber what I have just repeated.
already taking place; but that is only part of
the new story. Let me explain what I mean a
Hon. Mr. Flynn: That part.
little more fully, if briefly.
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: If the Leader of the
In the past, political parties could win elecOpposition will allow me, I shall try to con- tions by making vague promises, by relying
tinue. During the first 60 days of the Pearson on their record, or merely by attacking the
government-indeed I have no intention of opponent. When they assumed office they
speaking only of those long years of the Die- were not committed to any over-all political
fenbaker era-the influence of major officials program and they were free to accept the
was practically nil. This newly-found advice of civil servants even in connection
independence of politicians-several of them with the formulation of policies. That situawere former civil servants-led to mistakes, tion is changing rapidly.
rather minor in my opinion, but which will
Hon. Mr. Flynn: It does not sound like that
not be easily forgotten; the traditional unbalance of the opposing forces was thus rapidly in Quebec presently.
restored.
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: We are in Ottawa
I am convinced however that we are now, not with your friends in Quebec.
already going through the first stages of a
The public and the press now expect politinew period. From 1959 to 1962 , with the cal parties to be identified with a concrete,
assistance of advisers who obviously did not detailed and co-ordinated set of policy
belong to the civil service, the Liberal party proposals, especially during electoral camin the opposition had prepared an elaborate paigns. Moreover, this identification with a
and detailed program. When they assumed precise program has become almost inevitable
power, they carried it out too rapidly and in since political parties have decided to hold
isolation, an error which will not matter in the national policy conventions every two years.
long run. The only thing that will matter is Their public image would greatly suffer if
the method adopted by the Liberals in pre- such meetings-and I do not include of course
paring their program, based as it was at the leadership conventions in that category-were
time on the method used by the team of Jean not devoted to serious thinking and discusLesage before 1960. I have the impression that sion. But such an identification means that
the experiment made by the Liberal party in when a given party is newly elected or is
the opposition, before 1963, will henceforth be merely returned to office, it will be committed
22481-2

SENATE DEBATES
to a detailed set of policies which will have
been developed with little, if any, consultation with civil servants. I think if the Leader
of the Opposition had followed more closely
the activities of federal Conservatives rather
than those of the Union Nationale, he would
have agreed with me, since he attended his
own party's Thinkers Conference last fall.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I am quite sure I have a
wider perspective than the honourable senator who is speaking.

April 7, 1970

and by this Government and you only have to
look at these various thinkers conferences. I
am not saying that this intellectual community will be the only source of political power or
of political thinking. My only point at this
moment is that this is a new force which will
be quite active and influential and will be
outside the traditional lines of the Civil Servdce. I could list quite a number of them.

Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): May I
ask if you include in the intellectual community those
Hon. Mr. Croll: Is this a private fight or can are appearing groups that have appeared and
now before the Standing Senate
I join in it too?
Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce
in connection with the White Paper on TaxaHon. Mr. Flynn: Of course you can.
tion? They are developing a great deal of
Hon. Mr. Aird: I am concerned about your input and placing a tremendous amount of
use of the phrase "intellectual community". I material for thought before that committee
had the impression that you intended to devel- which, I am sure, will have a tremendous
op it as you went along, but so far it has not effect on policy. Would you regard these
come through as clearly as it should. What do people as being part of the intellectual
you mean by that phrase?
community?
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: Well, you are in that
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: If they appear
community. To get a definition of that com- before the committee on their own behalf and
munity you only have to look at the people not on behalf of a private lobby, they would,
who attended the last Liberal Thinkers Con- to my way of thinking, and according to my
ference near Vancouver-and since I was not loose definition of the phrase, form part of
there I exclude myself from that-but this the intellectual community.
event would give you a fairly representative
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I cannot see why it should
picture of that community. Then if you look
at the great Thinkers Conference organized make a difference whether they appear on
by the Conservative Party last fall, you will their own behalf or on behalf of somebody
have another example of that community; else.
and of course in those who attended the NDP
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: I think the honourConference in Toronto, when the Watkins
Report was so heatedly discussed, you would able Leader of the Opposition should consult
find another sample. This is a very loose con- with his colleague, Senator Grosart, because
cept, I know, but since we are not discussing Senator Grosart was very active at the last
legal concepts at this time, I am sure my meeting of the Conservative Thinkers Conferhonourable friend knows perfectly well what ence. Let me make it clear that I think it is a
I mean.
very desirable thing and an improvement in
Hon. Mr. Aird: I do not know what you our system, provided that this new factor of
mean-that is why I asked the question. I political influence remains only as one among
think you are talking in a very wide, generic others, because we are trying in this country
sense. However, I am prepared to accept that to find a more diffuse basis of political influanswer, but I do not think I am prepared to ence, and I would certainly hope that the
accept the answer that the intellectual com- intellectual community would be at least one
munity is symbolized by the people who of them. I do not see why the Leader of the
attended any of these conferences.
Opposition should be so much against that
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: What I mean is that kind of thing.
we are now, fortunately or unfortunately,
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: What you are saying is
seeing a new class of people which, generally that
we have got away from the practice of
speaking, I call intellectuals who more and
more are being invited to share in the prepa- party policies being decided by the party
ration and formulation of policies. You only leader consulting with his supporters.
have to look at the task forces which have
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: I am merely describbeen established by the former Government ing new trends.
[Hon. Mr. Lamontagne.]

April 7, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 7, 970SENATE

Hon. Mr. O'Leary: But you have spent a
great deal of time discussing what took place
in England during the Nineteenth Century.
You have not been discussing what has taken
place in Canada at ail where our ministers
are not responsible to a civil service. You
weil know that our foreign policy, for exampie, was always dictated to us by the Governor General acting on behaif of the Crown.
You know that as well as I do.

the "instruments made in virtue of any statute". That has nothing to do with the power
of civil servants and ministers.

Hon. Mr. Laman±agne: I do not agree with
that.

Hon. Mr. Lamon±agne: May I speak? I have
listened very attentively to this debate, and it
was only at the end of the debate that I
decided to intervene and participate in it,
because it had developed along those lines.
Moreover, I arn quite sure that what I amn
saying now is germane to the motion presented by the Leader of the Government.

Hon. Mr. O'Leary: But you were not here
before 1919, and I was. At that time the Governor General had his office in the East Block.
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: But we are flot dealing with the same period. You are referring
to the period before 1919, while I arn trying to
describe the situation in Canada after 1935.
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: The situation which
existed after 1919 was brought about by Sir
Robert Borden, and well you know it. You
are now giving us Liberal mythology.
Hon. Mr. Croli: Not Liberal mythology, just
mythology.
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: May 1 continue?

Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: I arn sorry, honourable senators, if the Leader of the Opposition
does not listen to the debates and speeches
made in this chamber.
Hon. Mi. Flynn: I do listen. At least, I do
listen to you!

Hon. Mi. Flynn: You wiil neyer be out of
order on that score!
Hon. Mr. Lamaniagne: No, but I think you
should listen to wbat your coileagues are
saying in this chamber.
The Hon. the Speaker: Order, please! A
point of order bas been raised by the Leader
of the Opposition. It has to do with relevancy
of debate. As 1 understand the point raised by
the Leader of the Opposition, it is that up to
now the views expressed by the honourable
Senator Larnontagne have not been relevant
to the subi ect matter we are now discussing.

Hon. Mr. Flynn: Before the honourable
senator goes on, 1 should point out that he
said he wanted ta close the debate, and so I
rise more or less on a point of order. I do not
Han. Mr. Flynn: If the honourable the
intend to stop him. fromn completing bis
remarks, but I would suggest to the honour- Speaker wants to make a ruling on it, I do not
able senator that he can hardly relate his mind--especiaily if he makes it against me. I
thesis and ail that lie has said up to now to did not intend to prevent the honourable
the subject matter before us, which is "the senator completing his rernarks, but I wanted
review by the Senate of instruments made in to put on record that as far as I arn convirtue of any statute".
cerned he was out of order.
Hon. Mr. Lamonlagne: I think the Leader
The Hon. the Speaker: A point of order
of the Opposition should read the earlier
lias been raised, and as I have been waiting
speeches made by his own colleagues.
for some time for the opportunity to make a
Hon. Mr. Flynn: They have made some ruling on precisely this matter of relevancy, I
remarks, but they have not spoken for haif hope that the Leader of the Opposition will
an hour on this. This is only incidental, and I flot deprive me of the opportunity of placing
suggest to the honourable senator that he is
completely out of order and that his remarks on the record what is my feeling on this
are irrelevant. I would certainly like to start question.
another debate on this very matter which the
Hon. Mi. Flynn: Very good.
honourable senator has discussed, but he is
eniirely out of the picture that we are supThe Hon. the Speaker: I am going to cite
posed to be dealing with at the present Urne, Beauchesne, 119-3:
and he should know it. Even if what he is
Relevancy is not easy to define.
saying is very interesting and convincing, it
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I have heard that before
does not serve the purpose we are trying to
achieve, to decide whether we should review too.
22481-21

SENATE DEBATES
The Hon. the Speaker: It continues:
A wrong comprehension of it may have a
serious effect on the freedom of speech.
Members are often deprived of their
right to speak on the pretext that their
remarks are irrelevant when as a matter
of fact they refer to matters perhaps
remote but yet related, even indirectly, to
the question under debate. In borderline
cases the Member should be given the
benefit of the doubt.

April 7, 1970

Honour is aware of any standing rule of the
Senate that requires relevancy in debate.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: It is not a standing rule of
the Senate, but a standing rule of logic.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): When
we are dealing with matters of common
sense, I do not think it is necessary that we
have a written rule. If you are saying something that bas no relevancy at all to the particular subject under discussion, then you are
completely out of order, whether there is a
written rule or not.

Having cited Beauchesne on this matter of
relevancy of debate, I would like to take the
opportunity-and this applies, of course, to
The Hon. the Speaker: May I now come
all honourable senators on both sides of the back to the point raised by the honourable
house-to say that I am impressed by the Senator Grosart. If I understand correctly, be
great concept of freedom of speech.
is asking me to cite the rule under which this
matter would come. I do not think there is
Hon. Mr. Flynn: So I am.
anything in the rules on this matter of releThe Hon. the Speaker: I think that we vancy of debate, and in such circumstances
should leave it as it is for the time being. The the tradition is to rely on authorities.
honourable Senator Lamontagne has the floor.
May I suggest that at the present time we
invite the honourable Senator Lamontagne to
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
continue his remarks. I would appreciate, at
The Hon. the Speaker: May I remind the first opportunity, our going a little deeper
honourable senators that because some parts into this matter of relevancy of debate.
of Senator Lamontagne's speech may refer to
The honourable Senator Lamontagne!
certain political instances, he is not obliged to
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: Mr. Speaker, I ceranswer immediately all the questions that
come from one sector of the bouse. He may tainly undertake to abide by your ruling but,
take them as notice and answer them at the as far as I am concerned, I believe I am
perfectly within the range of this debate and
end of his remarks.
within the purpose of this motion, because, if
Hon. Mr. Flynn: He is not obliged to, but I understand its purpose at all, it is that
does Your Honour suggest that he will not Parliament, or at least one chamber of Parliatry?
ment, should exercise more control over the
executive in our system. In this executive
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: Mr. Speaker,sector there are people called civil servants.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: On a point of order, These civil servants and their powers have
would Your Honour inform the house if he is been referred to time after time during this
aware of any rule of the Senate that requires debate by Senator O'Leary, Senator Grosart,
Senator Thompson, and others, so I do not see
relevancy in debate?
why the honourable Leader of the Opposition
The Hon. the Speaker: As I have said, this should be so intemperate and impatient tois the first time I have had to deal with the night. First of all, I have the impression that I
question of relevancy of debate. It is not an have a perfect right to discuss these issues
easy matter with which to deal. I have given tonight, and, secondly, I do not think I am
some thought to it, and I was awaiting an delaying the approval of any important
opportunity to decide on a particular case.
legislation.
Of course I will not come to a final decision
Hon. Mr. Flynn: No; the delay is due to me.
before having heard experts on both sides,
including the honourable Senator Grosart. I accept responsibility for the delay, but I
However, this evening I hope it will be possi- suggest that you have opened up a new
ble, without getting too deeply involved in debate.
this matter of relevancy, to hear the honouraHon. Mr. Lamontagne: I accept your word
ble Senator Lamontagne.
that up to now during my speech you have
Hon. Mr. Grosari: With respect to Your been pretty irresponsible. Let me proceed
Honour's reply, I am still wondering if Your with my thesis. I think it is good to have this
[Hon. Mr. Flynn.]

April 7, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

kind of exchange in this chamber, because it vincial meetings and continuing consultation
brings more life into the debate. I am sorry between officials, has been growing, especially
that I provide the occasion for it tonight, since 1963, under the auspices of co-operative
federalism.
and I hope that others will have their turn.
There is another important new force
Hon. Mr. Flynn: They will.
which has been competing with civil servHon. Mr. Lamontagne: I can promise the ants to influence ministers and governments,
honourable Leader of the Opposition that and it is, broadly speaking, the press or the
when he makes what he thinks is an impor- so-called mass media. If the correspondent of
tant speech in the future I will try to meet the Economist, quoted at the beginning of my
remarks, was right when he said that the
him on the same ground.
cabinet had become "something of an outHon. Mr. Flynn: I shall love it. I look for- ward show", then the main objective of a
ward to it.
minister who wanted to be successful and to
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: What I was saying remain in the show was to try to develop and
maintain a good public
when I was so abnormally interrupted was face, and you save all. image. Save the surHence, the growing
that the power the civil servants used to importance for a minister to be friendly
with
have, from now on they will have to share reporters, and to have an efficient
executive
more and more with other sources of influ- assistant and public relations officers.
ence and eventually, I would hope, as I will
Hon. Mr. Martin: That article in the Economention in a few moments, with Parliament.
But for the time being I am just trying to mist was written in 1947, was it not?
make the point that the intellectual communiHon. Mr. Lamontagne: Yes.
ty more and more will have something to say
Here again, substantial changes have taken
about the formulation of political platforms
in this country. I think that events in Canada place. In the past, the relationship between
over the past ten years have proved my point ministers and the means of communication
very clearly. As a result of this greater influ- was quite different. Television and even radio
ence of the intellectual community, and also were not established as influential imageof the people, the politician himself will not makers before the mid-fifties. The press
necessarily be more responsible for the for- had a partisan approach to politics. Its
mulation of policy than he was before. If we owners, generally speaking, were closely
are not careful he will only have new identifled with a political party, and they
made sure that their newspapers and their
masters.
As I was saying, the new pattern for the reporters faithfully reflected the publisher's
preparation of political platforms is already political views. In that context, the public
set. It involves the consultation of the public image of the politician was largely deterby taking polls and conducting motivation mined by the good or bad relationship which
surveys, in order to know the priorities of its existed between his political party and
needs and preoccupations, and also, more and individual publishers. Once that relationship
had been defined, ministers
more frequently, the calling of a thinkers' little about their own personal could do very
image. It was
conference to determine how those priorities not, therefore, one of
their main daily
can best be met. Resolutions based on this preoccupations.
preliminary work will then be adopted in a
The philosophy of the mass media has
more or less modified form by national conventions, and become the official platform of changed drastically in the last few decades.
our political parties. Thus, the public, without They have become businesses, and competireally knowing it, and the intellectual com- tion among them is acute. Party affiliation has
munity will become new sources of political disappeared, or it barely survives in the
editorial page. The
influence and will play an increasing role in audience ratings havenumber of readers and
become the golden rule.
the selection and formulation of new policies. In addition, there is the cynical assumption
Another new source of political influence that the public has a strong preference for
which is reducing the role of federal civil sensation.
servants is represented by aggressive provinThis new situation led to a new code of
cial governments, reinforced by their own ethics for reporters. From now on, they did
Establishment. The active participation of not have to reflect the political views of their
provincial governments in the elaboration of employers. Thus, they were able to transmit
federal policies, through frequent federal-pro- their own in their articles. The thing they

SENATE DEBATES
could not afford was to be dull; and straight,
objective information was not supposed to be
interesting. So, the reporter who wanted to be
successful looked for rumours, scoops and
leaks. He wrote today on the news of tomorrow. He put the emphasis on personalities
rather than on events. He appraised rather
than informed. He was interested in the surface rather than in performance. He had few
real political friends, but he was grateful to
those who enabled him to produce his daily
article, or his news broadcast "every hour on
the hour". In the old days, he used to work
hard to find an official source for his information. Later on, it became casier for him to
rely on cabinet leaks originating from ministers' offices.
This general situation was always tempered
by noble exceptions, and has improved in the
last few years. But, at least until very recently, the minister who was not pre-occupied by
his public image, as projected by the mass
media, could not continue for long to be a
successful politician.
There is here a paradoxical situation which
I would like to explore more fully. My contention is-and I could substantiate it by an
impressive set of facts-that the mass media
do not have a decisive impact on public opinion, at least in so far as politics is concerned.
It would take too long for me to outline the
factors which account for this situation. I will
add, however, that most politicians share my
view and recognize, in theory at least, that
the mass media do not effectively guide or
faithfully reflect public opinion. Ministers
could, therefore, afford to ignore them, at
least up to a point. A few successful politicians-and I will not mention any names
tonight-have done just that.
Until recently, however, most politicians
were "newsworms." They were as fond of
rumours, scoops and personal stories, as most
reporters. Both groups lived in the same isolated world, although they usually despised
each other. This cohabitation produced
strange results. In most cases the politician
was almost unconsciously mystified by the
reporter. Thus, while the mass media had
little impact on the public, they had a great
deal of influence on the politician. There lay
the secret of the rising power of the press.
It was in this restricted context that a minister could not ignore the mass media with
impunity. If he enjoyed a good press, he was
envied and respected or feared by his colleagues. If he had no press, he had no future.
If he had a bad press, he was in serious
trouble indeed, because he became, even for
[Hon. Mr. Lamontagne.]

April 7. 1970

his own associates and colleagues, a political
liability in spite of the qualities he might
have. That is why it became almost essential
for a successful minister to have a dual personality, to smile even if he did not feel like
it, to talk when he should have remained
silent, and to say the "right" thing, in spite of
his own convictions. That is why ministers
also had two cars, one for the press and one
for their policy advisers. What they heard
from thcir two cars was often incompatible.
The danger was that the desire to preserve
the public image might prevail over the
requirements of the public interest. In any
case, during that evolution, it became evident
that civil servants had to share with the press
the monopolistie influence they used to have
on ministers. From then on, ministers had to
live in the limelight. That new position also
contributed to the twilight of civil servants.
The power of the press and of the mass
media may be declining, for the time being at
least, but there is another new pattern emerging which will tend also to reduce the influence of civil servants while not contributing
to increasing the importance of ministers. It
has to do with the working of Parliament. In
the immediate past, Parliament had really
very little to do with the legislative program,
which originated mainly from the Establishment, which also prepared the ministerial
speeches required for its presentation. It was
expected that once a bill had been accepted
by Cabinet, on the advice of the Establishment, it would also be approved without
modification by Parliament. The Opposition
could speak as long as it wished, but it would
have been a great sign of weakness on the
part of a minister to accept any of its suggestions. As to the Government backbenchers,
they were expected to be seen when votes
were called, but not to be heard.
That situation is changing quite rapidly.
We can even speak of a quiet revolution in
Parliament. The private member, after having
lost his administrative influence, which is a
disguised definition of patronage, is now
acquiring a legislative role which he should
have had ail along. Several factors account
for this change-the improvement in the quality of members, the succession of minority
governments and the length of sessions.
It is fair to say that the evolution really
originated from the Government side in 1963,
again as a result to a certain extent, I would
readily accept, of the minority position of the
Government. Competent backbenchers became tired of having to sit in the house for
long hours and months with very little to do.

April 7. 1970

Apri 7. 970SENATE
DEBATES

They began to present their grievances at
party caucuses and to press for more and
better organized parliamentary comimittees.
Ministers were flot in a very good position to
resist those pressures. It is indeed interesting
to note that with the minority situation and
the length of sessions, ministers had neyer
been more exposed to the influence of their
own backbenchers. This was even more so for
those having long-term political ambitions. In
certain cases, it is not an exaggeration to say
that they met private mnembers more often
than their own officiais. As a resuit, caucus
and parliamentary committees have become
more and more influential. They have proposed new legisiation which the Government
had to bring forward, and they have substantially modified several important bis. Such
an "intrusion" of Parliament in the legisiative
process would flot have been tolerated just a
few years ago.
This new trend, in my view, is irreversible,
because the frustration of the backbenchers
and their demand for a greater legisiative
role have not diminished as a resuit of recent
improvements. Party caucuses will be better
organized to enable members not merely ta
criticize their leaders once a political decision
has been made, but above ail to give them an
opportunity to participate in the decision
making process itself.
At the samne time, greater emphasis will be
placed in Parliament on committees which
will then be in a better position to propose
new policies, to examine bills more carefully
and to review the implementation of existing
legisiation more systematically, as the present
motion will enable us to do.
As we enter into this new era we are
moving towards a compromise between the
British and the American political institutions. 1 hope that this compromise will be a
happy one. If it is, we will keep our system of
responsible Government, the influence of civil
servants at the different stages of the legislative process wiil become much less determining, and the supremacy of Parliament will be
a more significant reality than it has been in
the past. Thus, the twilight of civil servants
will lead us to the rise of Parliament.

ADJOURNMENT

Hon. Edgar Fournier: I move the adjournment of this political. lecture.

Leave having been given to revert to
Motions:
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, I move, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding Rule 45(l) (g), that when the
Senate adjourns today it do stand adjourned
until Thursday next, April 9, at 2 o'clock in
the afternoon.
Honourable senators, perhaps a word of
expianation is in order. I am sure you will
recali that just prior to the adjournment for
the Easter recess I mentioned the possibility
that the Senate would not sit on Wednesday,
April 8, which is tomorrow, because of the
work of our committees. It is also possible
that the Senate may not sit a week from
tomorrow.
The major reason is that the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce has the White Paper before it, and
it seems to others and to myself-inciuding
the Leader of the Opposition (Hon. Mr.
Flynn)-that the work of that committee on
the White Paper must proceed, and proceed
rapidly, if we are to hear the witnesses who
want and ought to appear before it, and produce a report in time to be meaningful, not
only to the Government but to the people of
Canada. That is why we are setting aside al
day tomorrow for that committee, before
whom I understand four major Canadian
companies will be giving evidence. The coinmittee wili also be meeting on Thursday,
when the largest labour union in Canada will
be appearing.
It is my hope that not only the members of
the Standing Senate Committee on Bankîng,
Trade and Commerce but ail honourable
senators will attend the meeting tomorrow. I
know of few issues that have ever confronted
the Canadian people that have been more in
question and about which more information
has been sought than the proposais of the
White Paper. I think the Senate can do a good
job in reviewing that document with other
Canadians, and making proposais that can be
beneficial to ail of us. I urge you to attend the
meetings of the committee, not oniy tomorrow
but on every occasion upon which you have
the opportunity.
Motion agreed to.

On motion of H-on. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche), debate adjourned.

The Senate adjourned
April 9, at 2 p.m.

until

Thursday,

SENATE DEBATES

April 7, 1970

APPENDIX
(See p. 806)
CANADA-UNITED

STATES INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP

THIRTEENTH ANNUAL

MEETING

PRESS RELEASE-MARCH 11, 1970

During the past two days the Thirteenth
Meeting of the Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group has been taking place in
Washington. The group has met each year
since its formation in 1959, alternately in
Washington and in Ottawa, to discuss matters
of common interest to legislators of both
countries.
The Canadian delegation was made up of
six senators and eighteen members of the
House of Commons. The United States delegation was comprised of thirteen senators and
fifteen members of the House of Representatives. The list of both delegations, the agenda
of topics for discussion, and the reports of the
committees are attached.
Senator Speaker J. P. Deschatelets and
Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons J.
Hugh Faulkner were the Canadian Co-Chairmen and the United States delegation was led
jointly by Senator Frank Church (D. Idaho)
and Representative Cornelius E. Gallagher (D.
New Jersey).
Discussions between the delegates were
held in two committees, one dealing with
Trade and Economic Affairs and the other
with Defense and Security Issues. In the Committee on Trade and Economic Affairs, frank
and informative exchanges took place on a
number of issues including problems of inflation, foreign investment, oil, gas, water, and
energy policies, and pollution problems. In the
Committee on Defense and Security Issues,
discussions were held on matters such as
problems arising from Arctic Development,
NATO and NORAD, East-West relations, and
policies toward Communist China and Latin
America.
On their first evening in Washington the
delegates were entertained at a reception by
the Canadian Ambassador, His Excellency
Marcel Cadieux and Mrs. Cadieux, followed
by a dinner for the Canadian delegation given
by the U.S. Co-Chairmen. Secretary of State
William Rogers greeted the Canadians and
spoke briefly at the dinner. During their stay
the delegations will also attend a performance
of "The Fantasticks" at historic Ford's
Theater.

Following the meetings in Washington the
delegations will proceed on March 12 to Cape
Kennedy where they will inspect NASA
launch facilities and go to Houston, where on
March 13 they will tour the Manned Spacecraft Center.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE 1: TRADE & ECONOMIC
AFFAIRS

The Committee on Trade and Economic
Matters had a full and frank discussion on
bilateral and multilateral subjects of mutual
interest.
Considerable time was spent in the discussion of energy policies, including oil, gas,
water and electricity. There was general
agreement that a continental approach to all
aspects of energy requirements, including
water to be used in the generation of electric
power, would be the most effective way to
deal with the energy problems facing Canada
and the United States. While maintaining
respect for political jurisdictions, account had
to be taken of the reality that sources of
energy do not respect national boundaries,
and that the advantage of a continental
energy policy must flow to both parties. The
committee had the advantage of hearing from
Mr. Phillip Trezise, Assistant Secretary of
State, who made reference to the discussions
which have been taking place to reach agreement on a continental energy policy. Specific
reference was made to the intention of convening discussions between Canadian and
United States officials on the subject. It was
noted that this was the first time that the
committee had been briefed by a member of
the executive branch and it was hoped that it
would be possible to take advantage of this
technique on appropriate occasions in the
future.
There was much discussion of problems
affecting man's environment, including pollution. Both delegations were in agreement that
there was a strong mutuality of interest in
finding solutions to these problems and
recommended that their respective governments work toward devising a continental
policy on matters involving the quality of the

April 7. 1970

DEBATES
Apri 7. 970SENATE

It was agreed that further consideration
environment. The delegations agreed that,
of should be given to the effects upon the econoalthough water pollution was the area
States of
greatest current concern to Canada and the mies of both Canada and the United
particularly
United States, both governments should not the 1965 Automotive Agreement,
the labor
limit the area of cooperation to solving cur- with reference to the restilts upon
markets of both countries.
rent pollution problems but should adopt forREPORT 0F COMMITTEE II: DEFENCE AND
ward-looking interdependent policies covering
SECURITY MATTERS
the entire spectrum. of controlling man's
behavior toward the earth's lintited resources.
The committee's discussion w'as based on
There was a general consensus that there was the agenda, which had been agreed to by the
a great lack of knowiedge about the pollution two delegations in advance of the meeting.
control programs of the other country and
that more effective means of studying and Problems Arising from Arctic Development:
There was a full discussion of the consedisseminating information should be devised.
Both delegations agreed to recommend that quences of the discovery of oil and of minertheir respective governments examine the ais in Alaska and in the Canadian Arctic, as
question of reciprocal law deaiing with pollu- well as of the possibillty of commercial shiption problems since pollution is a global issue ping operations in arctic waters in order to
which does not respect national lines. There exploit these discoveries. It was recognized
was general recognition that it was of lite that these developments posed new problems,
benefit on common problems for one country which could have implications for relations
to have restrictive anti-pollution laws unless between the two countries.
the other bas siniilar controls.
'The Canadian delegates placed particular
There was an exchange of views on the emphasis on the dangers of oil pollution.
mutual problem of inflation, its causes, the They asserted the need for effective controls
methods being pursued by botit governments te ensure th-at ships proceeding through arctic
in trying te control it, and the resuits to date. waters would be sufficiently strengthened and
There was some concern expressed on both have adequate power to withstand the danger
sides of the results, in human terms, of meth- of puncture or destruction with consequent
ods used in botit countries to control inflation. loss of oil which would disastrously damage
Some consideration was given to the prob- the delicate ecological balance in arctic
lem of the effect of United States immigration regions.
There was some discussion of the soviaws on the employees of business concerns
operating in both countries. It was pointed ereigrity issue. Canadian delegates noted that
out by members of the United States delega- the Canadian governiment had for many years
tion that botis the Senate and the House of laid dlaim not only to the islands but also to
Representatives bave passed legislation to the waters of the Arctic archipelago. United
correct titis problem and it was 'anticipated States delegates expressed the view that they
that the bill would become law in the near anticipated no0 difficulty in reaching agreefuture. The introduction and passage of titis ment between the two governmnents on the
bill was a direct outgrowth of concern measures necessary for controlling the danger
expressed by Canadian delegates during the of pollution. But they did not expect the
meeting of the Group last year.
United States government to accede to
Members of both delegations expressed arrangements wbich would involve United
concern over the recent arming of United States recognition of Canadian dlaims te al
St'ates customs guards stationed on the the waters of the Arctic archipelago. The con'access te
Canadian border. There was general agree- cern was not over United States
an arctic waters, but fear of the implications for
ment that the use of the sidearms was
freedom of passage in other conflned waters.
unnecessary irritant in United States-CanadiIn titis exchange the Canadian side stressed
an relations and that the proper officiais of
the unique character of Arctic waters because
the United States reconsider the decision.
*of the f-act that ice cover prevents free moveThe growing concern of Canadians over the ment, with a consequent need for special
extent of investment by United States citizenç *navigational aids and icebreaker support.
in the Canaclian economy was also discussed
*It was recognized on botit sides that reguilaReference was made to the feeling of Canaditions te control pollution must be internationan equity is re-aching such proportions thal
emphapermanenl ally accepted. United States delegates
economic servitude may become a
sizecl the importance of proceeding by
stattuL

820

820

~SENATE

international agreement rather than by unilateral Canadian action. Several members of
both delegations thouglit that, while initial
contacts migýht be bilateral, it would be
important to convene a conference of interested governments to werk out regulations
which would gain international acceptance.
The Canadian delegation emphasized that
opinions on this subject were screngly held in
Canada.
NATO and NORAD: Status and problems.
Discussion of NATO focused. mainly on the
importance of North American forces to the
continuing defense of Europe. It was recognized on both sides that Western Europe
required the support of United States nuclear
forces and that significant U.S. conventional
forces were needed in Europe to assure the
Europeans of the efficacy of the United S tates
guarantees.
The United Staes delegates stressed the
importance within the Alliance of ail partners
to maîntain the military capability of NATO.
Canadian members pointed eut that the
recent decision te reduce Canadian forces in
Europe reflected a decision to place greater
emphasis in the future on Canada's contribution te the defense of the North American
sector ef the NATO area. Canada remained
fully committed to the Alliance.
East-West Relations:
Proposed European
Security Conference
There was agreement that political conditions in West and East Europe were evolving.
Delegates wcre encouraged by the initiatives
being taken by the new German gevernment.
Some United States members considered it
important that the initiative at this time in
the field of European security arrangements
should be left with the European members of
the Alliance.
Both sides considered it essential that the
United States and Canada should participate
fully in any European Security Conference
which might be held. They also theught such
a conference would have te be an on-going
meeting, as the numerous specifie problems
faced would require lengthy negotiations for
their resolution.

DEBATESApi7,10

April 7, 1970

Policies toward Communist China
The Canadian members reported on the
progress ef negotiations with the Communist
Chinese governent over recognition. They
peinted eut that the main point at issue was
Chinese insistence on Canadian acceptance ef
China's dlaim te Formosa, a step which
Canada was net prepared te take and which
China had net required of ether countries
such as France when they had entered inte
diplomatie relations. The Canadian delegates
explained that they expected the negotiations,
which were being held at ambassaderial level,
te proceed slowly, nor did they expect relatiens with Communist China, if established, te
2ead te any dramatie develepments. They did
consider, however, that At was essential that
China should be incorperated in the international community, including membership in
the United Nations.
Th'e Ujnited States members reperted on the
recent easing ef certain United States restrictions on reainsnt
ainland China
intended to permit increased. contact. These
moves hiad net evoked st:7ong domesI ic reactien. They aise looked te more serieus discussion in thec future talks between United States
and? rnainland Chinese representatives.
Policies towards Latin Amnerican and the
Caribban.
Th~e Canadian members noted that Canadian relations with Latin America were under
review. Uinited States delegates expressed an
Antefrt in knowing whethcr there was likely
tý be -achange in Canada's position on membership in the Organization of Latin Amenican States. The Canadian side explained that
the question was whether Canada could
expeet te play a useful roie in the OAS.
TIrere was still fear that membership might
involve Canada in having on occasion te chose
between support ef the United States or ef a
group ai Latin American states. It was probabie in the circumstances that the Canadian
government weuld move gradually te partielpate in OAS subordinate bodies, where
Canada ceuld play a full noie.

SENATE DEBATES

April 9, 1970

THE SENATE
Thursday, April 9. 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Statutory Orders and Regulations published in the Canada Gazette, Part II, of
Wednesday, March 25, 1970, pursuant to
section 7 of the Regulations Act, chapter
235, R.S.C., 1952.
Copies of texts of letters exchanged
between the Department of Transport
and the President, Humble Oil and Refining Company, Houston, Texas, in March
1970, with respect to the S.S. Manhattan.
Report of the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation, including its Accounts
and Financial Statements certified by the
Auditor General, for the year ended
December 31, 1969, pursuant to section 43
of the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, chapter 70, Statutes of Canada,
1966-67.
Report of Eldorado Nuclear Limited
and its subsidiary, Eldorado Aviation
Limited, including their Accounts and
Financial Statements certified by the
Auditor General, for the year ended
December 31, 1969, pursuant to sections
85(3) and 87(3) of the Financial Administration Act, chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952.
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, with leave of the Senate, and notwithstanding Rule 45 (1) (g), I move that
when the Senate adjourns today it do stand
adjourned until Tuesday next, April 14, at 8
o'clock in the evening.
Motion agreed to.

the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group,
and the motion to instruet the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs to consider and report on procedures for review by the Senate of statutory
instruments. A number of senators have
indicated their intention to participate in the
debate on these items.
I expect that Bill C-3, an act to amend the
Criminal Code, will receive third reading in
the other place this afternoon. In that event, I
would anticipate that we would deal with the
matter some time next week.
In addition, the House Leader in the other
place now advises me that there will be a
message from the Commons asking the Senate
to join with them in the appointment of a
Special Parliamentary Committee on Price
Stability. I anticipate that we will have that
before us on Wednesday next.
The committee schedule next week is
heavy. Mass Media will meet morning, noon
and night on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday and again on Friday morning. Banking,
Trade and Commerce will meet Wednesday
and Thursday to continue its study of the
White Paper on Taxation and hear witnesses.
The Special Committee on Poverty will meet
on Tuesday and Thursday, and the Committee
on National Finance on Thursday. It is
expected that the Standing Senate Committee
on Legal and Constitutional Affairs will also
meet to complete its consideration of Bill
C-136, an act respecting the expropriation of
land.
If on Tuesday night it seems desirable to
give the committees full sway on Wednesday,
then we will do that after consultation with
the Leader of the Opposition and, in the light
of the program for the week.
CANADIAN BROADCASTING
CORPORATION
COST OF AND REVENUE FROM FILM "THE
ERNIE GAME"-INQUIRY ANSWERED

Hon. Edgar Fournier inquired of the Government, pursuant ta notice:
1. What was the total cost of production of
the film entitled "The Ernie Game" to the
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, the
National Film Board or other government
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
agency?
wish to give an indication of the program for
next week, as I see it.
2. What was the total revenue from the
above film to the Canadian Broadcasting
On Tuesday we will continue with the
Corporation, the National Film Board or
debate on the two items now on the Order
other government agency to December
Paper, namely, the inquiry of Senator Phillips
31st, 1969?
(Rigaud) calling the attention of the Senate ta

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
(The answer follows)
1. $334,744 (final)
2. $8,192
COST OF AND REVENUE FROM FILM "WAITING
FOR CAROLINE"-INQUIRY ANSWERED

Hon. Edgar Fournier inquired of the Government, pursuant to notice:
1. What was the total cost of production
of the film entitled "Waiting for Caroline" to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, the National Film Board or
other government agency?
2. What was the total revenue from the
above film to the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation, the National Film Board or
other government agency to December
31st, 1969?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
(The answer follows)
1. $524,095 (final)
2. $113,278
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS
OPERATING COSTS OF MONTREAL-HALIFAX
PASSENGER TRAINS-INQUIRY ANSWERED

Hon. Edgar Fournier inquired of the Government, pursuant to notice:
1. What is the cost of the operation per
run from Halifax to Montreal for fuel,
salaries, rental, depreciation and any
other direct costs for each of the following Canadian National passenger trains:
The Chaleur, The Scotian, and The Ocean
Limited?
2. What is the overhead cost charged
against each of the above trains per run
from Halifax to Montreal?

April 9, 1970

any other person unless, in the opinion of
the Commission, such publication is
necessary in the public interest.
VISITORS IN SENATE

GALLERY

PRESIDENT AND EXECUTIVE OF SASKATCHEWAN MÉTIS ASSOCIATION

Hon. Herberi O. Sparrow: Honourable
senators, before the Orders of the Day are
called, I should like to draw the attention of
honourable senators to a very distinguished
group in our gallery today, led by Dr.
Howard Adams, President of the Saskatchewan Métis Association. He has with him in
Ottawa his complete executive from the province of Saskatchewan, totalling in number 14
persons.
I am sure honourable senators will be
pleased to know we are honoured today by

having this group here. Perhaps the group
would stand and be recognized by honourable senators.
CANADA-UNITED STATES
INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING
-DEBATE CONTINUED
The Senate resumed from Tuesday, April 7,

the adjourned debate on the inquiry of Hon.
Mr. Phillips (Rigaud) that he will call the
attention of the Senate to the Thirteenth
Annual Meeting of the Canada-United States
Interparliamentary Group held at Washington,
Cape Kennedy, Houston and San Antonio,
March 10 to 15, 1970.

Hon. M. Grattan O'Leary: Honourable
senators, His Honour Mr. Speaker Deschatelets and Senator Phillips (Rigaud) have made
two such excellent reports on this gathering
in the United States that it remains for me
only to add a footnote.
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
To begin, I think I can say that having
(The answer follows)
attended five of these meetings, I feel reasonRailway costs of this nature are consid- ably certain that this was the best and the
ered confidential in view of the Railway's most effective. One of the reasons for this was
competitive situation. The Railway Act, that before leaving Ottawa our delegates
as amended by the National Transporta- were given excellent briefings by some of the
tion Act, recognizes this situation and bas higher officials of the Department of External
provided for confidentiality of railway Affairs and other departments. I add
cost data with the limited exception that that we were also led with dignity and diswhere such information is obtained by tinction by our own Speaker, Honourable Mr.
the Canadian Transport Commission in Deschatelets, and by Mr. Hugh Faulkner,
the course of any investigation under the Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons.
Railway Act, such information shall not
I was on the committee which dealt with
be published or revealed in such a security and defence. I understand that it is
manner as to be available for the use of not the custom to recite in any detail what

[Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche).]

April 9. 1970

DEBATES
Apri 9, 970SENATE

takes place in those committees, so I can only
say that wlien it came to the consideration of
subjects sucli as the Arctic, NATO and generai defence, our people spoke witli great frankness, clarity and in many instances with distinction. I do flot like to mention names, but I
think I should say that one young member of
our committee from tlie other house, namely
Mr. John Roberts, spoke wlth such abiîity and
knowledge that lie made me wonder how one
with such promising talent could have
beeome ennieshed in the lieresies of lis particular party.
Hon Mr. Flynn: Tliat is what liappened to
the Leader of the Govemnment 35 years ago.

the environments, the emotions, the driving forces, the faith, the drearns and the
forms of expression of this North Amenican continent. Yet there is a differencea dilference I plead witli you to not
forget. For whlle Canada and the United
States may have the same basic cultures,
they eaeh at the same time have domestic
and other tasks and probleins-political,
social and economic-,which differ widely.
Canada's particular responsibilities, her
government, her constitutional structure,
her ideals and aspirations, lier memories
and milestones, even her discords, are
facts in her existence which cannot be
approached understandingly or usefully
by another country, even though that
country be as friendly as yours. Only
Canadians can know and resolve sucli
things, and we are determined to resolve
them in our own way, in the indispensable way of a sovereign society. A bit of
this continent, from earth to sky, we
want to cali our very own.

Hon. Mr. O'Leary: As I said, I can only
write a footnote to this debate. On Tuesday
last when honourable Mr. Speaker Desdliatelets spoke, he very kindly but inaccurately
said that I lad delivered what lie cailed a
remarkable speech in Houston to our Amenican friends. This was at the fareweil dinner to
us, and because Mr. Speaker appealed to me
to repeat part of wliat I said at that
Hon. Mr. Martin: Hear, hear.
time, and because I have been given to underHon. Mr. O'Leary:
stand fromn Washington that most of my
remanks are to be included in the CongressWanting that, resolved to have it, we
sionnctl Record, 1 may be pardoned if 1 repeat
aeed flot be enemies, but will pray
some of those words now.
always that as God lias made us neighbours, justice will make us friends.
What I was tnying to do was to avoid misleading our American friends, the American
Measured by human history, yours is a
young country. Yet standing at the cockdelegation, about our true position in Canada.
We meet themn in friendship and we are
crow and the morning star, you are at a
lnclined to indulge in those comfortable
pinnacle of power, with an awesome
accountability to history. If in the disphrases of mutual praise wbich you hear at
charge of that responsibiity you seek
ail sucli international gatherings. I have
peace with justice, then we as an ally
attended international gatlierings in Ottawa
and abroad, and at times I have been disand friend, but neyer as a satellite, will
turbed by the nice Nellieisms of diplomatic
walk with you always. For if peace be
but a pause to identify the next enemy, if
jargon, by the expression of cliches that in
our world be unable to find a moral
oun existing world create false dimensions of
equivalent for the hydrogen bomb, then
reality. No purpose can be achieved by utterdespair will have the last word, Deati's
ing the platitudes which belong to departed
pale flag be again advanced, and this
What we are up against are liard,
greatness.
planet well cease to be the abode of men.
cruel facts in a turbulent, disturbed world,
I end, then, wltli the invocation, Vive
and it behooves us, even among those we
and God bless and save
Canada!I
count as friends to make sure tliat they undenAmnerica!
Therefore, I shail now
stand our position.
repeat some of the things I said to our AmeniHon. Senators: Hear, hear.
can friends.
Han. Mr. O'Leary: Honourable senators, I
I want to say sometbing about Canada,
about our relations with your own great repeat these words now not because I regard
land. The people of Canada, like the them as great rhetoric, not because I think of
people of the United States, are basically them as literary excellence, but because of
North Americans, inheritors of tlie the significant fact that tlie members of both.
thouglit and traditions of Europe, but also houses of Congress who heard me speak those
the cblidren of geography, products of words rose to a main in enthusiastic applause.

SENATE DEBATES
This is what we have a right to expect from
Americans if we go to them frankly and tell
them the exact truth about Canada and Canada's relations with the United States.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: The fact that I spoke
these words frankly, and that they were
received se well, I think was some smali
achievement in understanding, and God
knows there is need for us to try to make
them understand. At the present time we in
Canada have those strident champions, those
strident sentinels of sovereignty. We hear
them every day. We read them in the press.
We read their books. But, honourable senators, I suggest to you, that they are watching
the wrong ramparts; they are identifying the
wrong enemy.
Not so long ago our distinguished and at
times extremely brilliant Prime Minister
spoke of the difficulty of living beside the
United States. He said it was like sleeping
with an elephant. Perhaps that is true. But all
things in human history, and all things in life,
are relative. I wonder if it occurred to our
Prime Minister what it would be like sleeping
with a bear. If he wanted information on that
point, he had only to consult the people of
Czechoslovakia.
This is the trouble with all these people
wno are so concerned about our sovereignty. I
have often asked myself where those people
were when this nation was, as I remember
well, little more than a colony of Britain. I
am afraid some people have forgotten what
the position of this country was prior to 1919.
I have with me the first volume of the
autobiography of Harold Macmillan. He came
to this country with the Duke of Devonshire
in 1919, and this is what he wrote:
As Sir Harold Nicholson has pointed out,
the old colonial theory did not collapse
with the death of Queen Victoria, but
lasted unchanged until after the First
World War ... When I went to Canada, the
Governor Ceneral was still appointed by
tie King on the sole advice of the British
Prime Minister. He and his office were the
chief if net the only method of communication between the Canadian and the
British Covernments. Everything of
importance passed through him and was
reported by him to the Colonial Secretary. The Privy Council at home was
accepted as the ultimate Court of Appeal.
[Hon. Mr. O'Leary.]

April 9, 1970

These people who are se disturbed about
our sovereignty now, why were their
voices muted then? Why was it that
when one man in Canada sought to change
this he had little support? When Robert
Borden, who was the Sir Robert Peel of the
Conservative Party, did take his own party
from a sentimental colonialism to a robust
Canadian nationalism, he was virtually
denounced as a traitor by some of those who
are now so concerned with our sovereignty. I
remember because I was in the Press Gallery
then, when the Governor General had his
office in the East Block, when the Royal
Standard flew over that building, and when
there he was consulted by members of the
cabinet on policy on the course Canada
should pursue. This was the condition which
existed in Canada. We were virtually a
colony. We certainly were a colony in foreign
aff airs in which we had no voice at all. No one
protested this, but some of the people now
who are still fighting the battle of Lundy's
Lane are terribly concerned that we are going
to be submerged by some monolithic American culture, and that in due course the barbarians will pitch their tents among us in a
permanent occupation.
Honourable senators, that is nightmarish
nonsense. True, we have problems with the
United States. Truc, free men living together
will always have problems, and let us thank
God for that. In those meetings when we met
in Washington there was, and we boast of it,
a wide hospitality for dissent, something very
congenial to my Celtic nature. And in the
Washington meetings we did not always agree
among ourselves. I remember my first intervention was contrary te my party's policy on
NATO. Other people and Americans did not
agree. They have their hawks and their doves
and they disagree, but we do discuss things as
free men. That will be our salvation in
days to come.
Oh, I know what is being said about how in
due course ail our industries, all our resources will be owned by our neighbours to
the south. I often wonder if those who see
such peril in that situation have really examined the problem at all. Very well, we are a
branch plant economy, so they say. Have
these people ever wondered what that has
meant to Canadian employment and wages? I
wonder if they know that between 1920 and
1930 a million people who had come to
Canada, left Canada for the United States,
and I wonder what our unemployment problem would have been if the United States had
not been there for them te go to.

April 9, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

True, we have industries owned by Americans, though often it is impossible to know
who owns a huge organization now. If we assume they are owned by Americans, who gets
the main benefit? We are told that the earnings from these industries go to the United
States. What remains in Canada? The plant
remains in Canada, the equipment, the wages
paid out annually, the investments these industries make in municipal, provincial and
Dominion bonds all remain in Canada; the
municipal taxes on real estate and the provincial taxes on those industries remain in
Canada; and a 48 per cent corporations tax
remains in Canada.
When I hear people say that this country
lives by exports, as it does, I sometimes
wonder how many of those exports, what percentage and volume of them, derive from
industries brought here by American investment. Take them away and see what exists.
This to me is one of the tragedies of political discussion in Canada-these constant
attempts to pluck the feathers of the American eagle, spawned too often, I am afraid, by
an inferiority complex.
I make no apology whatever for saying,
"Thank God for the United States." I know
that some of my friends have said that at one
time I wanted to bar American magazines
from Canada. I did nothing of the kind. The
royal commission of which I happened to be
the head made no such recommendation.
Indeed, again and again in our report we
regretted and repelled any attempt of those
appearing before us to traffic in anti-Americanism.
When we look over the world today and of
the past 25 years, when we remember the
state of chaos in Europe after World War II
and recall what the Marshall Plan did for
Europe, rescuing it from disintegration-in
the words of Winston Churchill, giving history its greatest example of a nation willing to
sacrifice to save humanity as a whole-surely,
honourable senators, we in this house, with
the responsibility that devolves upon us,
should try at all times to discourage this
nightmarish nonsense about our sovereignty
being imperilled by the United States.
I have said, I repeat-and am glad to repeat
it-remembering the world we live in, thinking of the context of our world, thinking of
what is happening in Europe and in Asia, we
should get down on our knees every night
and thank God for our American neighbours.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.

Hon. Mr. O'Leary: I am not ashamed to
repeat here the words that I used in closing
my remarks in Houston: Vive le Canada! and
God bless and save America!
On motion of Hon. Mr. Willis, debate
adjourned.
STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS
PROPOSED STUDY OF PROCEDURES BY LEGAL
AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE-DEBATE CONTINUED

The Senate resumed from Tuesday, April 7,
the adjourned debate on the motion of Hon.
Mr. Martin that the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs be
instructed to consider and, from time to time,
to report on procedures for the review by the
Senate of instruments made in virtue of any
statute of the Parliament of Canada, and to
consider in connection therewith any publie
documents relevant thereto.
Hon. Muriel McQ. Fergusson: Honourable
senators, with the consent of the house, I
should like to speak to this debate.
The Hon. ihe Speaker: Is it agreed, honourable senators, that the honourable Senator
Fergusson should now speak on this item
instead of honourable Senator Fournier?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: Honourable senators,
the speeches up to the present in the debate
on this resolution, which was so clearly, ably
and informatively introduced by the Leader
of the Government, have been of such a very
high order, and some of them so erudite that
I have some hesitation in participating in the
debate.
Having been a federal civil servant for
some years immediately before my appointment to this honourable house, I have
thoughts on these matters which in view of
some of the statements that have been made
I would like to put before you. From my
association as a civil servant with many civil
servants, I have very different feelings toward
and about what some of my colleagues term
the "bureaucracy" from that which some
members of this house appear to have.
We have been warned about the frightening things that civil servants could and might
do to citizens and to the rights of citizens
under regulations and orders-in-council which
have the force of law although they have not
been subject to the scrutiny of Parliament.

SENATE DEBATES
However, few cases, if any, have been cited to
show that civil servants have done any of
these dreadful things.
Knowing the fair-mindedness of our
Canadian civil servants, I do not believe we
need to fear that their aim is to take over the
running of our country, as seems to have
been intimated; instead, I believe their aim is
to make the country run as smoothly as it can
by their capable administration of the acts
passed by Parliament.
Most of the speeches in this debate have
been made from the point of view of lawyers
whose bias is toward getting every possible
advantage for their clients, or from the point
of view of politicians who, on working for
their constituents, become frustrated and
critical when they find the regulations do not
permit them to secure their objectives. But
there may be another side to these cases, and
these same regulations may be absolutely
necessary to carry out effectively the provisions of legislation passed by Parliament or
by a legislature.
No one seems to be interested in the point
of view of the civil servants, many of whom
in Canada, I believe, have given years of
dedicated unselfseeking service to this country and are continuing to do so.
Because I feel strongly that civil servants
often receive unfair and unjust criticism froin
the public, and even sometimes from elected
representatives of the public, I could easily
make an impassioned speech on the subject.
However, I shall refrain fron doing so today,
partly because it would be inopportune and
partly because I have in mind one of the wise
saws or sayings attributed to Sam Slick the
Clockmaker by the Nova Scotia philosopher
Judge Haliburton who wrote in the early
1830s and whose works are now being
revived. You will find them in many of our
bookshops. In his wise sayings there are many
bits of homely wisdom. I have in mind this
one:
An intemperate advocate is more dangerous than an open foe.
I might easily become intemperate on this
subject if I continue too long.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Continue, because you
have all the time you want.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I may have time but I
do not want to arouse opposition.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Whenever you speak you
gather support.
[Hon. Mrs. Fergusson.]

April 9, 1970

Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: In earlier times governments had little responsibility beyond the
making of laws, to guarantee the preservation
of order. That was mostly done by making
laws to punish those who committed acts that
were or appeared to be dangerous to the
common interests. All that really was needed
to accomplish these ends was to have an
elected law-making body of citizens who
passed the necessary laws and to have in
existence courts where persons learned in the
law, and able to interpret the laws, saw that
they were enforced. Times have changed. The
governments of the twentieth century have
much more responsibility than the preservation of order, although sometimes it seems
that the preservation of order still requires
considerable attention.
Frequently in the past few years we have
heard warnings in this Chamber regarding
the dangers inherent in passing acts in which
there are provisions authorizing the passing
of regulations which would give wide powers
to those charged with the administration of
such acts. It has been claimed here and elsewhere that such powers, if exercised, could
affect the rights of citizens, rights over which
in a democratic country only Parliament
should have authority.
In the Minutes and Proceedings of the
House of Commons Special Committee on
Statutory Instruments and in the third report
of that committee, which was tabled by the
Leader and will be studied by the Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs if this Resolution is adopted, it was
revealed that a large number of existent federal acts provide for the making of such regulations. Evidence given before the committee
showed that when 601 acts were studied-and
these constituted practically all the federal
acts in existence at the time-402 of those acts
provided for such delegated legislation.
Honourable senators who are lawyers will
know, and others may be interested to hear,
that as far back as 1884 in the case of Hodge
vs. the Queen, and again in 1892 in the case
of the Liquidators of Maritime Bank of
Canada vs. the Receiver General of New
Brunswick, the Privy Council, which at that
time was the highest court to which Canadian
cases could be referred, ruled that the Parliament of Canada has authority to delegate its
legislative powers to federal administrative
authorities. It may be of interest to know that
in 1951, when the Supreme Court of Canada
had become the final court of appeal for Canada, it was ruled that the Parliament of

April 9, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 9, 970SENATE

Canada cannot delegate such powers to provincial legisiatures-but they are able to
delegate them to federal administrative
authorities.
Although there is authority for such delegation of powers, in accordance with the principie that the executive is responsible to Pariament for ail legislation, for delegated
legisiation, as well as for statutes studied and
passed by the two Houses of Parliament,
there should be public knowledge regarding
any delegated legisiation and it should have
to stand the scrutiny of Parliament just as al
other legisiation does.
As the leader told us on introducing the
resolution, the Regulations Act passed in 1950
requires that ail orders, regulations and proclamations made under legisiative powers
delegated by Parliament shall be tabled in
Parliament and they shall also be published
in the Canada Gazette. There are provisions
for exceptions in certain cases, which he
explained and which I will not discuss.
0f course, members of either house could
study these items as they appear in the
Canada Gazette and bring Up in their respective houses instances which they considered
should be reviewed or considered. However,
time simply does not permit such close study
of the very many orders, regulations and
proclamations passed in the course of a year.
We have already been told that between June
1, 1956 and Decemnber 31, 1968, an average of
530 regulations a year were published in the
Canada Gazette.
To carry out the responsibiities of modern
government, it has been found necessary to
make use of the power to delegate authority,
not only to civil servants who carry out the
provisions of the acts passed by Parliament,
but to many boards and commissions which,
if they are to be effective, must also have
statutory powers. If the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee of the Senate recommends that a scrutiny conunittee be set up to
study regulations made in pursuance of
authority granted through various acts, would
it not be reasonable to recommend also that
the procedure used by various boards and
commissions appointed by government-who
are operating entities such as the CBC, CRTC,
Canadian Transport Commission, and many
others-also be scrutinized, so that citizens
may be assured that their procedures are adequate to guarantee the rights of the individuai citizen?
Hon. Mr. Martin: Certainly.

Hon. Mrs. Fergussazi: Honourable senators,
ia there anything that affects the life of the
average Canadian more than radio and
television?
On reading the evidenoe given before the
House of Commons Special Committee on
Statutory Instruments, I was interested in the
reference by one witness to a paper given in
Ottawa in 1966, which, mentioned regulations
under which there could be sub-delegations.
The writer feit such sub-delegations would
not be acceptable in many other countries.
Examples of such legisiation were givenone of which was the Veterans Land Act
regulations, under which authority to exercise judgments and make determinations is
delegated flot; only to "the Director, the Veterans Land Act," but to "District Superintendents"l and to any person authorized to
act on behaif of such superintendents. It was
pomnted out in the ev'idence that "any person
authorized to, act on behalf of 'District Superintendents' need flot necessarily even be a
senior civil servant."
The saine paper which referred to the Veterans Land Act also referred to the Old Age
Security. Regulations published July 14, 1965,
under which the Director of Old Age Security
"imay delegate to Regional Directors any
duty, power or discretion conferred on hlm by
these regulations." The Director is then given
almost absolute powers over the essentials of
quallfying for assistance. Since the paper
quoted was written and read in 1966although quoted before the Committee on
Statutory Instruments in the House of Commons only in 1968-I found that these regulations had been changed and that new regulations under the Old Age Security Act were
published in the Canada Gazette in 1968. 1
looked these up and found that the section
which in the earlier regulations provided that
the Director "may delegate to Regional Directors any power or discretion conferred on hlm
by these regulations", does not appear in the
regulations of 1968, but ini the definition of
"Director" in the new regulations we find that
"Director" means the person holding the
office of Director of Old Age Security, "or any
other person authorized by him to act on his
behaif", whieh gives equelly wide authorityr
for sub-delegation to the Director.
Honourable senators, I amn bringing these to
your attention because some honourable senators might read this evidence and be misled
by the quotation which. referred to the regulations of 1966.

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Martin: Could the senator give
the name of the author, if that is readily at
hand?
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: It was Dr. Kersell's
evidence, and he quoted Mr. Hehner.
Honourable senators, these are only two
examples of what may be found in many
other acts. I know that there are many other
such acts. I am not going to quote them to
you, but they give similar authority to the
directors who are administering them. Why
these specially caught my attention was that
at one time I was in close association with
the administration of the Old Age Security
Act, as was our leader.
Hon. Mr. Martin: We
administrators.

were

very good

Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: Thank you.
Evidence given the House of Commons Special Committee on Statutory Documents was
to the effect that this broad delegating pattern is unusual and would not be acceptable
in Britain and other Commonwealth countries
or in American legislation.
The writer of the article to which I have
just referred also questioned that, under the
Old Age Security Regulations, after every
effort to secure proof of age has been
exhausted, the regulations state that the
director "may submit the case" to a tribunal.
He claims that this is permissive and that the
applicant does not have an absolute right of
appeal. Perhaps this provision should be mandatory and perhaps, if the regulation had
been subject to study by a scrutiny committee of Members of Parliament of either House,
it would have been mandatory. However, I
cannot imagine an instance where a director
would refuse to submit such a contested case
to a tribunal, whether he was required to do
so or not. Some study should certainly be
done to determine whether in Canada we go
too far in allowing for such broad delegation
of authority as I have mentioned, or whether
we do not go far enough in making sure that
every person is provided with an absolute
right of appeal in all cases where he feels he
has not been treated fairly.
As has been pointed out to us in earlier
speeches in this debate, Britain and other
Commonwealth countries, as well as the
United States of America, have realized the
growing tendency to make laws by regulations or orders-in-council, or proclamations
without the representatives of the people
having an adequate opportunity to know
about and debate the contents of such legisla[Hon. Mrs. Fergusson.]

April 9, 1970

tion, or an adequate opportunity to review it.
In some countries, committees have been set
up to scrutinize this type of legislation.
In the course of his speech given in his
usual erudite and polished manner, Senator
Phillips (Rigaud) has told us of the interest
aroused in Britain by the publication in 1929
of a book by the Lord Chief Justice entitled
The New Despotism, which vividly called the
attention of the British public to this matter.
Following its publication a parliamentary
committee, the Committee on Ministers'
Powers, was set up. That committee made a
detailed and legalistic report in 1932, but as
far as I can learn no action was taken on its
recommendations at the time although the
report is still referred to quite often and with
great respect. It is true that twelve years later
in Britain a committee was set up in the
House of Commons to scrutinize statutory
rules and orders. But twelve years seems
rather a long time for action to be taken, if it
was felt in Britain that this was so very
imnortant.
The report of the Special Committee of the
House of Commons on Statutory Instruments
to which I referred earlier, gives in detail the
action taken by a number of other countries
and by some of the provinces of Canada to
ensure that rights of citizens are fully protccted under statutory documents, and the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs will, I trust, be studying
that report.
I think it interesting to note that in Canada
the first call for a study in committee of
orders-in-council having the effect of legislation was made by the Honourable Brooke
Claxton in the Throne Speech debate in 1943.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Do you remember that
speech?
Fon. Mrs. Fergusson: I have the quotation
in which he said that the "practice of tabling
orders in council, is, for all practical purposes, an empty form".
I might say that this was before the Regulations Act of 1950 was passed. The Honourable
Mr. Ciaxton went on to say:
I suggest that orders in council be
referred to a committee for consideration-not all the orders but orders having
the effect of legislation of a general
nature. Even when they get to the committee, all the orders of that kind would
not be discussed; but if the committee
felt that one particular matter should be
discussed it could take up that order,

April 9. 1970

DEBATES
Aprî 9, 970SENATE

have the departmental officiais there to
explain it, and make its report to the
House.
Han. Mr. Martin: May 1 ask Senator Fergusson a question?
She spoke a moment ago of the committee
that was established in the House of Commons in Britain some twelve years after the
publication of the book entitled The New
Despotism. How did the House of Lords
become seized of the responsibility? Was
there a suggestion made by the House of
Commons committee in the United Kingdom
that this power should be transferred to the
Lords?
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I arn afraid I did flot
do enough research on this, but I do know
that the House of Lords committee was set up
in 1925. In referring to the Committee on
Ministers' Powers set up in 1932, they said
that littie attention was paid it, and they
went on with their investigation without
making much reference to the comnilttee of
the House of Lords.
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: They were trying to
fight the great depression at that time, I
suppose.
Han. Mrs. Fergusson: But that committee
was set up in 1925. I found out that much in
my research.
In Ontario also, the McRuer Royal Commission on Civil Rights was established ini 1964
and made its report in 1968. That commission
devoted considerable attention to the problem
of statutory instruments in regard to provincial legisiation.
An article by Terraxice Wiils, commenting
on the fandings la this area of the report of
the Ontario Royal Commission on Civil
Rights, appeared in the Toronto Globe and
Mail of May 11, 1968. That article says that
"most Acts contain a clause allowing the
Cabinet to pass orders-in-council affecting
enforcement."

Mr. wrnls goes on to say:
Every democratie government uses the
Civil Service to draw up implementing
details which are submltted only to Cabinet so that House lime is not wasted on
trivia.
But where do details stop and changes
la principle begin? How broad a power
does Cabinet need to complete details?
Certainly not as broad as under a great
many Acts, former Chief Justice James
MeRuer concluded in his Royal Commission into Civil Rights.

Some statutes, he found, authorize
Cabinet to pass regulations changing the
very principles of Acts. In many cases
opposition parties dlaimn the Cabinet has
made important changes that the House
should have had an opportunity to
debate.
Mr. Wills' article quotes from statistics
regarding regulations passed each year in
Ontario. Then he goes on to say:
Other regulations permit Cabinet to set
any penalty for the contravention of an
Act or its regulations.
Some sanctions for the breach of the
prohibitory regulations is necessary but
la our view the penalty should be flxed
or at least limited by the statute authorizing the regulations.
The article says further that although it is
required that regulations be published in the
Ontario Gazette, at this point "they are a fait
accompli and that therefore a private member's opportuaity to have the regulation considered by the legislature is very limited."
This requirement to publish regulations la
the Ontario Gazette is similar to the requirement under the Regulations Act that ail federal orders, regulations and proclamations
shaîl be published la the Canada Gazette; and
the same argument could be made about publication in the Canada Gazette of regulations
made under the federal acts, that by the time
they are published they are a fait accompli
and that a member's opportunity to consider
themn is limnited.
A citizen whose rights are affected might
bring such a regulation to the attention of a
Member of Parliament who could bring it up
in Parliament, but the large majority of citizens are very unlikely to read the Canada
Gazette. This works most hardship on the
poor, and in regard to them it is discriminatory. Corporations and people of wealth would,
ia all probability, have persons looking after
their aiffairs who watch for any legislation
that is contrary to their interests, and when
such legisiation is brought to the attention of
the more affluent they can do something
about having it reviewed or reconsidered, or
even seek redress in the courts. But the large
number of less fortunate people in Canada,
and particularly the poor, would know nothing about delegated legisiation that might
affect them, unless and until it was applied to
them; then they would find it worked to their
disadvantage, and la all probabiity they could
not afford to, seek redress through the courts.

SENATE DEBATES
They would have absolutely no power to do
anything about it.
The former Chief Justice James McRuer's
Royal Commission into Civil Rights brought
many of these matters to the attention of the
public as far as the Province of Ontario is
concerned, and perhaps it is time we had a
similar commission or study done for the
whole of Canada.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Why not a committee of
this chamber?
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I think that would be
a good idea.
The reasons usually given to justify delegated legislation have been mentioned by
both Senator Phillips (Rigaud) and Senator
Thompson, and include lack of parliamentary
time, lack of knowledge amongst parliamentarians about the technical matters involved,
and the fact that in the early stages of introducing new legislation there is need to
experiment and sometimes make changes
because unforeseen contingencies have arisen
since the act was passed. If it were always
necessary to return to Parliament for new
legislation, especially when Parliament might
not even be sitting, much time would be
wasted in implementing the acts.
Senator Phillips, I gather, did not think
these reasons valid but if he were administering such legislation he might have a different
view.
Most people nowadays agree with what was
stated by Mr. A. Bevan before the British
Select Committee on Delegated Legislation in
1953:
There is now general agreement about
the necessity of delegated legislation, the
real problem is how this legislation can
be reconciled with the processes of democratic legislation, security and control.
Professor John Willis, now a professor at
the University of Toronto, in an article in the
Canadian Bar Review in 1961 wrote:
Because Canada, until 1940 a mainly
agricultural and rural country, is in the
throes of becoming industrial and urban,
new Government responsibilities, and so
new civil service departments and quasijudicial regulatory boards, are now
proliferating.
Every Canadian who thinks about this realizes that governments today are expected, for
the good of citizens, to make and guarantee
the execution of many laws that necessarily
interfere with the lives of citizens. To carry
[Hon. Mrs. Fergusson.]

April 9, 1970

out these responsibilities there bas had to
develop delegation of powers by the executive
which itself is responsible to the elected
representatives of the citizens, and I do not
see how the intricate business of government
as it exists today could be carried on
otherwise.
We must bear in mind that looking to the
future it is apparent that in our ever increasing complex society, government is destined
to play an increasingly important and intimate role in the lives of our individual citizens. With the increasingly complicated legislation now coming before us and which may
be anticipated in the future, it would seem
that every safeguard should be provided to
assure that the administrative framework
developed in connection with the implementation of the legislation conforms with the spirit
and the terms of the act.
Thinking more particularly in terms of our
social and tax legislation, which so intimately
and vitally affects the lives of so many of our
citizens, the necessity of providing every
assurance that the administration of the legislation conforms with Parliament's intention
becomes a matter of vital importance.
This is not to suggest any lack of confidence in our administrative officers, for I have
great confidence in them as I have said, but
as humans, like the rest of us, they are subject to error even with the best intentions in
the world. Then again in the vast machinery
of government it is conceivable that there
could be an occasional instance of deliberate
or intuitive bias.
The drafting of regulations with respect to
implementation of an Act of Parliament can
only be successfully accomplished where
there is a clear understanding of the philosophy behind the legislation, Parliament's
intention and the actual provisions of the act.
There could be a lack of understanding of
this philosophy on the part of the people
drafting such regulations. That is one reason
why those who passed the original acts, such
as the members of this house, should have an
opportunity to scrutinize the regulations that
implement the legislation, so that they can be
sure that the philosophy which was in the
minds of the legislators is being carried out by
the delegated legislation. It would seem to me
that a committee of this house would be in a
unique position to provide the very necessary
review. In view of the experience of other
countries and some provinces, it seems plain
that some system for study of federal legislation which may be passed under the authority

April 9, 1970

Apri 9, 970SENATE
DEBATES

granted by various acts, by order-in-council
or by proclamation must be established in
Canada. Such study or scrutiny could be
made by a comm.ittee of the House of Commons, as recommended by the McGuigan
Committee, or it could be by a committee of
the Senate, or as was suggested by Senator
Thompson, by a joint committee of both.
houses. I think I should say that it is my
recommendation that it should be a committee of the Senate.

I arn sure there is a way of solving this
problem, and that the Legal and Constitutional Commuittee of the Senate with its many
able and experienced members wili be
competent to find that way if given the
opportunity. I have much pleasure ini supporting this resolution.

Han. Lionel Chaquette: Honourable senators, I understand that Senator Fournier
(Madawaska-Restigouche) will be here Tuesday evening. I therefore adjourn the debate
on bis behaif.
Hon. Mr. Martin: That is my view too.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Choquette, for
Han. Mrs. Fergussan: Such a committee Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche),
could provide a forum before which delegated debate adjourned.
legisiation could be discussed and where the
public could be represented. It is important
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
that Canadians have a forum where they can
point out to what extent they suifer, or
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
believe they suifer, injustice at the hands of before I move the adjournmnent of the house, I
administrative officiais.
would remind you of the invitation which His
Despite the fact that I see very clearly the Honour the Speaker extended when he
need to have control over delegated legisia- opened the debate on the report of the visit of
tion and the need in Canada for a study in the joint Senate and House of Commons deledepth of this problem, again I would remind gation to Washington, to participate in the
you that in carrying out the ever increasing debate whether or not one was a member of
responsibilities involved in administering the that delegation. It seerns to me that following
that suggestion, and keeping in mind the
acts which the Houses of Parliament have encouragement given by the speech this afterpassed and to which the Queen has assented, noon by Senator O'Leary, we have an opporthe Canadian civil servants have a most dif- tunity of discussing in the course of this
ficuit assignment and deserve sympathy debate matters that are of current and topical
rather than the criticisrn so often heaped on interest in Canada. I do not know of any
parliamentary body that has a better opporthem.
tunity for such discussion than the Senate.
Another of Sam Slick's wise saws is:
There is a way of doing everything if you
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, April
only know how to go about it.
14, at 8 p.rn.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE

Tuesday, April 14, 1970

The Senate met at 8 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
CRIMINAL CODE (HATE PROPAGANDA)
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST READING
The
that a
House
amend

Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
message had been received from the
of Commons with Bill C-3, an act to
the Criminal Code.

Bill read first time.
The Hon.

the

Speaker: Honourable sena-

tors, when shall this bill be read the second

April 14, 1970

Report of The Canadian Wheat Board
for the Crop year ended July 31, 1969,
including its Financial Statements certified by the Auditors, pursuant to section
7(2) of the Canadian Wheat Board Act,
chapter 44, R.S.C., 1952.
Report on the Operation of the Regional Development Incentives Act for the
period March 1 to March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 16 of the said Act, chapter
56, Statutes of Canada, 1968-69.
Report, dated April 1970 and intituled:
"Private and Public Investment in
Canada, Outlook 1970, and Regional
Estimates".
Report of the National Energy Board
for the year ended December 31, 1969,
pursuant to section 91 of the National
Energy Board Act, chapter 46, Statutes of
Canada, 1959.

time?

ADJOURNMENT

Hon. Paul Martin moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for second
reading on Thursday next.
Motion agreed to.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Statutory Orders and Regulations published in the Canada Gazette, Part II, of
Wednesday, April 8, 1970, pursuant to

section 7 of the Regulations Act, chapter
235, R.S.C., 1952.
Text of New Canadian declaration of
Acceptance of the Compulsory Jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice,
dated April 7, 1970, delivered to U.
Thant, Secretary-Gencral of the United
Nations, by the Canadian Ambassador to
the United Nations. (Eng]ish text).
Report of the Cape Breton Development Corporation, including its Financial
Statements and Auditors' Report, for the
year ended December 31, 1969, pursuant
to section 33 of the Cape Breton Development Corporation Act, chapter 6, Statutes
of Canada, 1967-68.
Report of Agreements made under the
Agricultural Products Co-operative Marketing Act for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 7 of
the said Act, chapter 5, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of the Prices and Incomes Commission (Mr. John H. Young, Chairman)

on Tin Plate prices, dated April 10, 1970.

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
with leave of the Senate, and notwithstanding
Rule 45(l)(g), I move that when the Senate
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until
tomorrow, Wednesday, April 15, at 2 o'clock
in the afternoon.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Is there any special reason
for meeting at 2 o'clock?
Hon. Mr.
reasons.

Martin:

No-just

the

usual

Hon. Mr. Flynn: When are we going to
change the rules?
Hon. Mr. Martin: We have been discussing
that.
Motion agreed to.
INQUIRIES
STATEMENT AS TO DELAY IN RECEIVING
ANSWERS
On the notices of inquiry of Hon. Edgar
Fournier and Hon. Jacques Flynn:
Hon. Pai Martin: Honourable senators, I
have not yet received answers to the inquiries
standing on our Order Paper. Perhaps I owe
an explanation to Senator Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche), in whose name most of
the inquiries stand.
With respect to inquiries numbered 1, 2 and
3, I am advised that the department has to
obtain certain information for these answers
from the C.N.R. in Montreal, which in turn is
getting the information from its regional

April 14, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

offices. I am also advised that the matter bas
been further delayed by the postal drivers'
strike. I suppose that is as good a reason as
any for delay, but I have done my utmost to
get the answers.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You should not be shy
about putting the reason forward anyway.

know that be is doing everything within his
power to get them.
A number of senators have asked me about
the Custer Channel Wing Aircraft, referred to
in Inquiry No. 4, and because it seems to be
an odd question I would like to take a
moment of your time, if I may, to develop it.
The Hon. the Speaker: The honourable
Senator Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche)
wishes to say a few words with regard to
Inquiry No. 4. Is it agreed that he do so,
honourable senators?

Hon. Mr. Martin: It is obvious that I am not
shy.
With respect to Inquiry No. 4, the Department of the Secretary of State has requested
answers from Senator Beaubien's organization, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
I have checked with the departnent today,
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouand they are hopeful that the answers will be
available early next week. If not, I shall have che): Thank you, honourable senators. I will
to give another explanation at that time, and be brief.
The Custer Channel Wing Aircraft was
in that connection I shall consult with the
designed about 25 years ago. It is what we
Leader of the Opposition.
call a STOL aircraft, one designed with a
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You don't have to-you do short take-off and landing capability. You
much better than I could do in your place.
might call it a happy medium between the
Hon. Mr. Martin: Referring to Inquiry No. helicopter and conventional aircraft. The idea
5, the Department of Transport Minister's originated in the United States, but a compaoffice advises me that the information neces- ny was formed in Canada five years ago to
sary to answer these questions is being build this aircraft, and I am told that they ran
obtained from Newfoundland. They have into all kinds of problems with the Departbeen in touch with the Newfoundland office ment of Transport.
After this aircraft was demolished in
and expect to have answers next week. If I
do not have them next week, I shall speak to Canada, another aircraft was built and tested,
and bas proved to be successful. The Toronto
Senator Cook.
As to Inquiry No. 6, the office of the Deputy Telegram of March 18 produced a picture of
Minister of the Department of Regional Eco- the aircraft flying in New York, and the Internomic Expansion checked with the National national Herald Tribune, published in
Capital Commission today, and advises that Paris, on March 23 contained an editorial on
the answers are expected by the end of next this aircraft, and I shall outline just one
phase of it.
week.
The article reads, in part:
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-RestigouDr. Edward Blick, a professor of aeroche): Honourable senators, what about Inspace and mechanical engineering at the
quiry No. 4?
University of Oklahoma, which bas a
research contract on the plane, said the
Hon. Mr. Martin: That will have to stand.
propeller induces a high-speed air flow
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Without any reason?
through the channel...
Hon. Mr. Martin: Excuse me. I have given
an explanation as to Inquiry No. 4. I indicated
that the Secretary of State bas requested
answers from the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. I checked with the department
today, and they expect the answers early next
week.
Hon. Edgar Fournier: Honourable senators,
I do not know whether I am out of order in
pursuing this subject. However, I first wish
to thank the Leader of the Government for
his efforts in trying to obtain these answers. I

Dr. Blick said that a Lockheed Electra
turboprop airliner, which carries about
100 passengers, can take off in 252 feet if
fitted with channels around each of its
four engines. The Electra's take-off run is
regularly 2,620 feet.
After surmounting a great many problems,
this company about three years ago finally
obtained permission to bring the aircraft to
Canada. It was flown to Quebec City where it
was viewed by the members of the press, and
the C.B.C. was there to film the take-off and

SENATE DEBATES
landing. Several demonstration flights were
made. From there the aircraft was flown to
Ottawa where a similar demonstration was
given at Rockcliffe Airport, and was witnessed by some 40 persons-members of the
Department of Transport, the Department of
National Defence, the press, and others interested in aviation. The aircraft proved capable
of doing what it was reputed to be able to do.
It was then supposed to fly to Newfoundland where there were some people interested
in it. However, on its way there it developed
propeller trouble, and had to make a forced
landing, in which it was damaged. The
Department of Transport made a regular
investigation, and the aircraft was stored in a
hangar belonging to the Department of
National Defence. About a month after that
the company representatives came to Canada
to pick up the wreckage, at which time they
found that the aircraft had been transferred
to a bomb shelter where it had been hacked
to pieces.
In the meantime there have been cut out of
the two films that were made by the C.B.C.
the sections showing the aircraft taking off,
flying, and landing. The only thing left is the
part which came into my possession about a
month ago which shows the aircraft on the
field with people standing about. The section
of the film in which the aircraft is seen flying
bas been clipped out.
That is all I have to say, honourable senators. I have given notice of inquiry to find out
who authorized the damage to this aircraft
and the clipping out of those parts of the
films which show the aircraft in flight. When
I consider the history of the matter and all the
problems that were encountered in bringing
the aircraft to Canada, it appears to me that
there was something very fishy, and I am
inclined to think that there was connivance in
the undermining of the project.
CANADIAN

NATIONAL RAILWAYS

OPERATING COSTS OF MONTREAL-HALIFAX
PASSENGER TRAINS-COMPLAINT AS TO
ANSWER TO INQUIRY
Hon. Edgar Fournier: Honourable senators,
I rise on the Question Period to note the

remark made by the honourable Leader of
the Government about notices of inquiries.
On Thursday last we received an answer to
an inquiry from the Canadian National Railways which is unacceptable-although I shall
have to accept it against my wishes. The

April 14, 1970

sion to mention it again tonight if I am able
to speak on the debate concerning statutory
instruments.
The railway said that because of the competitive situation it would not give the information requested. I would ask the Canadian
National Railways: What competition? They
are the only railway operating passenger
trains in that region, so there is nc
competition.
The answer does not come from the
Canadian Transport Commission, although it
is suggested that it should come from that
commission. It comes frorn the Canadian
National Railways. Notice of this inquiry was
given on March 3, and the answer was
received about five weeks later. I cannot
understand why it took five weeks for them
to come up with such an unacceptable
answer, which will certainly lead to other
notices of inquiries.
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
can only say that the reply given is made
pursuant to the Railway Act, as amended by
the National Transportation Act, which recognizes this situation and has provided for confidentiality of railway cost data. So, the refusal
to give the information is based upon a decision taken by this Parliament. Railway costs
of this nature are considered confidential in
view of the railways' competitive situation.
CANADA-UNITED STATES INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MEETINGORDER STANDS
On the order:

Resuming the debate on the inquiry of
the Honourable Senator Phillips (Rigaud)
calling the attention of the Senate to the
Thirteenth Meeting of the Canada-United
States Interparliamentary Group held at
Washington, Cape Kennedy, Houston and
San Antonio, 10th to 15th March, 1970.(Honourable Senator Willis).
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable senators, Senator Willis has been in touch with us
and it is very doubtful that he will be here
this evening. He has not been feeling well. I
wonder if we could put this item down for
later this day, pending his possible arrival.
Perhaps the Government Leader will arrange
for another Senator to take his place.

Hon. Paul Martin: I was aware of this
answer which appears in Hansard of April 9 situation, and it has been arranged that Senais far from satisfactory, and I shall have occa- tor Laird will take Senator Willis' place. To
[Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche).]

April 14, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 14,1970SENATE

I feel sorry that too rnany Canadians do not
meet his convenience I understand that Senator Macdonald is now requesting that this see it this way. We must remember that we
could lose this freedom which we cherish,
order should stand until later this day.
much sooner and faster than we expect, if we
Order stands.
are flot very careful. It takes only a small
percentage of the population to lead the counSTATUTORY INSTRUMENTS
try to slavery for generations to come.
PROPOSED STUDY 0F PROCEDURES BY LEGAL
Many senators have spoken on this matter
AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
generally, and I agree with alrnost everything
-DEBATE CONTINUED
that has been said. However, in some respects
The Senate resumed from Thursday, April I have differences of opinion with them. I
9, the adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. take exception to some of the remarks made
Mr. Martin that the Standing Senate Commit- by my good friend Senator Lamontagne last
tee on Legal and Constitutional Aif airs be week with the intention of closing the debate.
instructed to consider and, from lime to tirne, I believe that intention was good, but the
to report on procedures for the review by the content of his speech was a littie too politicalSenate of instruments made in virtue of any ly spicy for me.
statute of the Parliarnent of Canada, and to
Hon. Mr. Flynn: It was a hope.
consider in conriection therewith any public
documents relevant thereto.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche): It would be ail right on a political platHon. Edgar E. Fournier: Honourable sena- form in the country, but not in this chamber;
tors, on previous occasions I have admitted I think we are above that. Surely no one here
my ignorance of legal and constitutional, would attrîbute the state i which the counaffairs. In the first place, the reason is that 1 try finds itself today to a Conservative
do not belong to the legal profession. I arn not administration, after almost 30 years of cona university professor, nor do I belong to the secutive Liberal administration, with a short
intellectual community. I arn just a simple break of four years between 1958 and 1962,
and plain Canadian taxpayer who pays his especially when Tory policy, which was crititaxes without a word to say under existing cized by the Liberals, was later in great
legal and constitutional aiffairs. When I measure accepted by the Liberal government
received my income tax return I failed to find as sound and proper policy.
any area where I could declare any degree of
Having said that, I change the subject and
ignorance on the matter. Over 90 per cent of
my income tax was deducted at source with- refer to constitutional. affairs.
out my consent, and I had to forward to the
Hon. Mr. Croll: Very good.
taxation branch an additional several hunHon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigoudred dollars within a limited time, or else.
Some people in this country cali this confis- che): There is no question in my mind, after
cation; others cail it highway robbery; and my experience, that the powers of government and the elected members have been
others have different names for it. I do not invaded by the civil servants, especially the
agree with titis. I cail it the price of freedom, powers of the members of the other place.
a price I consider we are lucky to have the Howevèr, civil servants are usually very coprivilege to pay for what we have in Cana- operative, pleasant and wiiling to help, espeda-freedom of speech, as I have now, free- cially those at the higher level. I am afraid I
dom of religion and the abundance over cannot say the same for some of the younger
civil servants, with some of whom I have had
necessities which we enjoy.
Since 1 have been in the Senate it has been dealings. In my opinion, they thought they
my privilege to visit several European coun- were the governent and owned the institutries, and some of the poorest countries in the tions, although their number is rather lirnited.
world-Africa, India, Israel and a bit of Egypt. In my 18 years of political life I have met
It gave me a great chance to see for myseif almost ail types. Today civil servants are part
and become more conscious of freedom and of the institution, and their assistance is
abundance. This is worth sornething. Taxes greatly needed by ail of us.
I should like to give an example of what
are my contribution. Freedomn is by no means
a one-way street. I willingly and gladly pay happens to new members, as happened to me,
my taxes, provided that they keep witbin a when ail of a sudden one moves from bemng a
street-level, plain citizen, to become a cabinet
limited range.
22481-3

SENATE DEBATES
minister and head of a department of which
you know very little. This has happened to
many people. For the most part, cabinet ministers are given departments of which they
know very little. All of a sudden they are the
:hief, the minister. Naturally they get the
help of the civil servants; they are the slave
of the civil servants, and they can be very
good to or "murder" the minister if they
choose to do so.
In my experience of going from the street
level to a cabinet minister, I depended on the
assistance of the civil servants. I am sure they
were very helpful and gave me sound advice.
Of course we had differences of opinion. We
would sit down and discuss mutual problems.
I was not always right, nor were they always
right, but between the two wrongs, right solutions usually emerged.
This is the first occasion on which I have
been able here to express my sincere thanks
to the civil servants of New Brunswick and
the Power Commission for their helpful cooperation during my eight years with them.
However, I have less use for some of our
crown corporations. I think their use has been
overdone. The crown corporations build
themselves into an ivory tower; Parkinson's
law very often sets in and they become the
masters of their own campus. True, they pretend to be responsible to a cabinet minister
by submitting a yearly report, which tells
very little about their administration.
The answers to the notices of inquiries
prove in many cases that they could be
wrong. For instance, we had the notice of
inquiry about the C.N.R. and I have the
notice of inquiry about the C.B.C. The
answers to the inquiries about two films produced by the National Film Board have
proven to me that they were wrong. The
answer to the first inquiry showed expenditures of $333,000 and revenue of $8,000-in
round figures. The answer to the second
inquiry showed expenditures of $524,000 with
a revenue of $113,000. As far as I am concerned this will be the end, because these
films today are outdated. These are only two
that we know about, but there are many such
films that have been produced, and they are
very costly.
I point out these things to show that the
corporations have been wrong. How do we
know the facts unless we put notices of inquiries and get answers? The C.B.C., in my mind,
has no respect for the public, and could care
less except to have the public pay for their
extravagances and abuse of public funds.
[Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche).]

April 14, 1970

We Canadians, and possibly the whole
Christian world, have two major holidays,
Christmas and Easter, which is usually
blessed with religious spirit. Those of you
who watched television Easter night before
the national newscast will recall the shameful
film that the C.B.C. saw fit to present. There
was nothing religious about it. There were
hundreds of other subjects which would have
been better shown on the program, but
instead they showed a rebel hippie who was
just out of jail and had to return. This film,
which was broadcast across the United States,
showed this hippie going from one place to
the other, preaching rebellions, ridiculing laws
and cursing the courts and justice.
What a great example that was to stir up
rebellions among the young people by making
heroes of these monstors! Surely there should
be sufficient judgment in the C.B.C. to show
us a better selection for Easter Sunday.
Coming back to the crown corporations,
honourable senators know that we now have
in Ottawa 46 crown corporations. They are
shown under schedules B, C and D. Under
Schedule B we have 13, Schedule C 17, and
Schedule D 16, making a total of 46.
Honourable senators, with your consent I
would like the list of these crown corporations and the department to which they are
responsible to form part of my remarks
tonight.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators,
is that agreed?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
[For list of crown companies, see Appendix
"A" pp. 847-8.]
Hon. Mr. Fournier: Before I close, I wish to
mention a trip to France in 1956, where I
spent two weeks making a study of the possibility of developing tidal powers of the Passamoquody. As you know, the French built a
project at St. Malo which operates on the tidal
power. I took this trip along with some civil
servants at a time when France had twentytwo political parties and also when some governments lasted less than sixty hours. So I
asked them how they operated a government
when they cannot form a cabinet. They said,
"We could not care less about the government; we civil servants run the country." I
never forgot that.
I must say that if we are not more careful
we are well on the road to having a similar
situation in Canada. If we do not wake up
and re-establish the authority where it should

April 14, 1970

Apri 14,1970SENATE
DEBATES

be, we will be in trouble. I sincerely hope that burg Une to see that the C.N.R., the N.C.C.
the Comittee on Constitutional and Legal and the Board of Transport Comniissioners;
Affairs will give this subject very serious ail acted in a very arbitrary manner without
attention.
any thought or regard whatsoever for the
Hon. Chosley W. Carter: Honourable sena- rights and interests of the citizens affected.
As a resuit, people who bought lots and
tors, when our leader introduced the resolution before us, he opened up a vast but very built homes near the Beachburg Line with
timely topic, and I should like to join with al the understanding that this Uine would be
those who have complimented him, on bis removed i accordance wîth the Greber plan,
which h'ad been accepted by the Canadian
very lucid and scholarly presentation.
Before golng fuither, I should also like to Parliament, suddenly found that the line
congratulate ail wbo have preceded me in this would remain, with consequent devaluation of
debate on the excellence of their contribu- their property, and that they had no redress
tions. Seldom has such a high quality of whatsoever.
Shortly after I was elected Member of Pardebate been sustained through so many
speeches, from laymen as well as from emi- liament, wbile investigating the dlaim. of one
nent legal authorities, as we have already 0f my veteran constituents, I discovered section 65, subsection (3), of the Pension Act,
heard on this subject.
My interest in the subject matter of this which says:
Except as bereinafier otherwise providresolution stems from my experience as a
ed, every decision of an Appeal Board of
sitting member of the House of Commons. I
the Commission is final.
was no sooner elected than 1 came face to
face with the fact that the Canadian National And that is so,
despite
Railway as a crown corporation was a law un- appeal board may consist the fact that the
of one or more of
to itself and could make decisions drasticaily the
comniissioners
who
bad
already
affecting the lives of my constituents against adjudicated that veteran's dlaim.
The phrase
wbich tbey bad no redress. It was of no use to "as hereinafter provided"' means that
under
write to the minister. He merely passed my certain circumstances the
appeal board may,
letter on to top management of the C.N.R. and 1 stress the word "may",
and a f ew months later be would transmit an leave to have his case grant the veterre-opened.
back to me the reply he bad received.
As bonourable senators are aware, most of
The sanie was true of the then Board of
Transport Commaissioners which had some my constituents were fishermen and merchant
power of regulation over the C.N.R., but I bad seamen. One very siily regulation that came
the impression that most of the decisions to my attention was made under the Mermade by that body were in favour of the chant Seamen's Compensation Act. In this
case the father, a merchant seaman, and the
crown corporation.
Louis J. Jaffe in his book entitled Judicial mother had both died leaving one child, and a
Control of Administrative Action, after study- home i a dilapidated condition. The obvious
ing the operations of the Interstate Commerce person to look after the child was his married
Commission and its deaiings with the United sister who bad a family of ber own and,
States railroads, asserts that such bodies tend though ini poor circumstances, bad a mucb
to becomie "lindustry-oriented" and "1regula- better and more comfortable home than that
tion-minded". "They develop a presuxnption left by
the parents.
in favour of regulation." This is perhaps one
The extra burden of providing for ber littie
aspect that the Senate Committee on Legal
and Constitutional Affairs, if this resolution brother would drastically lower tbeir livig
passes, migbt inquire into with respect to standard, but bec-ause of this silly regulation
such tribunals as the Canadian Transport sbe could not get the financial payments
Commission, the National Energy Board, the provided for ber brother under the Mercbant
Canadian Radio-Television Commission, as Seamen's Compensation Act unless she left
weil as the National Capital Commission, the ber better home and teok ber famfly to live
Unemployment Insurance Commission and i the dilapidated home lef t by ber parents.
other bodies with similar powers.
Quite frequently i titis chaxnber we pass
We have to think back only a few years to bills wbicb, wbile they have nothig whatthe decisions made in connection with the ever te do witb fisheries, nevertbeless include
location of the new railway station here i the provision of section 64 of the Fisheries
Ottawa and the failure te remove the Beach- Act.
22481-34

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Martin: What is that section in
the Fisheries Act to which Senator Carter in
his interesting speech draws attention?
Hon. Mr. Carter: I will refer to it in a
moment.
Bill S-14, an act respecting the sale and
importation of certain radiation emitting
devices, and Bill S-20, an act respecting the
labelling, sale, importation and advertising of
consumer textile articles, are cases in point,
and there are several others.
Section 64 belongs to the dark ages. In my
opinion it has no place on the statute books of
an enlightened and civilized nation. This section permits regulations which are exercised
in the name of the minister by quite minor
officials. It permits them to confiscate the
property of citizens to the extent that they
can be deprived completely of the means of
earning a livelihood. The whole Fisheries Act,
in my opinion, is antiquated and confers delegated powers far in excess of what is necessary under present day circumstances.
Another statute that provides extreme arbitrary powers and sanctions undemocratic
procedures is the Unemployment Insurance
Act and the rules and regulations made under
that act. As a member of the Commons, while
trying to assist my constituents with their
problems under this act, I was astounded to
discover that section 65(1) of the Unemployment Insurance Act gave the commission
powers to impose the equivalent of a fine
upon a claimant for benefits. The official in
question was made judge, jury and lord high
executioner.
Section 43(1) of the Unemployment Insurance Act states:
The commission may, with the approval
of the Governor-in-Council make regulationsThen follows subparagraph (h) which reads:
For imposing pecuniary penalties on
employers who fail to make returns or
pay contributions or keep records as
required under this Act and for remitting
such penalties.
Under this authority the commission has
formulated Rule 136, which reads as follows:
(1) Where in the opinion of an authorized
officer of the commission an employer has
not complied with the provisions of the
act and these regulations relating to
(a) the times of payment of contributions;
[Hon. Mr. Carter.]

April 14, 1970

(b) the making of returns of information; or
(c) the keeping of records;
the officer may impose a pecuniary penalty on the employer in an amount or at a
rate set by the Commission.
(2) an authorized officer of the Commission may remit in whole or in part any
pecuniary penalty imposed on an employer under subsection (1).
I cal to your attention, honourable senators, that this is a power that was delegated to
the commission by Parliament and re-delegated by the commission to an authorized officer
of the commissionHon. Mr. Flynn: Can you indicate when
that was? What was the date that these regulations were adopted? I can hardly believe
a Liberal
that it would be under
administration.

Hon. Mr. Carter: I do not know. I do not
know what the administration would have to
do with making regulations. These regulations
were made by the commission.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Who knows?
Hon. Mr. Martin: You should not be diverted by a totally irrelevant question, Senator
Carter.
Hon. Mr. Croll: You diverted him first.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You should be diverted
only by the irrelevant questions of the Leader
of the Government.
Some Hon. Senators: Oh, oh!
Hon. Mr. Carter: I call to your attention that
this is a power that was delegaged to the
Commission by Parliament and re-delegated
by the commission to an authorized officer of
the commission without the approval of the
Governor-in-Council. This is a delegated
power twice removed from Parliament.
Honourable senators, prior to Newfoundland's becoming a part of Canada, I lived in a
province that for 15 years was governed by a
commission-a form of benevolent dictatorship. In the light of these experiences which I
have just mentioned as examples because the
actual cases were numerous, I think you can
understand why there were question marks in
my mind about the state of democracy in
Canada.
No one in his right mind will deny the need
for delegated powers or subordinate legislation, to use the term preferred by Mr. Justice

April 14, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

McRuer, but I think the examples I have
quoted amply illustrate the need for much
better safeguards than we now have and
much closer scrutiny of the manner in which
those powers are exercised.
We in Canada have inherited our system of
democratic government from the mother of
Parliaments in Britain which had its beginnings at Runneymede in the year 1215 and
has been evolving ever since. Magna Carta
had to do with individual rights and liberties,
and that is what democracy is all about.
Prior to Magna Carta all power was vested
in the king. He could generate his own
powers, create new jurisdictions, create new
powers and new rights. By the same token, he
could abolish and destroy jurisdictions,
powers and individual rights as it pleased
him. In fact, even today it is, in form, the
king or sovereign whose plenitude of power
is exercised in Parliament, in the government
departments and in his courts. Magna Carta
ensured as a minimum that the citizen could
not be relieved of his freehold estate or his
life without judicial process.
The struggle for the limitation of the sovereign's power continued down through the
centuries. Magna Carta was revised and
expanded with succeeding monarchs and
eventually became the basis of British law
and justice.
The seventeenth century saw the termination of the power of the Crown, to create new
jurisdictions without the consent of Parliament. Concomitant with these changes was
the development of specialized courts, the
concept of the rule of law and the principles
on which it was based and by which it should
be administered. This was the era of the Petition of Rights bill of 1628 and the Habeas
Corpus Act of 1679.
But it was in the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries that these developments received
the greatest impetus. Lawmaking, law
enforcement, the whole process of Government is, or should be, in a continuous state of
evolution, reflecting the evolutionary changes
taking place in society itself which, in turn,
are themselves reflections of changes in social
concepts, values and goals.
Up to the latter half of the eighteenth century, production and supply were predominantly agricultural. Home trades and crafts
were organized around small, readily comprehended units. Society was nainly rural
and government was still largely controlled
by the landed aristocracy and gentry who had

inherited the powers wrested from the Crown
by the earls and barons at Runnymede.
The advent of the Industrial Revolution in
1760, the invention of the steam engine by
Watt in 1769, the utilization of new forms of
energy, the production of new materials and
new machines, the development of factories
and manufacturing processes, the nineteenth
century commercial revolution based on the
development of the British banking system in
1830, which shifted international trade from
metallic currency to credit, coupled with the
British Free Trade Policy of 1846-all these
factors produced profound changes in society
which generated corresponding changes in the
development of law, justice and government.
The feudal and mercantilist practices of the
seventeenth century gave way to the philosophy of laissez-faire which was based on the
belief that, if men were free to make their
own self-interest decisions, it would automatically result in making available the greatest
amount of goods at the lowest price. During
the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, in
accordance with this dominant philosophy,
industry, banking and commerce were almost
completely self-governed. Human destiny was
subjected to the market empire, but the
proponents of laissez-faire did not necessarily
deny responsibility for the satisfaction of
human need. They simply believed that, if
left alone, market forces could create and
exchange the necessities for a good life better
than any conscious human agency. These
views were the natural reaction to the mercantilist control of government.
As a result of technological development,
the revival of trade and development of world
trade, there was a drift of population from
the land to the cities. This made the problem
of supply and demand more acute. Dynastic
and national ambitions for power and aggrandizement, coupled with a stringency in the
supply of goods and services, begot local and
national price regulations and attempts to
control production and the import and export
of gold and commodities.
Louis J. Jaffe, in his book to which I have
already referred, states, and I quote:
The laissez-faire solution illustrates once
again, though subtly disguised, the transfer of jurisdiction as a device for the
redistribution of power,Further on he states:
-it delivered the control of the economy to the dynanic entrepreneurial clasn

SENATE DEBATES

April 14, 1970

at a time when society had much to gain trial age. These have produced still further
from the Industrial Revolution and the changes in social concepts, values and goals
exploitation of world trade.
which in turn require changes in some of our
legal processes and the machinery for the
Social changes flowing from this technologi- administration of justice.
cal and economic development brought about
Our idea of democratic government has
corresponding developments in the evolution
of law and the administration of justice. The expanded to the point where we are now
Act of Settlement in 1701 ensured complete thinking in terns of mechanisis that will
independence for judges. Appeals and judicial permit the citizens themselves to have a
reviews became more common. Writs of Certi- direct voice in forming the laws and regulaorari and Mandamus were used more fre- tions by which they will be affected.
We have become more conscious of the digquently and their application extended to the
nity of man and because of that we have
King's officers and high officials.
The concept of the supremacy of Parlia- developed new social goals in the fields of
ment became still more firmly entrenched and employment, housing, income maintenance,
extended so that when Parliament delegated health and medical services, manpower develits powers to an agency it was held that opment, environmental control and technoParliament had the duty as well as the right logical development. As a result, the
to oversee the manner in which the agency responsibilities of the federal Government
have been tremendously increased, necessitatexercised those powers.
ing new legislation, and modernization of old
In 1690 John Locke had advocated the sepa- legislation and of machinery for its
ration of the legislative and the executive. If implementation.
both powers, he argued, are in the sane
As we look into the future we can see still
hands, the rulers will exempt themselves
from the law and come to have "a distinct greater problems in connection with multicorporations,
conservation
of
interest from the rest of society," but if the national
resources, preservation of national soverlegislators themselves are to be subject to the
laws they will "take care that they may make eignty and political independence, and alleviation of regional disparities. Society will
them for the public good".
become more and more complex with every
Before the present cabinet system, in which year and perhaps with every month that
the executive is a committee of the legisla- passes. At the same time, the speed and presture, was fully adopted, Montesquieu, writing sure of government administration will conin 1748, in his book entitled Esprit des Lois, stantly increase. However, through it all, two
expanded the thinking of Aristotle and Locke goals must remain paramount. They are the
into the theory of separation of powers as supremacy of Parliament and the preservaapplied to delegated legislation. To use his tion of individual rights and liberties.
own words, he was seeking for a constitutionThe supremacy of Parliament, however, has
al framework for "political liberty" and for already been called into question by a recent
"a tranquility of mind arising from the opin- decision of the Supreme Court of Canada in
ion that each person has of his own safety".
the now famous Drybones case. The Globe
He framed his theory in these words:
and Mail of March 14, carried an article by
Miserable indeed would be the case were Sydney R. Peck, Associate Professor of
the same man, or the same body, whether Osgoode Hall Law School of York University,
of the nobles or of the people, to exercise entitled "The Supreme Court's New Supremathose three powers-that of enacting cy". The first and second paragraphs of this
laws, that of executing the public resolu- article read as follows:
tions, and that of judging the crimes or
What has now become known as the
differences of individuals.
Drybones decision made by the Supreme
Court of Canada in November, may prove
Louis J. Jaffe states, and I quote again:
to be one of the most important in the
Montesquieu's great point was that if the
court's ninety-five year history. That
total power of government is divided
decision establishes that the Canadian
among autonomous organs, one will act
Bill of Rights does away with Parliamenas a check upon the other and in the
tary supremacy at the federal level. It is
check liberty can survive.
now open to the court to hold that an act
which Parliament is clearly empowered
The twentieth century has brought two
world wars, the space age and the post-industo pass by the British North America
[Hon. Mr. Carter.]

April 14, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Act (for example, a criminal law or a law
in relation to Indians) is invalid if it
infringes a human right or fundamental
freedom guaranteed by the Bill of Rights.
Because the bill speaks in general terms,
it has no precise meaning until its terms
are defined. And because these terms are
defined by the court, the court will, in
effect, supervise Parliament and so be
able to play a broader role in the political
life of Canada than it has in the past.
Until the time of the Drybones decision, the court had power under the
Canadian
version
of
Parliamentary
supremacy, to invalidate a federal act
only if it held that in passing the act
Parliament exercised legislative authority
assigned by the B.N.A. Act to the provincial legislatures.
Similarly, the court could invalidate a
provincial act only if passing of the act
involved the exercise of legislative
authority assigned to Parliament. However, it could not invalidate an act on the
basis of the act's policy content.
Honourable senators, we all know that the
Supreme Court of the United States has on
many occasions determined policy by its
interpretation of the American Constitution
and the application of those interpretations to
laws passed by the U.S. Congress. I do not
think that such a practice is compatible with
our Parliamentary system and traditions. Neither do I think it would be a good thing to
have such a practice implanted in our system.
This is a matter which I think should be
considered by our Senate Committee on Legal
and Constitutional Affairs.
It is very timely, therefore, that Parliament
should begin to take a look at delegated
powers and the adequacy of present safeguards to protect the rights, liberties and
interests of the individual citizen.
I agree with Senator Phillips (Rigaud),
Senator Fergusson and others that this is a
role the Senate is uniquely qualified to perform, particularly through the Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs. However, there is some doubt in my
mind whether the terms of reference embodied in the resolution before us are sufficiently
broad*to do the kind of job that needs to be
done.
I agree with Senator Fergusson that we
should not only examine the delegated
powers and regulations made under those
powers, but also the procedures used by the

various tribunals in the exercise of those
powers. Indeed, I would go a great deal further than that. I would like to see each
agency taken separately and its powers and
functions classified and separated, as far as
possible, as to whether they be executive,
judicial or administrative. Then I should like
to see them examined in the light of Montesquieu's principle to see if they were further
removed from that principle than necessity
required. I should like to see the same done
with powers delegated by the tribunals themselves, which are twice removed from parliamentary control. I would like to see judicial
functions clarified and defined to the fullest
possible extent.
I would like the conmittee to examine the
procedures of these tribunals with respect to
fact-finding and matters of evidence. This
would include the rules of evidence used, the
type of evidence permitted, the weight and
sufficiency of evidence in relation to the decision-making process and what their position
is with respect to material facts not appearing
in evidence.
I should like the committee also to take a
look at the adequacy of the safeguards in the
light of the philosophy of the recent amendments to the Expropriation Act, that is, the
publication of public notices, including notices
to other parties concerned with the evidence
being heard; what opportunities there are to
register objections; what consultation there is
with the persons affected; what opportunities
there are for negotiations, if necessary, and
for the right to appeal; what provisions are
made for the publication of a reasoned decision and the facts on which it was based.
An article appearing in last Friday's
Ottawa Citizen by Charles King implies that
the Canadian Radio-Television Commission
transgressed on at least two of these counts in
a decision handed down in connection with
radio station CKPM. According to Mr. King's
article, the manager of CKPM, having failed
through a misunderstanding to attend the
public hearing personally, was refused any
further opportunity to tell his side of the
story, and no evidence or logical reason was
given for the commission's decision and
action.
I would like the Senate committee to study
and make comparisons with similar tribunals
exercising comparable delegated powers in
other countries, particularly in the United
States.
Roger C. Carter, Dean of the College of
Law at the University of Saskatchewan, carried out a comparison study of the delegated

SENATE DEBATES
powers of the National Energy Board of
Canada and the American Administrative
Procedure Act under which a similar tribunal
would have to operate in the United States.
This study was published in the Saskatchewan Law Review, Volume 34, 1969.
Mr. Carter began his article by pointing out
the differences between the Congressional
system of the United States and the parliamentary system of Canada. He also emphasized that Canada has no Bill of Rights
entrenched in the Constitution. Consequently,
unlike his American counterpart, the Canadian citizen cannot insist upon a constitutional
right to a hearing before an agency; neither
can he claim that an Act of Parliament is
void because it offends his fundamental
rights. This latter statement is now open to
question in light of the recent Drybones decision by the Supreme Court of Canada, to
which I have just referred.
With respect to safeguards and remedies
available to citizens whose rights or interests
have been affected by Government action,
Mr. Carter observed that although the
National Energy Board has judicial and
administrative functions, section 19(3) of the
National Energy Board Act prohibits the
application of certiorari, prohibition, Mandamus, injunction, etcetera; while, on the
other hand, the statute declares that all
orders and decisions of the agency shall be
"final and conclusive," subject only to a limited right of appeal to the Supreme Court of
Canada. The appeal lies on "a question of
law or a question of jurisdiction".
This study showed that the only point of
superiority of Canada's Regulations Act over
the American Administrative Procedure Act
was its requirement that all "legislative
rules or regulations must be laid before Parliament within fifteen days after it is published." In all other respects the Regulations
Act is inferior and does not provide the
Canadian citizen with safeguards equal to
those which the Administrative Procedure
Act provides to the citizen of the United
States.
The article contains a point-by-point comparison of the National Energy Board Act
with the Administrative Procedure Act. That
comparison is made under the following
headings: Notice; Pleadings; Time and Place
of Hearing; Pre-Trial Conference; Presiding
Officers; Impartiality; Separation of Funetions; Hearing Powers; Evidence; Record,
Reasoned Decision.
[Hon. Mr. Carter.]

April 14, 1970

Then he went on to state that there are
four provisions in the Administrative Procedure Act which are entirely lacking in the
National Energy Board Act. He said:
They concern (a) the use of hearing
examiners, (b) the evidence which may
be received and acted on, (c) separation
of functions and, (d) reasoned decisions.
There is no other Canadian federal legislation dealing with any of those matters.
In his comparison he also pointed out that
in the statute or rules there is no provision
for impartiality, for separation of functions,
for evidence, for a written record or a reasoned decision.
Honourable senators, I was going to request
that this table be inserted in the Debates of
the Senate at this point, but I understand that
there are certain technical difficulties with
regard to that procedure. However, with your
permission, I request that this material be
appended to the official report of this evening's proceedings.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
[For text of comparison, see Appendix "B",
pp. 849-50.]
Hon. Mr. Carter: The article of which this
is merely a brief extract Is extremely pertinent to the type of inquiry envisaged in the
resolution before us, and I strongly recommend that the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs use it for
comparative studies of the Regulations Act
itself as well as for studies of subordinate
legislation.
Finally, I would hope that in carrying out
its inquiry, the committee would also give
consideration to the need for an ombudsman
at the federal level. As society becomes more
complex, so will the administrative machinery of government. As delegated powers and
tribunals to exercise them multiply, so will
the need for federal ombudsmen increase.
The Globe and Mail of April 8 carried an
article by Hugh A. Halliday entitled "A Case
for More Canadian Ombudsmen". The article
reads, in part, as follows:
Is there a credibility gap between government and citizens? The answer would
seem to be yes. It is not entirely the fault
of elected representatives, however. What
has happened is that modern government
has
created
modern
bureaucracies.

April 14, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 14,1970SENATE

Dozens of agencies and thousands of civil
servants-federal, provincial and municipal-are daily involved ini administering
policy. Not infrequently, however, these
agencies confuse the citizens they are
designed to serve. Most civil servants are
conscientious, but sometimes they appiy
the letter rather than the spirnit of the
law. Mistakes go unnoticed and uncorrected. Procedures laid down to prevent
waste generate red tape instead and
benevolent policies are applied i undesirable ways.
It then goes on to say that while the solution is not simple, a partial answer would be
widespread use o! ombudsmen and towards
the end of his article hie makes a good case
for the need of an ombudsman at the federal
level and refutes the arguments that to date
have been advanced against such an
appointment.
Honourable senators, the task envisaged in
this resolution, as I see it, is stupendous, but
it is also urgent and vital because it has to do
with our precious heritage o! individual
rights, liberties and freedoms. I therefore give
this resolution my wholehearted support.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Gouin, debate
adi ourned.
CANADA-UNITED STATES INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MEETNGDEBATE CONTINUEl)

The Senate resumed from Thursday, April
9, the adjourned debate on the inquiry of
Hon. Mr. Phiilips (Rigaud) that he wrnl cal
the attention of the Senate to the Thirteenth
Meeting of the Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group held at Washington,
Cape Kennedy, Houston and San Antonio,
March 10 to 15, 1970.
Hon. !Ceilh Laird: Honourable senators, I
understand that the honourable Harry Wiilis
will not be present this evening, so may I
have leave to continue this debate?
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is it agreed that the honourable Senator
Laird speak now in place of the honourable
Senator Wiilis?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Han. Mr. Laird: Honourable senators, we
have heard such excellent reports from, the
representatives of this bouse who attended
22481-4

this meeting, it is difficult; for me to make a
contribution that is at ail unique. Frankly, I
arn sorry that ail the representatives have not
yet spoken, because I should have Jiked to
have had the benefit of their views before
trying to make a contribution on the subject
of Canadian-American relations. However,
I do want to begin by saying that sometirnes
we becorne so very involved in complexities
that when it cornes to Canadian-American
relations we find it desirable at a certain
stage-and I hope I rnight contribute to this
tonight-to get back to certain fundamental
concepts, forgetting about ail the ramifications and intricacies that surround the problems between oui two countries.
First, to lay a simple foundation for the
problern, let me remind you that the Amenicans are probably our closest friends. We ail
have the utmnost respect for the people of the
United Kingdomn and the people of France,
but the Americans are oui friends, and this
sentiment prevails not only i English-speaking Canada but in French-speaking Canada.
So, we start with the proposition that we
have next door to us oui closest friends. 0f
course they are closest ta us geograpbicaily as
weil, and for that reason it is perfectly
normal that oui relationship with themn in
every respect should be close. I mention that
particularly because of the econornic relationship. It is natural that there should be an
lntertwining o! the econornlc lives o! the two
countries. I do not need to urge upon you the
fact that what happens ini the United States
has a profound effect upon Canada.
The United States-at least in termns of
unification-is a somewhat older country than
Canada and, consequently, is more developed.
As a resuit, it has available more money for
investment, and it is very logical that such
investrnent should take place in the country
next door, Canada.
Thirdly, no one can convince mne that the
United States has any territorial designs upon
Canada. The recent problern concerning the
Arctic, I suggest, does flot involve any
atternpt on the part of the Americans ta
acquie new territory. What they are afier is
some kind of arrangement for passage
tbrough the waterways there.
In the fourth place, we should remind ouiselves of this proposition-and I hope you
agree wlth me-that the vast rnajorlty of the
people i titis country are opposed ta political
union with the United States of Amenica.
They are our friends, yes. We are closely
bound to themn economically, yes. But, there la

SENATE DEBATES
a feeling which could be defined in more
intricate terms but which perhaps may be
boiled down to this, that we look askance at
at least two of their institutions, the political
and the judicial.
Honourable senators, I suggest we have
every reason to look a bit askance at their
judicial system. Somehow or other it goes
against the grain of a lawyer that judges
should be elected. I will admit that their federal judges are not elected, but even the
appointment of federal judges presents a few
problems for them, as we know from reading
the newspapers.
To digress for a moment, it has been suggested that this body should assume a function in the appointment of judges to the
Supreme Court of Canada similar to that of
the United States Senate. Quite frankly and
expressing a personal point of view, I question the merit of such a suggestion. It seems
to me that the choice having been made, and
it being a reasonably good choice, the
individual concerned should not be subjected
to what two individuals in the United States
have recently been subjected.
Having established those four simple propositions I could go on at length, but I should
like to deal with the matter of American
investment in Canada. I suggest that in spite
of the fact that there is substantial American
investment in Canada, the people of this
country in general are still opposed to any
sort of political union. I shall deal a little
later with the most recent discussion of the
problem, a speech by the Honourable Herb
Gray, of which I shall give some details. But
at least we have at this stage of the game
taken or assured Canadian control of certain
key industries and institutions. That I go
along with. I think that it is wise that certain
key industries and institutions should be
Canadian controlled, but beyond that I agree
with Senator O'Leary, who spoke here last
Thursday, that it is a Godsend that we have
the Americans willing to invest in this country. Without that, or if their investment were
suddenly withdrawn, we would be in the
position of the poor South American countries. I do not say that in any derogatory
sense, but we have a standard of living, and I
cannot imagine the people of this country
being willing to give up that standard of
living, which would never have been brought
about if it were not for American investment.
There is nothing particularly new in what I
have said. I still think that sometimes we get
bogged down in the intricacies of problems
[Hon. Mr. Laird.]

April 14, 1970

like territorial waters, the relationships of
Canadian subsidiaries to American parent
companies, the common utilization of natural
resources and similar matters. A few militant,
vocal people try to whip us into a frenzy of
anti-American feeling by taking up some isolated problem and blowing it out of all proportion to its importance.
This is not to say that isolated problems do
not need solutions. This was the very reason
for our representation in Washington. All of
our representatives have spoken so brilliantly
and fully on the topic of Canadian-American
relations that, as I said at the beginning, it
makes it difficult to make a new contribution
and one is tempted to confine himself to commenting on what they said. This I shall do
only up to a point.
I was certainly interested in the suggestion
of Senator Phillips (Rigaud) regarding the
possibility of persuading Americans voluntarily to arrange that at least one-third of
equities in Canadian companies be held by
Canadians. He spoke of offering tax incentives for this purpose. This naturally led him
to the point of saying:
This is not the time or the place to deal
with the White Paper. In due course you
will be receiving reports from the Standing Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce, and I express at the moment
my own views only. I believe that the
most vital factor to consider in the White
Paper is whether it is conducive to savings by Canadians.
That is from the Debates of the Senate of
March 24 last, at page 789. Needless to say, I
shall offer no opinions on the White Paper on
Taxation at this point, because it is being
studied by committee. However, I do not
think it would be out of order for me to say
that it will have a most profound effect on
Canadian-American relations. It is a matter of
vital concern to us that when the legislation
comes down, based presumably upon the
hearings now being conducted by the respective committees of the Senate and the House
of Commons, that that legislation be such that
it will not militate against the present good
relations between Canada and the United
States.
In that connection, if any honourable senators still have any doubts about the tremendous impact a change in tax legislation could
have on this country, let me refer you to the
minutes of the Standing Senate Committee on
National Finance for March 19, 1970, at

April 14, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

page 32. The significance of this, unfortunately I think, has escaped almost everybody and
presunably as far as the public is concerned
they are not exactly consumed with a passion
for reading the reports of meetings of committees of either house. In any event, I draw
to your attention that at that meeting Dr.
Arthur Smith, President of the Economic
Council of Canada, appeared as a witness.
You are all well aware of the valuable work
done by that council, particularly in its forecasts of future conditions in this country. Following a line of questioning by Senator Phillips (Rigaud) which established that the
council had not considered the White Paper
on Taxation, I put the following question to
Dr. Smith:
Would it be unreasonable to suggest that
if some of the prognostications about the
White Paper in fact come true-for
example, the virtual elimination, as some
people allege, of small businesses-that
would upset your whole projection?
DR. SMITH: I would say the tax structure changes proposed in the White
Paper could have a significant bearing on
almost all the basic goals the Coundil has
been asked to be concerned with-the
goals of growth, employment, price stability, the balance of payments position
and what we have called an equitable
distribution of rising income.

exuberance on their part. However, there are
allegedly mature people who endeavour to
stir their fellow citizens up emotionally for no
apparent reason. This is a small group, but
very militant and vocal. This should alarm us
and put the onus on us to counteract this sort
of nonsense. In fact, it is more than nonsense;
it is a tragedy.
Senator O'Leary stated the case so succinctly that I should like to quote him at page 825
of the Debates of the Senate of April 9, 1970:
This to me is one of the tragedies of
political discussion in Canada-these constant attempts to pluck the feathers of
the American eagle, spawned too often, I
am afraid, by an inferiority complex.

All I can say on that point is, let us do a little
plucking ourselves and make sure that these
malcontents do not lead us into a position
where we forfeit the friendship of that great
and friendly nation, the United States of
America.
Onily late this afternoon I received a copy
of a speech by the Honourable Herb Gray
made to the John White Society at Osgoode
Hall, Toronto, on Wednesday, April 8 last. I
presume other honourable senators have
received the document, but if they have not I
would certainly recommend that they procure
it, because it is a carefully reasoned speech
on Canadian-American relations and AmeriFirst I draw your attention, particularly for can investment in Canada, and the problems
the purposes of this debate, to his use of the that arise out of it. It is excellently done,
words "the balance of payments position." which shows that in addition to the Leader of
This statement alone, I suggest, should spur the Government (Hon. Mr. Martin), there are
all honourable senators to take even more some smart people who come from Windsor!
interest in the White Paper on Taxation, not
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Including peronly because of its domestic effect, but
haps the speaker?
effect
because of its potential international
and in particular vis-a-vis the United States.
Hon. Mr. Laird: With that exception.
One cause for alarm in Canadian-American
In this speech, which unfortunately came to
relations, as far as I am concerned at least, is my attention only late this afternoon, and
the attempt by some people to establish anti- which I wish I could have digested more
Americanisin as a way of life in this country. fully, the Honourable Herb Gray examines in
Senator O'Leary said in a debate here that a dispassionate manner the problem of
we are the most fortunate people in the world American investment in Canada. In other
to have then as friends and neighbours. Any words, I suppose he points out what we had
change in that situation would be completely known, but he wants to emphasize it, namely,
disastrous for this country. Therefore, it is the fear of people that economic domination
impossible to rationalize the conduct of some will lead to political domination. He deals
people in this country who deliberately try to with this at some length, but I find in his
foment anti-American sentiment.
speech some very useful and helpful comPerhaps we can dismiss some of the ments. For example, at one point he says:
manifestations of anti-Americanism which
The Task Force Report (the Watkins
Report)involve students as being merely an excess of
22481--4à

SENATE DEBATES
And he made it plain that this was not the
Watkins Manifesto.
-confirmed that the economie benefits
from foreign investment for Canada have
been sizeable and have contributed to our
present high standard of living. As for
the future, therefore, it is apparent that
any Canadian Government would want to
ensure that there is an adequate supply
of investment capital to provide continued rapid economic growth, high levels
of employment, and improving standards
of living. This is clearly a major prerequisite for any policy which deals with
the problem of foreign ownership and control. Thus it seems to me that no Canadian Government could contemplate cutting
back on foreign investment without
taking parallel measures to ensure that
the necessary investment funds can be
generated domestically.
This statement was not made in the other
place, but it is a speech coming from a somewhat more authoritative source than myself
and should give some comfort to those who
are worried about the possible attitude of the
present
Government towards
American
investment in Canada.
At another point Mr. Gray says:
I don't believe that any policy decided
on is likely to be one involving positions
considered extreme or unfair or will be
one which fails to recognize our continuing need for capital and, where neces-

April 14, 1970

sary, the role of foreign sources in helping to provide it. This means therefore
that our policies should be such as to
ensure the maximizing of the benefits to
Canada from foreign investment. I am
personally confident that this need not be
inconsistent with the primary aim of
those from abroad who may be interested
in investing here-the obtaining of a fair
rate of return on that investment.
Honourable senators, this is such a broad
topic that one could go on at length.
Hon. Mr. Martin: You are doing very well.
Hon. Mr. Laird: As I said at the beginning
of my remarks, I suggest that we must come
back to certain fundamentals when we try to
understand our problem with the United States
of America, and having established those fundamentals in our minds we would then, I suggest, be in a better position to deal with the
specifics. I feel that on both grounds, with
reasonable good will on both sides, there will
always be a solution to any problem between
the two countries.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Macdonald, for Hon.
Mr. Willis, debate adjourned.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, we
have had a very profitable evening. I move
the adjournment of the Senate.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2

Apri 14,1970SENATE
DEBATES

April 14, 1970

APPENDIX "A"
(See p. 836)
STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS
LIST 0F CANADIAN CROWN CORPORATIONS
SCHEDULE B
DEPARTMENTAL CORPORATIONS

Corporation

Appropriate Minister

Agricultural. Stabilization Board
Atomic Energy Control Board
Director of Soldier Settiement
The Director, The Veterans' Land Act
Dominion Coal Board
Economic Council of Canada
Fisheries Prices Support Board
Medical Research Council
Municipal Development and Loan Board
National Museums of Canada
National Research Council.

Science Coundil of Canada
Unemployment Insurance Commission

Agriculture
Energy, Mines and Resources
Veterans Affairs
Veterans Affairs
Energy, Mines and Resources
Prime Minister
Fisheries and Forestry
National Health & Welfare
Minister of Finance
Secretary of State
Chairman of the Committee of the Privy
Council on Scientific
and Industrial
Research
Prime Minister
Labour

SCHFDtTLE C
AGENCY CORPOR.ATIONS

Corporation
Atomic Energy of Canada Limited
Canadian Arsenals Limited
Canadian Commercial Corporation
Canadian Dairy Commission
Canadian Film Development Corporation
Canadian Livestock Feed Board
Canadian National (West Indies) Steamaships
Limited
Canadian Patents and Development Limited

Centennial Commission
Crown Assets Disposai Corporation
Defence Construction <1951) Limited
National Battlefieids Commission
National Capital Commission
National Harbours Board
Northern Canada Power Commission
Park Steamship Company Limited
Royal Canadian Mint

Appropriate Mlinister
Energy, Mines and Resources
Supply and Services
Supply and Services
Agriculture
Secretary of State
Agriculture
Transport
Chairman of the Committee of the Privy
Coundil on Scientific and Industrial
Research
Secretary of State
Supply and Services
National Defence
Indian Affairs and Northern Development
Honourable Jean Marchand
Transport
Indian Affairs and Northern Development
Transport

April 14, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

SCHEDULE D
PROPRIETARY CORPORATIONS
Appropriate Minister

Corporation
Air Canada

Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
Canadian Overseas Telecommunication Corp.
Cape Breton Development Corporation
Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation
Eldorado Aviation Limited
Eldorado Nuclear Limited
Export Development Corporation
Farm Credit Corporation
Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation
National Railways as defined in the Canadian National Railways Act
Northern Transportation Company Limited
Polymer Corporation Limited
Seaway International Bridge Corporation
Ltd.
St. Lawrence Seaway Authority

Transport
Secretary of State
Communications
Energy, Mines and Resources
Energy, Mines and Resources
Industry, Trade & Commerce
Agriculture
Transport
Indian Affairs and Northern Development
Supply and Services
Transport
Transport

April 14, 1970

Apri 14.1970SENATE
DEBATES

APPENDIX "B"
(See p. 842)
STATUTORY

INSTRUMENTS

COMPARISON 0F AMERICAN ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT AND CANADIAN
ENERGY BOARD ACT AND RULES
ADMINISTRATIVE

PROCEDURE ACT

NATIONAL ENERGY BOARD

NATIONAL

ACT AND

RULES

Notice
Notice
Sec. 554. Requires notice of Urne, place and Sec. 28. Requires applications for certificates
nature of hearing. The notice is to set out af public convenience and necessity to be
legal authority and jurisdiction under which filed in the office of Provincial Attorney Genhearing is to be held, and the matters of fact eral and notice of saine is ta be given by
and law asserted.
newspaper publication or otherwise.
Rule 4(2). Requires every application ta contain a statement ai relevant facts, the provisions af the Act under which the application
is made and the nature ai the order applied
for.
Rule 6(2). The applicant is required ta give
notice. The iorm, content and manner af
giving notice, and the persons ta whom, it is
ta go, are determined by the Secretary af the
Board.
Pleadings
Pleadings
Sec. 554. Where the applicant is a private Rule 7. A party intending ta oppose or interparty, other parties are ta give notice of vene must file a Reply or Submission and
issues controverted ini fact or law.
send a copy ta, the applicant. The Reply or
Submission is ta set out facts from which the
nature af the party's interest may be determined; it "may admit or deny. ...
the facts
alleged in the application."
Time and Place of Hearing
Sec. 554. The agency is ta have "due regard"
for the convenience or necessity af the
parties.

Time and Place af Hearing
Rule 6. ". ... soon as possible after the
As
filing ai an application (the Board shall) set
the application down for hearing."

Pre-Trial Conference
Sec. 554. When "time, the nature of the proceedings, and the public interest permit" conference procedure is ta be available "for the
submission and consideration af facts, arguments, offers af settiement, or proposais af
adjustmnent."

Pre-Trial Conference
Rule 13. The Board may hold. The purpose is
ta simplify issues and shorter proceedings.
There is no provision for settiement or adjustment.

Presiding Officers
Sec. 556. The agency (or a member or members of it) or a hearing examiner.

Presiding Officers
Sec. 13. The agency, or a quorum thereof.
There is no specific provision for hearing
examiners.

Impartiality
Sec. 556. The presiding afficer may withdraw
if hie considers himiself disqualified.

Impartiality

There is no provision in the statute or rules.

SENATE DEBATES

April 14, 1970

A party may file an "affidavit of personal
bias or disqualification." In the event that the
officer does not then withdraw "the matter as
part of the record agency shall determine the
decision in the case."
Separation of Functions
Separation of Functions
Sec. 554. No hearing officer is to consult any There is no provision in the statute or rules.
person or party ex parte on any fact in issue.
No agency investigator or prosecutor shall
participate in the decision of the case in
which he has so acted.
Hearing Powers
Sec. 554. The presiding officer (subject to
rule and statute) may inter alia administer
oaths and affirmations, issue subpoenas, rule
upon offers of proofs and receive relevant
evidence, take or cause depositions to be
taken, dispose of procedural requests.

Hearing Powers
Sec. 10(3). The Board has aUl the powers of a
superior court as to witnesses, documents, etc.
Rule 17. The Board may order depositions.

Evidence
Sec. 556. No order shall be "issued except
upon consideration of the whole record...
and as supported by and in accordance with
the reliable, probative and substantial
evidence."

Evidence
There is no provision in the statute or rules.

Record
Sec. 556. The transcript, exhibits and all
papers and requests filed constitute "the
exclusive record for decision." Where the
decision rests on extra-record material fact, a
party, on request, must be given an opportunity to show the contrary.

Record
There is no provision in the statute or rules.

Reasoned Decision
Reasoned Decision
decision must include a state- There is no provision in the statute or rules.
Sec. 557. The
ment of (1) findings and conclusions, including the reasons or basis therefor, upon all
material issues of fact, law or discretion, (2)
the order or decision.
From the above it will be seen that the general pattern of procedural requirements
in adjudication is much the same. There are, however, four points at which the parallel
breaks down. Each involves a provision in the Administrative Procedure Act which is
entirely lacking in both the Canadian statute and the rules. They concern (a) the use of
hearing examiners, (b) the evidence which may be received and acted on, (c) separation
of functions and, (d) reasoned decisions. There is no other Canadian federal legislation
dealing with any of those matters. Accordingly, the writer proposes to consider each of
them, in an attempt to determine the extent to which the common law of Canada may
fill the gap.

SENATE DEBATESa

April 15, 1970

THE SENATE
Wednesday, April 15, 1970

BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
COMMITTEE
AUTHORITY TO MEEr DURING SITTING 0F
THE SENATE

The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald, with leave af
the Chair.
the Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(l)(a),
I move:
Prayers.
That the Standing Senate Comnaittee
on Banklng, Trade and Commerce have
THE SENATE
the power to sit wbile the Senate is sitELEVATOR SERVICE
ting today and that Rule 76(4) be suspended in relation thereta.
Hon. Arthur M. Pearson: Honourable senaHonourable senatars, perhaps a word of
with the business ai
tors, before praceeding
the day I should like ta ladge a camplaint. I explanatian is necessary. The Banldng, Trade
dislike joining the long list ai protesters, but I and Commerce Corrmittee was unable ta
complete its hearing this morning. Addltianal
arn protesting now.
The elevatar we refer ta as Senate elevator witnesses remain ta be heard, and the camNo. 1 always seems ta be in need ai repair. I mittee has asked permission to sit this afterdo not know the reasan, but that elevator noan ta complete the testimony af thase witfrequently gets stuck between floors and gen- nesses who have came ta Ottawa today. 1
eraliy does nat seem ta run properly at ail. estimate the hearing this afternoon will last
Haif the time one has ta use the stairs. That from twa ta two and a half hours. I hope the
elevator has not worked properly ail winter; members will finish their task in time ta
and although the repairmen have tried ta fix return ta the chamnber later, as there are
it tney never seem ta be able ta find the several speakers scheduled for this afternaon.
trouble. I think it is bigh time it was removed
Han. Mr. Martin: Three outstanding stars.
and replaced by a new one sa that senators
Motion agreed ta.
can have efficient service. Therefore, I make
this pratest.
ADJOURNMENT
Han. Paul Martin: I shall see that the prabHan. A. Hamilton McDonald: Hanourabie
lem is brought ta the attention ai the Speaker
senatars, I move, with leave af the Senate and
at once.
notwlthstanding Rule 45(fl(g), that when the
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable sena- Senate adjourns taday it do stand adjaurned
tors, may I say that I was about ta rise ta tel until tomorrow, Thursday, April 16, at 2
the honourable Senator Pearson that 1 wauld o'clock in the aiternoon.
bring this matter ta the attention ai the GovHonourable senators, again perhaps a word
ernment Leader. However, I can assure hiim af explanatian is in order. As you know, a
that something will be done about this eleva- caucus af ail hanourable senators has been
tor in the very near future.
called for 2 p.m. tamarraw ta discuss a matter
Han. Jacques Flynn: Mr. Speaker, if yau of insurance. I expect that meeting will be
want something doue, I suggest you look aiter short, but we will delay the ringing af the
it rather than passing it over ta the Gavern- bell for the opening of the house sitting until
ment Leader.
we have completed aur caucus.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, if
Motion agreed ta.
the honourable The Speaker has any trouble
STATUTOIRY INSTRUMENTS
in this matter, we will ask the Leader af the
Opposition ta help us.
PROPOSED STUDY 0F PROCED1JRES BY LEGAL
AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITDOCUMENTS TABLED
TEE--DEBATE CONTINUED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:

The Senate resumed fram yesterday the

Copies af dacuments examined by I. adjourned debate an the motion af Hon. Mr.
Carl Goldenberg in the course ai bis Martin that the Standing Senate Committee
iuquiry on the vehicular delivery af mail
i.n the City ai Montreal. (Euglish text).

an

Legal

and

Constitutional

AI! airs

be

SENATE DEBATES
instucted to consider and, from time to time,
ta report on procedures for the review by the
Senate of instruments made in virtue of any
statute of the Parliament of Canada, and to
consider in connection therewith any public
documents relevant thereto.
[Translation]
Hon. Léon-Mercier Gouin: Honourable
senators, liberty is at the price of constant
vigilance. I had this wise saying in mind last
February 19 when the Government Leader
introduced in a masterly manner the motion
we are now studying. Once again he showed
the social awareness which has long been one
of his characteristics and demonstrated that
he is the vigilant guardian of our liberties.
Hon. Mr. Martin: One moment, there is no
interpretation.
The Hon. ihe Speaker: Would the honourable Senator Gouin wait a moment while I ask
the officials to inquire if the interpretation
system is operating?
I am told that the service has now been
restored. The honourable Senator Gouin?
Hon. Mr. Gouin: As you know, the purpose
of this motion is to refer to our Standing
Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs the study and, if need be, the revision
of what is generally known as the statutory
instruments, that is the regulations established under an act of the Parliament of
Canada.
In other words, we are to study the problems created by the innumerable regulations
adopted pursuant to our federal legislation.
When he seconded the motion, the Leader of
the Opposition rightfully said of these regulations that they multiply like rabbits. I congratulate the Leader of the Oppositon for his
very interesting comments. I was very glad to
see that he agreed with the Government
Leader in stressing the need to remedy the
existing conditions. In my opinion, the system
of delegated powers, which is ever expanding,
runs counter to the principle of minis.erial
responsibility. This frightening number of
regulations which we must take into account
constitutes a flagrant abuse leading to
encroachment upon parliamentary supremacy.
This violation of our constitutional rules is
absolutely contrary to our democratic system.
The Members of Parliament must answer
to the nation for their actions. Apparently, the
officials who draft regulations are not responsible to anybody. In my opinion, the authority
given by any act to the governor in coundil, a
[Hon. Mr. MeDonald.]

April 15, 1970

minister or a board to make the necessary
regulations to put the said act into effect this
delegated power represents, finally, the
power to legislate. In democracy, I think that
we all agree on that point, oniy Pariament
must and can pass legislation. Through regulations, we go as far as creating offences and
amending laws.
I remember the following case. A statute
authorized the administration of some funds,
but the regulation adopted by the board made
it an offence for the administrators to get any
kind of payment. How is it possible to ask
expert administrators to devote all their time
or a major part of it to the administration of
some funds and further to ask them to work
for nothing?
I think we have to ask ourselves why we
have come to this regulations system that is
forever growing, spreading, expanding and
which we find everywhere and in every
place.
To answer the question, we must compare
briefly what was the function of the State
about a century and a half ago with what it is
now.
One hundred and fifty years ago, the State
confined itself to maintaining law and order.
It was the system of non-intervention, of economie liberalism, of non-interference and of
laissez faire. It was quite wrongly thought
that everything would end well if there was
no interference. If woman and child labour
was exploited by unscrupulous capitalists,
nothing was done for the sacred sake of freedom. The following quotation is quite
appropriate
O liberty! what crimes are committed in
thy name!
The need for labour regulations, however,
was not felt then as acutely as it was as a
result of the industrial revolution. With the
advent of big industry, abuses became
increasingly frequent. In the industrialized
countries at the beginning or the middle of
the last century there were still young children dressing coal at the bottom of mines. In
some plants, young workers were chained to
their machines. Working hours were extremely long; people put in 12-or 15-hour days. At
that time, in accordance with the everlasting
words of the great Lacordaire, one could have
said:
Between the weak and the strong, it is
the law which liberates and freedom
which oppresses.
The State has therefore intervened to control woman and child labour and to ensure

April 15, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 15,1970SENATE

safe and healthy working conditions ini industrial plants. It lias also intervened to protect
the victfrns of accidents at work and their
familles. This so-cailed social insurance legislation required the enactment of regulations
to seffle details, to cover certain categories of
particular cases.
As weil as social legislation, taxation lias
caused regulations to be introduced; this is
the case for our Income Tax Act passed at the
time of the First World War. Then we had
what is called the social security system:
unemployment mnsurance, family allowances,
old age security. It was impossible to incorporate in each of these acts all the necessary
provisions to give them full and equitable
effect. It is not that the regulatory principle is
wrong in itself. It was resorted to due to the
ever-increasing activities of the governiment
in the social as weil as i the economic fields
through the medium of crowrn corporations.
This is how ever-increasing operations have
made regulations necessary. It would obviously be better if each act included. ahl the provisions required for its enforcement, but this is
impossible. We cannot give to each of our
legisiative measures the bulky size of a code.
I used the word "code". This reminds me
that, in the Province of Quebec, our Code of
Civil Procedure is, on the whole, as complete
as can be hoped for, but it has not prevented
our Court of Appeal, our Superior Court, our
Provincial Court, from adopting their own
rules of practice and I believe that a similar
situation exists in ail the provinces. We must
admit that regulations are necessary, but we
must also state very definitely that it is indispensable to set limits for them.
[Englsh]
Honourable senators, may I suxn up my
remarks before coming to my conclusions? 1
have a feeling of sincere modesty this afternoon because I speak after s0 many senators
who have fuily covered the subject, and who
were in a position to refer to many authorities and to use very interesting documentation. My remarks are of a general nature. I
have tried as far as possible to avoid repeating what has been so weil stated.
In summary, may I say that once upon a
time the role of the Government was a very
limited one and the state was practically a
glorified policeman. Its only clear duty
seemed to be to maintain peace and order;
and there was almost no intervention of the
state in the daily lives of all the citizens,
whether they were of independent means,
were employers or employees, or were working on their own account. With the advent of

large-scale industry, it became necessary for
the state first to protect those who were flot
able to protect themselves, namely, the
women and children. Laws were thus enacted
to regulate their hours of labour and working
conditions.
With the evolution of social laws the necessity of delegation of power became evident.
Everything couid flot be contained ini every
act, and in that way regulations and rules
were necessary.
But under the pretense of enacting regulations the civil servants must not be given
discretionary powers. There must be limits to
the delegated authority; I cannot admit
under any circumstances the enactment of
offences by means of regulations. That is a
clear encroachrnent on the supremacy of Parliament. I think, however, because I ar n ot a
pessimist, that it should be possible to draft
sorne kind of code setting general rules that
would be applicable to regulations at large
and to which sucli regulations should
conform.
I arn convinced, moreover, that the enactment of regulations should be subject to a
democratic process. This is what I mean by
those words: In the Province of Quebec-and
I speak of xny own province because I know
better the conditions which exist thereunder our labour laws certain ordinances or
decrees can be adopted only if they have been
formaily submitted for consultation to the
public and to the parties interested. Notices
are published in the newspapers to the effect
that the contemplated ordinance will be examined by a committee of înquiry, and an
invitation is addressed to ail those who may
be interested to make their representatioris
during a certain period of time.
An opportunity is thus gîven to producers
and consumers, to employers and employees,
to be heard by the committee in question. I
believe this system is quite applicable to the
drafting and enactment of reaily important
regulations.
At ail events, ail regulations should be
carefuily scrutinized by Parliament. Logically,
a joint committee of the Senate and the
House of Commons should have undertaken
that gigantic task. A contrary decîsion has
been made in the other place, but that is no
reason why the problem should not be carefuily studied by our Standing Comimittee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs. After adequate study I amn convinced that our committee will be able to adopt and to submit
weil-reasoned. reports to improve the way
regulations are enacted and the way they are

SENATE DEBATES
publicized in virtue of chapter 235 of the
Revised States of Canada, 1952, a chapter
which I believe should be amended.
Many reports by the Senate have been
recognized as being of exceptional value and
as great contributions to the welfare of all
our citizens. I anticipate that every year a
committee of our house shall scrutinize the
instruments made in virtue of any statute of
the Parliament of Canada. I hope also that in
due time the other house will reverse its decision and will accept the appointment of a
joint committee of this place and the other
place to undertake the difficult work which
now confronts us, and which it is our duty to
perform as well as we can for the protection
of our freedom and for the defence of the
public interest.
I wish to congratulate again the Leader of
the Government for having introduced, with
the assistance of the Leader of the Opposition
as seconder, the motion which is now before
us, which I consider to be a matter of absolute necessity and which I support with all
my heart.
Hon. David A. Croll: Honourable senators,
in rising to support this motion, may I comment briefly on the remarks made in the
Senate on April 7 by honourable Senator
Lamontagne.
I disagree with his argumentation and with
the conclusion to which it brought him,
namely, that the twilight of the civil servants
will lead to the rise of Parliament. The fact is
that any successful form of government in the
parliamentary tradition must be firmly based
upon good cabinet, good Parliament and a
good public service. A weakness in any one
reflects weakness in the others.
As I view it, the business of government is
a co-operative endeavour. I believe that
experts should be on tap but not on top. Any
senators who have heard the top-flight public
servants in committee will have noted their
reluctance, indeed their refusal, to comment
on matters of public policy.
As I understand its import, the motion will
instruct our Legal and Constitutional Affairs
Committee to study the role that the Senate
should play in connection with statutory
instruments made in the exercise of legislative powers delegated by Parliament. In my
view it is only sensible that Parliament
should exercise some form of supervision or
control over the legislative powers that it
confers upon others by way of delegation, and
that the matter should be studied by the
appropriate committee of this house. I entire[Hon. Mr. Gouin.]

April 15, 1970

ly approve of the motion, but in doing so I
wish to make it very clear that I am not
contributing to the twilight of the public
service.
Honourable senators, I think it is time that
we began realistically, seriously and candidly
to look at matters involving peoples' rights,
and I shall devote myself more particularly to
the rights of the poor and the poverty-stricken and welfare-ites as their rights are affected
by law precedents and by regulations. What
they receive, they receive as a matter of law,
not as a matter of charity. So it becomes
increasingly pertinent to the proposals for
legislative review of regulations made under
the power of delegated legislation. Here I am
speaking of legislation as it affects the poor
and the poverty-stricken, for one must realize
for whom this legislation is provided.
When we talk of the poor and of the poverty-stricken, we are not, as in other days,
speaking of those who suffer from the sheer
lack of essentials to sustain life. It is something more than that-it is far more than
that. We are talking of insufficient access to
the goods and the services and the conditions
of life which have come to be accepted as a
basic minimum for living. The recommendations made by the Special Committee on
Statutory Instruments are in harmony with
steps we must take to alleviate and to eradicate poverty in Canada. They are in harmony
with our theme of citizen involvement and
participation, responsibility and informed
decision making. Poverty, in my sense of definition-and it is an accepted one-is being
an outsider. Poverty is exclusion; and sometimes people who find themselves in that
position ask themselves, "What are we for?"
Honourable senators, we have not had too
many answers for them.
Brief after brief has been presented before
the Special Senate Committee on Poverty;
some have been good and some have been
excellent. They present the hypothesis that
there is in Canada a pervasive discrimination
against the poor, a discrimination which has
deliberately or inadvertently become embedded in the policies of all major institutions affecting regulation and procedure. Evidence
and research presented before the committee
indicates that institution after institution, the
courts, the school system, the operation of government programs such as housing, the tax
system, the labour market, the market for
consumer goods, and the communications
media, even where the ability to pay is not
involved, the poor are worse off than the
non-poor. The poor carry a greater burden.

April 15. 1970

Apri 15.1970SENATE
DEBATES

I amrn ot making a fantastic statement
when 1 say that even in fighting inflation, the
major and the telling burden is on the poor.
They need many things. Legal aid is very
important to them. They need reform-oriented legal services located ini areas of poverty
and among the poor. Lawyers help the most
powerful, and they can and they will help the
less powerful. Med.tcare is good for the people
of this country, but legal-care is what a great
number of the poor need and need
immediately.
Honourable senators, poverty will not be
cured by a guaranteed minimum incarne
alone, and members of the committee have
neyer claimed or suggested that. It would
constitute a great forward step in the right
direction, but the poor must have access ta
the legal system to allow them to express in a
dignifled manner their views, their hopes and
their aspirations.
Mi. Justice J. Skelly Wright, a judge on the
United States Court of Appeals for the District
o! Columbia circuit, in writing about the
small dlaims couits in the United States, said:
Those who have studied them have
observed that they are primarily used,
flot by the poor, but by business organizations seeking to collect debts. A
number o! these organizations handie
such a large volume of dlaims that they
have established collection departments
which make routine use of the courts.
Thus it is primarily the business man, not
the poor man, who reaps the advantage
of the inexpensive and speedy small
dlaims courts.
The Right Honourable Edwaid Heath,
speaking on the English legal aid plan, has
this to say:
People should know their rights and
know the protection that law can give. If
people knew their rights and knew the
protection that law could give, it would
go a long way to get rid of persecution
and racketeering that is one o! the afflictions of poverty and to eliminate the
inarticulate frustration and resentment
that stlll gives credence to the inveterate
fallacy: "One law for the rich and one
law for the poor."
If a lawyer does flot involve himself in the
society around him, if he rernains a spectator,
he will be relegated ta a secondary position.
Equity o! citizens before the law is a valid
dlaim, but what good are equal rights if you
do not know about them? You have no way
of enforcing thern. And when you do know

about them you have no one who wil undertake the task for you.
I naw wish to read an interesting quote
from a report i the Toronto Star of March
24:
Ini a decision llkely ta revolutionize
welfare procedures in many states, the
U.S. Supreme Court yesterday ruled a
state cannot terminate public assistance
payments without first giving the recipient a full heaiing.
The court held that it is not sufficient
to have an appeals procedure which
starts only after payments are cut off.
Any system which terminates aid
before the recipient and the state have
resolved the question of continued eligibility "rnay deprive an eligible recipient
of the very means by which to ive while
he waits," the court ruled.
That is a ruling by the Supreme Court of the
United States. The strange thing is that we
have not had a case of a similar nature before
any of our courts in this country.
Hon. Mr. Martin- Was that ruling based on
a statute or did it arise out of the rights of
the citizen?
Hon. Mr. Croli: It must have been based on
the rights o! the citizen, or he would not have
got to court.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Was the case based on a
statute?
Hon. Mr. Crail: It mnust have been based on
a statute because they talk about public
assistance benefits being a right and flot a
privilege.
To my knowledge, there has not; been a
single case before our courts, although I arn
not certain of that. As far as I know, no one
has taken the trouble to test welfare rights
before our courts. After ahl, the decisions are
made by human beings; they cannot always
be right, and there must be some room for
sending the decision to a higher authority.
As I have indicated, in the United States,
and in Canada to a lesser extent, there is a
message corning through loud and clear that
institutions which ignore legitimate grievances, even if one such be the Government,
will be challenged. We have to make up oui
mninds that we have the wisdorn to deal with
the legitirnate grievances, that we have to
hear them and deal with them. Oui task is to
relieve them and not to suppress them. If
government institutions aie not responsive to
the legitimate needs o! people they will fot

SENATE DEBATES

be respected and sometimes, to our great
regret, they will be disobeyed. There needs to
be Government consultation with the public
before regulations are made. The Government
needs to be in harmony with citizen involvement and participation. The door must be
open to the citizen to enter, to be informed, to
be heard. For the poor we require even more
than that, for they are not organized to act. We
have to reach out to them in order to have
them participate. Many times when they are
uninformed they are fearful, they are without
tradition of participation and they are just
beginning to organize. It is a formidable problem which the organizing poor face all the
time in obtaining any kind of information
and, in fact, sometimes it is deliberately
withheld.
I know the provinces publish their regulations, but do you know anyone who ever
reads the Gazette for regulations? It is read
as a legal document. The full meaning and
impact can be found in manuals which are
not available to the poor. These people have
civil rights and there are instances where
these civil rights are abused.
I read from a press report on a brief presented on March 10 by the Canadian Civil
Liberties Association to the Provincial and
Family Services Minister, John Yaremko:
Many practices are not based on law
but on expediency, the association suggests. Yet, the helpless welfare recipient
is reluctant to challenge the welfare dispenser, his only source of income, when
the privacy of his home or his human
relationships is invaded illegally, it says.
"Whether executed with courtesy or
with malice, the right of access to someone's home is too great a power to
exchange for a welfare benefit.
"Obviously, welfare recipients are in
no position to negotiate the removal of
this power. It must be done by
government."
What they are saying is that the regulation
that requires them to lay an information
against a husband before relief can be
obtained is an inhuman one. It is not likely
to bring the family together. It is not important because the state does not usually take
the opportunity to find out where the husband is. The most helpless people in our
society are subject to search and subject to
visit without their permission and without
having a right of appeal to anyone.
The Government of Canada must be given
credit. Under the Canada Assistance Act a
[Hon. Mr. Croll.]

April 15, 1970

board of review can be established, but one
province of Canada has not even taken the
trouble to do that. In another province the
board of review is well removed from those
who would appeal to it. It is composed of
persons
who formerly served in the
department.
What I am talking about really is the basic
issue of power, and specifically the power of
welfare administrators over recipients. When
a legislature or a parliament delegates selfruling authority to administrators, it gives
them power to determine the behaviour of
citizens. The poor have few, if any, resoirces,
and because of this fact the power of welfare
administrators over their clients is measurably increased.
Let me define the issue broadly. There is an
article by Dr. Peter Russell that appeared last
week in the Toronto Globe and Mail. Dr.
Russell writes about the democratic approach
to the guarding of civil liberties. The issues of
the power of the state over its members concerns the extent to which its claims, in the
form of laws, regulations, administrative
procedures and so on, represent the interests
of the peoples and the extent to which its
members can influence the power by which
they are governed. What we must be seeking,
argues Dr. Russell, is a design for power
through which popular participation would
make government less coercive.
With these basic assertions in mind let me
turn to the situation facing the welfare recipient in his dealing with welfare bureaucracy. I
will sketch out my views. Time and again
through the course of the Poverty Committee's hearings we have been told of cases
where recipients were, in effect, unable to
receive what was theirs by right. These cases
are hard to pin down, for they rarely involve
a case of malfeasance or maladministration.
The officials do their job well for the agency
to which they are responsible.
The locus of responsibility here is crucial.
We say that one of the prime objectives of
the Canada Assistance Plan is to encourage
the recognition of assistance as a right, but
then we add "under specified statutory conditions". With that last clause begins a train of
administrative actions that frequently ends in
coercive application of rules not necessarily
in the interests of the recipient or even of the
nation.
It is all very well to say that the recipient
is to receive what he needs on the basis of
need, when the administrator who has been
there for 20 years is still working on the

April 15, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

theory that there has to be a means test, He is a member of our staff.
which he applies, perhaps unconsciously but
-if you would like a report on the
to the detriment of the recipient. We hear of
Welfare Rights Movement since the
such cases time and again.
Senate hearings.
The statutory conditions are manifold and
Shortly after the Senate hearings left
seldom specified. As I have said, there are
Winnipeg we started moving. We had
agreements between the federal Government
very good press coverage (after we
and the provinces respecting the Canada
knocked them). The City Welfare Dept.
Assistance Act. The provinces make their
put out an information pamphlet. So we
own regulations defining eligibility, amounts
decided to approach the City Welfare to
of allowances, kinds of services, costs and
pay baby sitting fee for anyone on weltypes of basic necessities, conditions that a
fare that wanted to attend our meetings.
recipient must comply with, rights of appeal
They agreed.
and, finally, responsibilities largely towards
We've had a good response to the
the agency that administering officers must
grievances handled. About this time a
meet, and which they serve. In most of the
memo was sent down from the Asst.
provinces these regulations are gazetted, but
Deputy Officer, Walter Boyd, which said
for the poor who have little education and
that children 18 yrs. and over in Grade
have no more than the average person's
12 will no longer receive assistance effecknowledge of how government operates and
tive immediately. Well, we went to Mr.
the meaning of its legal terminology, this
Boyd's office, checked it out, made out a
source offers little communicative power.
brief, and took it to our Minister of
Over and above the regulations there are
Social Health and Services, Mr. Rene
internal policy manuals and guides which we
Toupin. He was very interested in our
traditionally permit to be enclosed in a shroud
brief and gave it his full support. It is
of confidentiality. Even such a committee as
now a matter of policy. Any child on
ours has difficulty in obtaining knowledge of
welfare or low income can attend universuch instruments. We have available the
sity or vocational schools. We have
power of formal hearings and the competent
spoken to Social Workers, students, who
advice of experienced professionals. Think of
have left the lectures with a new outlook.
the glacial wall a welfare recipient would
Church groups, emotionally disturbed
have to climb to get at them. But, sadly, his
people, nurses, etc., to help change our
daily bread may depend upon this knowledge.
image and to educate the public.
Honourable senators, it is interesting to see
We've held a series of three panel diswhat people can do. On November 18 last
cussions with the City Welfare Dept. and
year this committee sat in Winnipeg and
members of the Welfare Rights. We
heard from the Winnipeg Welfare Rights
would now like to do something similar
Movement. On behalf of that organization
with the Provincial Welfare Dept.
there appeared before us three women, Mrs.
There will be a lot of changes in our
Hilda Towers, the chairman, Mrs. Yvonne
Welfare System. City and Provincial WelPutman, the secretary, and Mrs. Betty
fare will be under one system and be
Carson. Their evidence appears in Report No.
called Provincial Social Development.
7 of the proceedings of the committee.
There has been talk of using the Welfare
Today at one o'clock, I found in my afterRights as consultants. Two members of
noon mail a letter that could not have arrived
Welfare Rights are to sit on the Provinat a better time. When these women appeared
cial Welfare Advisory Board another
before the committee we attempted to indimember is on the board of the Communicate to them what rights they had and how
ty Welfare Planning Council.
they should go about making sure they got
Things are really moving. We have one
them, whom they should see, what they
group that are doing their own divorces
should do, and how they should carry on.
and helping others to do theirs for under
They were quite unaware of their rights.
$75. Needless to say are getting action
They seemed to be backward about appearfrom our so-called "Free Legal Aid".
ing before a committee of the Senate. They
did exceptionally well. This letter which
The Welfare Rights want to have a
reached me today, reads:
workshop this summer inviting 10 famiDear Senator Croll:
lies from each of the four western provWhile in Ottawa recently I asked
inces. So I went to Ottawa to raise some
Michael Claguemoney. Can you picture this, Senator

SENATE DEBATES
Croll, here I am a Welfare Recipient in
Poverty talking to people to raise $20,000
for our project? Remember how frightened I was at the hearings? These action
groups give us back our self-respect and
the confidence we had but lost. But
where else could al this take place
except in the wonderful country of ours
called Canada.
Thanks to you and your committee for
giving the poor a voice.
Sincerely,
Hilda Towers,
Chairman Welfare Rights,
Winnipeg
What can I say?
Hon. Mr. Choque±e: Your cried.
Hon. Mr. Croll: We have received many
letters, but these people came to us.
They did not know where to turn to. They
were angry. They were militant. They were
quite concerned and we heard them. There
are senators present who were there at that
time. Senator Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche) was there, as were Senators Fergusson,
Inman and Pearson. We consulted with these
persons. They felt at ease after awhile. We
advised them what their rights were. They
did not go around tearing down places,
throwing bricks and doing things they should
not do. They accepted our advice and took
the normal course and got results. They got
very good results. It is making people feel
that they have value, that they are important.
They will be listened to as long as they become active and take steps to help themselves.
I now return to rules and regulations,
which are made in head offices far away from
the realities and interests. It is truc that the
senior administrators and ministers who serve
the people have their interests at heart;
nevertheless, in their minds they have the
day-to-day interests of the agency and Government service and the ideals and beliefs of
the middle-class. In turn, the officer dealing
directly with the recipients is first of all
responsible to the agency through the rules,
regulations and procedures. This is true
because we have not yet been able to build an
unbureaucratic welfare administration. From
the very founding of this nation we have
sought ways of building into Government the
guarding of rights and liberties of its citizens,
and we are even today rebuilding and
reforming these means. It is to this task that
legislative review must be guided. The chief
[Hon. Mr. Croll.]

April 15, 1970

element in the safeguarding of liberties is
knowledge. This is wel said in the third
report of the Special Commons Committee on
Statutory instruments. I quote:
First, the people cannot control their
Government without knowledge of its
actions, nor can Parliament fulfil its role
of responsibility with respect to legislative powers which it has delegated to
others. Second, the existence of secrecy is
likely to lead to popular suspicion of
wrongdoing by Government whether or
not there is any genuine reason for suspicion. Third, we are living today in a
period in which the validity of authority
can no longer be taken for granted but
must be constantly demonstrated. Governmental systems which do not take this
new attitude seriously are apt to find
public confidence in them diminishing
rapidly. Obviously, a continuing demonstration of the justice of the system
necessitates an opening of the processes
and products of delegated legislation to
the light of publicity.
The second element of this process lies in
the right to redress and means available to do
this. Legislation scrutiny must be fundamentally concerned with the availability to the
people of knowledge of Government action
and the ability to obtain redress. For the
welfare system, and for other spheres of Government as well, knowledge and redress are
conducted through several means. These
means, in turn, define the scope of concerns
that underlie legislative scrutiny if it is to be
politically relevant in the broad sense of that
term.
Broadly defined, legislative scrutiny concerns the way in which the powers delegated
by the legislature, as representatives of the
people, to agencies and administration are
used.
Specifically, it concerns the extent and
nature of regulations and the knowledge made
available to the public of these instruments.
These concerns require that the scrutiny committee should keep abreast of appeal procedures and decisions to maintain a knowledge
of what delegated powers are being questioned. Similarly, notice must be taken of
decisions handed down through the judicial
processes. The committee should maintain an
awareness of evaluations of administrative
performance which measure the degree to
which delegated powers are indeed operative.
In other words, how well they are doing.
Finally, it must relate and take notice of the

April 15, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

concerns and interests of groups organized to
express and further the interests of specific
segments of the public in order to be aware
of special problems involved in the operation
of governmental regulations.
Such activities at the present time may
appear to go beyond any reasonable terms of
reference for a legislative scrutiny committee.
They may even appear to usurp the powers of
the legislature itself. This is not the case, for
the meaningful review of regulations requires
this kind of substantive scrutiny. Moreover,
any such committee would operate in concert
with other committees. Most important of all
is the need to scrutinize and guide the use of
delegated legislative powers.
In arguing for this kind of scrutiny, I have
chosen the case which states this need in the
most elementary way, for the liberties and interests of the poor are the most unguarded in
our society. If there be any fundamental purpose serving the building of our democratic
system by the conduct of legislative scrutiny,
the guarding of the liberties of these people,
the poor and the poverty-stricken is one of
them. We should even now begin to look
upon this as a must-it will be to our credit
to do so. It is my view that we must not delay
longer, because the time-clock is ticking
faster in the streets and avenues of this country than it is in the legislative chambers.
Hon. Paul Desruisseaux: Honourable senators, last Tuesday evening my good friend,
Lamontagne,
Senator
honourable
the
addressed the Senate. Part of his first sentence was:

"... I hope that my intervention

this evening will have the effect of closing this
debate and not starting a new one.

. ". I want

to assure my honourable friend, for whom I
have admiration and respect because of his
constant devotion to the cause of Canada, for
his high loyalty and for his important contributions to the Parliament and to the Senate,
that I am now addressing the Senate on
Statutory Instruments solely with a view to
continuing the expression of thought on this
vital and important subject, and not because
I like to irk my very good friend. However,
I intend to touch on some of the ideas of the
thesis that have, in my view, relevance to
this subject.
First, may I state that I believe the Senate
witnessed last week a vivacious and healthy
exchange which underlined the importance of
some of the subjects before the Senate. May I
also be permitted to express my appreciation
and my congratulations to the senators who
have spoken so eloquently and profoundly. I

appreciate very much the contributions made
by Senator Phillips (Rigaud), Senator Thompson, Senator Fergusson, Senator Carter, and
Senator Croll's excellent, clear and constructive address today.
I was very much impressed by the speech
of the honourable Senator O'Leary. His observations and advice filled with wisdom and
experience should be most seriously weighed.
I cannot resist saying that I fully agree with
my colleague when he defends the policies
that built Canada into what it is today,
policies that were once dear to the Governments of Canada, whereby foreign investments assuring the expansion and progress
of Canada were indeed welcomed.
On this, may I say, as a preliminary to my
other observations on the motion, that Canada
so far as population is concerned remains a
very small nation with an immense territory,
mostly rugged, with great weather obstacles,
with expensive communications, with relatively modest-indeed "very small" would be
more exact--economic facilities for its own
development, and with some important productivity handicaps. We have to purchase
much from outside of Canada, including a
large variety of food, even though we are
over-producers of some crops. We must do all
we can to meet without complications our
balance of payment to other nations. We must
cultivate and improve the flow of incoming
capital from outside nations to maintain our
prosperity and our world stature. This reasoning made sense when Canada sprang
ahead to prosperity, and it should make even
more sense now.
This reasoning made sense when our nation
was somewhat smaller than it is now; it was
a welcome and co-operative economic uplift.
Well, relatively speaking, Canada is still a
small nation, ready to grow faster, which
needs these constructive policies and a great
deal of positive and constructive thinking.
With constructive policies that allow, for
instance, foreign-controlled Canadian companies as it allowed any other Canadian companies, we have become one of the foremost
exporting countries in the world. We saw
many Canadian companies under foreign
shareholders' control expand here time and
again with the ful approval and sometimes
the help of our Government mostly, as I said,
because of their exports to other parts of the
world. We took our good share of these
arrangements. We collected more than half
their profits in taxes, not to mention the
income and sales taxes paid by the employees

SENATE DEBATES
of these firms. We received stability of
employment for a great many Canadians.
These companies were among the artisans of
our economic upsurges as they brought in
stupendous amounts of capital reusable for
their Canadian expansion. They made it
much easier for us to face the grave Canadian
problem of unfavourable balances of trade
and of payments to other nations.
This is why I feel I must air such views.
This is why I must question the wisdom of
totally relying on a few civil advisory experts
in certain areas and departments, using powers
given to them through statutory instruments.
Such policies as mentioned, and I will speak
of others, seem to me to be ill-timed, negative
of Canadian progress and most questionable.
They seem to be infected with an unexplainable fear complex.
I believe we should now pause and reassess the long and short-range effects of at
least some of the negative Canadian directions originating in our government bureaucracy.
We should re-examine these, for instance,
on foreign controls, not in the light of fear of
those who come willingly among us, investing
with us and entrusting to us great fortunes to
partake with us-and we still collect over 50
per cent of all profits-in the Canadian ventures of industry, but in the light of what
would accrue from it; that is, the benefits to
the people of Canada, the great resulting
Canadian achievements, the added stimulating challenges it would offer to all of us and
the improved Canadian standard of living it
helps to provide for Canadians.
It may be that we are at present going the
wrong way in search of a solution to some of
our Canadian problems. We find that too
many solutions imposed or proposed by just a
few of our bureaucrats are defensive and
negative in thinking, rather than based on a
positive approach and positive thinking. I, for
one, hope that this will not be an indication
of future trends.
I believe too that we should do what we
can to reverse this thinking and create the
basis of a new trend which is positive, realistic and beneficial to all Canadians and is
aimed at progress and good employment.
With leave, I might as well mention here
the recent case of Denison and the statements
of policy made not to allow-another negative-by retroactive legislation, if necessary,
the sale of approximately 25 per cent of the
shares of the Denison Company to foreign
[Hon. Mr. Desruisseaux.]

April 15, 1970

shareholders, even though they may be shareholders of a friendly country, and notwithstanding the consequences that this would
result in the redirection of many mining
activities of these and other companies to
some other more favourable spot in the
world, with the consequential supension of
development programs in Canada.
Damage will be done to our economy.
Surely, we can all see that there will be less
work for our labour force who are now in
real need, as our federal statistics so effectively show. Some areas have even reached
over 10 per cent unemployment. Surely, we
can readily see that there will be less infusion
of capital from foreign investors.
Surely, we know and fully realize in our
advisory governmental circles, that if, in the
case of foreign controlled Canadian companies or, for that matter, in the case of any
Canadian set-up, there came to be a national
urgency, a national need for strategic materials, we could, at any time, without any reprisals-as was accomplished by the late C. D.
Howe in the case of Eldorado-expropriate,
because of national urgency, fully grown
companies expertly staffed and managed, in
full operation, and this at any time Parliament chooses, instead of placing ourselves in
the position of acquiring, if needed by the
country, lesser developed companies, because
there were no further injections of capital or
expansion of markets possible. Surely, we
realize that a control law on production, use
and sale of strategie materials exists in
Canada.
Why then is there so much fear of some of
those who provide employment and capital in
and for Canada? If we accept immigrants
without money or facilities, why would we
not accept producing companies paying some
50 per cent on all profits made in selling in
other countries a good part of what is produced here?
With due respect to those thinkers who so
advised the Government and often rule
through statutory instruments, I believe that
we are here again making a costly mistake
that will hurt Canada's economy much more
than some have anticipated.
Will this also lead to other countries taking
reprisals against Canadian companies operating in other countries but controlled by
Canadian shareholders? Will these decisions
eventually affect some $5 billion of Canadian
capital investment in other parts of the
world? Will this again somewhat curtail the

April 15, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 15,1970SENATE

flow of profit that would have been repatriated ta Canada? I leave these cansiderations ta
your good thinking.
Before leaving this paint, honourable senators, let me quote fromn Senator Lamontagne's
work of 1954 entitled "The Role of Government" in E. P. Gilmour's Canada's Tomarrow,
published by Macmnillan at Toronto and
quoted in part on pages 68 ta 70 inclusive of
Business and Government in Canada by K. J.
Rea and J. T. McLeod. In the last twa paragraphs an page 70 Senator Lamnontagne says:
Thus it may be inferred that the
Canadian situation in the future will continue ta refiect the equilibrium. position
and that the basic complemnentarity
between private initiative and government action will be recognized in fact as
it is described by aur functional
theory... The normal implication ta be
drawn from, this outiook is that private
initiative will continue ta play the
dynamîc and dominant role on the field of
long terni industrial develapment in
Canada during the next decade. The raie
of gavernment wiil be auxiliary and conditioning. It will consist mainly in maintaining a favourable climate for private
initiative and adopting policies designed
ta ensure that the natural resources will
be rationally utilized ta the advantage of
the Canadian population.
I agree that this should still be aur thinking, as it is the thinking of aur Canadian
doers and achievers, but how many here will
agree that that is the thinking on corporations or in the White Paper, or in the pollcymaking regarding aur radio, televisian and
cammunity antennae carDnorations, or even
in some of the decisions made through
statutary instruments?
On page 53 of Selected Readings in Chapter
6 on "Public Administration in Canada
Today", writing on the growth of bureaucracy, in regard ta the pervasive nature of thinkers' policy making, R. G. Robertson, then
Clerk of the Privy Couneil and Secretary ta
the Cabinet, is quoted as follows:
Aniy civil servants above clerical or
stenographic grades who has spent any
substantial. time in a job without contributing ta some degree ta the policy hie
administers should be fired.
Furthermare, he asserted that the distinction is nat between those who contributed ta
the "making" of policy and those who do not,
but between thase who finally decicie and

those who tried to decide policy, whether it is
the policy they contributed to making, a
caricature of it, or the very opposite. This is
taken fram CanacUan Parliament and Cabinet
in the Face of Modern Demands, an unpublished manuscript of an address ta the Nineteenth Annual Conference of the Institute of
Public Administration. It is ini the files of
McMaster University, is dated September 8,
1967 and appears at page 2.
I still lead an active business life and I have
the occasion ta travel widely on my own, and
when doing sa, I neyer miss the oppartunity
of comparing various aspects of other countries with those of Canada. Possibly you have
heard me before rave about aur wonderful
Canada. I say today that in spite of many
drawbacks of nature and weather and our
good share of problems here, in my view, we
have the most wonderful nation on earth.
[Translation]
It is also a pleasure for me to add that we
have here, in its presenit form, ane of the best
gavernment structures that a government
could hope for, and that, in spite of ail we
have, in my view, generally one of the best
civil services in the warld.
The layalty and devotion of almast al civil
servants are worthy of aur gratitude and of
aur respect. I also believe that, some day,
history will note that at this time Canadians
enjoyed the greatest freedam still possible.
Honourable senatars, I suggest that, insofar as
we are concernied and for the reasons I have
given, it is aur duty ta maintain and ta guarantee such advantages ta Canadians.
[En glish]
We have, I believe, ta watch closely the
trends that same group or philosophy of
thaught might want ta pattern for aur next
generatian. Theref are, I ask: Who must set or
apply the policies in the demacratic Canadathe doers, the achievers, the thinkers, or wha?
What is done with acceptance of fashians
can be done ta aur thinking in many ways.
We ail remember Hitler's methods of trending
his people. After a very few years his ways
and wants became fully and automaticaily
accepted in Germany. Naw, here, ta what
extent has anyone or any small group the
right ta affixm and positively obligate al
others, even in the name of Canada? Wauld
we gain by choosing advisers that are total
sacialists, and became tatally sacialistic, in
aur gavernments, or shauld we 'try ta be
democratic? Who but the people have a right
ta change it?

SENATE DEBATES
Perhaps in some areas we should also ask
ourselves: Would the ruling by impositions be
conducive to some form of total socialism or
totalitarianism? I said, rather proudly, that I
find Canada to be the freest of all nations. I
think we still are, although I am wondering if
attempts at times are not made to make us
lose some of this precious freedom. Would we
be the freest of the free nations in the future
if we generally accepted now the full extension of rule by statutory instruments?
I hate the use of the words "bureaucracy"
and "bureaucrats" in reference to our civil
service. I think, to use them in my address, I
must define them carefully. Webster defines
"bureaucrat" as
An official of a bureau; particularly an
officer who prefers to conduct his business through a system of bureaus and
thus avoid personal responsibility.
And "bureaucracy" as:
a system in which the business of government is carried on in departments, each
under the control of a chief, in contradistinction to the system in which the
officers of government have a co-ordinated authorityGovernment officials considered as a
body.
The Britannica World Language dictionary
defines "bureaucracy" as:
(1) Government by bureaus, especially by
rigid and arbitrary routine;
(2) Government officials collectively.
And "bureaucrat" as:
(1) A member of a bureaucracy;
(2) an official who governs by rigid
routine.
[Translation]
In French, Robert defines those terms as
follows:
Bureaucrate: Fonctionnaire qui attribue
une importance exagérée à sa fonction et
en abuse vis-à-vis du public.
Bureaucratie; Pouvoir,
règne
des
bureaux, influence abusive d'administration.
[English]
When using the word "bureaucracy" I think
of the definition in Webster's dictionary,
namely, a system in which the business of
government is carried on in departments,
each under the control of a chief, in contradistinction to the system in which the officers of
government have a co-ordinate authority. In
this context, I believe, if we make a mental
survey among the nations of the world we
[Hon. Mr. Desruisseaux.]

April 15, 1970

will find easily that where bureaucracy
increases and climaxes, democracy and
individual, corporate, and collective freedoms
decrease. Then I believe it becomes a duty for
us to assess what is best for our people, and
what our mandate should dictate to us to
assure it, especially in the delegation of
powers.
Because Canada is a confederation of some
ten provinces, each with a government facing,
in most cases, the same internal problems,
there is, in my view, some strong motivation
for the protective attitude to be adopted by us
in setting the stage, preparing the trends, and
in adopting the extensive use of statutory
instruments.
The

honourable

Senator

Lamontagne

in

giving us his thesis made quite a strong point.
If the trends he spoke about were to lead us
to the policy-making by a group of intellectuals, a group of thinkers, what would or
should their philosophy be? Would they be
socialists, Marxists, anarchists, Thomists, or
what? Would they prove to be doers and
achievers? And who should scrutinize and
screen such candidates? What should be the
specifications for their acceptance? I believe
that much food for thought has been given to
us throughout this thesis.
Possibly one of the first delegations of
power through statutory instruments started
with the Income Tax Act. Without analysing
the extent of that allocation, we do know that
that power has never ceased growing there.
In my view the delegation of power in that
case was necessary, but it did set a pattern
that now seems to be generalizing.
Recently, representations and recommendations were made in a White Paper on Tax
Reform put out by our Government thinkers.
It appears now that the majority of Canadians, especially those responsible for Canadian achievements,-the doers, as I call
them-are expressing grave concern about
too many of the proposals in that White
Paper. For one thing, it is the speedy road
to total socialism. Knowing their wide executive powers, what will this do to our
Canada, to our prosperity, to our individuals? There is now ample evidence that
this socialistic document is being bucked
by the opinion of the silent majority of our
Canadians. Considering its use of powers
through statutory instruments, what could be
its short-range and long-range consequences?
That is the question.

April 15, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Honourable Senator Lamontagne mentioned
the role of the press and the fact that the
mass media is ever changing with the great
developments that affect it and surround it. Its
evolution is very far from over, but I think
that in the field of radio and television grave
and deep mistakes are now being made by
our Government agencies, who for many
years have been given through statutory
instruments wide powers allowing decisions
to be made by too few one-sided thinkers.
I am afraid that the public of Canada is
about to be denied, in a certain way, the
freedom to hear and to see whatever they
wish from wherever they wish. I do not
believe the prograi
guidelines recently
announced will give us the solutions to our
media problems.
Having been intensely connected with
newspaper, magazines, radio, television and
cable situations; having served for many
years on the boards of the Canadian Press,
the Canadian Daily Newspapers Associations,
l'Association Canadienne des Quotidiens de
langue française, the Association of Canadian
Broadcasters; and having been faced with
problems for over 12 years, I find now, looking at this situation while away from those
fields I have just mentioned, that what is
happening is tragie. I have no doubt that, like
me, many of you also find it tragic.
Again, in my view, the whole thinking is
negative and destruc ive. It does not take into
account the wants of the public who, being
free, will, for instance, so long as it is free,
ignore any programming it cares to ignore in
order to get the programs of its choice, even
if those programs have to come from a
number of American television and radio networks along the 3,000 mile border between
the United States and Canada and have to be
carried to the Canadian public by airwaves
along this strip and through cable services.
This is another case of where great powers
having been given an agency, the question
now arises whether giving them made any
sense. That agency is completely one-sided
when it comes to decision-making.
Great damage will be done to Canadian
broadcasters who may now have to become
fifth-rate producers. The public is, in my
opinion, being given "the public be damned"
treatment by some thinkers of the agency. No
principle, however good or sound it may

appear to some thinkers, can be applied justly
and fairly if it does not take into account all
of the facts and all of the possible consequential results. I do not believe that they will in
this field again be able to claim that they are
protecting and satisfying the desires of
Canadians.
Senator Lamontagne referred to the "twilight of the civil service". I say that that
twilight is being brought about gradually by
the bad judgments and the costly blunders of
just a few.
In the hope of eventually being able to
have some of these wrongdoings corrected, I
will support the motion of the honourable
Leader of the Government that the Standing
Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs be instructed to consider and, from
time to time, to report on procedures for
review by the Senate of instruments made in
virtue of any statute of the Parliament of
Canada, and to consider in connection therewith any documents relevant thereto.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, I
move the adjournment of this debate.
The Hon. the Speaker: May I remind the
Government Leader that he has already
spoken on this matter.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I am moving it so that
others can speak, but I would have the right
to speak finally myself.
The Hon. the Speaker: If the Government
Leader speaks, I must remind honourable
senators that his speech will have the effect
of closing the debate.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: As I understand it,
Your Honour, the leader is adjourning the
debate so that others, perhaps on his side or
this side, will have an opportunity to speak.
The Hon. the Speaker: Let me make my
position clear. I was under the impression
that the Government Leader, having spoken,
might speak to close the debate, but I was not
under the impression that he has not the
right to adjourn the debate on behalf of
another honourable senator.
Hon. Mr. Martin: His Honour the Speaker
is technically right, as he indeed he always is.
Therefore, so that there will be no difficulty, I
shall ask Senator Aird if he would be good

SENATE DEBATES
enough to adjourn
encouragement to
which I know he
On motion of
adjourned.

the debate. This will be an
him to make the speech
is anxious to make.
Hon. Mr. Aird, debate

CANADA-UNITED STATES
INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING-DEBATE
ADJOURNED

On the order:
Resuming the debate on the inquiry of
the Honourable Senator Phillips (Rigaud)
calling the attention of the Senate to the
Thirteenth Meeting of the Canada-United
States Interparliamentary Group held at
Washington, Cape Kennedy, Houston and
San Antonio, 10th to 15th March, 1970(Honourable Senator Willis).

April 15, 1970

of the Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I was not referring to the
press release. I think if the honourable
Leader of the Government consults the pages
he has mentioned he will find that it was a
press release that was tabled, and not the
report. I believe there is to be a report. My
question was directed to that report of the
committee, not to the press release.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I am sure these observations of the honourable senator will be called
by His Honour the Speaker to the attention of
the delegates at that meeting. There is nothing more I can add at this time.

The Hon. the Speaker: Perhaps the honourable Leader of the Government will permit
me to answer the specific point raised by
Senator Grosart. I am informed that this
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable sena- report will be tabled tomorrow.
tors, it will not be possible for Senator Willis
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Thank you.
to be here this week. I understand, however,
On motion of Hon. Mr. Grosart, debate
that it would be perfectly satisfactory to him
adjourned.
if the Senate were to give permission to
honourable Senator Grosart to take the
adjournment in his place.
THE SENATE
Hon. Mr. Martin: By popular agreement.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed, honourable senators?

TIME-LAG IN SIMULTANEOUS INTERPRETATION

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
there is a time-lag of some seconds in the
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
interpretation of a speech when the speaker
Hon. Allister Grosari: Honourable senators, changes from one language to the other.
it is my intention to move the adjournrment of Several senators have asked why this is so.
the debate. Before doing so, may I direct a As the question was recently addressed to me
question to the Leader of the Government. by one honourable senator whose principle
Would he advise the chamber, if he knows, language is French, I would offer this explawhen the report of the Canada-United States nation to him and to all honourable senators.
Interparliamentary Group will be before the
Senate?
[Translation]
When a speaker switches from one lanHon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
senator Grosart was kind enough to give me guage to another, there is a time-lag of some
an indication earlier today of his intention to 20 seconds before the interpreter is heard on
ask this question. I am informed that the the earphones, since he has to change booths.
report of the Canada-United States meetings This situation will be remedied by changes
in Washington a few weeks ago, together with to be made during the summer recess. I hope
the reports on the two panels, one on econom- anything else that can be done to make the
system more efficient will also be done at that
ics and trade and the other on defenceappeared in Senate Hansard,April 7 last, at time.
pages 818-20. His Honour the Speaker has
For instance, today, we had technical difadvised me that these constitute the reports ficulties while Senator Gouin was addressing
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

April 15, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

the Senate and there was a tirne-lag in the
interpretation. I arn not aware of the nature
of the technical trouble. This is flot the first

865

time it bas happened, but I arn sure technicians will be tackling this problem.
[English]
The Senate adjourned until tornorrow at
2 p.m.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE

Thursday, April 16, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
CANADA-UNITED STATES INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING-REPORT
TABLED

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I have the honour to table the report of
the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the CanadaUnited States Interparliamentary Group held
in Washington, Cape Kennedy, Houston and
San Antonio, 10th to 15th March, 1970.
MOTION

TO PRINT REPORT

AS APPENDIX

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
with leave of the Senate, I move, seconded by
Hon. Mr. McDonald:
That the Report of the Thirteenth
Annual Meeting of the Canada-United
States Interparliamentary Group dated
14th April, 1970, tabled today, be printed
as an Appendix to the Debates of the
Senate of this day.
Motion agreed to.
[For text of report see Appendix p. 885-90].

DOCUMENTS TABLED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Copies of Volume 4 of the Final Report
of the Royal Commission on Bilingualism
and Biculturalism, dated October 23, 1969
(Joint Chairmen-Messrs. A. Davidson
Dunton and Jean-Louis Gagnon) intituled: "Book IV-The Cultural Contribution of the Other Ethnie Groups".

April 16, 1970

On Tuesday the committees on Poverty,
Foreign Affairs, and Mass Media will meet.
On Wednesday there will be meetings of
the Mass Media committee, and the Banking
Trade and Commerce committee will continue
its study of the Proposals for Tax Reform
throughout the day.
The special committees on Poverty and
Mass Media, and the standing committee on
National Finance will hold meetings on
Thursday; it is also likely that the Legal and
Constitutional Affairs committee will meet on
that day to consider Bill C-136, respecting the
expropriation of land. Mass Media will meet
again on Friday.
In the face of this situation I think I shall
accede to the suggestion made two weeks ago
by the honourable Leader of the Opposition,
that we decide on Tuesday evening whether
the committee load is such that the Senate
should not sit on Wednesday.
A number of senators wish to take part in
the debate on Statutory Instruments, and on
the inquiry calling the attention of the Senate
to the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the
Interparliamentary
States
Canada-United
Group.
There will be a continuation of the debate
on the motion for the second reading of Bill
C-3, to amend the Criminal Code. Senator
Cameron has given notice that on Wednesday
next he will call the attention of the Senate to
his recent visit to Southeast Asia with the
Annual Non-Governmental Trade and Goodwill Mission. It may be that toward the latter
part of the week we shall have received some
bills from the other place.
At the moment it would appear that we
have a fairly heavy program ahead of us for
next week.
Motion agreed to.
SENATE CHAMBER
INSTALLATION OF WINDOW BLINDS-QUESTION

Hon. M. Grailan O'Leary: Honourable senators, I should like to ask a question of the
Leader of the Government. I do not mind
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable sitting in the cool shades of the opposition-I
senators, with leave of the Senate and not- am rather used to that-but I cannot abide
withstanding Rule 45(1)(g), I move that when sitting here all afternoon with the sun shinthe Senate adjourns today it do stand ing in my eyes. I wonder if something can be
adjourned until Tuesday, April 21, at 8
done by way of placing a blind on the west
o'clock in the evening.
window.
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, in
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
speaking to this motion I would indicate the
business for next week. Our committee thought that most Canadians at this time of
the year welcome the sun, but I can well
schedule will be heavy.
ADJOURNMENT

April 16, 1870

SENATE DEBATES

understand the frustration of Senator O'Leary. I noticed yesterday that several senators
on that side of the Chamber had to leave
their seats because of the direct rays of the
sun. The fact that this question has been
asked will provide the officers of the Senate
with an opportunity of finding out whether
the problem can be corrected. If it had no
political significance and did not have some
symbolism with regard to the tenure of Government, I would be prepared to change sides
with Senator O'Leary. However, if I did, it
might be misinterpreted in Government
circles.
STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS
REVISED LAYOUT OF APPENDIX "B"

Hon. Chesley W. Carter: Honourable senators, before the Orders of the Day, may I call
attention to the revised layout of Appendix
"B" on honourable senators' desks.
In the course of my remarks in this debate
on Tuesday, April 14, the Senate gave me
permission to have appended to the Hansard
of that day a document comparing the
American Administrative Procedure Act with
the Canadian National Energy Board Act and
Rules. When it appeared in the English version of Hansard it was discovered that a
mistake had been made in the layout. The
sheet that bas been distributed today is the
revised layout of Appendix "B", pages 849
and 850.
The French version is correct and no revision is necessary.
CANADA-UNITED STATES INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING-DEBATE
CONTINUED

The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the inquiry of Hon. Mr.
Phillips (Rigaud) calling the attention of the
Senate to the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of
the Canada-United States Interparliamentary
Group held at Washington, Cape Kennedy,
Houston and San Antonio, 10th to 15th March,
1970.
Hon. Allister Grosart: Honourable senators,
we now have available the report of the
important meetings of the Canada-United
States Interparliamentary Group, which meetings are the subject of this debate.
By way of introduction to my remarks,
may I say that I am always rather concerned
with the modest name that this important
group has had from the beginning.
22481-5

It is known as a "group." I find it embarrasing to use a term that is so generic and does
not really convey the responsibility that this
group bears. I hope that in due course consideration would be given at least to upgrading
the name to that of a committee. I am aware,
of course, that the reason for the generie
name in the early stages was to stress the fact
that it was an unofficial group. However, I
think there is some merit in now giving it a
higher status than that of merely a group.
I take it that the report to which reference
was made yesterday is the official report of
the entire group of some 29 members of the
United States Congress and 24 members of
the Parliament of Canada, including of course
our own six very distinguished colleagues:
His Honour Mr. Speaker Deschatelets, Senators Leonard, Macnaughton, O'Leary, Phillips
(Rigaud) and Willis. I am sure they have
earned the thanks and admiration of their
colleagues, not only for the excellent work
they have done this year but for the work
that many of them have done over the years.
I feel they have made a very important contribution to Canada-United States inter-nation
relations, and have brought great credit on
the Senate. I congratulate thern and all the
other members of the group on the Canadian
and the American side, for this written
report. I also congratulate our own representatives who have already given us verbal
reports.
It is my recollection that it was the Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group
that initiated the useful practice of appending
a written report to our own proceedings. It is
true that representatives of other inter-nation
groups have from time to time appended
reports, but this has been on a casual basis
rather than as a matter of regular procedural
practice. I would commend for consideration
by all members of the Senate that this
become a regular practice, so that when
representatives of this chamber return frorn
important international or inter-nation conferences they will table an official report.
Without casting any criticisrn or reflection,
I would suggest that it might be useful if such
reports were available before the debate
starts on the written report. This would have
at least two very important advantages.
First, the tabling of such a report would
make it possible to put on the record the
essential facts of the meetings, the travelling
that has taken place, the appropriate thanks
and compliments to the hosts and others.

SENATE DEBATES

Second, this might have the effect of relieving those who have to make verbal reports of
the present apparent necessity of engaging in
what some have called a travelogue. I
immediately plead guilty to that myself, but I
think there is a feeling that when a written
report is tabled the debate might concentrate
more on the policy aspects of the meeting or
conference rather than on the physical
aspects, the entertainrment and travel. Sometimes honourable senators who make such
reports-and again I plead guilty-give the
impression that these meetings, conferences
and trips abroad are heavily weighted on the
side of social and travel activities. I am convinced, from what I know of these international meetings, that this is not so. However,
perhaps because of the necessary courtesies
that are required, the reports sometimes give
what to me is not a valid interpretation of the
work that has been done.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): Would
the honourable senator permit a question?
I think his view is a very important one,
but in the case of the Canada-U.S. group,
they do agree on a report before they break
up, as I understand the situation, and that is
the report that was tabled and will be printed
as an appendix to our Hansard. There are
other groups where there is no such official
report, such as the NATO Parliamentarians
organization where many countries are represented. As I recall it, they do not issue a
report as such or a communique. Certainly
the C.P.A. meetings reports are very voluminous and include the speeches that were
made.
Is it Senator Grosart's view that even when
there is no official report, that perhaps members of the Senate who attend these conferences should together submit a prepared
report?
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I thank Senator Connolly
for making it necessary for me to be a little
more explicit. That is exactly what I had in
mind. I am aware of the problem and the
difference between the report we have filed
now and what I might suggest for some other
groups of representatives from the Senate.
What I am suggesting is that our own
representatives should report to the Senate by
tabling a written report. I do not see any
great problems involved in that because the
C.P.A. reports are made by returning groups.
It seems to me that the role of the Senate is
becoming more and more one of concern in
international relations. I think it would be
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

April 16, 1970

very helpful to us if our representatives who
go abroad report to the Senate in writing,
and I would hope that this would raise an
opportunity for debates on policy aspects of
foreign affairs.
It is my intention today to comment on a
few of the policy items that appear in this
report, and perhaps that will explain the
raison d'être of the suggestions I have just
made. Personally, I find this to be an excellent report. More than that, I find it intriguing, not only because of what I find in the
report itseif, but also because of some things
that I seem to read between the lines.
I say at the outset that I am, aware that
this is an unofficial report. It warns us not
to take some of the statements in it as being
binding on governments. The exact words
are:
... the useful exchanges of views that
took place were unofficial and not binding upon the governments of either
country.
Perhaps it should also be said that this
group of Canadian representatives had a very
full briefing before they went abroad. It may
be pertinent to sorne remarks I shall make as I
go along to call to the attention of the Senate
that the Canadian representatives were
briefed by the following departments of Government: External Affairs; Finance: Industry,
Trade and Commerce; Energy, Mines and
Resources; National Defence; Indian Affairs
and Northern Development; Bank of Canada;
the National Energy Board; and the International Joint Commission. This is surely as
as any Canadian
thorough a briefing
representation of an unofficial character has
had in a long time.
Honourable senators will be aware, as His
Honour has already informed us, that the
report bas a general introduction and then
contains specific reports of the two main committees, the Committee on Trade and Economie Affairs and the Committee on Defence
and Security Matters. There is, perhaps, an
interesting bit of semantics in the use of the
word "aflairs" in the one case and "matters"
in the other.
If I may comment first on the report
of Committee I, Trade and Economie Affairs,
I would draw to the attention of the Senate
that the report tells us that it would be a
useful innovation-and it would be an innovation-if between Canada and the United
States we were to have as early as possible a
continental energy policy. Perhaps even more
interestingly, the report suggests a continental

April 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

environmental policy. The former policy has
been the subject of a good deal of discussion
and has, of course, its pros and cons, because
in any such joint effort the question will
always arise as to who is the chief beneficiary
of any particular policy.
The report, however, does make what is to
me a specific and substantial suggestion. The
exact words are:
Both delegations agreed to recommend
that their respective government examine the question of reciprocal law dealing
with pollution problems since pollution is
a global issue which does not respect
national lines.
Honourable senators, that is one of the
many matters in this report which I should
like to hear discussed in considerably more
detail than we find in the report. An interesting question is, how do you go about it? How
could we have reciprocal laws dealing with
pollution or continental energy? I think it
highly desirable. This would be in many ways
an innovation in international affairs. I say
that within the limits of my own knowledge
of intergovernmental relationships in the
matter of legislation.
Hon. Mr. Martin: My honourable friend
Senator Grosart is, I am sure, aware of the
initiative taken by Sweden at the last General
Assembly of the United Nations, for a conference in 1972 on the whole question of environment leading to the establishment of an
international organization under the auspices
of the United Nations for the very purpose
Senator Grosart mentioned.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: Again I thank the honourable Leader of the Government for his intervention. I was aware of that. In fact, I discussed it at considerable length with Swedish
scientists when I was in Sweden last summer
with our own Science Policy Committee. But
that is a very different thing from what is
suggested here, I believe.
If I may paraphrase the information given
to us just now by the honourable Leader of
the Government, the Swedish Government is
calling an international conference. We have
many international conferences. We have
them on almost every matter that is of international importance. With respect, I must say
that it is not my impression that the matter
of reciprocal law is part of the terms of reference of that conference. It may well be so. I
am not now speaking of a discussion of international law as it may apply. This is probably
what the conference will come up with. But
22481-51

we all know that there is a very great difference between merely making a broad statement of international law or international
intentions and actual reciprocal law between
two or more countries.
On that matter, I may say that the discussions of the group dealt of course with the
question of the Arctic, and as we read of the
official reaction of the Government of Canada,
it does not give me any real reason for hope
of any steps which would result in Canadian
recognition of international law in this area.
If I read the papers correctly, Canada has
rejected outright any suggestion that the differences between Canada and the United
States in the Arctic should be determined by
the International Court of Justice at The
Hague. This is merely one further indication
that international law, as we know it, does
not seem to be the answer to the solution of
problems between nations.
It is for that reason I have drawn particular
attention to this subject of reciprocal law. I
shall not labour the point further, but I commend the suggestion to honourable senators,
with the hope that some of our colleagues
who were at these meetings will give us some
more information as to exactly what was contemplated by that recommendation.
The committee dealt with the subject of
inflation, and I find this very interesting comment in the report:
There was some concern expressed on
both sides of the results, in human terms,
of methods used in both countries to control inflation.
Again, we would be very much interested
in hearing from some of the senators who
were there and who have not yet spoken in
this debate, and who could tell us just what
was said about the concern over what governments are doing, the methods that are being
used by both governments to control inflation,
and what is the significance of the phrase "in
human terms".
I find in another part of the report a very
interesting reference to the recent arming of
United States Customs guards stationed at
Canadian border points. It may well be that I
have fallen behind in my reading of the
newspapers or in listening to the news from
other media, but it is news to me that the
United States Customs guards have been
armed on the Canadian border. Again I suggest that my colleagues would be interested
in further information from our representatives at these meetings as to just what went
on, why these customs guards were armed,

SENATE DEBATES

April 16, 1970

industry, 80% of the chemical industry.
and what is going to be done about it. Are
they going to be disarmed? Should they be
On the other hand, Mr. Gray was much
disarmed? Are we as Canadians individually more reassuring when
he made this
threatening our borders to the
or collectively
statement:
south to the extent that armed guards may be
According to information available to the
considered necessary?
Government under the Corporations and
Also in the report of the Committee 1, I
Labour Unions Returns Act, total assets
read the interesting phrase:
are now
corporations
of Canadian
of
Reference was made to the feeling
approaching $200 billion. Of this amount,
some Canadians that the rate of acquisiapproximately $150 billion are in the
tion by U.S. citizens of Canadian equity
hands of Canadian-dominated firms and
proportions that economis reaching such
$50 billion in foreign-dominated compaic servitude may become a permanent
nies. This figure of $50 bitlion I should
status.
explain, is an estimate of the book value
of Canadian companies in which foreignI was surprised to see that reference in this
ers own more than 50% of the equity.
report, particularly in view of the remarks
Senator O'Leary and Senator Des- Now these two statements appear, on the surmade by
ruisseaux on this particular subject. I find face at least, to be in confiict.
myself in great sympathy with the strong
In turning to the report, I wonder if our
stand they both took on this question of what
I will call anti- colleagues who were at these important meetfor want of a better phrase
ings would be prepared to tell us just what
Americanism in Canada.
of reconciliation as to the figures which I
in kind just quoted was given to our American
Here again I would be most interested
have
hearing from some of those who were at this friends. Did we resolve them? Do we pretend
meeting and who could give us more informa- we are not worried about this degree of
tion as to the degree to which they reported a American control? Did you say that the figfeeling of economic servitude-and here I am ures indicate that of the Canadian corporaspeaking of the whole Canadian delegationtions whose assets add up to $200 billion,
becoming a permanent status. I wonder, for some $150 billion are Canadian dominated?
put before their
example, if any figures were
Again I contrast these two statements with
opposite numbers, figures such as I find in a
servitude".
recent speech by the Honourable Herb Gray. that made about "economic
Coming now to the Committee II, the
debate referred in passSenator Laird in this
ing to this excellent speech, and perhaps I Committee on Defence and Security matters,
may put on the record some figures which the report deals at some length-a considermay have prompted the use of this some- able percentage of its length, having in mind
what startling phrase in the report.
the brevity of the whole report-with the
The Honourable Herb ,Gray, Minister with- Arctic question.
out Portfolio, speaking at Osgoode Hall on
We are told that there was some discussion
Wednesday, April 8 last on the subject "En- of the sovereignty issue. It is not my intention
suring Sovereignty and Growth"-"Toward a
at any length at this
Policy on Foreign Ownership for Canada" to discuss this matter
time, because we shall have two bills coming
quote:
gave these figures, and I
when occaDirect foreign investment has been before us, I presume very shortly,
sectors of sion will be given, and I hope taken, for a
concentrated in two particular
the economy-the pressure-based indus- very wide-ranging debate on this particular
I
tries and the manufacturing sectors. In aspect of one of our international problems.
to pre1967, for example, 60% of the assets in refer to Bill C-202, intituled "An Act
the mining industry belonged to corpora- vent pollution of areas of the Arctic waters
tions which have at least 50% non-resi- adjacent to the mainland and islands of the
dent owned. In minerai mining, the figure Canadian Arctic", and Bill C-203, intituled
was 42%; in minerai fuels which includes "An Act to amend the Territorial Sea and
oil and gas almost 82%. In the case of the Fishing Zones Act". It is obvious that the
manufacturing industries, non-resident Government has placed before Parliament its
dominated firms own more than some policy on this matter, with which Canadians
60%-with higher proportions in some at the moment, by and large, appear to be
sectors, 90% of aircraft and aircraft parts greatly concerned.
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

April 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Martin: I hope, not blood!
However, I read in the report this statement which, to me, is unusual-I will not say
Hon. Mr. Grosart:-in an attempt to con"extraordinary":
vince us that is so.
United States delegates expressed the
On the question of NATO and NORAD,
view that they anticipated no difficulty in which is discussed as Item (b) in this report, I
reaching agreement between the two gov- was interested to read this statement:
ernments on the measures necessary for
It was recognized on both sides that
controlling the danger of pollution.
Western Europe required the support of
United States nuclear forces and that sigI think it would be fair to say that those
nificant U.S. conventional forces were
who prepared this joint report were considerneeded in Europe to assure the Euroably more optimistic than the front pages of
peans of the efficacy of the United States
our newspapers of the last two days. On the
guarantees.
contrary, the difficulties of reaching agreethe two governments seem at
ment between
Honourable senators, it is not my intention,
the moment to be insurmountable. Again, I at this time to raise the whole NATO quessuggest that some of our colleagues who were tion, but it seems to me a rather extraordiat these meetings might explain the reason nary statement that "it was recognized on
for this optimism on the part of their United both sides", that it was necessary for the
States opposite numbers.
United States to keep "conventional forces in
Europe to assure the Europeans of the efficacy
In the report before us I read that:
United States delegates emphasized the of the United States guarantees." One would
importance of proceeding by internation- have to wonder whether there was any recogal agreement rather than by unilateral nition on both sides that the same might
apply to the European feeling about the
Canadian action.
efficacy of Canadian guarantees.
In this country we have not had too much
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Or what the United States
information about the reasoning behind the
American attitude as expressed here. I think thought about it.
the evidence we have is that Canada has
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: Order!
decided to proceed in this matter by unilateral action. The bills that will be before us
Hon. Mr. Flynn: It is about time we heard
would indicate that this is so, and statements from you.
in the last two days by the Secretary of State
Hon. Mr. Martin: Proceed, Senator Grosart.
for External Affairs seem to make it very
clear.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I was going to pause in
Hon. Mr. Martin: Not because there was no the hope that we might have a repetition of
attempt to proceed on a basis of collaboration the interesting exchange we had the other
night between the two honourable senators. I
and co-operation.
found it one of the most interesting episodes
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I was not at the particu- since I have been in the Senate, and I am
lar moment looking for an official statement sure both senators are most anxious for a
of the reason behind the inability of the Gov- re-match.
ernmet to match the optimism or the desires
In the NATO connection. I read the stateof the American delegates. However, I am ment that:
glad to have the statement from the Leader
Canadian members pointed out that thc
recent decision to reduce Canadian forces
of the Government that they tried very hard,
in Europe reflected a decision to place
and no doubt they will make it clear to us in
greater emphasis in the future on Canadue course that any failure that may have
da's contribution to the defence of the
resulted was because of American rather than
North American sector of the NATO
Canadian intransigence.
area. Canada remained fully committed
to the Alliance.
Hon. Mr. Martin: That is right.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I am not saying that is
my own view. I am merely saying I am quite
sure that from the Leader of the Government
and his colleagues we will have a large quantity of ink spilled-

Again, I am not going to discuss at this
time the question of Canada's contribution to
the defence of the European sector of the
NATO area, but I am most interested to
find. for the first time, recognition in this

SENATE DEBATES
report of the fact that there is an obligation
within NATO to defend "the North American
sector of" what is called here "the NATO
area."
I am sure the reference is to the fact that
the whole front line of NATO is about 8,000
miles from eastern Turkey to Alaska-about
4,000 miles from eastern Turkey to our own
shores, and another 4,000 miles from our own
eastern shore across this continent.
It bas always surprised me that as Canadians we have not insisted on a NATO role in
the defence of our half of this sector. No
doubt there would be some formal objections
from our friends to the south, but surely if
the concept of joint involvement in the
defence of one half of our NATO front line is
valid, it should be equally valid to suggest
that there should be the involvement of
NATO, as such, in the defence of our half.
What I am suggesting is that we might
well, as an international gesture, as an act of
international good sense, agree that the
Supreme Command of NATO accept responsibility, certainly for the land defence, so that
we would have here in Canada contingents
from the other members of the NATO European countries and Turkey actually involved
in the defence of this half of the NATO line. I
think this would be a corollary of some
importance to the other statements that
appear in this report about guarantees and
the efficacy of the international belief in those
guarantees.
I say I am delighted to sec this recognition
of the fact that ours is "the North American
sector of the NATO area" and not, as it has
seemed to be regarded, certainly on this side,
as something entirely apart. We tend to think
of our NATO responsibility as "over there".
Perhaps this is a hangover from our experience in two world wars. I am one who is
convinced it is time that we began to think of
the responsibility for the defence of those
countries who are allied in NATO as a global
responsibility and not merely one involving a
certain front line in Europe.
On page 7 of the report there is a reference
to the European Security Council. I put a
question mark against this statement because
it may not be in keeping with the facts as I
read them.
The statement is:
Both sides considered it essential that
the United States and Canada should participate fully in any European Security
Conference which might be held. They
also thought such a conference would
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

April 16, 1970

have to be an on-going meeting, as the
nurnerous specific problems faced would
require lengthy negotiations for their
resolution.
The phrase "both sides" here, I presume,
applies only to both sides at these particular
meetings. I would be interested in having
some comment from one of our colleagues
who was present as to whether the United
States has accepted this responsibility, that is
to say, whether the United States as such
considers it essential to participate fully in
any such European security conference. My
impression is that our own Government has
committed
itself
to
that
concept
and
conference.
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: I might say to my
honourable friend that I took part in that
discussion. The position of the American delegates was that they did want to participate in
this conference, but that we should go slowly
before we agreed to meet; that there should
be a lot of groundwork done before we had
the meetings. We placed more emphasis on
the need of the conference than they did.
They agree, but they are not as eager, shall I
say, to take part in the conference before
more is known in advance about it.
The Americans did not always agree among
themselves. They did not agree on NATO.
The phrasing of this report may not be as
clear as it should be.
We did not all agree. I did not agree with
my colleagues about NATO. In fact, I made
the opening statement on NATO, and I said
the only disagreement I had with our policy
was that it did not go far enough, and a
number of Americans agreed with me on this.
You cannot expect people like Senator Mansfield to be enthusiastic about more forces for
NATO. He was not critical of what we did
about NATO. These people do not come to us
with cut and dried policies, and they do not
say, "We represent American policy." We
merely discuss the fringes of policy, and that
is all we arc supposed to do. More than that,
there is agreement or understanding from the
beginning that no names shall be mentioned
and no texts of speeches reported. Otherwise
you could not have these conferences.
lon. Mr. Grosari: I thank my honourable
seatmate (Hon. Mr. O'Leary) for his interjection. I need hardly say to him that this is
exactly what I have been asking for-that
perhaps we should have an explanation of the
relationship between the words of the report

April 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

and what went on. It had occurred to me that
this is the type of debate that might well be
carried on in Committee of the Whole. I now
nake that suggestion to the Leader of the
Government.
Since Senator O'Leary has already spoken
in this debate, I presume that under our present rules he is not entitled to speak later.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, may
I interject to say, as I told Senator Grosart,
that I personally would welcome that change
in our procedure. I think the kind of interjection we have just had from Senator O'Leary
is very useful. It makes for the kind of debate
that would be more in keeping with the
structure of this body. This is what is done in
the Senate of the United States, where it is
possible to have a very fruitful dialogue.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I am glad to hear the
Leader of the Government make that observation, but I must say to him that I can only
make the suggestion; he can put it into effect.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I am just an ordinary
member of this house.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Oh, oh.
Hon. Mr. Martin: It is true.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: The Leader of the Government is quite correct. I would be within
the rules to move at any time that we go into
Committee of the Whole. I would be delighted
to do so now, particularly in view of Senator
O'Leary's intervention, but I will not. I would
like to hear Senator O'Leary for another
twenty minutes.
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: Honourable senators, I
should like to ask the Leader of the Government and my deskmate a question. If we have
agreed at the very beginning that these meetings are to be held in camera, and there are
to be no reports, can we, when we arrive
home, review what was said and by whom? I
do not think the Leader of the Government is
quite accurate when he says there is a dialogue and discussion in the United States
on these meetings. That does not happen.

not referring to the practice in respect of
these Canadian-American meetings.
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: It could not happen. It
would destroy those in camera meetings if the
proceedings there were discussed here.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I was referring to procedure generally.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I think I would be correct now in referring to myself as a very
"yielding senator," and I might say that if
there are any further interjections I shall be
delighted to have them because this is exactly
the kind of response I had hoped my remarks
might invoke.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): You are
provoking comment.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I was going to say that
my comments might be regarded as provocative. If so, that is what I had in mind.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You are not trying to
close the debate.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Honourable senators,
perhaps I may be allowed to move on,
because I have a few more items to mention.
The next one I find most interesting of all.
Perhaps I should make some comment on the
general concern that Senator O'Leary has
expressed about an open discussion of meetings at which we are told there was an agreement that there would be some degree of nondisclosure. I am not aware of that agreement,
so I cannot comment on it. I would merely
point out that all I am doing at the moment
is commenting on a report which, as I said
at the beginning of my remarks, I presume
to be a report agreed to by the 29 members
of the United States Congress and the 24
members of the Canadian Parliament. So, I
am confining my remarks at this time to
what I take to be the official report of their
meeting. If they have gone too far then perhaps I should not be blamed.
The next item upon which I wish to comment is "(d) Policies toward Communist
China," and I read:
The Canadian members reported on the
progress of negotiations with the Communist Chinese Government over recognition. They-

Hon. Mr. Martin: If Senator O'Leary will
allow me, I should like to mention that I was
referring to the general procedure in the
Senate of the United States. When a senator
is speaking another senator may rise and say,
the Canadian members.
"Will the senator yield?" If there is a yielding That is,
out that the main point at
-pointed
in the
then that senator may participate
issue was Chinese insistence on Canadian
debate, and it goes on. As a result of that
acceptance of China's claim to Formosa, a
kind of arrangement a dialogue ensures. I was

SENATE DEBATES

step which Canada was not prepared to
take and which China had not required
of other countries such as France when
they had entered into
diplomatic
relations.
I have to comment that this does not seem
to be an exactly valid interpretation of the
Canadian position. I very much hope it is. As
honourable senators know, I have lived in
China, and I retain an interest in CanadaChina relations, but I read here-I do not
want to over-emphasize it-that the Canadian
members pointed out that Canada was not
prepared to take this step; that Canada was
not prepared to recognize Red China unless
the independence of Formosa, Taiwan, was
guaranteed. This seems to me to be at variance with statements made by our Secretary
of State for External Affairs. This is again a
statement on which I would like to hear much
more than this rather bald statement in the
report. Perhaps honourable senators will, in
the course of the debate.
The final item on which I wish ta make a
brief comment deals with the old question of
whether Canada should join the Organization
of American States. The statement here does
not in any way commit the Canadian position,
or even the position of our members who
spoke for Canada or for those they represent
in Canada at these meetings. The statement
is:

It was probable in the circumstances that
the Canadian Government would move
gradually to participate in OAS subordinate bodies, where Canada could play a
full role.
And as caveat to that suggested reason
given by our members to their opposite numbers for Canadian reluctance-because that is
what it is-to join the OAS was the fear that
we would find ourselves in the position that
we would have to choose between supporting
United States policy and a policy which might
be acceptable to some Latin Arnerican
countries.
Hon. Paul Martin: Of course, Canada does
play a role now in some of the subordinate
organizations affiliated with the OAS.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: Again I welcome the
information from the Leader of the Government, which is also in the report. I was not
speaking about a subordinate role, but to the
question of whether Canada should join OAS.
This is not a subordinate role.
fHon. Mr. Grosart.]

April 16, 1970

Hon. Mr. Martin: I was referring to the last
sentence on page 7 of the report, that in the
circumstances the Canadian Government
would move gradually to participate in OAS
subordinate bodies. I was pointing out that
that is the fact now. We belong to three of
these subordinate bodies of the OAS.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I agree fully with the
Leader of the Government, because whenever
he says that the Canadian Government is
moving slowly in a new direction in foreign
policy I will believe him.
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: Is this new?
Hon. Mr. Grosari: If I may perpetrate an
Irish bull I will say that the retardation has
been accelerated.
My final comment, honourable senators, is
that I hope that this is not the reason why we
hesitate to join the OAS. Surely Canada is
not afraid to find itself in a position in the
OAS, or anywhere else, where it has to
choose between the United States or any
other country, or any other group. I repeat, in
closing, that although it is obvious my remarks have been to some extent provocative,
I cannot say I regret it. I only hope that it
may lead to some rather fuller disclosure of
the excellent work that the six representatives
from this chamber obviously did at this
meeting.

Hon. Andrew Thompson: Honourable senators, I would agree with honourable Senator
Grosart that certainly the most productive
approach to this debate would be to sit in
Committee of the Whole. I can see the problems attached to the decision that there must
be secrecy concerning the discussions, otherwise there is no point to the conference. On
the other hand, for my part I feel that I
would learn much more from questions being
asked and answers elicited from the six
representatives who were present, and possibly this information need not be made public.
I am in the situation that I neither attended
the conference of the Canada-United States
Interparliamentary Group nor did I receive
the report. Consequently, I have not had an
opportunity to see it until now. I appreciated
the ability of Senator Grosart to select pertinent questions. I only wish we had an
approach in this chamber by which we could
elicit some background concerning the discussions, rather than that I should go ahead with
a more formal speech at this time.

SENATE DEBATES

April 16, 1970

Hon. Mr. Martin: You go ahead. Your
speech will be of the same high quality as
that of your predecessor.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: We have heard excellent reports from the representatives of this
house who attended the meeting.
Hon. Mr.
questions.

Lamontagne:

Answer

the

Hon. Mr. Thompson: I did not look on it as
a question. This is the first time I have stood
in the Senate to speak on external affairs. I
have what I think is the attitude to external
affairs of many Canadians across our land;
that is, I have a feeling that there has been a
mystic with respect to external affairs. In my
opinion there has always been a sense that it
has been too erudite, if I could use this
phrase, for the broad community, suitable
only for the intellectual groupings who attend
such conferences as Y.M.C.A. gatherings on
the shores of lakes. Stephen Vigenczey made
such groupings appear more robust. I recall
being in England and listening to foreign
secretaries there. I think particularly of Ernie
Bevin immediately after the war. He spoke in
solid, earthy language in a football stadium
about some of the problems as he saw them. I
think there has been a particular flair on the
part of some of the British foreign secretaries.
I recall to mind also the Honourable George
Brown. Those English gentlemen have
brought a flair to the international arena
which perhaps some of our Secretaries of
State for External Affairs have not. I would
suppose that we have developed-

ship. In the article he quotes a passage taken
from the Chicago Tribune in 1926:
Relations between Canada and the
United States are unique. To a European
our relations seem naïve and unworldly.
We think of Canadians as fellow North
Americans. Italians do not think of
Germans or Frenchmen as Europeans
in anything like the same sense. They
are suspicious where we have confidence.
He adds:
Because of that confidence (it came to
be asserted) any dispute which might
arise between the two countries ought to
be settled bilaterally, as befitted good
neighbours, without the intrusion of alien
international institutions.
The oldest and best known of the machinery that was set up between the United
States and Canada was the International Joint
Commission, created in 1909. I think of the
enthusiasm with which it was regarded. Perhaps I could quote what George C. Gibbons
wrote to Sir Wilfrid Laurier about the Commission. He said:
I think you will find [the Commission]
the greatest advance ever made by way
of diplomacy to settle international complications. A permanent judicial board is
an experiment which, I believe, will
prove a complete success. It ought to
have existed long ago in Europe. The
people will some day there, too, take it
out of the power of any one crazy
monarch to set a continent on flame.

Hon. Jacques Flynn: No comments from the
I suppose as in every affair we are inclined
leader?
to embellish our Canadian-American relations
in the
Hon. Mr. Thompson: -certain tribal rituals in his most romantic language. Senator Laird,
excellent address, asked us to examine
about American-Canadian
relations. Our some fundamentals. The basic fact that
unguarded frontier, I am sure, has been an should always be before us is that the United
after-dinner topic across this land for many States has ten times the population of
decades, very similar to the dessert of apple Canada. The United States, our friend and
pie and cheese. And why not? It is something our neighbour, is the most powerful nation in
about which we can be indeed proud. With the world. I sometimes think, with the mythSenator Grosart I have some concern about ology that is often produced about Canadianthe recent development of armed guards on American relations, we see ourselves as
equals with the United States. I am sure this
the border.
is a term that other honourable senators will
recognize: "The Siamese twins of North
Hon. Mr. Martin: On which side.
America". That term was used to describe the
Hon. Mr. Thompson: It does not matter to two nations by the historian J. B. Brebner.
me which side. As far as I am concerned it Everett Hughes, the sociologist, writing on the
has been distinctive because it has been an United States and Canada has suggested:
unguarded border for so many years. James
One cannot describe either country
Eayrs in his article "Sharing a Continent"
without taking the other greatly into
talks about the uniqueness of our relationaccount.
22481-6

SENATE DEBATES

The basic truth, of course, is that in most
inste' ices the United States does flot have a
preç cupation about Canada.
r ivid Baldwin, an assistant professor of
go' arnment at Dartmouth University, wrote
on Canadian-American relations, "Myth or
Reality." H1e had examined two of the most
widely used textbooks on American government and economics, and Canada did not
appear in the index of the former and only
three times in the latter. We may be preoccupied with the United States. Despite the
headlines in our ncxvspapers this morning,
I suggest that the United States will have
many other pressing world problems to consider as well as the courageous, consistent
and flrm stand that our Government is taking
on Arctic sovereignty.
"Myth and Reality," the article written by
Baldwin, examined a numnber of conditions
that are often stated about the relationsbip
betwveen our two countries. For example, does
geography determine the interdependence
bctween Canada and the Uaitcd States?
George Bail had argued that the natural
market forces will draxv the txvo economies to
bccome increasingly important to each other.
The Merchant and Heeney report suggested
that it was a virtual certainty that interdependence will grow.
Is it natural economic law for nations to
tradc more with ncar countries than far away
ones? Do giant corporations obey this natural
econon-ic law? Technological innovation could
increase the advantages of trade with third
nations; local transportation costs and communications could reduce tbe advantagc of
dealing with neighbours.
We do not want to bo taken for granted.
Senator O'Leary, in bis rich, robust rhetoric,
which always tbrills and inspires me, eloquently pleaded our cause, that we sbould
have:
A bit of this continent, frorn earth to sky,
we want to caîl our very own.
But, in fact, Americans are inclined to considcr that we are a northern extension of
themselves. Indeed, an American from many
cities in the northern states would be more at
home, more identifled with us than with his
fellow countrymen ini Louisiana or Alabama.
Yet we do see ourselves as different. I suggest
that we have built up mytbs about ourselves.
Carl Berger in his article "The True North
Strong and Frec" collected some deligbhtful
concepts that Canadians developed about
tbemsclves. The underl3 i:g th2me about our
tHon. Mr. Thomnpson.]

Arl1.17 16. 1970
April

Canadian identity was that it was rugged and
very virile in the harsh northern climate. I
would like to quote one of the poems at the
start of bis article:
Why should the children of the north
deny the sanitary vîrtues of tbe sky?
Wby should they fear the cold, or dread
the snow,
Wben ruddier blood through their bot
pulses flow.
W e have the Viking blood and Celtie
bone, the Saxons' muscled flesh, and
scorn to groan
Because we do not bask in Ceylon's Isle

Where Heber said that only man is vile.
Carl Berger pointed out that "nortbern was
synonymous with strengtb and self reliance
and that southera was accouainted with
degeneration and dccay." The Globe and Mail
in 1869 declared:
Our bracing nortbern winters will preserve us from the cffeminacy which naturally steals over the most vigorous races
when long under the relaxing influence
of tropical or even generally mild and
genial skies.
This kind of theme about vigorous vital mca
of the north was of course pursued by Hallburton, Governor General Dufferin, Parken,
Vincent ïMassey, and even, I suspect, by
MacKenzie King with bis immigration policy
to prcserve the fundamental character of the
Canadian people, which I neyer heard clefined.
I would suggest tbat the Hate Bill wbich is
goiag to become law would bave made some
of those gentlemen quake in their sboes. I
think tbat the fourth report of thýe Royal
Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism, wbich sbould have been called multiculturalism, should do more to scatter tbis myth
of Canada as a preserve of Anglo-Saxons and
of strong silent men.

What other kind of myths do we try to
preserve? I would suggest that there are
seine among us who want to bold on to the
myth that we are tbe true norlb, sirong and
f ree-free from any economic dependency.
I congratulate Senator Phillips (Rigaud) for
his usual civilized and dignified approach in
focusing right at the beart of our concern
over foreiga ownersbip. H1e tactfully aaalyzed
the problem and proposed a solution wben he
was at the meeting.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Do you want to repeat
that, because Senator Pbillips just came in?

April 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Thompson: I was congratulating
the senator on his usual civilized and dignified approach. He focused right into the concern which all of us have over foreign ownership. He tactfully analyzed the problem and
he proposed a solution.

Even though many may disagree with his
proposals, I ask of those who disagree: where
are your proposals written out so that the
Canadian people can examine them in connection with this crucial question of the survival of our nation? I admired his courage,
and
Hon. Mr. Martin: I hope Senator Thompson the more and more Canadians are reflecting
deep concern which
does not agree with Senator Phillips' trayed. Indeed, all the lie has always porpolitical parties are
proposal.
now looking at this question.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: There is certainly a
I notice with considerable satisfaction that
widening current of concern about the prob- the Honourable Herb Gray has given a speech
lem, and a number of proposals will be sug- which Senator Keith Laird and others felt
gested. I would point out that this has not was exceptionally fine. Mr. Gray asked the
been the situation in the past. There seems following questions in that speech which ie
only to have been a silent majority-a very gave to the John White Society on April 8,
silent one. I am glad to think that a man of 1970:
the calibre of Senator Phillips will stand up
-what is the extent to which Canadian
and be counted with respect to this problem,
industry both primary and secondary is
because believe me, if the older Canadians are
subject to non-resident control?
not concerned the younger Canadians are
certainly becoming more and more concerned He then answers this question:
about this problem.
According to information available to the
Government under the Corporations and
Hon. Mr. Martin: That includes both of us.
Labour Unions Returns Act, total assets
of Canadian corporations are now
Hon. Mr. Thompson: There are those-and
approaching $200 billion. Of this amount,
I think I can include Senator Martin-who
approximately $150 billion are in the
consider that the sell-out of Canadian resourhands of Canadian dominated firms and
ces and business enterprises, the control of the
$50 billion in foreign-dominated compaCanadian trade union movement by the
nies.
American unions, as well as the pervading
influence of Americans in cultural and social He then explains:
spheres, have resulted in almost an irreversiThis figure of $50 billion I should explain,
ble trend.
is an estimate of the book value of
I am sure that Senator Martin, as well as
Canadian companies in which foreigners
others, have read Close to the 49th Parallel,
own more than 50 per cent of the equity.
which certainly is an articulation of this
Although most firms in the category will
concern. However, I do not think Senator
be effectively controlled from abroad,
there may be a few in this category
Martin will side completely with George
where policy control rests in Canadian
Grant, who blamed the sell-out of our
hands.
resources on the Canadian ruling class, which
Similarly, there are doubtless a number
included the mandarins and the corporation
of large firms effectively controlled from
lawyers of the Liberal party. I do not like to
abroad, even though more than one-half
say that lie also included Senator Martin in
of their equity is owned by Canadians.
the group, but I am sure he did. Grant, with
A fact to be noted is that the non-resiproper Anglican rectitude and resignation,
dent dominated firms tend to occur with
lamented the final scene of a Canadian
greater frequency amongst the larger cornation. May I add that he also referred to
porations and it is these larger firms
Senator Grattan O'Leary as a romantic
which seem to be growing most rapidly
nationalist, a compliment which I would love
in Canada today.
to have paid to me. However, Walter Gordon
Direct foreign investment has been
was one person who did not lament; he rather
decided that it was worth the struggle to fight
concentrated in two particular sectors of
to hold back the drift in economic continenthe economy-the resource-based industalism. I have always admired his courage, a
tries and the manufacturing sectors. In
courage to draw up not only one blueprint
1967, for example, 60% of the assets in the
but two blueprints.
mining industry belonged to corporations
22481-61

SENATE DEBATES

April 16, 1970

brought very tangible and obvious benefits to
the Canadian people. There are those who
argue that economic dependence does not
necessarily result in political dependence. I
could refer, for example, to a conference
which took place in Kingston at which Harry
Johnston, an economist with considerable
repute, argued that the consumption of goods
and services do not endanger a nation's iden ity. Galbraith has argued that Canada does
not need to worry about the continued growth
of American economic interests in Canada,
provided that the Government bas the confidence of its people.
On the other hand, there have been other
Americans with considerable stature who
have made statements which can cause us to
have some disquiet. John Foster Dulles said,
and I quote:
There are two ways of conquering a
foreign nation. One is to gain control of
its people by force of arms. The other is
And then the Honourable Mr. Gray goes
to gain control of its economy by finanon te trace some of the actions concerning
cial means.
particular sections of the economy. He refers
to the banks, and I think we can recall a past
Now, have we any evidence of the infringedebate over the Mercantile Bank. He refers to ment on our ability to make our own political
the case of radio and television broadcasting, decisions? Well, I believe we are all familiar
and I for one look with considerable satisfac- with the Trading with Enemy Act. I recall the
tion on the stand being taken by the CRTC refusal of American-owned drug companies in
with respect to radio and television Canadian Canada to sell drugs for distribution among
content.
Vietnam civilians. In 1966 there was the
Then the Honourable Mr. Gray deals with refusal of the American-owned flour mills to
sales finance companies and uranium mines. I export flour to Cuba. In that year there were
am sure that we are all aware of the discus- also the U.S. Government guidelines concernsions that have taken place with respect to ing American subsidiaries.
those. These will be included within the
The Honourable Herb Gray states:
broad policy which will be developed in order
I think the evidence is increasingly clear
that we can have control over decisions made
about our assets.
that Canadian subsidiaries of firms based
in another country can and have been
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: I do not wish to interused as instruments of what amounts to
fere with the excellent delivery of the bonan extraterritorial application of what
ourable senator, which is altogether apart
parent country's laws and policies. There
from his very endearing Irish brogue, but I
is certainly evidence of this with respect
should like to ask him this question. How can
to the United States. Professor Rotstein,
he speak of effective foreign control of those
of the University of Toronto,... described
industries when they are under Canadian
this problem insofar as it is connected
laws? Where does the effective control come
with the United States at least-in his
in if they are in Canada and abiding by
recent testimony before the House
Canadian law?
Standing Committee on External Affairs
as follows: The central issue is the inHon. Mr. Thompson: If I may just follow
trusion of American jurisdiction in
through with my presentation, I believe I will
Canada through the agency of the Amerideal with that to your satisfaction.
can subsidiary.
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: Thank you.
Professor Rotstein elaborated on that in the
Hon. Mr. Martin: It is a good question, too.
following terms:
A review of the present areas of conHon. Mr. Thompson: It may be necessary to
trol by the American government over its
stress that direct foreign investment bas
which were at least 50% non-resident
owned. In mineral mining, the figure was
42%; in mineral fuel which includes oil
and gas almost 82%. In the case of the
manufacturing industries non-resident
dominated firms own more than some
60%-with higher proportions in some
sectors, 90% of aircraft and aircraft parts
industry, 80% of the chemical industry.
However, resident-controlled firms tend
to predominate in finance, transportation,
communications and utilities, construction and retail trade.
All this reflects in part the fact that in
the past Canadian governments have not
looked upon foreign ownership and control as a general problem, requiring a
response-but
policy
comprehensive
instead as something which required particular solutions for particular sectors of
the economy.

[Hon. Mr. Thompson.]

April 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

subsidiaries abroad illustrates the underlying principle involved, namely that the
American government operates on the
assumption that these subsidiaries are a
proper area of its own jurisdiction; it is
not prepared to relinquish its general
jurisdiction in any way; it defers to the
interest of the host country through
apparent administrative concessions only.
The Honourable Mr. Gray goes on:
What is likely to be the result of growing foreign control of the Canadian
economy? In the formation of public
policy generally, economic and political
aspects can never be completely separated. Accordingly, to the extent that economic power,-the ability to make effective economic decisions-falls further out
of Canadian hands there will be increasing limitations on the scope of the real
ability of Canadian individuals and governments to make decisions in these
areas. And Canadian governments and
individuals will face increasing amounts
of pressure from foreign individuals and
their governments. If non-resident ownership and control continues to increase,
there will therefore be a growing weakening of our ability and capacity to make
our own decisions about national objectives and steps to implement them.
Canada has been considered extraordinarily
relaxed in its requirements about foreign
investments. Mexico, Sweden and Japan are
examples of countries which have been benefiting from foreign investment while requiring clear qualifications about ownership.
I was talking yesterday with one who
had recently spent several years in Japan,
and he was saying, in connection with foreign
investment, that there were certain industries
where you could have complete fiexibility
about investing, but on the whole these were
such industries as-and he gave this example-chopsticks, where the home industry was
so strong that you really would not want to
compete. Otherwise there were strict regulations. He said that the Japanese are bewildered at our extraordinary laxity concerning
regulations. Why is there such laxity? Some, I
suspect, feel that if we should fix on any
policies, then investment will be scared off.
That certainly does not seem to have applied
in Mexico, Sweden and Japan. There has
been an inference that we might lose 30 per
cent of our standard of living. Then there is
always the whimper about retaliation. Living
next to the most powerful neighbour, many

feel that we must "tip-toe fearfully through
the tulips" if I may use that expression.
Retaliation, I understand, is not however, an
appropriate word. A. E. Safarian writing in
Independent Foreign Policy-and he is a
writer who I know is certainly familiar to us
hereHon. Mr. Martin: And he wrote a very good
book on this very subject.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: He described how he
had been told by a senior American diplomat
that diplomats do not use such coarse words
as "retaliation" or think in such simplistic
terms "tit for tat" in Canadian-American
relations. He did say that later the diplomat
had admitted to him that, and I quote, "occasionally the United States had reacted to a
Canadian initiative." Perhaps that is more the
way retaliation should be phrased-a United
States reaction to Canadian initiative.
David Baldwin, whom I quoted before,
writing for the Canadian-AmericanRelations
Conference in 1967 suggested the following
four-point plan if Canada wanted to become a
leading nation by the year 2,000. The first
point was that Ottawa "could begin to take
more foreign policy stands that diverge from,
and even conflict with, American positions, à
la de Gaulle." His argument is that a squeeking wheel gets more attention. But I would
suggest that with our tradition of working
with a friendly neighbour that somehow the
approach needed is rather that suggested by
Heeney, of a quiet diplomacy. It could perhaps be more effective. Perhaps if the Officials Secrets Act were no longer to bar some
in this Senate from speaking, they could
explain from personal knowledge whether it
is more effective to cry out in order to arouse
public opinion against your friend and neighbour or whether it is better to proceed with
faith and trust and talk privately to them.
Heeney has said that the natural advantage of
our closeness and our traditional friendship
suggests that:
-the
methods of "quiet" rather than
"raucous" diplomacy normally offer the
best chance-though it may well be
slight--of bringing Canadian influence
effectively to bear upon United States
attitudes and decisions. On the other
hand, there may be occasions when firm
public divergence by the Canadian government may be considered influentialthough I confess my own feeling is that
such occasions are likely to be very few.
There certainly will be cases when the

SENATE DEBATES
Canadian government will have no
option-as the officiai spokesman of the
Canadian people-but to speak out loud
and clear in opposition to the United
States. But this should be the way of last
resort, for it will demonstrate that
normal methods have failed.
The second of these four points put forward
by Baldwin is that we should reduce defence
spending sharply and use the rnoney for
something else, foreign aid, dornestie investment or Canadianization of industry.
The third point is that there should be an
elimination of immigration barriers, and hie
suggests that this would be the boldest and
most effective way to augment Canadian
influence during the next thirty years. His
fourtb point is that Ottawa should discriminate against American investors and begin to
buy back the nation's industry.
1 personally do not like the word "discrirninate". He gocs on to say:
Canadians might well ponder the experience of the only other nation which
shares a common border with the United
States.
Thon hie refers to Mexico.
Hon. Mr. Martin:
frorn Safarian?

Arc you reading now

Hon. Mr. Thompson: No, I arn reading fromn
Baldwin.
He goes on to say:
In a recent survey of United Nations
voting on varlous issues since 1947,
Canada was dloser to the United States
position than Mexico eleven times, while
Mexico was dloser to the United States
than Canada only six times. One lesson
learned by Americans from "dealings
with Mexico and Mexicans in recent
years has been that the people there are
irrevocably determined to define their
own future and will seek it in their own
way, no matter what the costs." If
Canadians want to teach Americans the
saine lesson, they may well want to study
Mexican pedagogy.
I say again that Heeney argued for quiet
diplomacy, and I feel that it would be very
valuable if the Leader of the Government
when participating in this debate, as I arn
sure hie will, would elucidate on some of the
approaches hie thinks have been effective. I
know hie bas used not only quiet diplomacy,
but on several occasions bis voice bas also
[Hon. Mr. Thompson.]

Arl1.1716, 1970
April

been heard clearly warning the United States
that bie and the Canadian people do not feel
them to be on the right patb.
I appreciate personally the awesome
responsibility which our great neighbour has
in its yearning to arrive at tbe preservation
of peace throughout the world. I shudder, as I
am sure every one in this chamber does, at
the ghastly and terrible situation existing in
Vietnam, the borrors that are being perpetrated not only by South Vietnarn but also by
North Vietnam. I bave searched in rny own
conscience as to wbat I as an individual can
do in rny very small way with respect to this
terrible war.
I believe most sincerely that the United
States did not enter into this conflict because
of any imperialistic motive; but, on tbe other
hand, I also sincerely believe tbat they made
a mistake. I think they entered into it with
tbe firrn motive that tbey were going to contain the spread of cornmunism tbroughout
south-east Asia, and thus they wcre assuming
an obligation to the world as the great
dernocracy of tbe world. Howevcr, as I look
at the killing and maiming on both sides, I
can only pray that the United States and the
Vietnarnese will soon corne to an end of this
terrible slaughter.
In order to express a national vie\vpoint,
that is one reason why I feel it is very important that we maintain a Canadian sovereignty on this Arnerican continent.
I have great admiration for tbe warrn and
generous people to tbe south of us. I recognize
the enormous problems tbey bave; the
responsibilities abroad and the turmoil internally; the confliets of race and the violence in
their great cities. As Senator O'Leary pointed
out, these are a people with a magnificent
humanitarianism, who gave an extraordinary
project to the world, the Marshall Plan, helping both friend and enemy to rebuild. I tbink
of the idealisrn of the young people of Amenica in the Peace Corps; I think of their openness about sclf-criticism, something never
permitted in the communist countries. That
is why I arn reluctant in any way to try
to pluck the feathers of the United States.
I think of their great universities, tbe best
in the world; I think of the extraordinary
vitality, creativity and humanity of this great
society to the soutb; and yet I want to live as
a Canadian and to die as a Canadian, because
I helieve that in this northern land of ours we
bave tbe opportunity to develop a social
laboratory in whicb we will give the opportunity to each to develop any excellence
within ourseives.

April 16, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 16.1970SENATE

We can look to our great neighbour and we
can select what is best; we can aiso learn
from their problems, and we can develop our
blueprint on civil liberties, on race relations,
on cities, on qualîty of ife. We can develop a
pluralistic society-and, again, I refer to our
report which was tabled today. I do not think
we lay the same emphasis on the individual
and individualismi as our neighbours to the
south. Because we are a small nation side by
side with the great nation of the United
States, we can demonstrate living in harmony
and yet as friends, being able to be critical
and to speak our minds. Indeed, this has been
demonstrated by this conference in which six
of our number participated.
Because of this, I suggest that as we retain
our own identity side by side with the United
States, we are giving an example to, the whole
world that free nations, living together, can
deveiop constructively and creatîvely.
On motion of Hon. Mr. McDonald, debate
adjourned.
CRIMINAL CODE <HATE PROPAGANDA)
BILL TO

RE.ADINGAMEND--SECOND
DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Muriel McQ. Fergusson moved the
second reading of Bill C-3 to amend the
Criminal Code.
She said: Honourable senators, although I
appreciate the confidence shown in me by the
Leader of the Governrnent when he invited
me to explain, Bill C-3, it is with a feeling of
sadness that I undertake this assignment
today.
Our colleague Senator Roebuck has shown
such sincere devotion to the principies of this
bill and has been so anxious to see it put
on our statute books to tell the world where
Canada stands on the matter of hatredan
abuse of minority groups, that were hie able
to be among us today I feel sure that he
would have been given the responsibility
which. I arn assuming.
Knowîng the vast knowledge and experience of Senator Roebuck and his sincere dedication to the principles of this bill, I arn sure
that ail honourable senators will understand
my feeling of humility and fear that I may
not be an adequate substitute for hlm.
Hon. Mr. Martin: No one else has that fear.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: Thank you.

It would seem to, me that it is not out of
place to remind honourable senators of the
background of this legisiation.
The history of Bill C-3 goes back some
considerable tirne before it was introduced
into the House of Commons on October 27,
1969 by the Minister of Justice, the Honourable John Turner.
In 1964 and 1965 private bills dealing with
genocide, with disturbing of the public peace,
with hate literature and group defamatory
libel were introduced in the House of Commons. They aroused considerable interest and
after receiving second reading, some were
referred to a comimittee for consideration.
In January 1965 the Honourable Guy Favreau, the then Minister of Justice in the Government of the Right Honourable Lester B.
Pearson, appointed a special committee to,
study and report on the problems related to
the dissemaination of varieties of hate propaganda and hate literature in Canada. This
comrnittee was under the chairmanship of
Maxwell Cohen, who at that time was Dean
of Law at MeGill University. Besides the distinguished chairman, the members of the
comrnittee were: Dr. J. A. Corry, then Principal of Queens University; l'Abbé Gérard
Dion, of the Faculty of Social Sciences, Lavai
University; Mr. Saul Hayes, Q.C., Executive
Vice-President, Canadian Jewish Congress;
Professor Mark R. MacGuigan, Associate
Professor of Law, University of Toronto, now
the honourable member for Windsor-Walkerville; Mr. Shane MacKay, executive editor of
the Winnipeg Free Press; and Professor
Pierre-Elliott Trudeau, as hie then was,
Associate Professor of Law at the University of Montreal, ail of whom. are recognized
as persons who command, as they commanded then, the highest respect in this country.
After an intense study, that committee submitted a unanirnous report on November 10,
1965, which contained a number of recommendations. In the following year a Government bill, S-49, based on the findings of the
Special Committee on Hate Propaganda in
Canada, was introduced in the Senate, and I
shouid like now to, make clear why this
matter has appeared before this house on a
number of previous occasions.
On November 17, 1966, during the first session of the Twenty-seventh Parliament, Bill
S-49 was given first reading in the Senate.
Following Senator Roebuck's explanation of
the bill on the motion for its second reading,
a long series of speeches took place in this
chamber. Twenty-nine senators took part in a

SENATE DEBATES
very vigourous debate. On March 20 of that
year the bill was read the second time on
division, and referred to a special joint committee of the Senate and House of Commons
for consideration. The members of the Senate
named to that committee were Senators
Belisie, Bourque, Choquette, Croli, Lang, and
Roebuck. Later Senator Aird was substituted
for Senator Lang. However, the first session
of the Twenty-seventh Parliament ended on
May 8, 1967 with the bill receiving no additional considerafion.
Early in the Second Session of the Twentyseventh Parliament the bill was introduced in
the Senate by Senator Desehatelets as Bill
S-5. Again, our colleague Senator Roebuck
xvas a very strong supporter of if. Bill S-5
received first and second readings, and was
refcrred f0 a special commiftee of the Senate,
consisting of Senators Boucher, Bourque,
Carter, Choquette, Croll, Fergusson, Gouin,
Hollctt, Inman, Laird, Lang, Lafrançois,
Méthot, O'Leary (Canleton), Prowse, Roebuck,
Thorvaldson, and Walkor. Under the chairmanship of Senator Prowse thjs committee
met and heard evidcnce on February 14, February 29, and March 27. Hoxvever, before the
commit tee was able to complete its work and
prcsent a report, the T-wýenty-sevenfh Parliament came ta an end.
The bill in the samne form was introduced
in the Senate during the First Session of the

Twenty-eighth Parliament as Bill S-21. Un
December 17, 1968 Senator Roebuck moved its
second reading, and it wvas referred to the
Standing

Senate

Committee

on

Legal and

Constitutional Affairs. That committee held
il public meetings, received representations
fromn 17 organizations, and heard 32 witnesses
on the subject of the bill. Several amendments were made in committee, and the
report of the committee was presented to the
Senate and adopted on June 17, 1969. That
bill received third reading, on division, the

Arl1,1716, 1970
April

1969, but it contains some amendments made
by the House of Commons, to which I shall
refer later.
Bill C-3 will create three offences. It will
make the advocating or promoting of genocide an offence. If will make the public incitement of hatred likely f0 lead f0 a breach of
the peace an offence. And it will make the
wilful promotion of hatred of any identifiable
group by communicating statements other
than in private conversation an offence. Persons committing these offences are hiable to,
prosecution either by way of indictmnent or on
summary conviction.
The bill also provides that after conviction
the court may order the forfeiture of anything by means of which, or in relation f0
which, the offence was committed. There is
also a provision that a judge may order
seizure under warrant of what, on reasonable
grounds, hoe believes is hate propaganda.
Under the definition in the bill, "genocide"
means eifher killing, or deliberately inflicting
conditions of if e on members of an identifiahie group that would destroy the group physically. An "identifiable group' means any section of ftic public that is distinguished by
colour, race, religion, or ethnic origin. Surely
the laws of any civilized country should
recognize these acts as offences.

The other two offences created by ftle bill
are acfs committed hy per'snns who crmmunicale staiements that incite hiatred against any
identifiable group where such incitement is
likcly to result in a breach of the peace, or
communicate statements other than in private
conversation,

that wiifully

promote

hatred

against any identifiable group. The bill makes
if clear that "communicating" includes
audible or visible means of doing so.

ahl

The bill requires the consent of the Att orney General for the prosecufion of aIl of
these offences, other than that of inciting
samne day. I well remember Senator Roebuck's
hatred fhat might lead to a breach of the
urgent desirc f0 have Bill S-21 reach the peuce.
In such cases, to protect public order,
House of Commons and be considered there time
might not permit the securing of fthe
before the end of the scssion, bccausc he
consent of the Attorney General.
wanted in bis lifetime to sec it beceme law.
I should remind honourable senafors of the
However, Parliarnent prorogued on June 19
amendmenfs made by this bouse f0 Bll S-21,
before Bill S-21 was considercd by the
the predccessor of Bihl C-3, when it was
Commons.
before the Senate, and also f0 mention briefly
I hope this explains why the bill has some of
the amendments thaf were made to
appeared before us on so many different Bill C-3
by the House of Commons before if
occasions.
was passed by that bouse, all of wbich seemn
Bill C-3, which is now before us, is the f0 me f0 improve t he original legishation and
samne bill whicb, including amendments, was ta meet many of the objections te, it thaf were
passed on division by this bouse on June 17, voiced on earhier occasions.
[Hon. Mrs. Fergusson.]

April 16, 1970

Apri 16,1970SENATE
DEBATES

Among the important amendments made by
the Senate to Bill S-21, was the adding of the
word "religion" to the test of an identifiable
group.
Originally
"identifiable
group"
referred only to those identified by colour,
race, or ethnic origin. Most religious groups in
Canada cannot be distinguished by race,
colour, or ethnie origin, because they are a
mixture of these. These people are among
those who need, and who should receive, protection under this legislation.
Under the prohibition against genocide in
Bul S-21 five acts were listed. The amendments made by the Senate reduced these to
two, which are (a) the killing of members of a
group, or (b) deliberately inflicting on a group
conditions calculated to bring about its physical destruction when these are done with
intent to destroy. This is a narrowing of the
meaning of "genocide".
Another amendment made to Bill S-21 by
the Senate is the requirement of the consent
of the Attorney General for the prosecution
of offences promoting genocide, and of
off ences involving the wilful promotion of
hatred, and for proceedings against the
offending materials themselves.
In amending Bill S-21 the Senate extended
the definition of "statements" which promote
hatred, to make sure that it would include
pre-recorded hate messages, about which we
learned in the evidence given before the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs.
I would also like to mention very briefly
the amendments made to Bill C-3 by the
House of Commons before it was passed.
Section 267A, subsection 2 of thîs bill originally stated that genocide includes "the following acts". Then the acts were mentioned.
In the House of Commons this section was
amended to change "includes" to read "means
the foilowing acts". This new wording is
desirable, is more specific and expressive, and
is more restricting. Tis represents a further
and desirable restriction on the provisions
already narrowed by the Senate.
Hatred and contempt appeared i relation
to the offence of inciting hatred and contempt
against an identifiable group which might
result in a breach of the peace, and by cornmunicating statements to promote hatred and
contempt.
However,
the word "contempt"
was
dropped from the act as passed by the House
of Commons. This narrows the ambit o! the
legisiation and leaves the emphasis on hatred,

a crasser and more easily understandable
concept.
In the section which refers to communicating statements to wilfuily promote hatred, the
words "other than in private conversation"
were inserted in the act by the House of
Commons. This limits the sweep o! the act
and makes it clear that such wilful promotion
done privately and orally is not an offence.
The House o! Commons also added a new
defence, which protects persons who in good
faith intended to point out, for purposes o!
removal, matters that might produce feelings
of hatred toward an identifiable group. This is
a positive improvement and a very proper
defence. The House of Commons also amended the bill to provide that the forfeiture
procedure provided for in the bll would not
include communication facilities.
The amendments made to Bill C-3 in the
House o! Commons and to Bll S-21, its
immediate predecessor, in the Senate, to my
mind improved this legislation by restricting
genocide to two acts which cannot be tolerated in any civiîized country. Surely we must
all be anti-genocide when it is defined in
these terms.
The legislation was also improved by the
other amendments which I have mentioned. I
shail enumerate them.
(1) By the adding of religion as a test of
identifiable groups, which gives protection to
groups not previously covered with sufficient
clarity by the act.
(2) By the adding of the requirement of the
consent o! the Attorney General in relation to
offences advocating genocide and wilful promotion of hatred and in the proceedings
against the offending material itself.
(3) By extending the definition o! "statements" to make it clear that pre-recorded
hate messages are covered by the blill.
(4) By substituting the word "means" for
"includes" in defining genocide, thus making
it more definite.
(5) By deleting the word "contempt" from
the off ence of public incitement and the
offence o! wilful promotion.
(6) By exclusion from liability for statements made in private conversations.
(7) By the adding of a new defence to protect from liability under the act persons who
in good faith intended to point out, for the
purpose of removal, something that might
otherwise make them hiable under the bil.
(8) By making it clear that the forfeiture
provision does not apply to communication
facilities.

SENATE DEBATES

Arl1,17 16, 1970
April

These improvements must make this legis- would like to see this legislation on our statlation even more acceptable to us than ute books is because Canada signed the Conwhen it was before the Senate on previous vention on the Prevention and Punishment of
occasions.
Genocide in November 28, 1949, and ratified
Although honourable senators will under- it on September 3, 1952. Up to 1965, 74
stand fromn what 1 have said that I believe in memiber nations of the United Nations had
and support the bill, I would like to add a few become party to the convention. I do not have
reasons for my support. In relation to the figures beyond that time. Nations which
question of genocide, surely there can be no become party to conventions of the United
question that in this country it should be a Nations are under obligation to pass laws in
criminal offence. I also believe, as Senator their own countries implementing such conRoebuck said at page 1114 of the Hansard of ventions. Although very many countries
the Senate of November 9, 1936, when intro- which have ratified the convention have
passed such laws, Canada has not done s0 as
ducing Bill S-49:
yet. I trust that we will be doing s0 in the
-hate propaganda is so odious and so
dangerous in its effect on the groups near future.
Now that Bill S-21 has been passed by the
against which it is directed that it is cruSenate and Bill C-3 has been given the
elly unjust and should be prohibited.
approval of the House of Commons, it is safe
He also said on March 20, 1967, in closing the to say that the subject matter of this bill has
been given extensive consideration by Parliasaine debate:
Frec speech is essential to the preserva- ment and the principle of the legislation has
tion of freedom and of what is good in becn adopted by both houses, although in
our way of life, but, honourable senators, differcnt sessions of Parliament.
Under the circumstances I trust Bill C-3
frecdom is flot licence.
will soon receive second reading by this
We do not question the necessity of enforc- house.
ing sanctions in cases of defamatory libel of
On motion of Hon. John M. Macdonald,
individuals. It seems to me it is only logical to debate adjourned.
extend this prohibition to groups of individuThe Senate adjourned until Tuesday, April
ais. Perhaps one of the chief reasons I 2 1, at 8 p.m.

April 16. 1970

DEBATES
Apri 16,1970SENATE

APPENDIX
(See p. 866)
REPORT 0F THE THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING 0F THE CANADAUNITED STATES INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP
The Thirteenth Meeting of the CanadaUnited States Interpariamentary Group took
place from March 10 to 15, 1970, in Washington, D.C., Cape Kennedy, Florida, Houston
and San Antonio, Texas. Twenty-nine members of the United States Congress and
twenty-four members of the Canadian Parliament took part in the meetings which, were
conducted in the usual frank and informai
way. Delegates were representative of ail parties in Congress and Parliament and the
useful exchanges o! views that took place
were unofficial and not binding upon the
Governments of either country.
The agenda for the discussions was worked
out by agreement between the four Co-Chairmen, Senator Frank Church and Congressman
Cornelius E. Gallagher, for the United States
side, and the two Canadian Speakers. Briefing
sessions on the agenda topics were organized
for the Canadian delegates by the Inter-Parliamnentary Relations Branch, in co-operation
with the Parliamentary Center for Foreign
Aiffairs and Foreign Trade, over flve weeks
preceeding the meeting. Delegates had sessions
with senior officiais from, the Departments of
External Affairs, Finance, Industry, Trade
and Commerce, Energy, Mines and Resources,
National Defence, Indian Affairs and Northern Development and from the Bank of
Canada, National Energy Board and International Joint Commission.
The Canadian delegation, led jointly by
Senate Speaker Deschatelets and Deputy
Speaker of the House of Commons Mr. Hughi
Faulkner, M.P., arrived at Andrews Air
Force Base aboard a D.N.D. Yukon at approximately 2.30 p.m. on March lOth where they
were greeted by the Co-Chairmen o! the
United States delegation, Senator Frank
Church (Idaho) -and Congressman Cornelius E.
Gailagher (New Jersey) and their wives
together with several members of the United
States delegation and their wives.
In addition to the two Co-Chairmen, the
United States delegation consisted of the following members:
From the Senate, Honourable Mike Mansfield (Montana), Honourable John Sparkman

(Alabama), Honourable Ralph Yarborough
(Texas), Honourable Edmund S. Muskie
(Maine), Honourable Quentin N. Burdick
(North Dakota), Honourable William B.
Spong, Jr. (VJ.rginia), Honourable Mike
Gravel (Alaska), Honourable George D. Aiken
(Vermont), Honourable John J. Williams
(Delaware), Honourable Robert P. Griffin
(Michigan), Honourable Clifford P. Hansen
(Wyoming), Honourable Ted Stevens (Alaska),
and,
From the House of Representatives, Honourable Thomas E. Morgan (Pennsylvania),
Honourable Harold T. Johnson (California),
Honourable William J. Rand ail (Missouri),
Honourable Peter N. Kyros (Maine), Honourable Samuel S. Stratton (New York), Honourable Claude Petter (Florida), Honourable J. J.
Pickle (Texas), Honourable Mark Andrews
(North Dakota), Honourable Robert T. Stafford (Vermont), Honourable 0din Langen
(Minnesota), Honourable William S. Mailliard
(California), Honourable Robert Taft, Jr.
(Ohio), Honourable Henry P. Smith III (New
York), Honourable Frank Horton (New York)
and Honourable Abraham Kazen (Texas).
The Canadian delegation was led jointly by
the Honourable Jean-Paul Deschatelets, P. C.,
Speaker of the Senate, and Mr. J. Hugh
Faulkner, M. P., Deputy Speaker of the House
of Commons. Other members of the Canadian
delegation were:
From the Senate, Honourable T. D. Leonard
(Ontario), Honourable A. A. Macnaughton,
P.C. (Quebec), Honourable M. Gratton 0'Leary
(Ontario), Honourable L. Phillips (Quebec),
Honourable H. A. Wflhis (Ontario), and,
From the House of Commons, Messrs. Lincoln Alexander (Ontario), G. W. Baldwin
(Alberta), Les Benjamin (Saskatchewan), E.
Corbin (New Brunswick), Walter Deakon
(Ontario), André Fortin (Quebec), Lloyd Francis (Ontario), Phflip Givens (Ontario), Hu
Harries (Alberta), Honourable George Hees,
P. C. (Ontario), Fernand Leblanc (Quebec), T.
Lefebvre (Quebec), David Lewis (Ontario),
David MacDonald (Prince Edward Island),
James McGrath (Newfoundland), John Roberts (Ontario) and Paul Yewchuk (Alberta).

SENATE DEBATES
AGENDA AND PROCEEDINGS

The Thfrteenth Meeting was formally opened
in the old Supreme Court Chamber of the
United States Capitol at 10.00 arn. on March
llth with a welcome by Mr. Elliot Richardson,
United States Under-Secretary of State.
Committee I

The Committee on Trade and Economnic
Affairs met under joint chairmanship of
Senator Church and Speaker Deschatelets.
Representing the United States Congress were
Senators
Yarborough,
Muskie,
Burdick,
Gravel, Aiken and Stevens and Representatives Johnson, Kyros, Pickle, Andrews, Taft,
Langen, Smith and Horton. Representing
Canada were Senators Leonard, Macnaughton, Phillips and Willis, and fromn the House
of Commons, Honourable George Hees and
Messrs. Benjamin, Corbin, Fortin, Givens,
Harries, Leblanc and Lefebvre.
The Committee considered the following
items on its agenda:
1. Energy Policies-Including water, oil
and gas.
2. Pollution Problems and Control with
special reference to the Great Lakes.
3. Problems of Inflation.
4. Foreign Jnvestment and Related Government Policies.
5. Automotive Agreement.
6. Economic Relations with Communist
Coi.mtries.
7. Immigration.
Report of Commi,?ittee I: Tracle and Econornic
Aiffairs

The Committee on Trade and Economic
Matters had a full and frank discussion on
bilateral and multilateral subjects of mutual
interest.
Considerable time was spent in the discussion of energy policies, including oil, gas,
water and electricity. There was general
agreement that a continental approach to all
aspects of energy requirements, including
water to be used in the generation of electrie
power, would be the most effective way to
deal with the energy problems facing Canada
and the United States. While maintaining
respect for political jurisdictions, account had
to be taken of the reality that sources of
energy do flot respect national boundaries,
and that the advantage of a continental
energy policy must flow to both parties. The
Committee had the advantage of hearing
from Mr. Phillip Trezise, Assistant Secretary

April
Arl1.17 16, 1970

of State, who made reference to the discussions which have been taking place to reach
agreement on a continental energy policy.
Specific reference was made ta the intention
0f convening discussions between Canadian
and United States officiais on the subi ect. It
was noted that this was the flrst time that the
Committee I had been briefed by a member
of the Executive Branch and it was hoped
that it would be possible to take advantage 0f
this technique on appropriate occasions in the
future.
There was much discussion ni problems
aff ecting man's environment, including pollution. Both delegations were in agreement that
there was a strong mutuality of interest in
finding solutions to these problems and
recommended that their respective governments work toward devising a continental
policy on matters involving the quality of the
environment. The delegations agreed that,
although water pollution was the area of
greatest current concern to Canada and the
United States, both governments should not
limit the area of co-operation ot solving e urrent pollution problems but should adopt forward-looking interpendent policies covering
the entire spectrum of controlling man's
behavior toward the earth's limited resources.
There was a general consensus that there was
a great lack of knowledge about the pollution
control programns of the other country and
that more effective means of studying and
disseminating information should be devised.
Both delegations agreed to recommend that
their respective governments examine the
question of reciprocal law dealing with pollution problems since pollution is a global issue
which does not respect national lines. There
was general recognition that it was of little
benefit on common problems for one country
to bave restrictive anti-pollution laws unless
the other has similar controls.
There was an exchange of views on the
mutual problema oi inflation, its causes. the
methods being pursued by both governments
in trying to control it, and the results te, date.
There was some concern expressed on both
sides of the results, in human termis, of methods used in both countries to control inflation.
Some consideration was given to the problem of the effect of United States immigration
laws on the employees of business concerns
operating in bath countries. It was painted
out by members of the United States delegatlan that both the Senate and the Hause ai
Representatives have passed legislation ta correct this problema and it was anticipated that
the bill would becomne law in the near future.

April 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

The Committee's discussion was based on
the agenda, which had been agreed to by the
two delegations in advance of the meeting.
(a) Problems Arising from Arctic Development
There was a full discussion of the consequences of the discovery of oil and of minerals in Alaska and in the Canadian Arctic, as
well as of the possibility of commercial shipping operations in arctic waters in order to
exploit these discoveries. It was recognized
that these developments posed new problems,
which could have implications for relations
between the two countries.
The Canadian delegates placed particular
emphasis on the dangers of oil pollution.
They asserted the need for effective controls
to ensure that ships proceeding through arctic
waters would be sufficiently strengthened and
have adequate power to withstand the danger
of puncture or destruction with consequent
loss of oil which would disastrously damage
the delicate ecological balance in arctic
regions.
There was some discussion of the sovereignty issue. Canadian delegates noted that
the Canadian government had for many years
laid claim not only to the islands but also to
Committee II
the waters of the Arctic Archipelago. United
The Committee on Defence and Security States delegates expressed the view that they
Matters was co-chaired by Representative anticipated no difficulty in reaching agreeGallagher and Deputy Speaker Faulkner. ment between the two governments on the
Representing the United States Congress were measures necessary for controlling the danger
Senators Mansfield, Sparkman, Spong, Wil- of pollution. But they did not expect the
liams, Griffin and Hansen, and from the United States government to accede to
Congressmen arrangements which would involve United
House of Representatives,
Morgan, Randall, Stratton, Pepper, Stafford, States recognition of Canadian claims to all
Mailliard and Kazen. Representing Canada the waters of the Arctic Archipelago. The confrom the Senate was the Honourable M. Gratover United States access to
tan O'Leary and from the House of Commons, cern was not
arctic waters, but fear of the implications for
Messrs, Alexander, Baldwin, Deakon, Francis,
freedom of passage in other confined waters.
Lewis, MacDonald, Roberts and Yewchuck.
The Committee considered the following In this exchange the Canadian side stressed
the unique character of arctic waters because
items on its agenda:
cover prevents free move1. Problems arising from Arctic Develop- of the fact that ice
ment, with a consequent need for special
ment:
navigational aids and ice breaker support.
Legal issues.
It was recognized on both sides that regulaEconomic issues.
tions to control pollution must be internationSecurity considerations.
ally accepted. United States delegates empha2. NATO and NORAD: status and problems. sized the importance of proceeding by
3. East-West relations and proposed Euro- international agreement rather than by unipean Security Conference.
lateral Canadian action. Several members of
4. Policies toward Communist China.
both delegations thought that, while initial
5. Policies toward Latin America and the contacts might be bilateral, it would be
Caribbean.
important to convene a conference of interestReport of Committee II: Defence and Security ed governments to work out regulations which
would gain international acceptance.
Matters

The introduction and passage of this bill was
a direct outgrowth of concern expressed by
Canadian delegates during the meeting of the
Group last year.
Members of both delegations expressed
concern over the recent arming of United
States customs guards stationed on the
Canadian border. There was general agreement that the use of the sidearms was an
unnecessary irritant in United StatesCanadian relations and that the proper officials of the United States reconsider the
decision.
The growing concern of Canadians over the
extent of investment by United States citizens
in the Canadian economy was also discussed.
Reference was made to the feeling of some
Canadians that the rate of acquisition by U.S.
citizens of Canadian equity is reaching such
proportions that economic servitude may
become a permanent status.
It was agreed that further consideration
should be given to the effects upon the economies of both Canada and the United States of
the 1965 Automotive Agreement, particularly
with reference to the results upon the labor
markets of both countries.

SENATE DEBATES
The Canadian delegation emphasized that
opinions on this subject were strongly held in
Canada.
(b) NATO and NORAD: status and problems
Discussion of NATO focused mainly on the
importance of North American forces to the
continuing defence of Europe. It was recognized on both sides that Western Europe
required the support of United States nuclear
forces and that significant U.S. conventional
forces were needed in Europe to assure the
Europeans of the efficacy of the United States
guarantees.
The United States delegates stressed the
importance within the Alliance of all partners
to maintain the military capability of NATO.
Canadian members pointed out that the
recent decision to reduce Canadian forces in
Europe reflected a decision to place greater
emphasis in the future on Canada's contribution to the defence of the North American
sector of the NATO area. Canada remained
fully committed to the Alliance.
(c) East-West Relations: proposed European
Security Conference
There was agreement that political conditions in West and East Europe were evolving.
Delegates were encouraged by the initiatives
being taken by the new German government.
Some United States members considered it
important that the initiative at this time in
the field of European security arrangements
should be left with the European members of
the Alliance.
Both sides considered it essential that the
United States and Canada should participate
fully in any European Security Conference
which might be held. They also thought such
a conference would have to be an on-going
meeting, as the numerous specific problems
faced would require lengthy negotiations for
their resolution.
(d) Policies toward Communist China
The Canadian members reported on the
progress of negotiations with the Communist
Chinese government over recognition. They

pointed out that the main point at issue was
Chinese insistence on Canadian acceptance of
China's claim to Formosa, a step which
Canada was not prepared to take and which
China had not required of other countries
such as France when they had entered into
diplomatic relations. The Canadian delegates
explained that they expected the negotiations,
which were being held at ambassadorial level,
to proceed slov:ly. Nor did they expect relations with Communist China, if established, to
lead te any dramatic developments. They did

April 16, 1970

consider, however, that it was essential that
China should be incorporated in the international community, including membership in
the United Nations.
The United States members reported on the
recent easing of certain United States restrietions on relations with mainland China
intended to permit increased contact. These
moved had not evoked strong domestic reaction. They also looked to more serious discussion in the future talks between United States
and mainland Chinese representatives.
(e) Policies towards Latin America and the
Caribbean
The Canadian members noted that Canadian relations with Latin America were under
review. United States delegates expressed an
interest in knowing whether there was likely
to be a change in Canada's position on membership in the Organization of Latin American
States. The Canadian side explained that the
question was whether Canada could expect to
play a useful role in the OAS. There was still
fear that membership might involve Canada
in having on occasion to choose between support of the United States or of a group of
Latin American states. It was probable in the
circumstances that the Canadian government
would move gradually to participate in OAS
subordinate bodies, where Canada could play

a full role.

VISIT TO THE UNITED STATES HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES AND SENATE
After observing the House of Representatives at work, the delegates were welcomed
by the Speaker of the House, The Honourable
John W. McCormack. in his office. The following is an excerpt from the Congressional
Record of the Senate of the United States of
America for March 11, 1970.
VISIT TO THE SENATE BY DISTINGUISED
MEMBERS OF THE CANADIAN PARLIAMENT
Mn. CHURCH: Mr. President, we are
honored to have in the Chamber a number of distinguished members of the
Canadian Parliament who are in Washington to participate in the 13th meeting of
the Canada-United States Interparliamentary Croup.
These annual meetings between members of the Canadian Parliament and the
U.S. Congress have contributed much
toward strengthening the bonds which
nite our two countries, have helped to
bridge our differences, and have deepened our understan:ding of common prob-

.April 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

lems. They serve also to remind us that
although our nations are interdependent,
with similarities founded on a common
heritage and mutual interests spanning
the spectrum of international association,
we must never take each other for
granted.
The two delegations have been meeting
all morning-in two committees-to consider a long list of items of common
interest, and the meetings will continue
this afternoon.
I must say that the discussions have
been exceedingly frank and helpful.
Many delegates have commented that
they do not recall any previous discussions more productive than those that
took place this morning. We look forward
to our conversations this afternoon.
Actually, our Canadian friends should
feel very much at home in this Chamber,
what with the emphasis we so frequently
place upon States' rights in our debates
here.
I recall reading not so long ago of an
essay contest, worldwide in scope, which
dealt with the subject of elephants. The
four national winners of the contest happened to be an American, an Englishman, a Frenchman, and a Canadian. The
American's paper was captioned, "Bigger
and Better Elephants." The Englishman's
paper was entitled, "Elephants and the
Empire." The Frenchman's paper bore the
caption, "The Sex Life of Elephants." But
paper was entitled
the Canadian's
"Elephants: a Provincial or a Federal
Responsibility?" (Laughter.)
You gentlemen could step onto this
floor, enter into the debate and never
know you left home. (Laughter.)
I am very much honored to present this
distinguished group of Canadian parliamentarians. I propose to introduce
them by name, then give Senators an
opportunity to applaud them, following
which I ask unanimous consent that there
may be a recess for 5 minutes, so that we
may personally meet them in the rear of
the Chamber.
The Canadian group is headed by two
co-chairmen, the President of the Canadian Senate, the Honourable J. P. Deschatelets, Speaker of the Senate, and the
Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons, Mr. J. Hugh Faulkner.
Other members of the delegation
include:

From the Senate: Hon. T. D. Leonard,
Hon. Alan A. Macnaughton, Hon. M.
Grattan O'Leary, Hon. L. Phillips, and
Hon. H. A. Willis.
From the House of Commons: Mr. Lincoln Alexander, Mr. G. W. Baldwin, Mr.
Les Benjamin, Mr. E. Corbin, Mr. André
Fortin, Mr. Lloyd Francis, Mr. Philip
Givens, Mr. Hu Harries, Hon. George
Hees, Mr. Fernand Leblanc, Mr. T.
Lefebvre, Mr. David Lewis, Mr. David
MacDonald, Mr. James McGrath, Mr.
Walter Deakon, Mr. John Roberts, and
Dr. Paul Yewchuk.
We are much honored to have such a
distinguished delegation of Canadian parliamentarians with us this afternoon. I
invite Senators to welcome them at this
time. (Applause, Senators rising.)
Recess
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, the Senate will now stand in
recess for 5 minutes.
Thereupon, at 2 o'clock and 34 minutes
p.m., the Senate took a recess, during
which Senators greeted members of the
Canadian Parliament.
At the conclusion of the recess, the
Senate was called to order by the Presiding Officer (Mr. Hughes).
Ladies' Program
After attending the opening plenary in the
Old Supreme Court Chamber, the United
States wives arranged a special program for
their Canadian counterparts while their husbands participated in the meetings. Following
a short tour of the Capitol the Canadian and
United States wives went by bus to Arlington
National Cemetery where they visited the
grave of President Kennedy and Lee's Mansion before proceeding to Evans Farm Inn in
Virginia for lunch. The ladies then visited
Tyson's Corner shopping mall before joining
their husbands for a tour of the White House.
On the evening of the Canadian delegation's arrival a reception was given by the
Canadian Ambassador and Mrs. Cadieux at
the Embassy residence after which the United
States delegation hosted a dinner at the
National Portrait Gallery in honour of the
Canadian delegation during which those present were privileged to hear an address by
Secretary of State William Rogers.
The next day a luncheon was given in the
Capitol by the United States Co-Chairmen,
Senator Church and Congressman Gallagher.

SENATE DEBATES

April
Arl1.17 16, 1970

The delegates were honoured by the presence
The following day the delegations were
during this luncheon of Mrs. Edna Kelly, one conducted on an interesting and illuminating
of the co-founders of the Canada-United tour of NASA
Manned Spacecraft Center
States Interparliamentary Group, Senator
William Fulbright, Chairman of the Senate prior to lunching in Houston's famed
Foreign
Relations
Committee,
Senator Astrodome. The remainder of the afternoon
Edward Kennedy, Assistant Majority Leader xvas taken up with tours of the Turning Basin
in the Senate, and Congressman Gerald R. and the City with time for shopping. In the
Ford, Minority Leader in the House of evening the United States delegation hosted a
Representatives, and other distinguished dinner at the Hotel Sonesta.
members of the United States Congress.
In the morning of March l4tb, the delegaFollowing the afternoon meetings on March tion flew to San Antonio where they were
llth, delegates and their wives went on a given a tour of this charming and historie
tour of the White House before going to Ford's
Theatre where they enjoyed a performance City which included a visit to the site of the
of the musical "Fantasticks" followed by a Battie of the Alamo and the lBth century San
José Mission. In the cvening the delegations
buffet supper at the historie theatre.
Early on the morning of March l2th, dele- were taken by barges to La Villita-an old
gates and their wives departed by Presidential Spanish village-for a barbecue.
jet for Cape Kennedy where they were
On March l5th, the United States delegabriefcd by NASA officials and toured the tion hosted a farewell lunch after which they
launch facilities at the John F. Kennedy accompanied their Canadian colleagues to the
Space Centre and had lunch with NASA airport and saw them off on their chartered
officials. That afternoon the delegations flew
to Houston and gathered in the President's Air Canada flight to Ottawa before returning
Room of the Hotel Sonesta for a buffet to Washington.
dinner.
Ottawa, April 14, 1970.

Apri 21.1970SENATE
DEBATES

April 21, 1970

THE SENATE

Tuesday, April 21, 1970
The Senate met at 8 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
DOCUMENTS TABLED

on April 16, 1970, with reference to the
Arctic waters pollution prevention bill
and the amendments to the Territorial
Sea and Fishing Zones Act.
Report of the Department of Energy,
Mines and Resources for the fiscal year
ended March 31, 1969, pursuant ta section
30 of the Goverrnent Organization Act,
1966, chapter 25, Statutes of Canada,
1966-67.

BANKING. TRADE AND COMMERCE
COMMITTEE
AUTHORITY TO MEET DURING SITTING 0F THE
Report of Air Canada for the year
SENATE
ended December 31, 1969, pursuant to
section 29 of the Air Canada Act, chapter
Hon. A. Hamrilton McDonald, wlth leave of
268, R.S.C., 1952, as amended 1964-65.
the Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(a),
Auditors' Report to Parliament on the I Inove:
Accounts of Air Canada for the year
That the Standing Senate Committee
ended December 31, 1969, pursuant to
on Banking, Trade and Commerce have
section 29 of the Air Canada Act, chapter
the power ta sit whlle the Senate is sit268, R.S.C., 1952, as amended 1964-65.
tlng tomorrow, Wednesday, April 22,
Copies of a contract between the Gov1970, and that Rule 76(4) be suspended in
ernment of Canada and the municipality
relation thereto.
of Nipawin, Saskatchewan, for the use or
Motion agreed ta.
employment of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, pursuant to section 20(3)
NATIONAL CAPITAL COMMISSION
of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police
Act, chapter 54, Statutes of Canada, 1959. EXPROPRIATION 0F PRIVATE COTTAGES ON
(English text).
MEACE LAKE-INQUIRY ANSWERED
Report of the Canadian Livestock Feed
Nan. Jacques Flynn inquired of the GovBoard, including its Accounts and Financial Statement certified by the Auditor erient pursuant ta Notice:
1. Is it the intention of the National
General, for the crop year ended July 31,
Capital Commitssion eventuaily ta expro1969, pursuant to section 22 of the Livepriate ail privately-owned cottages on
stock Feed Assistance Act, chapter 52,
Meach Lake?
Statutes of Canada, 1966-67.
2. Is only the south shore af Meach
Copies of Ordinances, chapters 1 to 12
Lake ta be turned into a public beach
inclusive, passed by the Council of the
and picnic area or are there plans ta
Yukon Territory at its 1970 First Session,
pursuant to section 20 of the Yukon Act,
extend these services at some future
chapter 53, Statutes of Canada, 1952-53,
date?
together with a copy of Order in Coundil
3. wrnl the public beach and picnic
P.C. 1970-612, dated April 7, 1970,
area on the south shore of Meach Lake
approvîng sanie. (English text).
resuit in the need ta expropriate private
Copies of Proceedmngs of the Third
property or are all of the cottages affectMeeting of the Constitutional Conference
ed the property of the National Capital
held at Ottawa December 8-10, 1969.
Commission?
Statement of the Unemployment Insur4. How many people will this new
ance Fund as at March 31, 1969, and
public beach accommodate?
Report of transactions under section 86 of
the Unemploymnent Insurance Act for the
5. What is the estimated cost of tis
fiscal year ended March 31, 1969, pursudevelopment?
ant to section 87 of the said Act, chapter
6. What alternatives, if any, ta Meach
50, Statutes of Canada, 1955.
Lake were considered and why was
Copies of a Summary of Canadian Note
Meach Lake chosen In preference to these
handed to the United States Government
alternatives?

Hon. Paul Martin tabled:

Arl2,17
April 21, 1970

SENATE DEBATES
7. Could flot the 27 cottagers, whose
eviction fromn cottages owned by the
National Capital Commnission becamne
necessary, have been given more than
thirty days' notice?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
(The answers follow)
1. It is the present policy of the Commission to expropriate property in Gatineau Park only when private developments are planned whîch are deemed to
be prejudicial to the orderly developmnent
of the Park.
2. The pace of development of the
shores along Meach Lake is dependent on
continuing study of long range development plans for Gatineau Park and contînumng assessmcnt QI the impact of the
changes as they occur.
3. Any current plans involve only that
land owned by the NCC.
4 and 5. Any beach accommodation
facilities are expected to be quite
restricted in keeping with the topography. The major thrust of the development is designed to encourage a general
appreciation of the parkland resource. No
cost estimatos are availablo.
6. Meach Lake was chosen because the
first federal purchases of land there were
made 32 years ago, initiating a long-term.
pohicy.
7. There were no evictions. Ail leases
terminated in the Faîl of 1969. Lessees
were informed by letter on February 15
that no new leases would be entered into
and that any remaining belongings
should be removed by April 15. Subsequently this date was extended to May
15.

Hon. Jacques Flynn: We will see it that is
so tomorrow with the sunset of the present
Government!

CANADA-UNITED STATES INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP
TIIIRTEENTI-I

ANNIUAL MEETING-DEBATIE
CONTINUED

The Senate resumed fromn Thursday, April
16, thc adjourned debate on the inquiry of
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud) calling the attention of the Senale to the Thirteenth Annual
Meeting of the Canada-United States Interparliarnentary Group hcld at Washington,
Cape Kennedy, Houston and Sun Antonio
lOth to l5th lVarch, 19740.

Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, I yield tu Senator Willis.
The Hon. the Speaker: It is agreed, honourable senators, that the honourable Senator
Willis should proceed?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

Hon. Harry A. Willis: Honourable senators,
I appreciate Senator McDonald ha%ing moved
the adjournment of the debate whcn this
order was last called in thjs chamber. I do not
approve of so many people speaking on the
samc subject. We have had to date at least
three excellent speeches on the trip to Washington and the other cities we visited. Personally, I think that one or two speeches on the
subject would be sufficient. Howcver, having
been ordered by my leader and my whip,
there is nothing I can do about it, so you will
have to bear wjth me for a short while.
When Senator O'Leary spoke he mentioned
the two previous speeches and said that his
would be a footnote to them. Mine is a P.S. to
ail three. I shall speak very hriefly, but first
let me say that I think that these interchanges
of ideas and thoughts on various subi ects are
good both for Canada and for the United
States.
THE SENATE
This was my third attendance at one of
ELEVATOR SERVICE AND INSTALLATION 0F
these meetings and I consider it to have been
WINDOW BLINDS-ANSWERS TO ORAL
the best one I ever attended. One of the reaQUESTIONS
sons that it was the best was the leadership
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, in that we had fromn our leader, the honourable
answer to the question addressed to me by the Speaker of this chamber. He was here,
Senator Pearson with respect to the condition there and everywherc, making friends for
of the No. 1 elevator, I am advised that the Canada. In the making of friendships and in
condition has been corrected. In response to creating good wvi11 he was exceeded only by
the request of Senator O'Leary that the his wife, Madame Deschatelets. They received
window opposite his seat be shaded, 1 say that the freedomn of certain cities and, ail in ail,
they were excellent.
that also has been attended to.
[Hon. Mr. Flynn.]

,April 21, 1970

Apri 21.1970SENATE
DEBATES

My friend Senator Grattan O'Leary was on
the Defence Canmittee. I was on the Economje Committee, of which the Speaker of this
Chamber was the co-chairman with Senator Frank Church from. Idaho, who represented the United States.
This arrangement started 13 years ago,
whereby there was an interchange of delegates. Senator George Aiken of Vermont was
one of the founders and leaders, as was aur
former Speaker, the Honourable Sydney
Smith.
Last November Senator Aiken had the distinction of being nominated for senator from.
Vermont by both the Republicans and the
Demacrats. He told me that his election campaign cost $175. That kind of expenditure
would certainly be welcome ta some of aur
Canadian members of the other place. Hawever, this year he decided ta relinquish the
chairmanship of the Economic Camimittee, of
which I was a member, and nominated in bis
place the Honourable Senator Church. It is
interesting ta note that Senatar Aiken fram
Vermont is a Republican and Senator Church
from Idaho is a Demacrat. I would ask honourable senatars ta watch the career of
Senator Churcb, who I think will ane day
achieve very high office in the United States.
The Deputy Speaker of the other place, Mr.
Hugh Faulkner, a very young man, did an
admirable job in whatever he was called
upon ta do, and made many friends among
those who attended the meetings.
We were received at Washington airport
with red carpet treatment by a delegation
beaded by the Canadian Ambassador in
Washingtan. After shaking bands with all the
delegates who were there ta meet us we were
rushed ta a new cambinatian hatel-motel in
Washington and were made very comfortable indeed. We also attended a reception
at the Canadian Ambassador's residence and
from there went ta a dinner at which one of
aur representatives, Senator Phillips (Rigaud)
made one of the best speeches I have heard. I
must make the exception, that Grattan O'Leary autclasses you, sir. Senatar Phillips (Rigaud) acquitted himself very ably. I heard
many remarks from aur American friends
about this new senator from Canada wbo did
such a remarkable job. The next morning we
were taken ta Capital Hill where we divided
into variaus groups and got down ta work.
Later when we had adjourned for lunch we
were taken into the Senate Chamber. The
Senate adjourned on a motion and ail sena-

tors came around and sbook hands with the
delegates frorn Canada wbo were standing
along tbe wall. That was a very fine gesture
on their part.
I arn reminded of a vote whîch was going
on in the Senate while we were tbere regarding the legal age of vating, whetber it
should be 18 or 21. That lasted for two days
and some of the American delegates were
unable ta accompany us ail the time we were
there for that reason. I may say that tbe vote
carried.
Tbis is rather humourous, and perhaps
intellectually proper, but at the same trne we
were tbere, tbere was a motion in the House
of Representatives which was praposed by
Congressman Pepper and seconded by Congressman Pickle. Congressman Pepper, ail
honourable senators will remember, was very
close ta Franklin D. Roosevelt and I am inforrned by Senator O'Leary that be is the
author of the Marshall Plan. Congressman
Pickle cames from the State of Texas and
was tbe right-hand man of former President
Lyndon Johnson. Tbey were very interesting
ta know. I just wanted ta note that they
bave odd names in the United States as we
have-but ta bave Congressrnan Pepper
moving a motIon and Congressman Pickle
seconding it brought the Hause down.
I also want ta pay my respects ta Senator
Grattan O'Leary, wbo is the pride of America
as well as the pride of Canada, because wberever he goes everyone knows hlm. They al
rush farward ta shake bis band at tbe first
apportunity, and when he is called upon ta
speecb he certainly does an excellent job, not
only for bimse]f but for Canada. In his
address in this chamber on April 9 last, at the
request of Mr. Speaker he gave a portion of
the address he made at the fareweil dinner in
Houston, and as usual he was excellent. He
did take a firm stand on Canada's sovereignty
and tbe divisibility from the United States of
America. He told them plainly, nicely, but
bluntly, that Canada was no pawn of the
United States, although one of her closest
neighbours she may be.
I wish to mention alsa that we had the
prîvilege not only of being at Washington and
going through the exercises I have explained,
but of going ta, Cape Kennedy. There we saw
the Apollo XIII, wbich went up a few days
later and came down disabled.
We were able ta see it there and see the
men at work on it. We could see the machinery which was ta set it off and which was
used for that purpose. Though, uafortunately,

SENATE DEBATES
as everyone knows, the mission was unsuccessful, it may be that in the long run it wfll
be cailed a suceess.
We then journeyed to the nerve control of
entry into, space, at Houston. Neyer in my life
have I seen so many lights flashing, so many
blackboards, so many pietures of space men
in flight, than there were there. Their communications with themnselves, with the Apollos in orbit, with the astronauts, was tremendous and terrifie. We could see closely ail the
time. We were able to sit in the gallery in
front of the window which extended ail the
way across and we could wateh the operations of those men. It was certainly a great
privilege for us to be there. The fact that
Apollo XIII was going to be shot off in a few
days time made it ail the more interesting.
Honourable senators, I would like to, say a
word or two about our own staff here-Miss
Jean Macpherson and Mr. Ian Imrie-and
their countcrparts in Washington at the
Canadian Embassy there, who wcre most
courteous to us and very efficient. They did
an excellent job.
The only word of eaution I give to senators
is that if they do flot like getting up early [n
the morning they had better flot agree to join
one of these missions, beeause morning after
rnorning we had to have our luggage packed
and out in the hall at six o'clock. Even my
friend Senator Leonard and I found that a bit
too much, to be up at that time in the morning. However, despite the fact that we were
aroused early, we were served an excellent
breakfast.
When hîs Honour the Speaker made his
speech on our trip he mentioned the mission
at San Antonio where we visited the Alamo. I
found a book in my library which informed
me that this was a one-time fort when the
Mexicans made their stand at the border, and
the Mexicans got in the mission and killed
400 Texans. Later, of course, it beeame part
of Texas. Texas won the battie under Colonel
Sam Houston, after whom the City of Houston is named, and it became United States
territory.
On motion of Hon. Mr. McDonald, debate
adi ourned.
CRIMINAL CODE (HATE PROPAGANDA)
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING-DEBATE
CONTINUED

April
Arl2.1721. 1970

Hon. Lionel Choquetie: Honourable senators, unfortunately I was flot able to be present when Senator Fergusson introduced this
bill in the Senate. However, I took occasion
to, read her introductory remnarks and wish to,
congratulate her on the logical manner in
which she traversed the history of the present proposed legislation. In off ering these congratulations I would flot wish to have it
thought that in any way I agree with the
proposition that honourable senators should
support this bill in prineiple.
If I may, I should like to quote one statement from Senator Fergusson's speech at
page 884 of the Debates of the Senate for
April 16, 1970. She said:
These improvements must make this
legislation even more acceptable to us
than when it was before the Senate on
previous occasions.
On the eontrary, I rise to oppose the second
reading of this bill. Lt has had, as we know, a
long and checkered history, beginning in 1965.
Lt was, la my view, a bad bill from its inception. At the last session certain ameadments
were made in the Senate following reference
of the bill to the Senate Standing Committee
on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. Those
amcndments were said to improve the bill.
Certain further amendments were made to
this bill in the House of Commons following
its introduction there. Those, too, were said to
improve the bill. But, honourable senators,
you cannot really improve a bili that is basically bad; ail you can do is make it less bad. I
cannot support this bill simply on the basis
that it is less bad than its predecessors.
The basic objections taken to the bill ia the
past were as valid as ever, even in its altered
form. The reasons for resisting its passage at
this time, so cogently stated by Professor
Frank Scott on April 29, 1969, at page 201 o!
the proceedings of the Senate eommittee, are
to me as convincing as they were a year ago.
I quote from Mr. Scott, the former Dean of
the Law Faculty of MeGili University:
I will group the ideas I will give you
around four main prineiples or concepts.
First of ail, I thînk this bill is retrograde,
it is a looking baekwards type of bill.
Seeondly, I think it is unnecessary.
Thirdly, I think it is dangerous. And
fourthly, using a non-legal expression, I
think it is old-fashioned.

The Senate resumed from Thursday. April
These were the four points that were
16, the adjourned debate on the motion of announced by Mr. Scott formerly Dean of the
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson for the second reading Law Faculty of MeGill University. He deveof Bill C-3, to amend the Criminal Code.
loped those points, but I amn not going to
[Hon. Mr. Willis.]

April 21, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 21.1970SENATE

follow them, Up now. SuffIce it toi say that
those were kils main points.
Then we had the Assistant Dean of Osgoode
Hall in Ontario who also spoke against the
bill. At considerable risk to a long cherished
freedom of speech and of the Press, we are
bringing in the awesome apparatus and
machinery of the criminal law to deal with a
non-existent danger, a danger which is neither real nor present and with a very remote
chance that it wiil ever become so. It is like
using a meat cleaver to kil a fiy at considerable risk to the furniture. On this point may I
refer honourable senators to the testimony of
Professor Harry W. Arthurs of Osgoode Hall
in giving evidence on April 22 of last year,
and reported at page 145 of the committee's
proceedings. He said:
The Special Committee on Hate Propaganda clearly did not find that there
existed in 1965, at the time of its report, a
"clear and present danger" to Canadian
society. To quote but one of the many
statemients to this effect in the report, te
committee stated at page 59:Then Professor Arthurs goes on to read from
the report.
The amount of hate propaganda presently
being disseminated and its measurable
effects probably are not sufficient; to justify a description of the problemi as one of
crisis or near crisis proportions.
He says:
The committee, o! course, went on to
indicate that there was a risk that "given
a certain set of socio-economic circumstances ... public susceptibility might well
increase significantly". By its own admission, then, the committee appears to indicate that if there is any danger to
Canadian society it is neither "'chear" nor
"present".
It is now almost 3j years since the
committee reported.
I would say it is now five years.
During this period of time, proponents
of the hegislation have been unceasing
in their efforts to have it adopted, and
have been thwarted (apparently) only
by the fact that this Bill has had to joust
for priority on the legislative timetable
with other, more pressing, matters. Nonetheless, the hast 3j years have added a
new and significant, dimension to oui
understanding of the situation. For during this time, without the repressive
effect of criminal legishation, the trickhe

of hate propoganda-it was neyer a torrent-has shrunken to the point where
it is no more than a residual and putrid
puddle.
It is said that you cannot legislate morality.
Even less so can you control emotions by the
criminal law, nor can you conquer hatred
with more of the sanie. To paraphrase Shakespeare, this proposed law has a lean and
hungry look: such laws are dangerous.
To illustrate the danger implied in the bill
and expressed by others than myseif, may I
refer to an editorial in the Toronto Globe and
Mail of April 13, 1970. May 1 say, honourable
senators, that I could endeavour to paraphrase this editorial, but 1 think it would lose
much of its significance, because it goes on to
show exactly what would be the effects of
this legisiation, if ever put through, and what
would have been the effects in the years of
Sir Wilfrid Laurier, Sir Robert Borden and
other of oui great Prime Ministers. With your
indulgence, I shail read this editorial into the
record.
How many of those planning to vote
for the ha' e bill have read of the mid1870s in Quebec when Wilfrid Laurier
was caught in the centre of the battie
between the Rouges and the Bleus over
liberalism in the Catholic Church? It was
a time when "Rouge was 'the color of
helifire' in country pulpits. Liberals were
'ravening wolves corne to raise a disturbance in the flock' and were 'serpent Cath.
olie Liberals' and 'faise prophets whc
bring dissension between you and youi
legitimate pastors'."
Or 1851 when George Brown, replying
editorially in The Globe to editorials in
the Mirror, a Roman Catholie organ, said:
"The Roman Catholie hierarchy dare
demand in Canada what no other church
would dare to solicit .. . What ho, ye 'Dissenting' Ministers and edîtors! Corne pass
under the Mirror's yoke and let the Pope
put a plaster on your mouths once and
for ail."
Then there was the Old Chieftain hlmself, Sir John A. Macdonald, in 1889
saying that "One of those insane crazes
has taken possession of the ultra Protestants which can only be compared with
the Popish Plot or the papal aggression
agita' ion.. ." Better still, when he was
commenting on the execution of Louis
Riel: "He shahl hang though every dog in
Quebec bark in his favor."

SENATE DEBATES
Hon.
house.

Mr. Prowse: That was

April
Arl2.17 21. 1970

flot in the

decision and their reasons for permitting
or refusing a prosecution. The records
should be open to, the public for examiHon. Mr. Choque±±e: I do flot know what
nation at any time.
you are talking about.
We fear this law. We fear it greatly.
We didn't put the speakers in jail. If
we had, we would have jailed bishops,
When I say that I too deplore hate literapriests, and teachers as well as Prime ture and that I concede that the supporters of
Ministers and ed.itors. We came through this bill are sincere in their belief that it will
those fiery years without a hate bill. We do less harmn than good, I have made ahl the
came through stronger and hardier than concessions that my conscience will allow. I
ever. Exhausted, perhaps. But rid of most do not share their apparent faith and confiof the virulent poison of hate. Have any dence in this measure. I see no point in sendof our parliamentarians even so much as ing this bill back to committee for a second,
tried to imagine what would have hap- third or fourth time. Nor do I believe that
pened had Macdonald been jailed under a this bill, which was essentially misconceived,
hate bill? Or George-Étienne Cartier, or could be helped by any further piecemeal
Thomas
D'Arcy
McGee
or
Bishop amendments that wou1d merely make it loss
Laflèche or a host of others?
bad, except in one important regard which I
Ah, but timos are different now, many wiIl deal with later. I do believe, however,
say. They were different-for a long time that ail senators, on both sides of this bouse,
passions were cooled. But are they so should stand up and be counted.

different when a French-speaking separatist labor leader can denigrate the Prime
Minister and eall his Cabinet a gang of
whores. When
Jean-Denis Gendron,
cliairman of Qucbec's French-language
commission, can leave the auditorium of
a suburban college in Quebec City and
say: 'Only one word of English would
have been needed to turn the crowd into
a mob"?
Wo are at a crucial stage in our history. Yct a majority in Parliament is on the
verge of saddling us with a bill that can
only do harm. What will be the effecet
when the first separatist is charged under
this federal law for promoting hatred
against the English? Can there be anything more likely to inflame passions in
Quebec even further? What would
happen if a separatist legally were
charged under the hate law but Quebec's
Attorney-General refused to give his consent to prosecution because he feared
political repercussions? Would that not be
the most blatant kind of political interference? Would that not snatch the
ground fromn under the rule of law? A
rule that it took centuies to establish
and a rule that is aimed at keeping politics out of the administration of the law.
The administration of this invidious
law will be an extremely delicate matter.
It must, until it is repealed, be kept
under constant surveillance. So, if it is
passed, ail Attorneys-General should
keep a record of each request for a prosecution, the reasons for the request, their
mHon. Mr. Choquette.]

There is yet another serious and possibly
fatal objection to the bill in its presenit form,
arising out of the effeet recenthy given to the
Canadian Bill of Rights by a majority of the
Supreme Court of Canada in the case of
lier 111ajsty thc Queen v. Joseph Dryboncs.
The Drybones case was decided on November
20, 1969Hon. Mr. Prowse: Would the honourable
senator please give us the citation of that
case?
Hon. Mr. Choquette: I will give it. I have it
here in both languages, with the dissenting
judges' judgments, and so on.
Hon. Mr. Prowse: I want the actual citation.
Han. Mr. Choquette: I will come te it.
Surely, you are not going to, disturb me that
much? The appeal was heard on October 28,
1968 and judgment was pronounced on
November 20, 1969, et cetera. The judgment
of Mr. Justice Ritchie was concurred in by
Mr. Justice Fauteux, Mr. Justice Martland,
Mr. Justice Judson and Mr. Justice Spence.
You have the date here, and I think you will
have te, apply to the Supreme Court of
Canada for a photostat copy of it, or you can
sec my copy.
Hon.

Mr. Prowse:

actual citation.

1 want to know

the

Hon. Mr. Choquette: Judgment was pronounced on November 20, 1969, and if you
telephone the Supreme Court of Canada, if
you know how to go about that, they will
have it delivered to you by special messenger.

April 21, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 21,1970SENATE

Hon. Mr. Prowso: If it is a reported case,
you can do it more simply than that, and you
know it well.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: In my opinion, that
case gives a new vitality, indeed, a new
dimension to the Canadian Bill of Rights.
In that case Drybones, an Indian who
speaks no English, was convicted by a magistrate under section 94(b) of the Indian Act,
Revised Statutes of Canada, chapter 149, in
that he was "unlawfully intoxicated off a
reserve", and he was sentenced to a fine of
$10 or three days in jail.
On an appeal de novo--that means a new
trial altogether in a higher cout-the Territorial Court of the Northwest Territories
acquitted Drybones on this charge. The
Crown then appealed against the acquittal to
the Court of Appeal of the Northwest Territories, which sustained the judgment of the
Territorial Court. A further appeal, with
leave, was then entertained by the Supreme
Court of Canada.
The majority of the court held that whereas
the ordinary law of the Northwest Territories,
a liquor ordinance, prohibited drunkenness
of persons in a public place only, but provided no fine, and a maximum term. of imprisonment of 30 days, section 94(b) of the Indian
Act prohibited drunkenness by Indians anywhere off a reserve, with a maximum fine of
$50 and a maximum jail sentence of three
months. Those are briefly the facts of the
case.
It was conceded that Drybones was intoxicated on the premises of the Old Stope Hotel
in Yellowknife in the Northwest Territories,
where there are no "reserves"~ within the
meaning of the Indian Act. The principal
question was whether section 94(b) was inoperative as being contrary to the Canadian Bil
of Rights.
The majorîty opinion of the court in
dismissing the appeal was delivered by Mr.
Justice Ritchie, who quoted sections 1, 2 and
5 of the Canadian Bill of Rights as follows:
1. It is hereby recognized and declared
there have existed and shall continue to
exist without discrimination by reason of
race, national origin, colour, religion or
sex, the following humnan rights and fundamnental freedoms, namely,
(a) the right of the individual to life,
liberty, security of the person and
enjoyment of property, and the right
not to be deprived thereof except by
due process of law;

(b) the right of the individual to equality before the law and protection
of the law;
(c) freedomn of religion;
(d) freedomn of speech;
(e) freedomn of assembly and association; and
(f) freedomn of the press.
2. Every law of Canada shall, unless it
is expressly declared by an Act of the
Parliament of Canada that it shail operate notwithstanding the Canadian Bill of
Rights, be so construed and applied as
not to abrogate, abridge or infringe or to
authorize the abrogation, abridgment or
infringement of any of the rights of freedoms herein recognized and declared, and
in particular, no law of Canada shail be
construed or applied so as to,
(a) authorîze or effect the arbitrary
detention, imprisonment or exile of any
person;
(b) impose or authorize the imposition
and unusual treatment or
cruel
punishment;
(c) deprive a person who has been
arrested or detained
(i) of the right to be inlormed promptly
of the reason for his arrest or
detention,
(il) of the right to retain and instruct
counsel without delay, or
(iii) of the remnedy by way of habeas
corpus for the determînation of the
validity of his detention and for his
release if the detention is not lawful;
(d) authorize a court, tribunal, commission, board or other authority to
compel a person to give evidence if he
is denied counsel, protection against
self crimination or other constitutional
saf eguards;
(e) deprive a person of the right to a
fair hearing in accordance with the
principles of fundamental justice for
the determination of his rights and
obligations;
(f) deprive a person charged with a
criminal offence of the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty
according to law in a fair and public
hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, or of the right to reasonable bail without just cause; or
(g) deprive a person of the right to the
assistance of an interpreter in any proceedings in which he is involved or in

SENATE DEBATES

April 21, 1970

which he is a party or a witness, before
for him to do something which his fellow
a court, commission, board or other
Canadians are free to do without having
tribunal, if he does not understand or
committed any offence or having been
speak the language in which such promade subject to any penalty.
ceedings are conducted.
It is only necessary for the purpose of
5. (1) Nothing in Part I shall be condeciding this case for me to say that in
strued to abrogate or abridge any human
my opinion s.94(b) of the Indian Act is a
right or fundamental freedom not enumelaw of Canada which creates such an
rated therein that may have existed in
offence and that it can only be construed
Canada at the commencement of this Act.
in such manner that its application would
operate so as to abrogate, abridge or
(2) The expression "law of Canada" in
infringe one of the rights declared and
Part I means an Act of the Parliament of
recognized by the Bill of Rights. For the
Canada enacted before or after the
reasons which I have indicated, I am
coming into force of this Act, any order,
therefore of opinion that s.94(b) is
rule or regulation thereunder, and any
inoperative.
law in force in Canada or in any part of
Canada at the commencement of this Act
The court
that is subject to be repealed, abolished Canadian Bill was equally clear that the
of Rights applies to future
or altered by the Parliament of Canada.
legislation as well as to past and present
(3) The provisions of Part I shall be legislation. Mr. Justice Ritchie quoted with
construed as extending only to matters approval a statement by Chief Justice Cartcoming within the legislative authority of wright in the earlier case of Robertson and
the Parlianent of Canada.
Rosetanni v. The Queen, Supreme Court
The court then concluded that section 94(b) Reports, page 651:
The imperative words of section 2 of
of the Indian Act, in so far as the conviction
the Canadian Bill of Rights, quoted above,
of Drybones was concerned was inoperative
appear to me to require the courts to
in that it conflicted with the clear provisions
refuse te apply any law, coming within
of the Canadian Bill of Rights and, in parthe legislative authority of Parliament,
ticular, that it abridged "the right of the
which infringes freedom of religion
defendant to equality before the law and the
unless it is expressly declared by an act
protection of the law." In particular, Mr. Jusof Parliament that the law which does so
tice Ritchie stated:
infringe shall operate notwithstanding
-s. 2 is intended to mean and does mean
the Canadian Bill of Rights. As already
that if a law of Canada cannot be "sensipointed out section 5, subsection (2),
bly construed and applied" so that it does
quoted above, makes it plain that the
not abrogate, abridge or infringe one of
Canadian Bill of Rights is to apply to all
the rights and freedoms recognized and
laws of Canada already in existence at
declared by the Bill, then such law is
the time it came into force as well as to
inoperative
"unless it is expressly
those thereafter enacted. In my opinion
declared by an Act of the Parliament of
where there is irreconcilable conflict
Canada that it shall operate notbetween another act of Parliament and
withstanding the Canadian Bill of
the Canadian Bill of Rights the latter
Rights"must prevail.
I think that the word "law" as used in
Hon. Mr. Lang: Was that quotation from
s. 1.(b) of the Bill of Rights is to be
construed as meaning "the law of Cana- Mr. Justice Ritchie's judgment, or from the
da" as defined in s.5(2) (i.e. Acts of the dissenting judgment of the Chief Justice?
Parliament of Canada and any orders,
Hon. Mr. Choquette: It is taken from the
rules or regulations thereunder) and
without attempting any exhaustive defi- dissenting judgment of the Chief Justice.
Honourable senators, it is evident from the
nition of "equality before the law" I
think that s.1(b) means at least that no Drybones case that, while the Canadian Bill
individual or group of individuals is to be of Rights may net be embedded in the Constitreated more harshly than another under tution, so long as it remains a part of the
that law, and I am therefore of opinion statute law of Canada it will render inoperathat an individual is denied equality tive any provision in a Canadian statute, presbefore the law if it is made an offence ent or future, which abrogates, abridges or
punishable at law, on account of his race, infringes any provision of the Canadian Bill
[Hon. Mr. Choquette.]

April 21, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 21.1970SENATE

of Rights in the absence of an express declaration in the statute concerned that the provision is to operate "«notwithstanding the
Canadian Bill of Rights."
Honourable Senators will note that there is
no provision in the hate literature bill declarlng any of its provisions to be operative notwithstanding the Canadian Bill of Rights.
Moreover, it will be noted that two of the
freedoms enumerated in section 1 of the
Canadian Bull of Rights are "1freedomn of
speech and freedom of the press." It will be
further ncted from section 2 of the Canadian
Bil of Rights that, in particular, no law of
Canada shail be construed or applied so as to:
a person charged with a
-deprive
criminal offence of the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty
according to law in a fair and public
hearing by an independent and impartial
tribunal, or the right to reasonable bail
wîthout just cause.
We know of a certain clause in the hate
literature bill where property, books, et
cetera can be seized and the man whose property has been seized must go to court and
show cause why these things should flot have
been seized. That goes against ail the principies of law that we have known up until now.
The principal argument concerning the hate
propaganda bill has ltinged on the question,
not of whether the bill in fact abridges freedom of speech, which it clearly does, but of
whether, in the circumnstances, such an
abridgement is justifiable as a necessary and
desirable abridgement of freedom of speech.
However, the Canadian Bill of Rights is
uncompromising and unqualified in its ianguage: it does not say "«unless such abridgement of fundamental freedomn is justified,"
rather does it say that any such abridgement
to be operative must be declared to be so
notwithstanding the Canadian Bil of Rights.
It would seema that this would apply to the
advocacy of genocide as well as to the other
provisions of titis bil.
I note also that subsections 1 and 2 of proposed new section 267C appear to offend, at
least in principle, against the doctrine of presumed innocence referred to in section 2 of
the Canadian Bil of Rights, and that the
required consent of the Attorney General
would flot correct the position.
I can only conclude from. the foregoing that,
in the light of the Drybones decision the Goverrnent should either have referred the proposed bill to the Supreme Court for an opinion as to its effectlveness having regard to the
22481-7?

Canadian Bfi of Rights or, alternatively, have
incorporated a declaration in the present bill
to the effect that its provisions shail operate
notwithstanding the Canadian Bill of Rights.
For the reasons I have given, I amn unalterably opposed to the passage of this bill, and I
shall vote against second reading. I enjoy
being in a free society, and I arn dlstrustful of
anything which tends to make it less free.
Honourable senators, what we can say
today without legal consequence wil become
a criminal offenoe if we say it af ter this bil
receives Royal Assent. Tihis, clearly, is an
abridgement of freedom of speech.
I, therefore, consider that, if this bill
receives second readmng, at the very least it
should be referred to the Standing Senate
Committee on Constitutional and Legal
Affairs, whose acting chairman Senator Lazarus Phillips is one of Canada's outstanding
counsel, not for the rehashing of trivial
amendments, but to hear from the Department of Justice, and in particular from the
Minister of Justice, assurances-if they can
be given-that this bill will not prove to be
inoperative, in whole or in part, because of
any conflict with or repugnancy to the
Canadian Bill of Rights, as interpreted by the
Supreme Court of Canada in the Drybones
case.
In the words of the editorial in the Globe
and Mail, only yesterday:
The Senate must asic itself, if basic
human rights can co-exist with the hate
bill, which would deny freedom of
expression, freedom of conscience and
religion, freedom of assembly and
association, the security of liberty and
property, the presumption of innocence,
and would put artificial impediments in
the way of discussions between Cenadians and Canadians.
Honourable senators, the Drybones case, a
landmark in Canadian jurisprudence, sets
forth unequivocally that the Canadian Bml of
Rights is not merely a parcbment to be
framed and hung on the wafls of our classrooms, nor is it merely a legal canon of construction, but, as long as it remains on our
statute books it constitutes the legal embodiment of the fundamental values titis country
cherishes most dearly, and wbich are the
foundation of titis nation.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Lang, debate
adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES
STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS
PROPOSED STUDY OF PROCEDURES BY LEGAL
AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
-DEBATE CONTINUED

The Senate resumed from Wednesday,
April 15, the adjourned debate on the motion
of Hon. Mr. Martin that the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs be instructed to consider and, from
time to time, to report on procedures for the
review by the Senate of instruments made in
virtue of any statute of the Parliament of
Canada, and to consider in connection therewith any public documents relevant thereto.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed that
Senator Hayden should speak instead of
Senator Aird?
Hon. Senaiors: Agreed.
Hon. Salier A. Hayden: Honourable senators, the motion put forward by the Government Leader (Hon. Mr. Martin) in February this year deals with delegated
authority. In the course of time that has
passed since that date there have been many
speakers and the debate has covered a wide
range, all of which was useful and relevant.
As I saw the debate progress and felt that
I wanted to say something on the matter, I
noted that the arca for discussion was shrinking all the time, and I thought of the law of
diminishing returns if I attempted to inflict
any lengthy or detailed remarks upon you at
this moment. Nor can I assure you that at this
stage I can on the words of the motion stir
your emotions to the extent that Senator Choquette just did on a different subject because
the wording of this moion does not lend
itself to that kind of discussion, at least not at
this stage. It may be that on a particular bill,
as and when we face an issue of delegated
authority that we think is not justified, a
great deal of emotion could be stirred, and
the debate might have all the range that it
would appear debate on this so-called hate
bill may eventually have.
There are one or two things to which I
should like to call your attention. One is that
our committees, particularly the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce-and I would think the other
standing Senate committees-have been very
alert to this question of the scope and extent
of delegated authority. I should point out, as
you may already know, that in the last session of Parliament, in the other place a special committee was established to deal with
[Hon. Mr. Choquette.]

April 21, 1970

this matter, to study it, to hear witnesses,
study documents and make a report. That
committee, under the chairmanship of Mr.
Mark MacGuigan, made a report in October
1969. It appears in the Votes and Proceedings
of the House of Commons, No. 198. There are
one or two things in that report to which I
wish to refer so that I may make a very short
comment on them. The report says:
Your [Committee proposes] the establishment of a new Standing Committee
on Regulations to provide an initial
subsequent scrutiny, followed by the referral of appropriate regulations to the
other Standing Committees for further
consideration. It is your Committee's
intention that the meetings and reports of
this new Committee would be public. In
addition, your Committee proposes the
establishment of guidelines for the enabling legislation which originally confers
on the executive the right to make delegated legislation.
I am happy to note that one point not
encompassed in the motion put forward by the
Government Leader is the suggestion of a
separate standing committee. I have very
grave doubts about the value of a separate
standing committee. I think it would inhibit
or slow up the processes of consideration of
legislation by having to refer any legislation
that contains the power of delegation or the
making of regulations to a special committee,
have that committee pass on it, and with
their views then have the legislation go to the
appropriate committee. I think that would be
the wrong way of doing things.
I am glad to note that this motion proposes
that the question be submitted to the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs for consideration and study. As
I see it, their duty would be to propose guidelines for consideration by other standing committees as and when these questions arise in
the course of consideration of a bill. That
report embodying those guidelines would
corne to the Senate, and could be debated,
accepted in part, amended or changed in part,
but there would be direction from the Senate
on the manner of approach, the question of
delegated authority, and the scope and extent
of regulations which embody the conferring
of power, without any right of appeal, on the
minister or on departmental officials. With
that sort of consideration of this motion, I
would be heartily in favour of it.
I found a clear statement by Senator Leonard in the course of our consideration of the

April 21. 1970

Apri 21.1970SENATE
DEBATES

Hazardous Products bill on this very question
of delegated authority, subordinate legisiation and the conferring of legisiative powers
upon an administrative body, and further
conferring upon the Governor in Council the
power to, amend legisiation that has been
passed by Parliament. These were instances
that occurred during our consideration of the
Hazardous Products bil. Senator Leonard had
something to say before hie proposed Mis
amendment which would have the effect of
requiring that when hazardous products were
being added to the inhibited list, which was a
schedule to the bill, within a specific period of
time that exercise of authority should go back
to Parliament for its approval, and if Parliament did not approve it, then it ceased to
have any force and effect.
In the course of his remarks Senator Leonard said:
That brings us back, then, to the question of the responsibiity of the minister
and of the Cabinet to Parliament, and
here we are into this whole realm of
subordinate legislation which is the concern of ail countries, including Canada,
as to when legisiation should be properly
done by regulation because it is pertinent
and necessary to carry out the legisiation,
and when At should be stopped from
being, in point of fact, actual legislation.
Your chairman of that committee, of
course, phrased bis view on this question a
littie differently, and secured concurrence
from the Director of Legisiation in the
Department of Justice, Mr. Thorson.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Senator Hayden was the
chairman.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: The chairman of that
committee saidHon. Mr. Martin: You were the chairman.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Yes. I amn assuming this
is cominon knowledge.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Let us put it on the
record.
Hon. Mr. Haydn:
The generai principle, when you use that
word to start off withMr. Thorson had used this word about a general principle.
-ia that if Parliamient enacts legisiation,
then Parliament is the body that should
repeal or amend that legisiation. That is
22481-7 j

the general prmnciple. Then it gets down
to a question of fact as to whether in the
case of this particular bill, giving the
executive power to amend is necessary in
the circumstances and in the public
interest.
MR. THORSON: That is correct.
THE CHAIRMAN:
question of fact.

Then

it becomes a

MR. THORSON: It is a value judgment
that has to be made.
There we have stated very succinctly the
approach to this question of justifying subordinate legisiation for conferring delegative
authority on administrative officiais. Tonight I
propose to deal with that and refer incidentaily to some cases where this very question
has corne before the Banking, Trade and
Commerce Comimittee i the Senate and how
we have deait with it.
I should flrst state that the general pricipie in examination into delegative authority
or subordinate legislation-the aspects of
delegative authority-must be considered in
the context of the rights of individuals
and in the rights of society. This delegation is exercised in the following fashion.
For instance, authority is given by legisiation, the exercise of which is final and conclusive. Very often ini legisiation you wml find
that the minister is given the power and the
authority to make a decision and that it is
final and conclusive notwithstanding the fact
that in the course of exercising that authority
they may have to deal with the question of
law or a quasi question of law or a question
of mixed law and facts. In ail those cases,
since this is in most cases a discretionary
power that is given to the minister, if hie
makes the decision without giving reasons
then there is no opportunity to challenge the
exercise of the discretion. The authority of
the minister beig final and conclusive, is
absolute i those circumstances. If the minister gave reasons and it appeared that the
reasons aniounted to no exercise of discretion
then there would be a right of appeal.
Another class is when you have authority
in the legisiation to provide regulations for
the administration of the statutes, which
regulations elther exceed and extend beyond
the scope or authority of the statute or confer
on officials the right to legislate, thus usurping the exclusive authority of Parliament
with no provision for review or appeal.

SENATE DEBATES
These are the general types of exercise of
delegated authority. I was proposing to make
a very short comment on each one. I should
point out that in the recently published works
by Chief Justice McRuer-he conducted hearings for three or four years, and his work is
entitled "On Civil Rights"-this question is
very inexhaustively analyzed in relation to
provincial statutes in the Province of Ontario.
May I just take these headings which I have
developed-that is, where the minister has
been given authority to make decisions under
legislation, and his decision is final.
In the Senate when dealing with amendments to the Customs Tariff, we considered
the position where the minister is given
authority to make decisions under legislation
and his decision is final and conclusive as
without appeal. Authority was given to the
minister in Bill C-72, 1961, the fourth session
of the Twenty-fourth Parliament. This was an
amendment to the Customs Tariff, and the
language of subsection 2 reads:
Notwithstanding subsection 1, goods other
than goods custom-made to specifications
shall be deemed not to be of a class or
kind made or produced in Canada unless
at least 10 per cent of the normal Canadian consumption of goods of the same or
approximately the same class or kind are
made or produced in Canada.
The next subsection reads:
The decision of the minister shall be final
with respect to the following matters:
(a) the normal Canadian consumption of
the goods described in subsection (2),
and
(b) whether goods are custom-made to
specifications, and whether adequate
facilities exist in Canada for the economic production of such goods within a reasonable period of time.
This was the form of the bill when it came
to the Senate. At that time my very dear
friend Senator Aseltine was leading the Government of the day and he had a difficult
time dealing with this amendment.
An amendment was made by the Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce which
provided that subject to the right of appeal to
the Tariff Board the minister could exercise
his authority, and when the Tariff Board
dealt with it then that was final and conclusive. The legislation never came into law
because the House of Commons refused to
accept the bill as amended and the conferences that followed produced no result. When
the then Government Leader in the Senate
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

April 21, 1970

moved that the Senate do not insist on its
amendment, the Senate insisted and the legislation died.
There is an illustration of the final and
conclusive feature of a decision being given to
a minister, which is an administrative decision. The basis for that decision has to be a
preliminary set of facts on which he must
make findings. There is no opportunity to
make any presentation and there may be no
need to give any reasons other than to make
a decision.
To illustrate another type of matter that
came before us, I would mention the consideration of the Hazardous Products Bill. There
was a provision that the Governor in Coundil
might add to or delete from the two schedules
to the bill. Schedule 1 provided that the products enumerated therein could only be dealt
with under regulations, but Schedule 2
prohibited the dealing with the products
named therein. There was quite a long debate and I think almost every senator here
heard about it at some stage or another, even
the Government Leader. An amendment was
proposed which was carried, the bill having
been introduced in the Senate. That amendment provided that within two years a bill
amending this act in relation to this provision
and adding hazardous products to the prohibitive list must be brought to Parliament,
and if not approved by Parliament then it
ceases to have any further force in effect.
Considerable debate followed, and when
the bill went to the Commons the committee
there made an amendment. The nature of it is
unimportant now, because even the Commons
itself in session could not see fit to accept the
amendment that its own committee had made.
Then an amendment was proposed in the
Commons, in the course of consideration of
the report of the committee. That amendment
provided that if, within a period of two years
after this hazardous product bas been added
to the prohibited list, both Houses of Parliament pass a resolution revoking it, then it is
revoked as and from that moment.
Our first consideration of that led us to the
conclusion that it was bowing in the direction
of what should control delegated authority,
but it was not doing anything that was the
least bit effective. We had suggested, rather,
that it should say that the addition to this
prohibited list would fall, or cease to have
any force or effect, if within the period of two
years it was not approved by Parliament.
However, we seemed to have reached a
stalemate and finally we permitted ourselves
to be persuaded. Senator Leonard, being a

April 21, 1970

Apri 21.1970SENATE
DEEATES

good negotiator, had had a discussion with
Mr. MacGuigan, who was the chairman of the
comniittee to which I have referred. He considered the question and wrote an opinion to
the committee. By that time I suppose every
one was getting a little tired of the lengthy
delays. So we proceeded on the basis of the
opinion which Mr. MacGuigan gave. May I
refer briefly to his opinion.
You asked my opinion on the power of
delegated law-making conferred on the
Governor in Council by section 8(l) and
(2) of Bil S-26 deaing with hazardous
products and on the limitation on that
power added by the Senate in section
8(3).
I agree with your view that it is
undesirable for the Governor in Council
to have such broad powers in the absence
of some form of subsequent scrutiny by
Parliament, and my position would be
the same whether the power was to vary
a statutory schedule or merely to make
regulations under a statute. However, I
would suggest that what is needed is a
general solution to the problem of delegated legisiation rather than an ad hoc
one. The Special Committee of the House
of Comrnons on Statutory Instruments, of
which. I arn chairman, is now in the process of studying what the best such solution would be.
At that stage we flnally yielded and agreed
to the amendment which had been made by
the Commons, appreciating at the same time
that it was not the effective way of dealing
with the question.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I arn most interested in the
two cases which the honourable senator has
just recited, but would he not agree with me
that the second one is the worst of the two,
and that the reason why we did not insist was
that the mai ority was not the same in the
Senate?

such suggestion. Up until this moment wheni
my friend suggested a different motive, I had
flattered myseif that it was the declarative
way in which I presented this great offensive
against the delegated authority, where they,
were vîolating what should be the proper
control o! delegated authority, that I had been
persuasive to the extent that the majority of
the committee should be won over.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I arn not putting any more
to it. I arn putting it as the facts, not the
motives-I had none in mind.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: This is what I myself
pointed out a f ew moments ago, dealing with
the customs tariff position, where there were
certain facts that the minister was to find. It
shows, first of ail, what you have to arrive
at-what are "facts," and what are the facts.
In arrîving at what are the facts and how
they should be interpreted, you may be
applying legal principles. So, in dealing with
the question of delegated authority that is
final and conclusive, there should always be a
right in the person who is affected thereby, to,
review thatdecision in some legal body.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Do you mean legal body or
judiciary body?
Hon. Mr. Haydenc Judicial body.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Inciuding Parliarnent.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Of course, Parliament
can always act.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: "lLegal body"~ is very wide.
I would like to have that interpreted.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: If it is too broad, one
could say "due process o! law".
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Very good.
Hon. Mr. Martin: This includes Parliament.

Hon. Mr. Hayden: While we are dealiug
with the customs, there is one other point I
Hon. Mr. Hayden: No. My friend can should cail to your attention. We had before
us the Canada Deposit Insurance Act. We had
attribute any motives he lilces.
it originally before us in 1967. This was
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Not to you. It is a question simultaneous with the Bank Act, which we
of fact.
were dealing with at that moment. It was a
Mon. Mr. Hayden: This Is a freedom that question of providing for making compulsory
my friend Senator Choquette was urging s0 that deposits in banks should be insured to a
certain amount. We had general legisiation in
strongly a short tinie ago.
the Canada National Deposit Insurance Act.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: And, I hope, convincingly.
Then somne provinces, particularly the
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I express no opinion on Province o! Quebec, decided they wanted to
that. But my friend has suggested a motive operate their own deposit insurance, and It
for the attitude. I dissociate myself from any was then a matter for agreement, and what

SENATE DEBATES
the terms of agreement should be between
the federal authority and the provincial
authority.
In the original bill they had decided not to
define the word "deposit". All they had said
was that "deposit" would be defined by
by-law or regulation. We objected to that, but
we were persuaded again that the matter was
urgent, that something had to be put on paper
to coincide with the new Bank Act to get this
protection going, and that they were not in a
position to outline or to delimit what should
be the scope of the definition of the word
"deposit" to cover all those things which
might arise in that connection.
We passed that bill. Then, when the
amending bill came before us in October
1967, by reason of the agreement to be made
with the provinces, we went back at it, when
we discovered that a definition of "deposit"
had been made by by-law. So we said, if it
is made by by-law, then it should be incorporated into the legislation.
Mr. Humphrys-who appeared before uspleaded that, while they had defined it by
by-law, they were not sure that the scope and
extent was broad enough. So he pleaded that
it should be done right away. Finally we
came up with what came to be called the
"Hayden amendment", in terms of Senator
Grosart's description of it. I suggested we provide that the word "deposit" in the original
act should mean "deposit as defined by the
by-law" and that if no change were made in
that, within one year-this is the time that
Mr. Humphrys wanted-the powers of the
directors of the corporation to define the
expression "deposit" as set out in paragraph
(g) of subsection (1) of section 12 terminate on
the expiration of one day from the day on
which the act comes into force, but such termination would not affect any by-law made
before the expiration of such year.
So what we really did was this: If they
made no change in the course of a year, we
stuck them, as a matter of law, with the
definition of "deposit" which was in their
by-law.
Then there was one other thing which they
had in respect of which we made some
change. You may recall the language of subclause 3 of clause 2 of Bill S-24 of 1967. When
it was introduced in the Senate, it read this
way:
For the purpose of enabling the Corporation to carry out an insuring arrangement referred to in subsection (1) or
provided for in an agreement under sub[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

April 21, 1970

section (2), the Governor in Council may,
by regulation, adapt any of the provisions
of this Act to any provincial institution
referred to in subsection (1), or to any of
the deposits with that institution, and
make provision for any other matter or
thing resulting from such insuring
arrangement or agreement that is not
provided for by this Act.
We told Mr. Humphrys who was appearing
before us at that time that he could not have
legislation of that kind, which was giving an
authority to the Governor in Council to
enlarge the scope of the legislation. So we
struck out the words "that is not provided
for by this act" and put a period.
By way of illustration, this indicates in a
practical way the problems we have been
dealing with. I could recall many more examples, but there is no value in a recital. The
fact is we have been aware of these things
and have been able to alert ourselves to look
for them, and I am sure the other committees
do the sane thing.
If you will grant me another minute or two,
there is one other instance I should like to tell
you about. In 1940 or 1941, shortly after I
came into the Senate, a bill came from the
Commons providing for the revival or reinstatement of the Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act in relation to the Province of Saskatchewan. At that time, I might point out to
my friend without imputing any motives,
when I sat on the Government side there
were many more people sitting on the Opposition side than on the Government side.
Hon. Mr. Choquetie: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: That is a long tine ago.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Well, you can still think
about it and, in retrospect, enjoy it.
At that time the discussion in the Senate
took place on the basis that, if there was one
body that was set up by the Government of
Canada that had the most fantastic view of
law in the interpretation of facts, all you had
to do to find it was to look at some of the
decisions that were being made by the Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act. And I might
point out that their decisions were final, conclusive and without appeal; nor could you get
them into court by certiorari, mandamus
orHon. Mr. McDonald: And their decisions
were generally wrong.

April 2L, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Hayden: It will be noted that that
interjection was made by another senator.

As I see it, our job in the interests of the
public is to try to preserve as much as we can
Hon. Mr. McDonald: From Saskatchewan. of the remnants of freedom that remain.
Therefore, the resolution by the Government
Hon. Mr. Martin: And who, it was intend- Leader was a very timely one. I regret that
the committee in the other place was not
ed, would benefit from the bill.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: On second reading an re-established. Why not, I would not venture
amendment was proposed to the effect that to guess, but I think that is all the more
any decision of that court would be subject to reason why we should push ahead ane see to
appeal to the Supreme Court of the province it that we gelt guidelines to show 'the public,
on questions of law. The amendment carried. at least to that extent, that we are interested
in preserving some of the freedoms and in
It is interesting to note that not only did al
senators sitting on the Opposition side get up giving them some opportunities for questionto vote for that amendment but eight senators ing or challenging administrative decisions
sitting on this side also got up and voted for which affect them and in respect of which in
it. When I looked at who they were and what many cases they do not even appear to have
their ranking positions might be said to be, the opportunity to be heard.
Many years ago there was a saying that if
politically, I did not feel at al ashamed to get
you caled a hearing, you could call it anyup and vote for the amendiment myself.
Then there were conferences going on and thing you liked, but if there was not a hearthe Commons would not move, and finally ing of witnesses and the right and opportunione day Senator Dandurand came in, and ty to cross-examine them, it was not a
without any private consultation, simply hearing.
Honourable senators, those are the few
moved that the Senate not insist on its
amendment. You can well imagine that that remarks-which have stretched to more than
motion was subject to the same fate that a few-that I wanted to say on this subject.
befell the resolution: the same people who
Hon. Donald Cameron: Honourable senavoted against the resolution by voting for the tors, it is with some diffidence at this late
amendment voted against the motion not to
hour that I inject myself into the excellent
insist on the amendment.
discussion which has taken place in respect of
That is only by way of illustrating the statutory instruments. Senator Hayden and
alertness with which we must approach all Senator Lazarus Phillips have outlined clearly
legisiation. The area of the legislative field is and with eloquence the legal nature of the
increasing; the area of the freedom of the matter before us. However, it is not my incliindividual is diminishing; the demands are nation to touch upon the legal technicalities
increasing from all quarters by people who in this bill.
feel that, if they are hurt by anything, there
Early in March Senator Martin introduced
ought to be a law against it; and the legislators, provincially and federally, feel it neces- this particular resolution into the Senate. In
sary to satisfy such demands. Thus you get a so doing he performed a signal service to
narrowing in the administration, and the the Parliament of Canada when he moved,
people who are charged with the administra- and I quote:
tion feel that they want such an authority;
... that the Standing Senate Committee
that they can just do this in the way in
on Legal and Constitutional Affairs be
which they think it should be done. Whether
instructed to consider and, from time to
that takes them outside the actual scope of
time, to report on procedures for the
the bill, or whether it amounts to a power of
review by the Senate of instruments
legislation, does not seem to matter to them
made in virtue of any statute of the Parvery much.
liament of Canada, and to consider in
A reading of the former Chief Justice
connection therewith any public docuMcRuer's book together with a careful look at
ments relevant thereto.
the legislation in this house indicates that
departments that get legislation tend to try to
I consider it particularly fortunate that a
get such legislation that will enable them to
have the authority to do certain things, and topic of this importance should have been
tend to try to tuck it in as closely as they can introduced by the Leader of the Government,
so that they will have all the authority and so because by introducing it he has provided an
that there will be little If anything in the way opportunity for discussing a topic that is of
of review.
increasingly vital concern to al Canadians,

SENATE DEBATES
namely, who governs Canada? That is a question that is being asked of the Government
with increasing frequence. More and more
Canadians are today concerned that the Government is getting too large; they are concerned with the fact that governmnents, federai, provincial and municipal, are in total
spending 35 cents out of every dollar earned
by Canadians. Because of the impact of this
imbalance in expenditures, there is more concern on the part of Canadians on titis matter
than there bas been for a long time.
So the people are beginning to wonder
increasingly who governs Canada-the people's elected representatives, the members of
the House of Commons, and the members of
the Senate--or whether they are in effect
being governed for ail practical purposes by
people who are not elected to governrnent but
who in effect have usurped the prerogatives
of Parliament and are governing the country,
not by statutes passed by Parliarnent but by
their interpretation of regulations which they
thernselves have made for carrying out these
statutes.
It was said in the committee of the other
place which has been referrcd to, that out of
601 Acts of Parliament, 420 provide for delegation of authority. That delegation of
authority is expressed in most of the bis as
follows: "The Governor in Council, on advice
of the Miiiister, shahl have the authority to
make regulations which he deerns necessary
to implernent the provisions of thîs act." This
is frorn the National Parks Act, with which 1
arn ail too familiar.
As most honourable senators are aware, I
live on a reservation in a national park where
we are second-class cîtizens, and we were
made second-class citizens by virtue of the
interpretation of regulations. It is not my
intention to go into this particular matter this
evening, but I will have something to say
about it when Bill C-152 cornes before this
house. But, section 7 of the National Parks
Act reads:
The Governor in Council rnay, from time
to time as he deerns expedient, make
regulations-

Arl2.17
April 21, 1970

cally ail members of this house. That that
concern is shared by the Leader of the Governrnent gives me particular pleasure and
satisfaction. I read with particular interest
and delight the lively debate carried on
between Senator Larnontagne and Senator
Flynn on the night of April 7, and I wish we
could have more such interchanges. The
Senate would be a livelier place if this were
so.
During the discussion on the report of the
Interparliamentary
Canada-United
States
Group, it was suggested by Senator Thornpson and concurred in by Senator Grosart that
we might use the device of the Senate sitting
as a Committee of the Whoic much more
frequently, and by doing so make for a much
less formai and therefore a livelier debate, a
pattern somewhat along the lines followed by
our colleagues in the United States Sonate. I
hope the Leader of the Government will give
serious consideration to using this procedure

more frequently in the future.
lion.

Mr.

Martin: I

am

favour of this

myself.

Hon. Mr. Cameron: I read with intercst the
presentation of rny estcemed colleague Senator Lamontagne to the effeet that the role of
the civil service as a dominant force in the
formulation of public policy was in decline.
He may be right to some extent for the long
run, but as of this moment I see too few signs
that in practice this is so. It is true that we
have political seminars and varlous Thinkers
Conferences, and these have made valuable
contributions to political thinkîng in Canada.
But sorne wellintentioned objectives of these
Thinkers Conferences are often interpreted
far differently by those who undertake to,
interpret and execute those ideas when some
of them are converted into statutes.
May I just refer to some illustrations that I
arn familiar with where, in the interpretation
of legisiation, the civil servants, and often
they were four or five rungs down the ladder,
devised regulations which have been inimical
to the interests of the people of this country. I
And then there are two pages of fine print should also say, however, that we have many
containing the regulations. But we can deal able and dedicated civil servants, but I arn
afraid that through the burgeoning systemn of
with that at another time.
Before elaborating on this theme, I want to the civil service today, and I amn not referring
say that I have listened to and read with only to the federal civil service but also to
great interest rnost of the excellent speeches provincial and municipal civil services, we
made on this topic by my colleagues. It is have so many people making this a way of
gratifying to know that the concern which I life that they are not dedicated to productivihave feit for a long time is shared by practi- ty. There are too many people in administra[Hon. Mr. Cameron.]

April 21, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 21.1970SENATE

would think that this is the sort of statement
tive functions i governmnent who like ta use that should be made by a minister and flot
their authority with an excessive amount of by a deputy minister.
zeal.
Honourable senators, tonight just outBy way of ilustration of some of the areas side our doors there is a parade of a large
where government by regulation has been number of people from Montreal in protest
particularly obvious in the last few years, I against the administration of the Post Office. I
refer again to the national parka where an need flot emphasize to this house the troubles
attempt was made to do by regulation what that have bedevilled the Post Office for the
could not be done by statute. I refer specifi- last several. years. But if you want to learn
cally ta the breakig of leases and contracts about misuse of regulations, read the Montpebetween the Crown and citizens of the park. tit Report on the Post Office, where justice
The people in the park feit that an injustice was denied people employed in the postal
was being done, and they had ta raise the service by regulations made by those who
money ta take the case to the Supreme Court were more concerned with exercising their
of Alberta. They won the case there, and then own petty powers than with giving justice.
the Miister of Indian Aiffairs and Northern
This is just an example of the kind of thing
Development appealed ta the Supreme Court
to say
himn that if the that has to be looked at, and all I want
of Canada. We suggested ta
a this evening, at this late hour, is that I arn
legislation was i doubt he should ask for
the Leader of the Government
ruling on it rather than putting us ta the delighted that this resolution. I amn delighted
it in the Supreme has introduced
expense of contesting
have been some 21 or 22 speeches
Court. He would not do that, and so we had that there I hope that the members of the
on it, and
ta raise $10,000 ta fight the case in the
make it their business ta see that
Supreme Court of Canada, where, incidental- Senate will
some machinery is established which will be
the case.
ly, we won
effective in making sure that any particular
Then there was the attempt ta confiscate statute, particularly one which depends for ils
and ta raise taxes
property by regulation,
execution on a large number of regulations, is
without consent and without representation. provided with safeguards so that the ordinary
Then, in recent years, there has been the citizen can ask to see under what act or regucontroversy in the Departmetit of Indian lation his rights are being interfered with.
Affairs over the probiems of Indian education. And, as has been suggested previously this
Certainly, the Indians are not; satisfied at the evening, there must be some overview by
denial of their Indian rights, and sa they are Parliament of legislation of this kind.
suing the Crown. Thtis is goig ta cost the
As I said earlier, there is increasing concern
Canadian people plenty before it is finished.
cost of
that the Depart- today about big government, about the
Then I remember readig
government and about the arbitrariness of it.
ment of Manpower had 409 regulations introI refer to the experience I have had in
duced ta implement some parts of its Again
the past, where little people, clerks, storelegisiatian.
keepers, garage workers, whose 11f e savings
As a further illustration I might mention
were tied up i their homes, were told that
that there has been an icreasing number of
and they
servants, their leases would not be renewed,
suggestions emanating from. civil
said, "IWe cannot fight the Government; we
senior ones at that, that we should set upi
ihave not the money ta begin with." This is
Crown corporations. Why? I just ask this
becoming more frequently the case, and
question. Many people feel that one of thE
another factor we have
establish Crowni associated with this is
reasons behind the desire ta
ta keep in mmnd. 1 had a promient businesscorporations ta administer the national parke
man from the west spend a few days here i
or ta adininister Public Works and othex
Ottawa a couple of months ago i connection
agencies of that kind is ta remove thesi
Canada. He
these particulai *with an important projeet for here and had
people who are administering
rsaid that he had spent four days
statutes one step further from the scrutin3
been sent ta fifteen different people i the
of the public.
5civil service, being passed around from one ta,
Honourable senators, this must stop. I wai
à the other, without gettig any action. This is
at a public meeting not s0 long ago where i- the sort of thing that is becoming more
deputy minister announced that the Depart 1 comnion, so the time has arrived, as far as I
ment of Public Works was, going ta be turne( am concerned, when we must pay more attenI
huao a Crown Corporation. Maybe It is, but'
22481-8

SENATE DEBATES

tion to what is being done in the name of
Parliament through the execution of acts of
this kind.
In the April 17, issue of the Toronto Daily
Star, one of our leading reporters, Anthony
Westell, wrote an article entitled, "New style
of grass-roots politics is stealing Parliament's
thunder". He went on to refer to comments
by Prime Minister Trudeau and Mr. Stanfield.
The net effect of what he was saying is that
new means of communication have made it
necessary for the leaders of government to go
directly to the people and by-pass Parliament.
I think this is true, up to a point, but it is a
fact that as long as a Parliament exists it has
the responsibility for preparing legislation
and administering it, and we would be remiss
in our duty if we did not make sure, as
members of the Senate and as members of
Parliament, that justice is done to everyone
and that the objectives, the purposes of statutes, cannot be misinterpreted by people,
either for their own purposes or because of
ignorance and a lack of knowledge of what
they are dealing with.
Honourable senators, I am delighted that
we have had this discussion and to know that
there is so much concern, and I hope that out
of this discussion will come a more formal
provision to ensure that regulations are
reviewed and that they can be challenged in
Parliament itself or in the courts.

April 21, 1970

On motion of Hon. Mr. Martin, debate adjourned.
ADJOURNMENT
Leave having been
Motions:

given

to revert to

Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, I move, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(g), that when the
Senate adjourns today it do stand adjourned
until tomorrow, Wednesday, April 22, at 2
o'clock in the afternoon.
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: Honourable senators,
may I point out that at this late hour quite a
number of senators are not present in the
chamber. If this motion is now passed there
could very well be a considerable number of
senators who would not know that the Senate
was not meeting at the usual time tomorrow.
Might I suggest that some notification be sent
to all honourable senators so that they will
know we are meeting at 2 o'clock rather than
at 3 o'clock?

SO.

Hon. Mr. Martin: Certainly.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: We will be glad to do

Motion agreed to.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2
p.m.

DEBATES
Apri 22,1970SENATE

April 22, 1970

THE SENATE
W.dneuday, April 22, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.

DIVORCE
PETITION FOR BILL TO ANNIJAL RESOLUTIONEEFERRED TO COMMITTEE

Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald, for Hon. Mr.
Phillips (Rigaud), moved:
That the petition of Laura Eileen Margaret Bamford Hashim, of the City of
Montreal, in the Province o! Quebec,
praying for the passing of an Act to
annul Resolution numbered 2, adopted
by the Senate on 26th November, 1969,
dissoiving the marriage between the said
Laura Elleen Margaret Bamford Hashim
and Robert Hashim, which petition was
ffled with the Clerk of the Parliaments on
22nd December, 1969, in accordance with
subsection (2) of section 2 of An Act
authorizing the Senate of Canada to Dissolve and Annul Marriages, 1963, chapter 10, be referred to the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Kif airs.
Motion agreed to.
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, I move, with leave of the Senate and
notwithstanding Rule 45(l)(g), that when the
Senate adjourns today, it do stand adjourned
until tomorrow at 2 o'clock i the afternoon.
Motion agreed to.
SOUTHEAST ASIA
NON-GOVEnRMENTAL TRLADE AND GOODWILL
MlISSION-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Donald Cameron rose pursuant to

notice:
That he will cail the attention o! the

Senate ta the visit
March and April
Non-Governinental
Mission.
He said: Honourable
the notioe I gave somne
usetul ta give a short
22481--%

ta Southeast Asia, in
1970, of the Annual
Trade and Goodwll

senators, pursuant to
days ago, I thought; It
report on what was

actually a Non-Governmental Trade and
Goodwill Mission to Southeast Asia. I think it
useful first to tell you a littie of the background and how this annual trip of a group
of mainly western businessmen came about.
The mission came about as a resuit of a
visit to the Ninth Annual General Meeting of
the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association
i 1963, which was attended by my colleague
Senator Haig and by another colleague who
was flot then but is now a member of the
Senate, Senator McDonald. In keeping with
the practice at Commonwealth Parliamentary
Association meetings, it is customary for the
visiting delegates from the Commonwealth to
tour the host country. In the course o! doing
this we travelled ail over Malaysia, and were
given a first-hand opportunity to see the conditions in what is regarded as a developing
country.
One thing that amazed ma was the lack of
managerial skills, a condition that has continued to amaze me in the years since 1963
whenever I have had an opportunity of looking at developing countries. This is one of the
serious lacks.
I was also impressed by the need for
Canadian businessmen to see for themselves
what conditions are ini countnies which have a
potential trade value with Canada. It is not
enough for a person such as myself, other
members o! the Senate or travelling businessmen to go to such countries as Russia, Germany and China, and to come back and
report. If we can have Canadian businessmen
see for themnselves and make their own
assessments, then we get an entirely different
picture.
As a resuit of the visit to Malaysia in 1963,
with a view to giving some assistance in
developing managerial skifls, I offered four
scholarships to the value of $1,000 each to the
business school with which I was associated,
two to be selected by government and two
from business. As a resuit o! that, four
individuals came fromn Malaysia in 1964, and
they sat in on the management school wlth
some 70 Canadian executives. While their
number was small, it was remnarkable the
amount o! interest ini trading patterns, and
the resources and background of their country which these four people from Malaysia
created. So evident was the interest, that a
group of executives on that particular course
came to me and said they woiild like to visit
China and Japan in the spring of 1966, and
asked if I wouid bave any objection, on the
part of the schoël, if they did so. My answer

SENATE DEBATES
was that I would have no objection whatever
and, in fact, would be much in favour of it,
provided it did not cost us any money. So in
the spring of 1966 we chartered a CP jetliner
and 88 Canadian executives and 34 wives
took a month to visit China and Japan. I arn
speaking of the only China-mainland China,
a nation of 750 million people.
This was an eye-opener in terms of what
we saw of the industrial development in
China. As a resuit of that visit there has been
a spring tour each year to diff erent parts of
the world, with the hope of developing what
we caîl an outward look for Canadian
businessmen.
In 1967 we went to Russia, Poland, Ozechosiovakia and West Germany. In 1968 we
made arrangements to go to the Caribbean,
but for a number of reasons we canceiled the
trip before it materialized, mainly becauseand this is not without its importance to
Canada--of the high cost of accommodation.
In fact, the poorest value for the tourist dollar
in any part of the world today is to be had in
the Caribbean. We were asked $75 a day for
room and board for two people ail through
tbat area. You can do much better than that
in almost any other part of the world. This is
of significance to tbe people in the Caribbean
wbo increasingly are looking to Canada to
build up tbeir tourist industry.
In 1969 we went to the Middle East, visiting
Greece, Turkey, and Israel. Again, it was an
eye-opener to see the conditions in those
countries.
Our visit to each one of those countries
resulted in an expansion of Canadian trade. I
will give you an illustration. In China in 1966
one of our members in the retail business was
impressed by the fact that he was able to buy
footballs for $9.50 apiece, whereas in Canada
they would cost hlm $40 apiece. Other members found that they could buy linens, furniture and leather goods of that character very
cheaply.
In Russia in 1967 one of our men bought
$300,000 worth of machine tools. The Russians
sent a trade expert to Edmonton to complete
the deal. While we did not have the responsibility for completing the deal, we sowed the
seeds of what materialized into a $90-million
trade deal last year.
While we were there the Russians asked
about how Canadians coped with the muskeg
conditions in the north country in the oil
exploration program. We told them about the
haîf track vebicles that had been developed
[Hon. Mr. Cameron.]

Arl2,1722, 1970
April

by the Nodwell Company in Calgary. This
was followed Up by the Department of Trade
and Commerce, and last suxnmer a deal was
completed which I understarid is of the value
of about $90 million for the supply of titis
kind of equipment for use in Russia under
conditions similar to those of the muskeg
country of our north.
Last year in Israel we visited various parts
of the country looking for opportunities to
seIl Canadian materials, and also to see wbat
we could buy at economic prices. The Deputy
Minister of Trade and Commerce of Israel,
Mr. Kuryati, was in my office just before
Christmas, and he said: "You will be interested in knowing that the resuit of your visit
was the purchase of $9 million worth of generators for an electrical power plant." These
are illustrations of the things that can corne
out of this sort of informai contacts between
Canadian businessmen and businessmen in
foreign countries.
For 1970 it has been our hope that we could
go to China and Japan and, of course, take in
Expo 170. On October 29 I wrote to the China
Export Commodities Association to see if we
could get an invitation to visit the Canton
Export Commodities Fair. 1 indicated that we
would need to know by February 15 at the
latest whetber or not we would be given permission to go. I heard nothing fromn them
until March 16, when it was too late to make
the change.

At that time a cordial invitation came
asking us to visit the Export Commodity Fair
in Hangchow, which is much farther into
China than Canton, and to spend a month
there. I have attributed this cordiality to the
negotiations which are going on ini Stockholm
today between our representatives and the
Chinese, and it seems to me to be a good
harbinger of fruitful relations in time to
corne.
In any case, having had to set up alternative arrangements, we arranged to go to Hong
Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and Japan. 0f
course, in negotiating the arrangements to be
made to meet businessmen, to meet foreign
service officers and chambers of commerce,
we relied on our own foreîgn service department. I sbould like to pay a tribute to the job
that is being done by the officers of Canada's
foreign service in different parts of the world
as 1 have found it in the last five or six years.
Nothing has been too much trouble for tbem.
They have opened many doors and made
many viable contacts for us. In short, they
have made it possible for us to make the most

April 22, 1970

Apri 22.1970SENATE
DEBATES

effective use of our time, which was i short
supply in many cases. I should like to mention speciflcaily ini this respect that ini Hong
Kong the officers involved were Senior Trade
Commissioner C. R. Gallow, Robert Godson,
John Swanson and Mark Lemieux.
The procedure we followed was that when
we arrived in a new country we would ask
the trade commissianer and the embassy ta
bring in their awn officers ta brief our group
on the economic background of the country
being visited, and, also, in the case of a country like China, to give us the current political
assessment.
I must say that this was done in a masterly
fashion. In the case af Hong Kong'
Mr.
Gallow indicated that his time was rather
short and hie might flot be able to spend the
full time of the briefing session with us but
would corne and introduce the subject of the
economic development of Hong Kong, the
econornie relationships between Hong Kong
and this part of the world, the oppartunities
there, and what was being done and could be
done, and then he would leave. In fact, he
ended by staying two hours. This was partly
because of the lively questioning by the
Canadian businessmen.
Mr. Robert Godson, who has special
responsîbility for intelligence on China, was
able to give us a flrst-hand account of what
he had seen and what hie feit was happening
there. I might say that hie had been in mainland China eight times within the previaus
year and a haîf.
Mr. John Swanson, whom I had met here
when hie was acting as secretary of the joint
committee of Parliament an the Public Service, and who is naw in Hong Kong, was also
a lively, intelligent and enthusiastic member
of the team. Mark Lemieux of the samne office
had responsibility for the intelligence on
Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam.
Sa from men like these, who had flrst-hand
knowledge of the situation, it was possible for
us to receive a briefing prior ta aur men
meeting the chambers af commerce, the
industriaiists and the businessmen, and it was
especially valuable.
Going from Hong Kong to Malaysia we met
Mr. Glen Shortcliff e, who was acting as high
commissioner; he, tao, was a young, dynamic,
hard-driving Canadian. He was ably supported by Doug Lindores, who had a tharaugh
grasp af the economic situation ai that particular part af the world.
In Singapore, where Mr. Hadwmn is also the
high commissianer, Mr. Milton Blackwood

was acting high commissioner in bis place
while Mr. Hadwin was in Ottawa, and he too,
as a result af long experience in the foreign
service, was able ta provide an admirable
background.
Then in Japan, a veteran ai the Canadian
foreign service, Mr. Herb Moran, the ambassador, was assisted by another experienced trade
officer in the persan of John Stiles. I mention
these people ini particular because ai the climate which exists at the present time in
respect ai aur foreign service. Morale is 10w,
as you know, particuiarly in the external
affairs side of it, and I want ta emphasize
with ail the farce possible that I think we
must be careful not ta impair in any way the
valuabie service, the valuable apening-up ai
windows by aur foreign service officers.
Not only did the foreign service officers
give us extremely valuable information themselves, but because ai their knowledge af the
countries they were able ta bring before us
some ai the top economists and industrialists
af the hast countries. In particular, I think of
Mr. P. S. Huang, Director af the Development
Board ai Singapare, a bright, able, Harvardtra ned economist who, in faultless English
and with dynamism and enthusiasm, gave us
a picture ai what is happening in the very
viable and dynamic society ai Singapore.
Again, in Japan, the Econamic Development Board provided us with Mr. Mayoshi,
another able, young, dynamic ecanomist, who
gave us a fascinating picture ai wbat is
becoming known today as the economie miracle ai the twentleth century, namely, what is
happening in Japan.
Honourable senatars, I give yau this as
background.
Now I shaîl say a word about the kind ai
peaple who go on these tours. They are typical Canadian businessmen mainly from the
west. On this particular trip there were 22
businessmen plus 18 wives, mainly from the
west but some coming fram as far east as
Montreal. They were senior executives from
the middle management level right up ta the
top. They represented such Canadian industries as forest products, with such campanies
as MacMilan Bloedel, Crown Zellerback and
MacDougall Lumber Company; mining, with
campantes such as Granby Consolidated;
hardware; education; marketing; and the ail
industry and heavy industrial equipment.
As I indicated earlier, each man pald bis
own expenses. The timing ai the tour la
always aver the Easter holidays because in
practice many businessmen take ten days ta

SENATE DEBATES
two weeks off at Easter. So by arranging a
tour of this kind at that time there is not the
total loss of product4ve days that there might
otherwise be. During thîs last trip, which was
just over three weeks, we travelled by plane,
train, boat, bus and car for about 30,000
miles. So it was a pretty strenuous affair.
I want to say in a capsule form now something about each of the countries and the
opportunities they present. I shall start with
Hong Kong.
Hong Kong continues to be one of the most
fascinating places in the world to visit, and
the economy there is stili booming. Here is an
area of 232 square miles including what they
caîl the New Territories, that is, what is on
the rnainland and the Island of Victoria,
occupied by four million people. It is jampacked, bustling and thriving, and it is one of
the most fascinating places to make purchases
in compared to any other place in the world.
It is one of the great harbours and trading
centres of the world, but I expect in days to
corne it will be replaced to some extent by
Singapore. I will say more about that later.
Hong Kong will always be an important
place, but one o! its most important functions
today is that it has a strategic position as a
window on China because there is a trernendous coming-and-going between China and
Hong Kong, and the exchange of products is
on a fantastic level. Each day hundreds of
cargoes of vegetable produce, livestock and
other commodities are coming out of China
and going into Hong Kong, and it means that
Hong Kong is worth hundreds of millions of
dollars to mainland China in foreign
exchange.
There are huge department stores in Hong
Kong selling goods made in communist China.
There are communist cultural centres and
communist theatres in Hong Kong, which is a
new development within the last three years
since I was there before. There has been a
growth of communist-led activity in the last
three years as well, most of it being peaceful
and conforming with the laws of the Crown
colony.
If I might mention some o! the outstanding
developments in that Crown colony, the first
would be the expanding trade. Secondly there
is the building and construction boom, particularly in housing, about which I want to
say a few words because of its relationship to
us. I shahl be saying more about this subject
when I deal with Singapore.
Each Urne I have been to Hong Kong-and
I have been there five trnes since 1956-1
[Hon. Mr. Cameron.]

April
Arl2.1722, 1970

have been amnazed to see the thousands of
refugees Up in Saipan, where the Canadian
cemnetery is, living ini deplorable conditions in
shelters put together from petrol tins, wood,
cardboard and other materials. This has now
been cleaned Up and these people have been
moved into what they cail resettiement projects. These are very austere, being simply
huge concrete blocks where a family will be
allocated 132 square feet of floor space in one
room. To a Canadian family this would be
one bedroom, but there it would accommodate a family of four, five or six people. We
think this is terrible, but we must measure it
from their benchmnark, the shambles of petrol
tins and cardboard shacks in which they had
been living previously without plurnbing and
without sanitation. Compared with that, this
is a great step forward. They have 132 square
feet of floor space with a central kitchen and
central plumbing.
The next step is low-cost housing, which is
a characteristic feature of Hong Kong. Each
family unit in a low-cost housing area has 720
square feet, and the apartment buildings go
up as high as 15, 16 or 20 stories. If we had in
any Canadian city the kind of views that they
have there, that accommodation could only be
had at a high price. I was in some of these
apartments and they were models of cleaniness and order. It is amazing what can be
done in terrns of small space. Again I want to
emphasize that these low-cost houslng unitsand there are hundreds of them-now house
200,000 people. The rents run to about $15 a
month for these people. Who lives thereclerks, teachers, civil servants and such persons. But the apartments are so planned and
arranged that there is open space between
them, there is a hospital and a school for each
one, and as I said, they are models of that
type of housing. This is one of the outstanding features of Hong Kong.
The third thing I wish to mention is the
government. Hong Kong is a Crown colony,
and here I arn going to draw an analogy. Most
o! the countries that we visited, except Japan,
are ail either under a one-party government
or have had the parliamentary procedure suspended. Hong Kong is a Crown colony and is
being administered mainly by appointed
people, and I would say they are giving an
excellent account of themselves. Now I do not
want anybody to misunderstand me and think
I arn advocating this system as a substitute
for the kind of governrnent we have in our
democratic process, but it is a fact that these
people are doing a first-class job.

April 22, 1970

Apri 22,1970SENATE
DEBATES

Now, we go to Malaya. Senator Haig and
Senator McDonald were there with me ini
1963. At that Urne the federation was just
coming into being, and it was a struggling
country. Kuala Lumpur, the capital, was a
naturally attractive city with magnificent
Parliament buildings, but most of the city had
open sewers, miles of shacks and few modern
buildings. Today there is tremendous development; it is a modern city. Those who lived at
the Merlin Hotel and other hotels at that time
wiil remember that they could barely qualify
as first-class hotels. Today, however, they are
among the best hotels yau wfll find anywhere
in the world. The streets are well-planned and
well laid out.
It is, as I have said, a beautiful country. It
la a country of about 10 million people and is
relatively rich in ternis of natural resources.
Its industry is first of all rubber, being one of
the most important of rubber producers in
the world, and secondly, tin. While we were
there, we met some of the owners of the
largest tin mines in the world. Its third industry is lumber, which is very substantial, and
some of our western lumbermen were very
interested in the pracesses they use. Finally,
they have made substantial discoveries of
iran are. The resuit la that this is a viable
country ini termis of natural resaurces.
As hanourable senatars know, there la a
very large Chinese component in the population of Malaya, and there were very serious
race rnota ini Kuala Lumpur, in particular,
and in other parts of the country in May
1969. Many people were killed and many
hundreds were put in jail. Tunku Abdul
Rahman suspended the constitution at that
time with the result that the situation today
is that there are these magnificent Parliament
buildings, but Parliament is not meeting.
What you have instead in effect is an able
benevolent dictatorship. The cabinet is functioning pretty much as they would normally
without the restrictions or inhibitions they
would have to face if they had to answer to
backbenchers. The Tunku is anxious to
restore parliamentary privileges at the eariest possible date, and the expectation is that
this wiil be done within a year. One of the
most interesting things about this developing
country is that they have had a 1.5 per cent
inflation rate in the last five years. There la
no shortage of capital, hence these magnificent buildings which are being put up and
which make us wonder what la the matter
with us. I shail not say more about Malaya at
this time, but I go on to, Singapore.

Singapore
joined
the
Federation
of
Malaysia in 1963 and a year and a hall later
was asked to withdraw. This is the resuit of
what could be cailed a temperamental conflict.
As you know, the Chinese there are first-class
businessmen; they are aggressive and dynamic, whereas the Malays are an easy-going
people who feel that if we do not get something done today, it will be done tomorrow.
Most of the business people and the business
leadership in Malaya were in the hands of the
Chinese. When the federation was established,
the government put through a bill that Malay
must be the official language of the country,
and within a certain period of time ahl the
people had to learn Malay.
It is rather interesting ta travel on the airlies there today and hear the stewardesses,
who might have grade 8 by our standards,
make their announcements in Malay, in
Tamil, in Chinese and in English. It is as good
an example as you wrnl find anywhere of a
multi-cultural state.
But the Chinese, as 1 said, were too aggressive ta suit the slow and easy-going Malays,
and consequently they were asked, in effect,
to get out of the federation. This was quite a
blow ta the people of Singapore, because their
whole concept of development had been based
on the idea that while they had two million
people on the island, they were planning their
industrial development for a market of 12
million people. But when they were out of the
federation, they had lost the bulk o! the
market they had planned ta serve, and s0
they had ta rethink the whole approach ta
industrial development and exports. They
have done this on a magnificant scale. I was
in Singapore in 1963, and the impression I
had, apart from a few good hotels and a few
modern buildings, was o! miles and miles of
ramshackle hovels. But they were starting ta
build houses and apartments at a tremendous
rate, and one of the places that they were just
starting ta get under way was the Queenstown Housing Project and the Jurong Industrial Estates. In other words, they have set
aside an area of about 12 square miles for a
planned city ta accommodate industries and
housing. 1 should say that Singapore has an
area o! 225 square miles occupied by 2 million people, 85 per cent af wham are Chinese.
It has one of the most magnificent harbours in
the world, and one afternoon we toured the
harbour because this is something everyone
shauld do. One of aur number caunted 400
ships loading or unloading, and the difference
between the harbour of Singapore and, say,

SENATE DEBATES
Hong Kong, San Francisco, New York, or
Rotterdam, is that there is noa other place ini
the world where you get such a panoramie
view of ail the harbour activity at once.
Imagine the thousands of people involved in
the labour of loading and unioading ships
from ail over the world.
The Chinese are flot slow, and we must
recegnize this in terms of any future relationship with mainiand China. They are very
aggressive, dynamîc and hard-working. They
had to rethink their whole approacli to what
they were going to do after they got out of
the Malaysian Federation. They decided that
they should be a free trade area and that
thoir market should flot be in terrms of the 12
million they thought of in the Malaysian
Federatien, but it would be the world. This is
what is happening-they have a xvorid
outlook.
Teday the Jurong Industrial Estates is one
of the fincst examples of planned urban development you wiil find anywhere in the world.
There are 250,000 people living in flats in the
Jurong Estates. These are 720 square fcct in
size pcr family, and are modemn in every
rcspect, bcing well built and attractive. They
have sehools and hospitals in them but, interestingly eneughi, they have something else.
They have said that they do flot want to use a
large proportion of their land for tran-,portation and, in view of the fact they are gearecd
to the future and are looking to the future,
they arc building up the light electrenic
industries. So you will flnd on the greund
floors of many of these apartments small electrenie plants, and the people just go downstairs to work. The rent charged for these in
Hong Kong and in Singapore varies from $12
te $15 a month. It is interesting te note that
they have been completing one fiat every 30
minutes, 24 heurs a day, for the past four
years. I tell yeu this because it is important te
know the kind ef labeur cempetitien we are
up against in Canada.
The whele area bas been levelled. There
were what they called "meuntains'-rather
like our Laurentian meuntains, as compared
te the meuntains where 1 live in Banff-and
they have moved meunitaîns and have filled
the swamps and the sea te obtain more land.
When you go te the estates teday you find
great industrial areas beautifully laid out,
with open green spaces, highways boulevarded and great botanical gardens. When you ask
Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, one of the
most able men in public life today, about this
hie says, "A city, te thrive and prosper, has ta
[Hon. Mr. Cameron.]

Arl2,17 1970
April 22,

breathe; and it can only breathe if it bas open
spaces." You see in a small area of 225 square
miles, with two million people, much more
open space than you see in Toronto, Montreal
or other large cities. So again, this is a lesson
in what can be done by modern planning, the
utilization of modern methods, and forward
thinking.
Inflation has been controiled te the extent
of semething under 2 per cent. There is ne
shertage of capital for develepment, and these
peeple are loeking te the future, are putting
their emphasis on it, and are inviting capital
frem other countries te came in and invest lin
the futuristic industries-the computers, the
integrated circuits and that whole segment ef
the new electronic miracle.
Interestingly eneugh, a Canadian, who was
a Hungarian refugee in 1956 and who came te
Montreal and set up a smail electrenic plant,
bas moved over there. His name is Fedor. He
bas aise set up an intcgrated circuit plant in
Singapere and is going te make millions, lHe
got la on the ground floor, the peeple have
welcomcd him, and he is off te a flying start.
There are ether oppertunities. For example-and this bas somne hearing on Canadawxve
wcrc asking what the situation was with
regard te the censumption of wheat. Everywhcre wc went we asked the same question.
This interests me, and my friends Senator
Me6.oiiald and Pearson may have saime comnmient te make on it. Here in Canada our
cievators are bulging te everflowing with
whcat. We are paying farmers net te grow
whcat, and there il sits. We have te pay
storage on it, even la our elevators and on the
land. I am wondering if it wouid net be a
far-reaching and imaginative suggestion for
Canada to establish a number of international
depots-say, one in Singapere, one in Hong
Kong-where we miglit store some of the
wlicat an-d where, because it weuld he within
reach on vcry shert notice, it might result in
many sales when otherwise we couid not

make a sale because people would say: "That
wheat is in Canada, 12,000 miles away."'
This is something I think our Wheat Board,
Board of Grain Commissieners and Department of Industry, Trade and Commerce might
look inte. I do net know what the economies
o! it are, but it seems te me there is some

menit ln exploring an idea o! that kind.
Hon. Mr. Martin: What about the factor of
heat?
Hon. Mr. Camneron: Well, it is a factor. I
think this could be handled, but it is one of
the factors that would work against the idea.

April 22, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 22.1970SENATE

by one group for
Again, there is no shortage of capital there. that could be arranged aspects are imporanother. While the social
They have controlled inflation, everyone is
of ail is that
working, and productivity is high. That is all tant, the most important point
we have sent to these people the biographies
I arn going to say about Singapore.
of the men ini our group. In other words, they
I would like to move on now to Japan, know how many are in the lumber business,
which is well known to many of you. Here is in the mining business, in the petro-chemical
a country of 183,000 square miles, about the business, and in the retail business. The Japasize of Sweden or California, occupied by 110 nese Chamber of Commerce and the Canadamillion people. You must remember that 80 Japan Society got in touch with their people
per cent of the land in Japan is mounitainous with the same interests. Through the Canadaand cannot be occupied, s0 in terms of popu- Japan Society the two groups are brought
lation density it is one of the most highly together, so that our men have an opportuflity
compacted areas in the worid.
the beginning to see their counterparts
Peter Drucker, in writing of Japan-and as !rom
in Japan. If they are interested in cameras,
you know, bie is one of the ieading economists they get together with the camera people. If
and business consultants in the United they are interested in electrical goods, the
States-refers to the "'economic miracle o! Sony people will look after them. If they are
Japan," saying that "there is nothing compa- interested in pianos, they go to the Yamaha
rable to this in the world's history." And he is people, and so on. So there is a maximum
right.
contact on both. sides directiy between the
Here there are, as I say, 110 million people people who have something to seil and those
in a country the size of California. Last year who wish to buy.
their increase in the Gross National Product
I may say that the Japanese Foreign Miniswas just under 19 per cent; the net was just try and the Departxnent of Trade and Comunder 14 per cent. They have averaged in the merce have some very able people. Mr.
last 10 years a net G.N.P. of 10 per cent. Mayoshi, of the Japanese Economîc DevelopNothîng like that has been found anywhere ment Board, one of the chief men at the
else in the world. They have built tremendous briefing session, was trained at the Harvard
industrial plants and highways, and they have Business School. In addition to being fluent in
the smartest rail transportation system in the English, hie has ail our slang and an easy
world. Any of you who might have traveiled way, and our fellows were completeiy at
from Osaka to Tokyo, a distance of 330 miles, home with him. But hie was a complete
wili know that the journey is completed in master of the economics of bis country. Just
three hours and 10 minutes, inciuding two imagine, honourable senators, a group of
stops. I have watched the speedometer on the
businessmen getting this exposure
train and I have seen it go up to 210 kilome- Canadian
the Governters an hour. That is a peak of about 170 at first hand and at no cost to
it does not average that. ment. I think we should do much more of it.
miles an hour, but
The average is about 120 miles per hour.
There is a labour shortage in Japan in the
However, beyond that they have in the yards industrial areas-they cannot get enough
and in the research centres a train that will skilled labour-but there is not an overal
slip along at 600 miles an hour.
shortage of labour in Japan.
They are not the only people wbo are doing
Strange as it may seem, there is a large
this sort of thing, because France has a train
and the farm block in Japan. As we went through the
that can travel 260 miles an bour,
United Kingdomn has one at Derby that is Japanese countryside from Tokyo to Osaka,
capable of about 350 miles an hour. When we to Kyoto, to Hiroshima, I was struck by the
are talking about writing off our railways we piles of rice lying out in the fields. This was
must remember that there are many people last year's crop. Tbey cannot seil it. Belleve it
who do not want to travel by air, who want or not, the Government of Japan is paying
to stay on the ground, and that there are the Japanese rice farmers not to grow rice. I
answers to the problems o! ground transpor- said: "For heaven's sake, how can such an
tation, although those answers corne more intelligent country do that? What leverage
have the farmers that they can obtain this
easily in countries with dense populations.
kind of legisiation?" WeUl, there are 452 memThe Japanese have a very friendly feeling
and 250
for Canadians. The Canada-Japan Society bas bers of the lower house in Japan,
arranged *senators-they are not cailed senators but
on each occasion we have been there
a f arm
the most gracious and generous of receptions *councillors. I was told that there is
block of 160 seats, and, just as in Canada and

SENATE DEBATES
in the United States, the f arm block has tretnendous leverage. So, they are paying the
Japanese rice farmers not to grow rice, and
we are paying the wheat farmers flot ta, grow
wheat. Does flot that suggest that there is
samething cackeyed about aur ecanomy
taday?
There is another factor in Japanese productivity, however, and that is the miracle of the
scientist. Through work done in laboratories
in Japan and India-much of it done with
American and Canadian offshore help-they
have developed new strains of wheat and new
strains of rice, so that they are able ta produce four Urnes as much rice as they could
produce 20 years ago. Sa, you have the miracle of production in that particular sphere, as
well as in industry.
1 said that there is a shortage of labour in
Japan, but the shortage is only in the industrial area. Up in the farming areas in the
forth of Honshu and Hokkaido there is a
surplus of labour because there are taa many
people on the rice farms. What Japan is
doing-and what I think Canada must do-is
ta move the factories ta, where the labour is.
Through a vocational training seheme they
are training the people in the rural areas ta
adapt themselves to the factories. It is my
opinion that this must happen in Canada. We
must move same of the factories that are
bcing cancentrated in Ontario out to western
Canada. The Japanese are loaking forward ta
the maximum utitization of their resaurces,
and their primary resource is manpawer.
In highways Japan has more concrete per
square mile than any other country in the
worlcl, but what iriterested me was nat the
one-decker highways, but the two-decker and
three-decker expressways. Because land is sa
valuable and scarce, they have had ta go up.
This makes sense, although for ugliness it has
noa peer.
Because of Expa '70 we were intcrested in
Osaka this year. It is a city of four million
people, and it is the original cancrete jungle.
It is anc of the ugliest cities in the world. In
contrast, Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore says
that they must have room for people, for
flawers, for botanical gardens, for boulevards.
There is fia such thing in Osaka. It is just
concrete and concrete. The only tbing that
breaks this up are the canais and rivers.
When a businessman in Osaka meets another in the morning hie does not say, "Good
marning"; hie says, "Are you making any
money today?" This sums Up the attitude of
[Hon. Mr. Cameron.]

April 22,
Arl2~17 1970

the people in that city. It is a bard driving,
hustling-bustling city, which is part of the
ecanamie miracle.
It is natural that I should have something
ta say about F.xpo '70. Like ai Canadians I
arn very proud of Expo '67, and we can stili
be praud of it. Expo '70 is not as good as
Expo '67. I say that not because it is unexciting, but because they do nat have as much
space. They have donc a very good job in
laying out the fair witb waterfalls and fauntains and limited grass areas, but they have a
lot ta learn about moving people and, believe
me, they have ta move people.
The first day we were there it rained. It
was raining when we got up in the morning
and it rained ail day. We were told that if we
were at the gate at 9 o'clock in the morning
wo wauld be the first in. Naturally, when we
got there, there were 10,000 Japanese ahead
of us. We stood in the ramn for an hour before
the gates opened. I have a new-found respect
for the Japanese women. They are tiny, but I
have neyer seen people who can push as
steadily and effectively as tbey can. Here was
a group of Canadians in the middle of the
stream, and finally we found aurselves
pushed aside by these sturdy, durable Japanese wamen. They will stand in queues for
haurs upon hours. This day when it rained
cats and dogs the attendance at the fair was
320,000, and I arn sure haif of them were in
the ramn most of the time.
I do want ta say tbat the Canadian Agent
General, Mr. Patrick Reid, and his associates
are doing a flrst-class job. The Canadian
pavillon is anc of the most popular and
attractive pavillons in the whole exhibition. It
is a credit ta Canada. It stands out by virtue
of its smoath architecture. It stands out
because it has more space for people than any
other national pavillon. Perhaps that is a
reflection of aur wide-open spaces. But this is
paying off. For example, they can seat from
8,500 ta 10,000 people in the entertainment
area within the pavillon square. Here again
Canadian talent is making its mark. I was
delighted ta find Canadian skaters there.
Some of them had been at my school in
Banff. I was delighted ta find the Feux Follets
there, with crowds canstantly seeing them.

The acceptance of Canada is very warmi
indeed. Inside the pavillon in the reception
area, we have more space than the ather
pavillons. Sa that altogether, Canada's contribution ta Expo is first-class and is paying off
remarkably well in terms of good relations
for Canada. I cannot pass up the opportunity

April 22, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 22,1970SENATE

of saying again that Pat Reid and his staff are
flrst-class when it comes to representing
Canada. They are bringing credit to this
country in every possible way. Nothing is too
much trouble for them and they have a flair
for doing things right and for anticipating
needs.
On a point of nostalgia, there are two
things that are nice to see when you are in
foreign countries. The first is to see the Maple
Leaf flag flying, and the second is to, see our
scarlet-coated Mounties. At the fair they ride
up and down in front of the Canadian pavilion and are just as popular with the Japanese
people and those who visit the f air as they
are in Canada.
The fair itself is very good. The American
pavilion is better than it was at Expo '67, as
is the Russian pavilion. I do not agree with
everything my friend Charles Lynch had to
say about that pavillon; I think it is firstclass. The Japanese pavillon is also excellent,
as is the British. A lot of other pavilions are
not as good as they could be, but the over-ali
impression one gets is very good except that
it is rather crowded and the arrangements for
moving people are not as effective as they
were at Expo '67, particularly when horizontal escalators break down, as they were
doing.
But it has been a successful venture and, in
addition to the national Canadian pavillon,
Quebec, Ontario and British Columbia have
good pavilions. In fact, the best films of
Canada are not in the national pavilion but in
the Ontario pavillon.
My only regret now is that Alberta,
Manitoba and Saskatchewan did not get
together and have a pavîhion in Expo '70,
because the others are in there getting an
awful lot of good publicity.
One interesting commentary is that one o!
our men went into the Quebec pavilion and
approached an attractive hostess and, with
tongue in check, asked, "What country is
this?" She replied that it was Quebec, and he
asked, "Well, where is Quebec? Is it in
Africa?" "Oh, no," she said, "it is in Canada."
He then said, "How do you know that? The
word 'Canada' does not appear anywhere
in the pavillon. The Maple Leaf flag does
not appear anywhere in the pavilion."
This says quite a bit, but it is a good pavilion and the host, the agent general of Quebec,
was most courteous, as French-Canadians
always are, and was dolng an excellent job.

Ail the pavilions at the fair are using the
Expo '67 cinematographic techniques, which
have been developed and improved over the
last three years, and so there are some very
dramatic utilizations of film techniques in al
aspects of the flm media. However, I think
the representations of Canada have been
influenced too much by the hippie image. The
music is ail of the rock and roll variety.
Maybe that dates me. I do not know.
Hon. Mr. Fournier
gaucho): It is the C.B.C.

(Madawaska-Res±i-

Hon. Mr. Cameron: At any rate, it is very
lively. But the thing that I think is not
right-and I hesitate to say it although it
must be said-is that a panorama of Canada
shown in the national pavilion is 70 per cent
ioe and snow. Now, that is not Canada.
(Madawaska-Re.hiHon. Mr. Fournier
gouche>: The C.B.C. again.
Hon. Mr. Camneron: Perhaps it is true that
we have more ice and snow than anyone else,
but to have it in such tremendous gobs caused
me to ask why they do this. 1 did ask and
I was told that the theme of Expo is
"humanity and progress" and the people who
mnade the panorama were trying to project
the challenge of Canada. But I say that you
do not need to take people to an igloo in
order to challenge them. You can challenge
them i Toronto, in Calgary or on the farms
of this country. That is why I say the Ontario
film, which depicts Ontario itself, is much
more accurate and gives a truer picture of
what 111e in Canada is like.
Apart fromn that one minor criticism, the
Canadian show was an outstanding success
and we can ahl be proud of it.
I have taken longer than I intended, but I
am trying to give you a picture of small
countries, densely populated, lacking in
resources comparable with ours, which have
been able to keep their inflation under control, have a high productivity from their
workers and have no shortage of capital, and
in which there is a dynamism and a thrust
into, the future that is good to see. There is
the economic miracle of Japan and the economic miracle of Singapore, and these have a
direct bearing on every one of us in Canada,
regardless of where we live. That is why I say
It is important for more Canadians to get out
and see for themnselves what other countries

SENATE DEBATES
are doing so that they will flot have to take it
from people like my friend, the Leader of the
Government (Mr. Martin), when he goes on
tour, or Senator Flynn and others. There is no
substitute for going and seeing a place for
yourself and making your own judgment, and
that applies particularly to businessmen. And
this group of businessmen who accompanied
me on this fifth tour, what I eall a non-governmental trade and goodwill tour, came back
to Canada jarred to their bootstraps, saying,
"What is the matter with Canada? Why can't
we do these things? Why do we have a high
unempîoyrnent rate and high inflation?" This
is the challenge to us today and we can learn
a lot from some of these so-called developing
countries. It is tirne we went back to school.

April
Arl2.1722, 1970

we have not been able to agree on some
formula with respect to Taiwan. What will
happen in the future is flot for me to say. I
can make a guess. I suspect that what will
happen in time so far as we are concerned
will be exactly the same as what happened
when France recognized China. But I do not
know.
The Chinese would be the first people to,
say that they take a long look at history, and
they have always thought that the sun rises
and sets in China. They stili do. This is their
great weakness today. But it is important to
us thnt this great, innovative and hardworking people be brought into the community of nations. Not only are our markets likely
to be involved in the future-and this applies
not only to western Canada but to ail of
Hon. Mr. Belisie: May 1 ask a question of Canada-but the markets for Japan are in
the honourable Senator Cameron in order to that country today. In fact, Japan just conclarify one point? Before putting my question cluded a trade agreement with China last
1 should like to say that I am sure we have all Friday. So, honourable senators, this huge
enjoyed his speech. It has been an enlighten- giant is going to be brought within the circle
ing tour d'horizon. So attractive has it been, of trading nations in one way or another in
in fact, that I find my desire to travel has the very near future. What happens to
been heightened considerably.
Taiwan in that respect, I do flot know, but I
As to mny question, knowing that Senator arn sure that Canada will play a role in workCameron is a great diplomat and an outstand- ing out a formula that will be reasonable and
ing traveller-in fact 1 travelled to Europe just as far as they are concerned.
with him lasi year and found bath hlm and
On motion of Hon. Mrs. Fergusson, debate
his wife very charming companions-could he adjourned.
enlarge on his reference to mainland China as
being the "only China"? My information is
LENIN
that the Canadian Government has recognized
H1UNDRETH ANNIVERSARY 0F BIRTH
only Taiwan or Formosa, but knowing Senator Cameron's outstanding position in the
On the Orders of the Day:
world of diplornacy, perhaps he has informaHon. Paul Yuzyk: Honourable senators,
tion we do not have and perhaps it is a fact
that mainland China has already been recog- before the Orders of the Day are called, and
with Leave of the Senate, I would like to
nized by an Order in Coundil.
speak hriefly on the celebration of Lenin's
Hon. Mr. Cameron: Thank you for your one hundredth anniversary.
correction, Senator Belisie. I appreciate exactThe Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senaly what you are getting at. Regardless of the
current politics, however, there is only one tors, is it agrteed that the honourable Senator
China historically, and that country is the one Yuzyk shall have leave to speak on this subwhich will have tremendous implications for ject ai this time?
us.
Hon. Senalors: Agreed.
You know as weil as I do that we have
been negotiating recognition for sorne time,
Hon. Mr. Yuzyk: Honourable senators,
and I have told you of the incident when, today, April 22, the Soviet Union, her satelafter months of flot hearing from them, along lites and the pro-Soviet communists throughcame a very cordial invitation to, visit China. out the world are jubilantly marking the hunIt is true that at the present time the only dredth anniversary of the birth of Lenin,
China we recognîze is Taiwan, but you also whose real name was Vladimir Ilyich Ulyaknow that probably the reason we have not nov. The free world is flooded with misleadreached an accommodation wîth China is that ing propaganda painting Lenin as a man of
[Hon. Mr. Cameron.]

April 22. 1970

DEBATES
Apri 22.1970SENATE

peaoe, a democrat, and a defender of huinan
rights. The United Nations Human Rlghts
Conmnission honoured Lenin i 1968 as a
great humanist of our tinies.
The true purpose of these world-wide celebrations, however, is revealed in a recent
editorial in the Russian coinmunlst party
newspaper Pravda, meaning "truth".
In the minds of people everywhere, bis
(Lenin's) naine is connected with the
beginning of a new epoch i hlstory-the
epoch of the breakdown of the capitalist
systein, transition to socialisin and building up of communist society.
The celebrations are designed to paint the
world red.
We, in the free world, must remember that
Lenin is the founder of the Soviet Russian
state, in reality an empire. Under his dictatorship, employing the methods of revolution,
subversion, deception and brute force, a
totalitarian state was establlshed in 1917,
which inimediately proceeded to instigate a
world proletarian revolution with the objective of doniinating the world, which was only
partially achieved. Honourable senators wil
recail that I spoke in the Senate chamber on
November 18, 1969, on the topic "The Russian
Menace of World Domination and the Soviet
Subversion of the United Nations", which, as
commented upon in some newspapers, is a
warning to ail who cherish freedoin.
Today, I would like to read into the record
a section of a significant statement issued by
the Ukrainian Canadian Comniittee of Winnipeg, the spokesman of some 600,000 Canadian citizens of Ukrainian ancestry:
Under the rule of Lenin alnost a milJon people lost their lives at the hands of
the Cheka agents, the secret police of the
U.S.S.R. These mass executions included
13,000 priests and monks, 70,000 soldiers
and army officers, 400,000 peasants and
more than 500,000 persons of other professions. At the saine turne millions of
innocent people were exterminated in
camps.
labour
concentration
forced
Opened at the tixne of Lenin, these concentration camps are stil in operation
today, the existence of which speaks in
itself of the lack of respect for human
life i the Soviet Union.

was occupied by military force and the
people decimated by the famine of the
1930s. These non-Russian peoples are not
ailowed to develop their language and
culture in their own lands, their history
is being distorted and their right to selfrule and seif-determination denied although the constitution of USSR includes
meaningless articles on freedoin of religion, legal and huinan rights, as well as
on non-existing right of the memberrepublics to secession.
Using these deceitful principles, the
Soviet Union during and after the second
world war was able to extend its dominion over an additional hundred million
peoples of the satellite countries of
Europe and Asia which opened the way
to establishing Soviet Russian strongholds
on ail continents.
While this new inifitration of the free
world by the forces of the Soviet Union
is under way, the Ukrainian Canadian
Committee appeals to ahl Ukrainian
Canadians to protest against the glorification of V. I. Lenin and to provide the
Canadian public opinion with an objective interpretation of the fraudulent slogans and deceptive methods used by the
Soviet Union in its plans to dominate the
free world. At the saine turne the Ukrainian Canadian Committee requests the
Government of Canada and appeals to
the opinion of ail countries of the free
world to preserve for the sake of history
the true naine of Lenin as the founder of
the Soviet Russian empire of terror,
fraud and dictatorship, and flot to cal
hlm a humanist which history records he
neyer was.
Free men throughout the world can always
draw a poignant lesson from Lenin's
"achievements". The price of the preservation
of our preclous heritage of freedoin and
democracy, wherever they stiil exist, including Canada, is the exercise of eternal
vigilance.
CRIMINAL CODE (HATE PROPAGANDA>
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING-DS3ATE
CONTINUED

Under the leadership of V. I. Lenin, the
The Senate resurmed froin yesterday the
Soviet Union conquered some 70 million adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mrs.
of non-Russian peoples, including more Fergusson for the second reading of Bill C-3,
than 30 million Ukrainlans whose country to amend the Criminal Code.

SENATE DEBATES

April
Arl2,1722, 1970

Hon. Daniel A. Lang: Honourable senators,
I would ask that this order stand. I would
however, be pleased to yield if any other
senator would like to speak at this tirne.

Last Thursday the well prepared presentation by Senator Fergusson and the many
things she said, regarding which 1 share ber
views, was appreciated by ail. And yesterday
the equally well prepared and impressive preHon. Edgar Fournier (Madawaska.Restigou- sentation by my good colleague Senator Choche>: Honourable senators-quette was also convincing. But both these
eminent lawyers have left me in a state of
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable sena- confusion.
tors, is it agreed that Senator Fournier
Today I am asking myseif this question:
(Madawaska-Restigouche) may speak instead Are we not presented with and asked to supof Senator Lang at this Urne.
port a bill about which. we know very littie, a
bill which will open doors for lawsuits, disHon. Senators: Agreed.
putes about its legality, depending on which
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigou. side of the fence you stand, and unforeseen
che): Honourable senators, I thank Senator technicalities, racial disputes, and what have
Lang for giving me the opportunity to speak you?
Yesterday Senator Choquette spoke for a
on this matter this afternoon.
long time in explaining the case of Mr. Dry[Translation]
bones, a case brought about by confusion and
Honourable senators, if I dare make my misinterpretation of legal matters, as far as I
own small contribution on a subject about am concerned.
which I openly confess total ignorance, I do
Honourable senators, today 1 am speaking
so in order to gain an insight into an issue as "Mr. Wetbones," as I am ail wet on these
which appears to me to be of great impor- legal matters. Nevertheless, I belong to the
tance and which is drawing me to unknown group of Canadian citizens who usually have
grounds.
to pay the price, sometimes very dearly, for
I should not want to launch into a discus- such confusion.
sion on the merits of the legisiation before us,
I, as "'Wetbones," am of the opinion that it
because I should be putting myseif in a some- would have been far less costly to pay this
what ridiculous position in the eyes of several man's fine of $10 and bis transportation back
of my colleagues. Even if I wanted to do so, it to the west. It would bave saved some of the
would be much easier for me to use my
mother tongue instead of a language which is Canadian taxpayers' money, probably $25,000.
not mine. However, since I have the ambition I arn of the opinion that, for this case to go
of improving myseif i both languages, I through this expensive and time-consuming
believe there is no better place than the machinery of reaching the highest court in
Senate to make this effort, acknowledge my the land, that figure of $25,000 would not be
weaknesses and request your understanding an exorbitant estimate. But I stand to be
for the mistakes I might make.
corrected.
Hon. Mr. Martin: You are doing very well
in both languages.
[En glish]
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigou.
ch.>: Honourable senators, I do flot rise primarily to participate in the debate, as this bill
is for the legal profession to deal wlth, but I
rise mostly to ask questions and to elicit
further explanations by anyone who may
know exactly what this bill Is ail about.
So far we have heard from two eminent
lawyers, Senator Fergusson who sponsored
the bill, and yesterday Senator Choquette
spoke. When I say "two eminent lawyers," I
mean precisely that.
[Hon. Mr. Yuzyk.]

[Translation]
Hon. M. Martin: Are you talking about
lawyers?
[English]
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouch.): I do not know about that.
What have we achleved? Have we settled
this question, and similar questions, once for
ail? If so, maybe it was worth it. 1 do not
know.
At the moment w. have in Canada a dispute over the legality of an act just passed
on the use of the breathalizer. The Canadian
people had for a long time demanded th.ls
legislation. Now w. finally have it on the

Aprü 22, 1970

Apri 22.1970SENATE
DEBATES

statute books and it has been warmly welcomed. As far as I know, the bill was drafted
by oui most able and eminent lawyers of the
Justice Department. Time was spent and
knowledge and research employed by the
drafters, and nothing was spared, including
the costly hours in the other chamber to
arrive at an agreement. Now ail of this is in
doubt, and "Wetbones" is confused and asks
himself these questions: What was wrong
with whom? Why should this situation arise?
Who is slipping? Is it an error? Is it an omission? Where were the experts of the Department of Justice at the time this bill was
drafted? Why are such loopholes flot caught
in time? With regard to ail that, "Mr. Wetbones" wiil again have to pick up the tab,
and "Wetbones" is impatient that such situations should not arise too often.
Honourable senators, I amn of the opinion
that with Bill C-3 we are creating a similar
situation, and I would suggest that before this
bill is passed it should be placed before our
highest court for a "complete medical." I amn
of the opinion the bill is infected with chronie
cUsease, and after a complete examination and
lengthy recuperation period we will know the
condition of the patient, whether he will live
or die. We wrn flot be satisfied with the
answer that "the operation was successful,
but the patient died."
In closing, I ask if any honourable senator
present can show me a single piece of hate
literature. I, for one, would like to see one
,ind to be able to read it, as a guiding
example.

apply to some election pamphlets or propaganda for purposes other than that of informing the voters of the facts.
Could the freedom of the press sometinies
be classified as "'hate propaganda," when the
writer bas a chip on his shouider against
someone who may not share his views an~d
has not the saine means of defending himself?
I hope that someone will be able to clarify
ail these matters. This wiil take time, and it
cannot be done overnight, in a mad rush. If
we do, we are leaving the door wide open for
costly dispute and disagreement.
This chamber is supposed to be a chamber
of wisdom and second thought. Let us assume
our responsibîlities and act responsibly. I
fuily appreciate the complexity involved in
this bill, and I am of the opinion that we are
far from being lin a position of knowing
where and when to draw the line.
While I have no use for any hate propaganda and would support any sensible movement
to put a stop to such vicious methods, perhaps
before we make any further move we should
try to tap ail other avenues, rather than being
bound by legisiation which appears to me a
bundie of confusion.
Je vous remercie de votre bonne attention.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Lang, debate
adjourned.
STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS
PROPOSED STUDY 0F PROCEDURS BY LEGAL

AND CONSTrrTJTIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITAs for genocide, I do not belleve that this
TEE-ORDER STANDS
country at the moment is in need of such
legisiation, and I see no immediate danger.
On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of
"Wetbones" is also aware of the great confusion which exists with regard to the censorthe honourable Senator Martin, P.C.,
ship board, li which no one can agree and
seconded by the honourable Senator
define immorality. Much more could be said
Mcflonald:
on this matter, but I will refrain from doing
That the Standing Senate Committee
so at this time. Again, this is a costly "1baby"l
on Legal and Constitutional Affairs be
for the taxpayers of Canada.
instructed to consider and, from trne, to
report on procedures for the review by
As for what I believe to be hate literature,
the Senate of instruments miade in vfrtue
propaganda which is racial, social or Biblicai,
of any statute of the Parliament of
that sort of propaganda has priority li my
Canada, and to, consider li connection
wastepaper basket. However, some literature
therewith any public documents relevant
could be classified as hate literature by some,
thereto.-(H-onourable Senator Martin,
and the same literature could be cIassified as
P.C.).
educational or informative by others.
I do flot hesitate to say that there are some
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
Publications aixned at doing harmn by maldng had intended continuing and cloeing thigg
false representations. This could very well debate today, but I believe it would meet the

922

SENATE DEBATES

April 22, 1970

wishes of honourable senators if I take notice here wish to attend one or other of those
o! the fact that the Standing Senate Commit- meetings. That being the case, I ask that the
tee on Banking, Trade and Commerce and the order stand.
Special Committee on Mass Media are meetOrder stands.
ing at this moment, and will continue their
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2
deliberations for longer than was anticipated,
and that many honourable senators present p.m.L

April 23, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 23.1970SENATE

His f ather, who was a distinguished lawyer,
called him Thomas D'Arcy after Thomas
D'Arcy McGee. There is a basis for comparing the two parliamentary careers, because
McGee's was short and Senator Leonard's was
Thursday, April 23, 1970
relatively short. McGee's work was emotional,
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in poetic and inspirational. I would think that
Senator Leonard's couid be more characterthe Chair.
ized as reasoning, pragmatic and organized.
Prayers.
With McGee there was a display of the orator's genius to sway men's minds. Witb
HON. T. D'ARCY LEONARD
D'Arcy Leonard the manager's genius was
displayed to make the institutions of ParliaRESIGNATION FROM SENATE
ment work. McGee worked in the limeligbt.
Hon. John J. Connolly: Honourable sema- Senator Leonard has seldom been in the
tors, before the preliminary prooeedimgs are media. Nonetheless, his work as a parliamenoutstandcalled I wish to advise the Senate that this tarian and as a statesman has been
will be Senator Leomard's last day in tis ing and comparable to the work of any of oui
in the
chamber. He resigns from tbe Senate on bis Canadian statesmen, either now or
be bas past.
seventy-flftb birthday, and the service
If I were to single out one item which
performed here shouid be recognized.
Senator Leonard has reaily had foui might be regarded as the greatest monument
to himself
careers. He was a soldier. He is a distin- which Senator Leonard has erected
a captain of the Canadian here, it wouid be bis work on the Finance
guished lawyer,
commercial establishment, and he bas been a Commrittee. Not for years but for generations,
respect of approsemator for fiteen years. Since his appoint- the work of the Senate in
unsatisment to the Senate in 19ý55 be has given priation bills was conducted in a most
bas displayed wise factory way. Year after year, senator after
exemplary service. He
and complain
judgmemt, deep knowledge, wide experience senator would rise in his seat stamps for the
and great patience. Kimdness and tolerance that we were merely rubber
Leonard's wise
and the covering virtue of charity have been other place. Under Senator
guidance a very drastic change took place
bis ballmarks.
when he assumed the cbairmanship of the
When trying to assess the value of Senator Finance Commnittee. The Estimates were
a poem that I
Leonard's work here, I recalled
referred there immediately upon being tabled
had to memorize when I was a small boy. It and an opportunity was given to every senator
was one of Leigh Hunt's poems, "Abou Ben to examine any item of the Estimates. In
Adhem", wbere in bis confrontation wiith the addition to that, because of bis wise guidance
angel, hie sald to the angel:
and leadership, there was a review of general
I pray thee then
financial policy, not along party limes but in a
Write me as one wbo loves
most objective way which brougbt senators
into very close touch with the financial affairs
bis fellow men.
of the country. Perhaps I can suznxnarize this
Senator Leonard's career, here and gen- by saying that as a resuit of that work the
erally in tbe comimunity ln wbich be has cuise of the old system is gone.
lived, has been respiendent in that it reflects
What I say here today about Senator Leonthose two limes of Leigh Hunt. Not only bas
he given 15 years of service to the Parliament ard is inadequate. I would not inflict upon the
of bis country, he bas been active in comn- Senate my own persomal sense of loss, but
munity work i bis native City of Toronto, untîl I was removed "1froin the peerage to the
partîcularly with York University and St. steerage"l he was my roommate. Many of the
Micbael's Hospital, aud also in the work things and much of the work that I have been
wbich was undertaken by what I tbink is able to do bere, if it has been i amy way
known as tbe Frost Commission, headed by successful, bas been due in a great measure to
the Honouiable Leslie M. Frost, wbich looked the wise guidance which I have had at bis
into university structure wltbin Ontario.
hamds. This, I know, bas been true of other
Semator Leomard has neyer worm bis heart senators.
on bis sleeve here, but he bas earned tbe
Senator Leonard bas been particularly conrespect and affection of ail of us wbo bave
siderate of the newer mezabers of the Senate
known hlmn so weUl.

THE SENATE

SENATE DEBATES

and he has done much for them. He leaves us
today with our gratitude, first of all, and with
our deep admiration, high respect and heartfelt affection.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, I
join in what has been said by Senator Connolly (Ottawa West) about our most esteemed
colleague Senator Leonard, who, having
reached the age of 75, has decided to retire.
He does not show his age-he is in full
vigour, both physically and mentally. He has
decided to resign, not to withdraw into a state
of inactivity, but to embark upon another
career.
I will not repeat what has been said of his
career by the previous speaker. As you know,
Senator Connolly is a specialist in eulogies,
but for once he has not been able to exaggerate about the one he was eulogizing.
A kind and congenial man, a most efficient
and responsible member of the Senate-this,
D'Arcy Leonard has been. He leaves behind
him a highly valued contribution to the work
of this chamber. As has been mentioned by
Senator Connolly, we especially appreciate
his leadership qualities as chairman of the
Committee on National Finance in recent
years. The achievements of this committee
have been and will continue to be beneficial
to the Canadian people. Its success is a special
monument to the direction given by Senator
Leonard.
We shall miss him because we all love him.
He has only friends here. We know that he
will be able to use his vigour and health, in
other worthwhile causes. We hope he will
take time to enjoy some leisure-travelling
occasionally and spending more time with his
charming wife, who has been such a wonderful companion and auxiliary in all that he has
undertaken and in all fields in which he has
achieved such marked success.
As he leaves us he may be assured he
carries with him the gratitude of every one in
this house. We hope that he will return often
as a kindness to us, for we shall miss him
terribly. I wish him and Mrs. Leonard good
health and many years of happiness in that
new career which he is about to enter upon.
God speed, D'Arcy Leonard.
Hon. David A. Croll: Honourable senators, I
join with Senator Connolly (Ottawa West)
and Senator Flynn in saying a few words
about Senator Leonard. We came into the
Senate on the same day from the same city.
Senator Leonard for fifteen years has toiled
[Hon. Mr. Connolly

(Ottawa West).]

April 23, 1970

in the vineyard of the Senate. Today the
Senate is poorer because he leaves.
Senator Leonard came here when the prestige of the Senate was at a low ebb; because
of his efforts, he deserves much of the credit
for its present high prestige. He helped raise
its prestige by his competence and his application. He helped give the Senate a new image
by bringing to the public a broader understanding of the work of the Senate. What he
himself was able to contribute, they saw in a
favourable light.
Senator Leonard is a total person. I cannot
add anything to what Senator Connolly
(Ottawa West) has already told you about
him, except to say that he has touched the
Canadian scene favourably in every aspect.
Moreover, he is a wise man, one who walks
out of here today full of honour, respect and
credit-a wonderful way to start a new
career of useful leisure. We wish him well.
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, it
was appropriate that Senator Connolly
(Ottawa West), who was a roommate of Senator Leonard and who has been in this house
for a considerable length of time with him,
should lead off today in paying tribute to
Senator Leonard who has decided to withdraw from the membership of the Senate. It
was also appropriate that, as a result of the
lead taken by Senator Connolly, he should be
supported by the Leader of the Opposition
and by Senator Croll who came into the
Senate, as be has just told us, with Senator
Leonard 15 years ago.
I have known Senator Leonard for a long
time. When I was a student at the university
in Toronto I was cognizant of the fact that
Senator Leonard had made important contributions to the college which I attended and
the university of which I was privileged to be
a member. But of his public life I could not
know as much as those who have been in this
house with him for more than a decade. However, during the two years that I have been
here I have learned about his contributions to
the Senate and to the country. I am able to
confirm the high estimate placed on the contributions that he has made to this house of
the Canadian Parliament.
He had a distinguished business career; he
has been an eminent lawyer; we all recognize
his service as a soldier. We are aware of the
contributions that Senator Leonard has made
to the non-governmental institutions in the
City of Toronto, the University of Toronto

April 23. 1970

DEBATES
Apri 23.1970SENATE

and now, particularly, St. Michael's Hospital,
which I arn sure he will serve until the end of
his lime.
The galiery today has been fiiled with some
o! our younger citizens. They may not fully
understand the nature of aur business at tis
moment in the house, but, speaking to senators anid to the visitors in the gailery, I should
like to let thern know that we are seeking to
honour today a distinguished Canadian citizen
who has served his country in many ways
and now terminates Mis membership in tis
House of Parliament. If young people want an
example of unselfish devotion to public duty,
they have it in the person of the man we
honour today.
Recently, the Prime Minister, in the foyer
of thîs chamber, said that he was pleased to
be with senators honouring those who had
served their country as mernbers of this
Senate in the capacity of Goverrnent Leader.
He praised the work of the Senate. I am sure
I arn expressing Mis view today when I say
that when he comrnended the Senate for its
contributions, he was commending individuais in the Senate who in the past have made
valuable contributions ta our parliarnentary
life and those in the Senate today who are
serving Parliarnent and the Canadian people.
I am sure that at that ie he had in mind
senators lîke Senator Leonard.
I rernember the circurnstances of his
appointment very weil indeed. It was made
by a Prime Minister who was anxious to
make sure that among those appointed to the
Senate was someone who represented a wide
segment of national interest. Certainly in the
designation of Senator Leonard at that time
he picked one who ftiled that role admirably.
It was appropriate that Senator Leonard
should comne into tins house with Senator
Croil who had had a long and distinguished
career in public life. Senator Leonard did not
have that kind o! experience. Certainiy he
had no political experience. But it was the
appointment of these two senators at that
time that characterized the nature of the
Senate and the contribution it can make ta
our parliamentary system.
I said to Mrs. Leonard before we came into
the Senate today that Canada wanted ta
thank her and her husband for Mis contribution ta the public and parliamentary 11f e of
aur country. And so now in the naine of the
Prime Minister, i the naine of the Government, and I arn sure in the narne of ail the
Canadien people, I have the authority ta say
ta Senator Leonard that we know tis is not
the end o! his work; that he has before him a

new chapter and a new challenge. For what
he has done in this chaznber, we want him to
know that we are grateful and proud that this
country is able to produce men of the calibre
of Senator D'Arcy Leonard.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. T.
senators-

D'Arcy

Leonard:

Honourable

Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Leonard: I amn inclined to raise a
point of order as to whether or not this discussion is in order. 1 thought that probably
everything that could be said on this subject
had already been said on another occasion. At
the saine tirne, 1 must admit that I arn overwhelmned by the remarks that have been
made today by Senator Connoliy (Ottawa
West), Senator Flynn, Senator Croil and
Senator Martin, and by the feeling I sense in
this house arnong ail my colleagues of
endorsement of what they have said. For rny
own part, I think they have exaggerated very
much indeed. I cannot believe what they said,
nevertheiess, I must admit it is very pleasant
for me to hear.
I have said before that I have been very
proud ta be a member of this chamber. I arn a
great believer in the second chamber in the
federal institution, and have been ever since I
first studied constitutional law. I leave it now,
after nearly 15 years, beiieving that as far as
the Senate of Canada is concerned it is a
much stronger and more effective body than
it has ever been. Sa, for whatever I may have
tried to do i participating in its activities, I
am certainly more than repaid by the feeling
that this has been something well worth
doing. It is something that is continuing ini
greater degree and, 1 hope, is of f ar greater
importance to the Goverminent of Canada
than it has ever been in the past.
Most of ahl, I am grateful for the pleasure I
have derived from the friendsbips with the
members of the Senate. I have sald that the
association here arnong us is a unique forrn of
friendship, as we corne from ail parts o!
Canada, from ail waiks of life and hold different political views. Yet I leave feeling that
not only arn I a frlend of every senator here,
but that each has the same feeling with
respect to his colleagues in the Senate.
This is a great gift which we ail share in
coniron.
As has been said, I make this decision
voluntarily, a decision regarding which I have
no regret, although I natura]ly have regret as

SENATE DEBATES
to the break it may make with some of my
colleagues, and a touch of sadness as to the
fact that a good many present associations
will be interrupted. At the same time, the
overwhelming feeling is that I am very
pleased and privileged to have shared in this
association and in this friendship. I am not
going to be that far away from my friends
and colleagues that we need feel the association has really ended.
I recognize too that the considerations that
apply to me do not necessarily apply to
others, and that under different considerations and circumstances I might have wished
to stay on, or that others might wish to stay
on. It just happens that it is the decision I
choose te make at this time, and I am not
leaving with any feeling that I am going into
something about which I am unsure. I am
going to continue to do, in another field,
another form of activity and in another way
of life, the sarne kind of things that I have
always done; and I can assure you that,
though I may burn out, I am not going to rust
out.
Again, I thank you for all the kindnesses
you have shown me throughout my association with the Sonate.
I must say a special word to Senator Connolly (Ottawa West), who has been, first of all
and always, my friend, my colleague and my
leader. I shall always remember the kindnesses that he has done me; I can never repay
him, but I shall always be grateful to him.
For what has been done and said also with
respect to my wife, on her behalf I thank you.
I close simply by saying that I do not like
to use the English phrase, "Goodbye!"-"God
be with you!"-but would rather use the
French expression, "Au revoir!"
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, with leave of the Senate, and notwithstanding Rule 45(l)(g), I move that when
the Senate adjourns today it do stand
adjourned until Tuesday next, April 28, at 8
o'clock in the evening.
Motion agreed to.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
next week we will continue with the items
now on the Order Paper. We will endeavour
to finish the debate on them. By Tuesday
evening we shall have received from the
other place Bill C-10, to amend the Shipping
[Hon. Mr. Leonard.]

April 23, 1970

Act. Later in the week, depending upon the
progress made in the other place, I anticipate
receiving Bill C-182, to amend the Supreme
Court Act.
The schedule of meetings of both standing
and special committees is heavily charged on
Wednesday. We may want to give the committees full rein on that day. However, I do
not think we need make that decision until
Tuesday evening.
On Tuesday we will continue with the
debate on Senator Fergusson's motion for the
second reading of Bill C-3, to amend the
Criminal Code, and with other items on the
Order Paper.
The Hon. the Speaker left the Chair.
Hon. Maurice Bourget in the Chair.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS
CONTRACTORS' CLAIMS WITH CROWN OR ITS
AGENCY-INQUIRY
Hon. Jean-Paul Deschalelels rose pursuant
to notice:

That he will call the attention of the
Sonate to the question of claims filed by
contractors who have entered into construction contracts with the Crown or an
agency thereof.
He said: Honourable senators, during the
last session of this Parliament an inquiry by
Senator Argue called the attention of the
Senate to the severe losses suffered by the
contractors in the building of the Great Slave
Lake Railway. This unfortunate case, which
was not an isolated case, was examined later
by a committee of the House of Commons,
and it illustrated at least one important factthe inability of our present system to deal in
a satisfactory way with claims and disputes
arising out of contracts between a department
of Government or a Crown agency and contractors.
During my term of office in the Department
of Public Works, having handled a few of
these cases, I became conscious of the shortcomings in the Government's administrative
procedure with respect to claims for additional compensation. On many occasions when
faced with what I thought to be at least partially valid claims, I was advised that a hard
line should be taken as a general rule, and
that these claimants should be referred to the
Exchequer Court. This attitude, of course,
was not exclusive to the Department of
Public Works. It was the prevailing practice,

April 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

as it is today, in most departments of the
Government and Crown agencies which deal
with construction contracts.
The following reasons were generaily given
to justify this approach:
(a) Contractors as a rule tend to bid low in
anticipation of the Government's willingness
to help them out in case of a loss.
(b) There was a belief in most departments
that if a minister or a departmental official
recommended the payment of a claim, either
in part or in full, it would immediately be
interpreted in the building industry as a soft
attitude which would encourage in future the
filing of more claims by other contractors.
(c) There was also the fear-this fear exists
today, and it is not entirely unfounded-that
the recommendation for the payment of a
claim can be interpreted as an act of patronage or political favour, and eventually puts a
minister in a difficult position.
As a result of this, the majority of claimants were told to go to court, if they thought
their claims were justified. Even in cases
where after an examination of all the facts a
recommendation was made to the Treasury
Board for an ex gratia payment, the Board on
its own initiative frequently reduced the
amount recommended, arguing that contractors inflate their claims anyway.
Honourable senators will realize that most
government contracts give an engineer, an
employee of the department or a member of a
firm of consulting engineers hired by the
Crown, very wide, if not almost judicial
power, in the interpretation of the contract
clauses. I must readily admit that most engineers acting for the Crown are not only able
engineers, but they have the best of intention
to fulfil to the best of their knowledge their
quasi-judicial
functions.
However,
past
experience has proven that the practical
result of their unilateral decision sometimes
exposes the contractor to financial losses
which put him in the undesirable position of
filing a claim when, in fact, no practical or
organized system of redress exists for him
other than by applying to the Exchequer
Court.
The net effect of this strange relationship
between the state and its contractors is that
one of the contracting parties, the owner, has
full authority to adjudicate disputes and
claims arising out of a contract, without any
provision covering the right to be heard by
an independent board within the Government
administration. In most cases this leaves the
contractor with the sole alternative of going

to court or abandoning his claim. He is told,
"If you do not like our decision you can take
it to court." This is the answer which a large
number of contractors have received in the
past, without a satisfactory and impartial
hearing. Going to court might at times be
sound advice. You will agree with me in the
light of some of your personal experience that
at other times it is a very poor and costly
solution.
How often has a contractor, after having
spent many months knocking unsuccessfully
at many doors of the administration, had to
wait one, two or three years before recovering a portion of his claim? This is more difficult for him, especially if the terms of the
contract also allow the owner to retain the
holdback until all outstanding claims are
resolved. Sending the contractors to court is
also in many cases an impractical solution.
When we consider that the contractor may
have a substantial percentage of his working
capital, his very livelihood, tied up in the
claim, this sometimes puts him in an impossible position before being compensated for
work done.
Having said that, let us examine briefly
why and how claims generally arise.
(a) Additional or unforeseen work for
which no appropriate pay item exists in the
contact
(b) Work directed by an engineer acting for
the owner in a more demanding way than
provided by the specifications included in the
tender document.
(c) Delay arising from causes beyond the
contractor's control.
(d) Extras to the contract after it is awarded, arising from changes in plans or because
of soil or construction conditions which force
a change of specifications or plans not
anticipated when they were prepared and the
tender called.
(e) Time delay resulting from the Government's unilateral decision to stop the work
until certain matters are clarified.
(f) And there might be countless other reasons, such as the inability to obtain materials.
Honourable senators are aware that on
some occasions it was impossible to obtain
steel, through no fault on the part of the
contractor in this instance. When a contract is
completed, a contractor who thinks he is entitled to some extra payment files a claim with
the department concerned, or the authorities
of the Crown agency involved. In practice the
claim leaves the office of the minister concerned and eventually, going from one office

SENATE DEBATES
to another, reaches the desk of the engineer
who supervised the work and who has to
prepare a report in answer to the dlaimn that
has been referred to him. His report usually
cornes back to the minister with a recommendation. This means in fact that a department
handling a dlaim becomes its own judge.
I do flot blarne any person or department
concerned, but I do blame the systern, or lack
of effective system to deal with these matters.
I arn told that more realistic approaches to
contractual. liability are practised in the
United States and in the United Kingdorn. It
would perhaps be worth while to examine
sorne of these applications to see whether
they could be put into practice here.
About six years ago I had a few meetings
with officiais of the Canadian Construction
Association, at which time I recorded rny rnisgivings about this problern, and other problems having to do with our entire contract
tendering systern. I told them that the Department of Public Works was open to suggestions which could effect an improvement of
our present system.
Over the years I have given much thought
to this problern, and it is rny belief that a new
machincry or systcmn should be established
within the Govcrnment. I have in mind the
organization of an independent board that
could be easily accessible to contractors who
feel they have a dlaim against the Crown or
its agency, a board which shouid be completely independent frorn both parties involved,
whereby, after a hearing, a recommendation
could be made to the Treasury Board in an
expedient way in an effort to reach a satisfactory settiernent, and thus avoid recourse to
the courts.
There should be sorne means by which an
independent board could be established, rnade
up of a retired judge of a high court, even a
retired judge of the Suprerne Court of
Canada, assisted by two assessors-an engineer, architect or a former contractor-with a
fuli-time secretary. Such a board could meet
as often as required, being paid a small fee
per diem, and rnake a recommendation to the
Treasury Board. Such a board would be
knowledgeable in the field of law and construction, and be able to give contractors
what they want-a fair hearing, or at least
their day i court.
I know from experience that these dlaims
constitute for ail officiais of the Crown-nrnisters, deputy ministers and engineers of
departrnents-a hot potato to handie. I arn
convrnced that if they were consulted they
[Hon. Mr. Deschatelets.]

Arl2,17
April 23, 1970

would favour the establishment of a board of
arbitration witbin government, whose primary duty wouid be to give a fair and just
hearing to any claimant, without the
apparatus of a regular court. Their purpose
would be to hear both parties involved, assess
the facts and make a recommendation to the
Treasury Board, who would then be much
better able to offer a reasonable settlement,
based on proven facts, and pay the dlaim,
totaliy or partially, or reject it. The decision
of the Treasury Board, if the dlaim is flot
paid in full, would not prevent a contractor
proceeding later before the Exchequer Court
if hie so wished.
The advantage of this system. would be that
as soon as the work is completed and a contractor files a dlaim, the matter could immediately be referred to the board, who would
operate "in camera", and whose recommendation to the Treasury Board, signed by the
judge, would remain confidential and for use
of the Treasury Board only.
This might not be the best solution, but I
arn sure that it would be an improvement on
thc present system. I submit that this would
appeal to the construction industry in providing a fair hearing by an independent body,
who would help in reaching a fair settiement
or decision in an expedient way, and at the
samne time it would eliminate undue delays
and substantial costs. It should be a relief also
to the department of governrnent or Crown
agency concerned with the construction, and
an aid to the Treasury Board [n arriving at a
satisfactory solution to both parties.
It should go a long way towards implementing the governrnent philosophy that no person
working for the Crown should remain unpaid,
at least without a fair hearing. It wouid eliminate the necessity of departmental officiais
being called upon to adjudicate disputes
themselves, when sometimes the disputes are
caused by their own action or lack of action.
It would also create an atmosphere of mutuai
trust between the governrnent and contractors, and I arn convinced that in the long run
it would represent an overail saving to the
Crown.
Honourable senators, it was with sorne hesitation that I decided to raise this very complicated and touchy problem, but 1 felt it was
my duty to bring this matter into the open in
the hope that the idea 1 have suggested wll
be carefully exaxnined by ail parties concerned. In this I would include the ministers
of the departments concerned with construction, the construction industry, members of

April 23, 1970

Apri 23.1970SENATE
DEBATES

the Treasury Board who are called upon ta
deal with these matters, and the Auditor General of Canada.
Our method of dealing with dlaimis is
presently-as it was during my time-an
embarrassment ta the Government. What is
more, the building industry, which is one of
our biggest industries, has over the years
resented the way it has been treated, and
would welcome the possibility of a board of
arbitration accessible ta it, which wîould in
many cases eliminate a long legal battie ini
court.
Honourable senators, while I do not expect
you ta join me in this debate, I certainly
would be very happy ta, have any views you
might care ta put forth on this problem. Let
us hope that by bringing this problem ta your
attention it may be the beginning of a solution ta this perplexing situation, and that al
parties concerned will be inspired ta explore
the idea ta see if it is f easible ta carry it ta
fruition.
Han. Senatars: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Cameron: Honourable senators,
may I ask Senator Deschatelets a question? I
would first like ta compliment himi for having
brought this very important matter ta aur
attention. As you know, today there is a
changing concept in certain contracts. The
question I am going ta ask himi I think will
go part way in meeting the kind of situation
which he has s0 effectively described.
Today there is an increasing use of what is
known as the owner-designer-contractor team
concept in building institutions of one kind or
another. It seems ta me this has the virtue of
avoiding the kind of situation which Senator
Deschatelets has s0 ably described. In other
words, there has been a tradition that when
you go ta let a contract for a building the
owners will be on one side and the contractors on the other. This systemn has worked
with varying degrees of success, but in the
limited experience which I have had I feel
much happier when the owner, designer or
architect and the contractors work as a team.
They sit araund a table and work for a cammon purpose, namely, the production of the
most efficient and effective kind of building at
the lowest possible cost.
Do you not think this would work la
departments such as the D)epartment of
Public Works in a governmnent which is
spending money on a very large scale, and
thus avoid the situations ta which you have
referred?

Hon. Mr. Deschatolots: 0f course, Senatar
Cameron, I am referring ta cases where there
are unforeseen circumnstances, and my experience has been that unforeseen circumistances
arise in most major contracts. Experienoe has
shown that during the course of a contract, if
an unforeseen situation developed, the contractor would have ta complete his work and
he would be told by the engineer in charge
that alter his work was completed he could
file a dlaim. My point is that we have neyer
had a system ta deal effectively with the
dlaim.
I had thought that we could have avoided
many problems in the past if we could have
had an independent body of some kind within
the Government. It wauld have been easy in
most cases ta have reached a fair settlement,
instead of telling the contractor, "If you feel
that you have a dlaim, go ta court and prove
it."' It might weil be that the kind of arrangement suggested by the honourable Senator
Cameron would avoid this kind of dispute.
But there are stili many cases where contractors are complaining of flot being able to get
a fair hearing. When I say that this is a hot
potato I know what I am talking about. I do
not know of any minister or deputy minister
wha is anxiaus ta handle this kind of problem,
for neither of them is a judge.
This is a matter that could be decided, at
least in a certain number of cases, by a board
within the Government., I hope that answers
your question.
The Hon. the Speaker (Han. Mr. Deschatelets) resumed the Chair.
CRIMINAL CODE (MATE PROPAGANDA)
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING-DEBATE
CONTINUED

The Senate resuxned, from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mrs.
Fergusson, for the second reading of Bill C-3,
to amend the Criminal Code.
Han. Mr. McDonald: Honourable senators,
Senator Lang has agreed ta step aside and
reserves his right ta speak later, probably on
Tuesday.
The Hon. the, Speaker: Is it agreed?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Han. Alluster Gromart: Senator McDonald
bas indicated that Senator Lang is not able ta
be in the Chamber today and I am fflling the
vacuum or void caused by Mis absence. I ams
speaking of course on Bill C-3. I must say at

SENATE DEBATES
the beginning of my remarks that in spite of
the very excellent presentation of the bill by
Senator Fergusson I find myseif stiil concerned and confused about the intention of
the bill, the efficacy of the language and
about the consequences, if it were to become
law at this time, without further necessary
clarification.
I refer particularly to clarification of the
central theme of the very eloquent address by
Senator Choquette on Tuesday evening. He
expressed the concern that tis bill may be in
very serious confliet with existing statutes. He
made it clear that his concera was not in a
mere legaal confiict, but in a conflict of basic
human rights. He referred, of course, to, the
provisions of the Bill of Rights, to which. I
will refer in a moment or so.
It is for that reason and after careful, conscientious and, I arn sure, openminded consideration of the variaus possible alternatives
that I find myseif in wholehearted support of
the position taken by Senator Choquette,
namely, that this bill should be referred to
the Supreme Court of Canada to determine
whether in law and in fact it is a necessary
additional protection to minority rights and
whether it is in conflict with that fundamentai statute, the Bill of Rights.
I say that I arn in agreement with this
suggestion because it occurs to me that it is a
výery reasonable, sensible compromise to a
serious conflict that has arisen over this bill.
It is a conflict between views seriously held
on both sides. They are flot merely academic
or pedantic or legalistic confiicts: these are
deep-seated conflicts about the nature of
hurnan rights.
On the one side are the rights of minorities;
on the other side, the rights of ail Canadians.
I hasten to point out that I have not said,
"On the other side, the rights of majorities."
I have said, "the rights of ail Canadians,"
because I think one of the essential considerations that we must have, in looking at this
bill, is the degree to which the rights of
minorities themselves may be curtalled and
restricted-in other words, to, the possibility
that minoritios who may believe that this
protection is necessary may actually be giving
up, ln terms of human rights, a great deal
more than they are likely to get.
The conflict which bas arisen over this bill
is almost a classic case of the very sound
proposition, often stated, that conflict and
compromise are the essence of democracy.
The more free we are as individuals in a
democracy, the more conflicts there will be. In
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

Arl2,17 1970
April 23,

a dictatorship, there may be conflicts but they
neyer corne to the surface; they are easily
resolved and quickly suppressed. In a demnocracy we find it necessary to becorne used to
conïlicts-between management and labour,
betwccn the producers and the consumers o!
food, between the rights o! association and
demonstration, and the rights of those who
are entitled to be protected from any violence
that may result frorn the exercise o! those
other rights. There is confiict, inevitable conflict, between the right to speak and be heard
and the right to be protected against any
damage or violence that may be încited by
the exercise o! that right by others.
On the other side o! the coin of that proposition, o! the necessary relationship between
conflict and compromise la a democracy, is
the responsibllity of goverament, o! the
politician, o! Parliament, to, resolve those conflicts. Indeed, it might be said that that is the
maijor responsibility o! those who are put la
authority by their fellow citizens.
I readily admit that the sponsors, the
authors o! tis bill, made an obvîous and
sincere attempt to effect that compromise. The
bll bas changed, perhaps for the better la
some ways, since the original measure.
Throughout the bill, ia the wording, in
sorne o! the qualifications, it is obvious that
those who sponsored this bill have tried, as
far as they could, to protect any fundamental
rights which some of its provisions may, and I
think do, infringe. Un!ortunately for my own
peace o! mind, I arn not convinced that they
have effected a viable compromise.
1 have read much of the discussion which
took place inside and outside Parliament
since the original bill, of which this is a
successor, came before us here. My conclusion, an honest and a sincere one, is that the
scope of this bill is such that it affects a much
wider variety of basic human rights than
those which it appears and intends to protect.
The specific intention, o! course, is to protect minorities !rorn violence. 1 say that
because in sorne o! the discussion thîs fact
seems to have been overlooked. There seerns
to have been an impression at tîmes that the
purpose o! this bull is to protect minorities
frorn vicious and contemptuous statements.
But if you read the bill carefully you will find
that that is only a subsidiary purpose and
intent. Ia two operative sections, 267A and
267B, we flnd the purpose of the bill clearly
defined-the use of the words "killing" and
"physical destruction", la section 267A; and

April 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

the requirements for a successful prosecution,
in section 267B, that there be evidence of
"breach of the peace" or incitement thereto.
So we are really dealing with the right, the
basic right, of any individual or group to be
protected against violence on the part of
fellow citizens.
I am sure that all honourable senators
would agree with me that this is an essential
right and that it is the business of our laws to
protect us from individual or mob violence. I
also say that it need hardly be argued before
anyone familiar with our statutes that that
right is adequately protected by the existing
statutes, not merely by the Bill of Rights but
by others.
The assumption behind the bill, however,
seems to be that there is necessity for additional protection of groups-which are, I
think, rather inelegantly described in the bill
as "identifiable groups", distinguished by
race, religion, colour or ethnic origin. I say it
is an inelegant phrase or description. I would
have thought that on a bill which purports to
make a resounding case for human rights,
there would have been somebody able to
come up with a rather more elegant phrase.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Would the honourable
senator permit me?
Hon. Mr. Grosart: Of course.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I know that Senator Grosart has given this matter a great deal of
thought. This is evident in the speech he is
now making. I am sure that he has read the
report of the commission which unanimously
recommended the provisions of this bill. That
commission was composed of many eminent
Canadians, all of whom, I am sure, gave consideration not only to the principle involved
but to the very question mentioned by Senator Grosart now, namely, the use of the
phrase "identifiable group".
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I fully agree with the
observation made by the Leader of the Government. It might be made about almost any
bill which comes before us. Distinguished
groups always give careful consideration to
the principle of a bill and to the wording. It
has not been my experience here that that
necessarily guarantees either good principle
or elegant language.
Hon. Mr. Martin: But it is persuasive.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: The honourable Leader
of the Government says it is persuasive. It
has not persuaded me.
22481-9

Hon. Mr. Martin: I was hoping it would
persuade Senator Choquette, but it did not.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I am sure that if Senator
Choquette is ever persuaded that this is a
good bill, I, too, will be so persuaded.
It has been suggested that this is an additional protection at this time and in that way
makes sense. In my opinion, however, that
suggestion raises three questions: Is this additional protection needed in Canada at this
time? Will the suggested protection in this
bill be effective? Will it unnecessarily curtail
or destroy other basic human rights?
From my consideration of the bill and the
discussions which have taken place in connection with it, I have reached certain conclusions. They are my own answers; I do not say
they are everybody's answers. They are
answers I have reached as a result of asking
myself the three questions I 'have just
mentioned.
First, I am not convinced that there is need
for such additional protection. For one reason
the right is assured in more than one of our
statutes, particularly in the Bill of Rights.
I would draw the attention of honourable
senators to the name of that bill. Officially it is
called "An Act for the Recognition and Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental
Freedoms".
That, of course, is what the present bill is
all about; it deals with a small sector of
human rights and fundamental freedoms on
the assumption that the Bill of Rights has not
done what it purported to do; otherwise, if it
had protected these rights, there would be no
necessity for the present bill.
Senator Choquette read a substantial part
of the Bill of Rights into the record when he
spoke on this matter on Tuesday night. I must
apologize to honourable senators for re-reading a much shorter part, but I do so because I
think it cannot be repeated too often that
these words exist in a fundamental statute of
the Parliament of Canada.
It has occurred to me that I might be asked
for a citation, since Senator Choquette was
asked for one the other night. I believe it is
Chapter 44 of the Revised Statutes of Canada,
Elizabeth Il, 8 and 9.
Part 1 of the Bill of Rights reads as
follows:
1. It is hereby recognized and declared
there have existed and shall continue to
exist without discrimination by reason
of race, national origin, colour, religion
or sex, the following human rights and
fundamental, freedoms, namely,-

SENATE DEBATES

April 23, 1970
Arl2,17

My only comment in passing is that the Bill
Rights, be sa construed and applied as
of Rights apparently considered sex ta be a
not ta abrogate, abridge or infringe or ta
characteristic of an identifiable group, whereauthorize the abrogation, abridgment or
as the bill before us apparently is not coninfringement af any of the rights af freecerned with contempt expressed against the
doms herein recognized and declaredidentifiable group which we know as the distaif side. I would, from my own personal The bill goes an from there, as you know.
experience, think that that is a group which
Now, I suggest ta honourable senators that
might need the protection rather more than language can hardly be clearer than that. The
any other group.
protection afforded ta minorities in Canada
can hardly be more camplete. There may wel
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): If the honoura- have been an assumption on the part af the
ble senator will allow me to give an explana- original sponsors af this bill-and I must
tion on that point, the present bill is dealing point out that the original sponsorship goes
with the subi ect matter of hate rather than back some three years-that the Bill af
the subject matter of love, and hence has no Rights was not a governing statute in this
reference to sex.
case. Senator Choquette in his remarks on the
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I must thank Senator famous Drybones case has made it very clear
Phillips for his observation. I do not know that in the opinion af the Supreme Court of
what his experience has been, but mine is Canada it is a governing statute.
that the two very often go together and are
Hon. Mr. Martin: I neyer thaught there was
not always distinguishable one from the any doubt about that.
other.
Hon. Mr. Choquetle: I am glad ta hear the
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): I feel I must honourable Leader of the Government say
advîse the honourable senator not ta make that, and I am sure hie will also agree with
me
too many confessions on that score.
that there should be no doubt about the fact
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I was not really making that we should have the opinion of the
a confession, senator; I thaught at the Supreme Court of Canada on the bill that is
moment that it was a boast. However, my wife before us.
is not here and perhaps I can get away with
Hon. Mr. Martin: I would question that.
such a comment on this occasion.
The opinions of the law officers of the Crown
Before the interesting interruptions, I was are what a government must observe, and, as
saying that I do not believe there is a need the Minister ai Justice has pointed out, those
for this present bill because it has been cov- opinions are quite clear.
ered to the extent I have already indicated in
Hon. Mr. Grosar±: Again I can only say that
the Bill ai Rights.
Now, the fundamental freedoms named in the legal officers of the Crawn have been
wrong.
the Bill of Rights are as follows:
(a) the right of the individual to life,
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Hear, hear.
liberty, security of the person and enjayHon. Mr. Grosart: And they were wrong in
ment of property and the right not to be
deprived thereof except by due pracess af the matter of the Drybones case.
law;
Hon. Mr. Martin: I do not think Sa.
(b) the right of the individual ta equalHon. Mr. Grosart: Well, it was the Crown
ity before the law and protection of the
who intervened in that case, and the Crown
law;
was învolved in this case, and I can hardly
(c) freedom of religion;
believe that was not done on the advice ai the
(d) freedom of speech;
legal officers of the Crown or that it was done
(e) freedom of assembly and associa- against their advice. Sa in answer ta the
tion; and
honourable Leader of the Government, I
(f) freedom of the press.
would say we are quite obviously in the posiSection 2 of the Bill af Rights provides:
tion where, if the information given me is
2. Every law af Canada shah, unless it is correct, we are in this bill dealing with
expressly dechared by an Act ai the Par- some bad advice from the hegal officers of the
liament of Canada that it shaîl aperate Crown, and that is clearhy demonstrated in
notwithstanding the Canadian Bill of the advice they gave in the Drybones case.
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

April 23, 1870

SENATE DEBATES

Thus I suggest it is hardly an argument
against the point I am making that the legal
officers of the Crown at one time or another
thought there was no conflict. If that were
true, we would not need a Supreme Court.

the Supreme Court of Canada, I had to conclude that his argument was getting weaker
as he went along. The obvious answer is, as
he is suggesting, that it will not be referred to
the Supreme Court of Canada. But, honourable senators, when would be a more appropriHon. Mr. Choquette: Nor would the breath- ate time to refer it to the Supreme Court of
alyzer case be before the Supreme Court, as it Canada?
is now.
Hon. Mr. Martin: When there is a doubt as
Hon. Mr. Grosart: As Senator Choquette to its constitutionality, but that is not the
remarks, the same thing applies to the situation now.
breathalyzer case. The fact that I have heard
in this house previously and in committee
Hon. Mr. Grosart: The Leader of the Govthat the legal officers of the Crown approved ernment speaks of constitutional grounds.
a bill, cuts no ice with me whatsoever. If all What is more constitutional in a democratic
we have to do is ask what is the advice of the country like Canada than a conflict of human
legal officers of the Crown, then we do not rights, particularly when we have a Bill of
need the Supreme Court of Canada. Perhaps Rights? Surely this is what the Constitution
we do not need any courts. The legal officers is all about. The law of the land is the Constihave a function; their function is to give tution-the law of the land plus the convenadvice, not to make judgments or decisions.
tions of the Constitution-and the moment
Hon. Mr. Martin: No one has more respect there is a violation of any human right, the
for the Supreme Court than I have, but this is Constitution is involved and constitutional
the Parliament of the nation. I do not think rights are involved, because you cannot sepaany Member of Parliament, whether of this rate human rights from constitutional rights.
The second reason I am not convinced that
chamber or the other, would want to leave to
the Supreme Court the decision on a matter this additional protection is needed at this
of policy. That is what is involved in this bill. time-that is, in addition to the complete proThis does not mean to say that after the bill tection given by the Bill of Rights-is that
becomes law the citizen will not be entitled to the passage of time has made it abundantly
test the legality of the measure in the clear that the particular instance which gave
rise to the initiative for this bill has already
courts-as was done in the Drybones case.
It would be invidious and wrong for a gov- passed into history. I refer to the Nazi group
ernment at the time of the passage of a bill to in the Allan Gardens in Toronto. That group
concur in the suggestion that that bill was not behaved very badly, incited to riot, and was
structured on strong legal foundations. If dealt with by the courts under existing legisanyone feels that his or her right is being lation. They were also dealt with by public
violated, contrary to existing law, this can be opinion, and we have heard no more about
tested in the courts. This bill provides for the them. The salutary lesson to be learned from
application of the principle of the law of libel that, it seems to me, is that, first of all, the
to the group. That too can be tested in the existing law is adequate to deal with such
courts. But I for one could never agree that situations and, secondly, the attempt in this
the Supreme Court of Canada should sup- bill to add this kind of additional protection
plant the authority and jurisdiction of the in this way is only going to make more
mischief.
Parliament of the nation.
Now honourable senators may ask how this
Hon. Mr. Grosart: That, honourable sena- can make more mischief. If you read the bill
tors, is the standard speech made when carefully you will find that we have here the
suggestions such as mine are answered. The strange situation of a bill being suggested to
Leader of the Government made it with some us which, if it should become the law of
passion.
Canada, could actually incite to breaches of
the peace. Now that is a broad statement,
Hon. Mr. Martin: With some feeling.
honourable senators, and some might think it
Hon. Mr. Grosart: For the first half of his extravagant, but the bill makes it very clear
comment, I thought he really meant what he that if any person speaks in a derogatory way
was saying, but as he became wound up and under certain conditions-which I shall not go
started to talk in exaggerated terms about the into at the moment-or in a condemnatory
relationship of the Parliament of Canada to way or in a way that might invoke or incite
22481-91

SENATE DEBATES

April 23, 1970

hatred, there must be evidence that he is what I say it is. I believe my respect for the
inciting to a breach of the peace. Now I say human dignity of minorities is as great as
this is inciting that breach of the peace that of any individual member of those
because clearly those who object to any groups or minorities. If I thought for one
orator, such as some Hyde Park Corner orator moment that the passing of this bill in this
in London, as we have all seen and heard, are form and at this time would add to the
going to say, "Unless we get some evidence respect for and the recognition of any addithat he is inciting a breach of the peace, they tional rights of minorities in this country, I
won't prosecute; so let us incite a breach of would be supporting it. But, honourable senators, I do not believe that the passing of this
the peace."
bill will achieve that objective.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: That is what is being
Honourable senators, assuming that this bill
done all the time.
is passed within the next week or so and that
Hon. Mr. Grosari: It has been done and it sometime thereafter there is a prosecution
will be done again if this bill as it stands under the bill, surely it will almost certainly
becomes the law of the land.
be challenged in the courts, assuming the
I come now to the second question I raised, accused person has the opportunity and the
and again I find the answer in the negative. I means to pursue an appeal to the Supreme
remain unconvinced that this bill will add Court of Canada.
one iota of protection to those whom it seeks
I think it is obvious this bill is eventually
to protect. In fact, the contrary will be the going to be referred to the Supreme Court of
case, for among other things and for the rea- Canada. It is an old and wise proverb that
sons I have mentioned, far from protecting "Prevention is better than cure."
anybody, it will lead to these breaches of the
Hon. Mr. Evere±: Could the honourable
peace. It is a case where the law is not merely
an ass but in fact becomes a dangerous incite- senator speculate as to what the decision of
the Supreme Court of Canada might be?
ment to lawlessness.
Coming to the third question, I find my own
Hon. Mr. Choquetie: That sounds like a fair
answer in the affirmative. As the bill is writ- question.
ten, it would seem to me it will almost certainly act to curtail unnecessarily not only
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I thank Senator Everett
the rights of others who are not at any par- for probably the most extreme piece of fiatticular time or in any particular situation tery I have ever been the subject of in this
associated with a minority group or an iden- chamber, and perhaps in my life. I suppose I
tifiable group. It will curtail the rights of all could speculate, but I can assure him that I
Canadians.
will not because that is what my argument is
Let me make it quite clear that I am not all about.
contrasting the rights of the minority with
I do not think, as the honourable Leader of
the rights of the majority. We live in a coun- the Government suggested, that it is entirely
try where we believe there is one and the a matter for political decision. Of course, it
same law for all, rich or poor, large or small, makes sense for the conflicts of democracy to
majority or minority. As I said earlier, I be resolved and compromised on the political
remain convinced that if this law, as written. level, whenever possible or whenever there is
goes into effect, the very minority groups that no other way, but it so happens in this case
it seeks to protect are going to lose far more that there is another way, a way of taking
than they gain in the matter of human rights.
this whole bill out of politics. There is a way
I should say at this point, and perhaps I to obtain an impartial judicial decision on the
should have said it earlier, that I yield to no matter of this conflict. What we are asking is:
one in this chamber in my concern for the Is there a conflict of law? Is there a conflict of
respect for the rights of minorities, and more human rights? It is not a political question at
than the rights-their equality, the love of all.
their fellowmen and of all humans. I think
Hon. Mr. Martin: The Government takes
my personal record will support that. I shall
the position, of course, that there is not
not take the time of the Senate to produce and not only the Government, but those
any evidence that that is so; I merely ask of other political parties who supported the
honourable senators to take my word for it, point of view of the Government. This is
that my respect for human dignity in all its not a political question, but the Governaspects and for all individuals and groups is ment examined this problem and was satisfied
IHon. Mr. Grosart.]

April 23, 1970

Apri 23.1970SENATE
DEBATES

beyond daubt, as the Minister of Justice has
indicated, that there is no conflict.
Han. Mr. Choquette: Might I ask the Leader
of the Government a question, since he has
been asking several questions himself? I arn
asking you because you are the Leader of the
Government in this Hanse.
Have you given thought ta the fact that if a
member of the Senate or the Hanse of Commons were ta infringe upon this law, if we
pass it, he would be guilty of a crime and
would have ta resign? Have you given that
any thought?
Hon. Mr. Martin. I do not think there is
anything in the bill that provides any foundation whatsoever for an intervention like that
of my dear and good friend Senator
Choquette.
Han. Mr. Choqueto: It is a public place.
Hon. Mr. Martin: There is nothing in this
bill that provides any foundation for that
kind of question.
Hon. Mr. Choquet,: If he is a Member of
the House of Commons or of this house and
commits a crime and is found criminally
liable, surely he has to resign, ini the same
way as did Rose and a few others who were
Members of Parliamnent and committed
crimes.
.Hon. Mr. Martin: 0f course, but that is not
the question.
Hon. Mn. Chaquotte: That is my question.
Han. Mr. Martin: That is why I said there
was no foundation for the intervention of
Senator Choquette, but I would not want the
remark I directed to Senator Choquette ta be
regarded as a personal attack on a man for
whom I have the very highest admiration.
Han. Mr. Grosart: What I have been trying
to say is that we are dealing with a conflict.
Han. Mr. Martin: You have just had one.
Han. Mn. Grosart: I amn glad, in any event,
that some senators make it clear that we have
some fundarnental canflicts here, sincere conflicts on strangly held views.
I say again, with respect ta the Leader of
the Government, they are not political views,
as he himself has just said. It seems ta me
that he is destraying his own argument. The
conflict in the other place was non-political-

Han. Mr. Martin: I meant, not narrowly.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: Allow me ta finish. It is
quite true that ini the other place members of
ail parties voted different ways.
Hon. Mr. Halleti: Some.
Hon. Mn. Grosart: Of course, some. AUl
could not vote on bath sides-except perhaps
in Ireland!
Hon. Mn. Chaquette: Some members were
conveniently absent.
Han. Mn. Grasant: Many were absent for
reasans I will nat question, but it merely
points up the fact that there is canflict about
the conflict inherent in this bill, and it is not
a political conflict. The conflict is between
twa approaches ta human rights and, surely,
as I mentioned earlier, the aid proverb applies
here, "Prevention is better than cure."
I say that because if there is a case braught
under the provisions of this bil which goes ta
the Supreme Court of Canada, then ail the
aid bitterness is going ta crop us again, and
there will be a delay, probably a long delay,
and a long and bitter debate as ta whether
the protection of these important minority
rights infringe on other equally important
riglits; and that is the whole matter I ama
discussing.
If honourable senatars are not prepared ta
agree with me that it is time ta end the
bitterness of this conflict or the exaggerations-I will not say that what I arn goiag ta
give are examples of bitterness, but they are
examples of unnecessary exaggeration-I will
read some headlines from only one newspaper, The Globe and Mail: "A law that tempts
disaster"; "Hate, law and morality: an
unwholesome mixture"; "Rights that came
first", and "Oppression in democracy's cloak".
Ail those headlines go much further than I
wauld in my apposition ta this bill, and there
have been much more extravagant statements
made than those.
I have before me the April 17 issue af The
Canadian Jewish News, which has the largest
circulation of any Jewish paper in 'Toronto,
and on the front page, in very large headlines, is this statement: "Foes of anti-hate bill
are agitatiag senators; new battle is expected". I say that is an exaggeration. If any foes
of this bill are agitating senators, I have nlot
heard about them. I do not know whether
there is aay foundation ta this story, or
whether it is just the resuit of an emotional
reaction ta this situation.

SENATE DEBATES
I do not believe a new battle is expected,
because I believe we are going to compromise
this matter in the very sensible way in which
it can be compromised, by accepting the
suggestion of Senator Choquette; that is to
say, by the Senate, in its wisdom, persuading
the Government-and even the Leader of the
Government in the Senate, which may be
hard-to take the wise, fair and reasonable
course and refer this conflict to the Supreme
Court of Canada.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I have already given my
answer on that.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: I hope it is not
unanimous.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Martin, debate
adjourned.
STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS
PROPOSED STUDY OF PROCEDURES BY LEGAL
AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE-DEBATE CONTINUED

The Senate resumed from Tuesday, April
21, the adjourned debate on the motion of
Hon. Mr. Martin that the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs be instructed to consider and, from
time to time, to report on procedures for the
review by the Senate of instruments made in
virtue of any statute of the Parliament of
Canada, and to consider in connection therewith any public documents relevant thereto.
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senatorsHon. John J. Connolly: Honourable senators, if Senator Martin would yield I would
appreciate the opportunity to make a short
intervention in this debate.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Certainly.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is it agreed that Hon. Senator Connolly
(Ottawa West) should proceed?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Oitawa West): I thank
the honourable senator for allowing me to
participate in this debate. I should say at the
outset that it is not my intention to detain the
house for any great length of time, and,
secondly, that I have no hopes of emulating
the learned speeches already made by the
leaders of both sides by Senator Phillips
(Rigaud), and by the other honourable senators who have discussed this important
matter.
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

April 23, 1970

I remind honourable senators that the
motion is that the Standing Senate Committee
on Legal and Constitutional Affairs be
instructed to consider and, from time to time,
to report on procedures for the review by the
Senate of instruments made in virtue of any
statute of the Parliament of Canada. What we
are talking about in this debate is the broad
problem of delegated legislation, and that
includes a consideration of a very difficult
and dicey area of discretionary decision by
ministers and officials. It involves arbitrary
decisions and enactments which from time to
time confront the citizen, and which might
infringe upon his rights and, generally speaking, orders in council which are made by the
Executive under the authority of a statute
and which are sometimes considered to go
beyond the authority conferred by the statute.
In what I have to say I do not propose to
berate the public servants of this country. By
and large Canada is blessed with a public
service that is equal to any other in the
world. But, of course, individual views do
emerge at times from decisions and enactments made under the purported authority of
legislation, and sometimes these are called
into question. As Senator Phillips (Rigaud)
has said, the original classic work on this
subject was written many years ago by Lord
Hewart and entitled The New Despotism. I
do not propose to review any of the views or
expressions used by Lord Hewart in that
important book, but I would like to place
upon the record of this bouse some of the
views of other scholars and experts in the
parliamentary field which bear upon this
subject.
Honourable senators will know the name of
Lord Campion very well. He had a long service at the Table of the British House of
Commons, and was later appointed to the
House of Lords. He was one of the experts in
the field of parliamentary government. In
talking about the complexity of legislation as
it was developing before the parliaments or
congresses of the world, particularly those of
the Commonwealth, ant the volume of work
that is required of them, he wrote:
The development of party machinery,
the growing stringency of party discipline, the replacement of the House of
Commons by the electors as the government-choosing agency, have all worked in
the same direction to increase the ascendancy of the Executive over Parliament.

April 23, 1970

Apri 23.1970SENATE
DEBATES

There is one further sentence here that I this might be better done by a cliamber sucli
think is of particular interest to this house, as this than by the other place.
and it is:
Hon. Mr. Martin: As is the case in Br.itain
The Government has also been the chief
beneficiary from the restriction of the and Australia.
legisiative powers of the House of Lords.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): Yes, as
Honourabie senators will remember that is the case particularly in Britain, because the
the powers of the House of Lords were re- House of Lords there takes a very special
duced in 1910, and again in 1948 and subse- interest in this particular field of work.
In no sense do I deprecate or desire to
quently, so that now the veto of the House of
Lords in respect of alinost any measure can deprecate the reaily outstanding job that was
done in the other place in another session by
be overcorne within a short period of time.
a committee headed by the distinguished
Later he said:
Dean of the Law Scliool of Windsor UniversiEach of the many branches of social ty, Mr. MacGuigan. He lias a particular interand economic development cari oniy be est in this field of legisiation because of bis
mastered by specialists. Tliorough criti- higli academic qualifications.
cism of sucli measures is beyond the
power of the average member. The
Hon. Mr. Martin: He 15, of course, now the
amount of sucli legisiation and the insuf- member for Windsor-Walkerville.
ficient time for its digestion and examiHon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): I am
nation add to its distracting eifect. In an
age of specialization the House suif ers quite aware that he succeeded the honourable
from, ail the disadvantages of amateurs senator, and is doing lis best to îlil those
shoes that are so large and so hard to fill.
pitted against professionals.
Hon. Mr. Martin: He is doing better than I
Honourabie senators, the amateurs ini this
case are ourseives as Members of Parliament, ever did.
and the professionals are the people in the
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West). I would
publie service.
not say that, but I do pay full tribute to him
The Riglit Honourable L. S. Amery, writing and lis committee for the excellence o! the
on the nature of Britisli parliamentary gov- work they have done. If I may use the
erniment, adds this comment:
language o! the street, tliey beat us to tihe
The ever-growing volume of adminis- punch by taking this study on, because it was
trative and legisiative business to be perhaps one that we shouid have taken on
deait with by Parliament adds greatly to originally. This work must necessarily be o! a
the danger of party caucus dictatorship. continuing nature. Membership in the House
Some substantial easement could and of Commons is not necessarily a continuous
should be aiforded by once more making way of life for ahl people. However, a house
like this, whicli remains in being and thre
a reality of the House of Lords.
members of which remain here regardless of
The British have their own problem in that tlie vagaries of the fortunes of the political,
respect. So far we have not had to face that parties ini the country, can carry out tlie work
probiemn in oui' Parliament because the on a continuing basis i a more meaningful
powers of the Senate have flot materially way than wouid be the case if it were to be
clianged since Confederation became a fact. attexnpted either by a committee o! the other
Honourable senators, what is required to be house or by a joint committee.
done througli this resolution is to report on
At a given point of time you may have
procedures for the review of statutory instru- people in the other house wlio are most interments. I sliould like to make one or two ested in this kind of work, but at other times
points about these proposed procedures. In you may not be able to find even one. It is not
the first place we sliould make it abundantly easy work. Perliaps it is not always pleasant,
clear that since Parliament passes the original because there may be criticism to be directed
statute then the review of the orders in coun- towards ministers, deputies and otlier bigh
cil and the regulations, and of the decisions officiais in departments and Crown corporathat are made under the authority o! that tions. This is particuiariy so wlien it is found
statute which the parliamentarians pass, tliat they are over-stepping the authority consliould be done by the parlianientarians them- ferred upon tliem by the statute. Not only lias
selves. I suggest, for a variety of reasons, that the Senate a continuing capabiity to carry

SENATE DEBATES
out this kind of work, but consequent upon
the change in the rules in the other place that
has occurred within the last year or so, less
and less work is being done there in Committee of the Whole. More and more work is
referred to the standing committees and it
will be increasingly difficult in a house composed of more than two parties to deal with a
subject-matter such as this, which is really a
non-partisan problem but one on which the
student, the scholar and the expert can perhaps give the best advice. However, having
said that let me say also that the individual
whose rights might be adversely affected by
delegated legislation enacted in a way that
contravenes the statute should also be in the
position to complain and make representation
to a continuing committee of the Senate in
this kind of inquiry. This work is very much
similar to the work of a royal commission because of the kind of study that is involved.
Honourable senators might allow me to
give some figures to indicate the work
in this field which the Senate has done successfully and, I think, at relatively much less
cost than that which would be incurred if the
work were to be carried out by a royal commission. I take first the Special Joint Committee on Consumer Credit (Cost of Living).
Although it was a joint committee, it was
paid for by the Senate. The work of that
special joint committee cost the country
$244,400. That seems to be a very large
amount of money but, as honourable senators
know, our committees, whether they be
special or standing, print all the evidence
that is taken. Of the $244,400 cost of this
committee, $154,321 was paid for the printing
of the evidence.
The Special Senate Committee on Aging
cost $144,334. Of this, $83,626 was for printing. The total cost of the Special Senate Committee on Science Policy for the period
ending March 31, 1970, was $349,743. However, the amount spent for information and
printing was $191,657-more than half. It was
estimated that the total cost of the Special
Senate Committee on Mass Media would be
$296,000, and that the information and printing would cost $141,000, or 50 per cent of the
total amount. It was estimated that the Special Senate Committee on Poverty, a very
important committee of this house, would cost
$468,000, of which the printing bill would be
$215,000. I am not criticizing the committee
for printing the evidence that it hears. Some
of this evidence is invaluable; it should be in
the public records.
[Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West).]

April 23, 1970

The forum provided for the discussion of
these great public questions by these committees is an invaluable national forum. However, I do say that the cost of these committees is high. They will undoubtedly be higher
before they are lower. As we embark upon
this work we must remember that we are
going to incur further and higher expenditures
to perform it.
However, I should like to contrast these
costs which I have outlined, with the costs of
some recent royal commissions. I say, and I
think honourable senators will agree and it
will be generally agreed, that the work of
these special committees is comparable to the
work done by royal commissions. Believe me,
honourable senators, you will now be listening to boxcar figures, in comparison to which
those given for the costs of Senate committees
will pale into insignificance.
The Royal Commission on Government
Organization, which was appointed in 1960
and reported in 1963, cost $2,792,000. The
Royal Commission on Health Services,
appointed in 1961 and completed in 1966, cost
$1,467,000. The Royal Commission on Taxation, which sat between 1962 and 1967, cost
$3,483,000. The Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism cost $8,900,000 to
October 31, 1969. The Royal Commission on
Farm Machinery Costs is one that the Senate
might well have taken on; it was appointed in
1966 and cost $1,581,000. That is the kind of
work that I think special committees of this
house could do thoroughly, and much more
cheaply and reasonably than a royal
commission.
The Royal Commission on the Status of
Women in Canada-I do not complain about
this because I think the status of women is an
important facet of our national life-was
appointed in 1967, and the costs to date are
$1,581,000. I do not say the Senate would have
been in any expert position to do the work of
the Royal Commission on the Status of
Women, although it might have been very
pleasant work.

Hon. Mr. Smith: Why not? We have all
kinds of talent.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): Perhaps
Senator Smith has some special capacity in
that field, but older men like myself feel a
little bit out of it, and in this respect perhaps
I speak for the Leader of the Government
(Hon. Mr. Martin) and the Deputy Leader of
the Opposition (Hon. Mr. Choquette), who
seem to be busy discussing some important
matter of policy at the moment.

April 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Smith: My own opinion-and it is
a matter of opinion-is that this chamber,
with its membership of both sexes, is just as
capable of doing the kind of work that is being
done by this royal commission. I do not say
this in any light way at all.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa Westh I certainly think Senator Smith's observation is
pertinent. The only point I make is that the
ladies in this chamber are so busy on so many
committees that I wonder whether they can
take on more work. However, the Royal Commission on the Status of Women was established in 1967 and is still going, so I assume
we will not get into that either.

regular basis. I do not mean that we should
have a standing committee, but I do think
that every few years, perhaps every three
years, or as is deemed appropriate, a committee should be set up to review statutory
instruments. I am sure it would go further
afield than the bare examination of orders in
council or regulations made under statutes. I
think our continuing status and obvious
capacity to do this kind of work make this
chamber an eminently suitable forum to
undertake the work.

Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, I
had intended to take part in and close the
debate on this subject. However, the Special
Hon. Mr. Smith: Our women are faster Senate Committee on Mass Media has been
than that!
meeting, we have had a rather heavy week
and in
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): I think of comittee work in particular,
order to enable some honourable senators to
all the work done by the Senate committees,
by comparison with similar work done by attend to committee obligations, I would now
royal commissions, has been done more move that the debate be adjourned.
quickly, more expeditiously and at less cost.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Martin, debate
This is the last word I wish to say on the adjourned.
subject. I think it would be very salutory for
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, April
the Senate to devise procedures for taking on
the review of statutory instruments on a 28, at 8 p.m.

22481-10

SENATE DEBATES

April 28, 1970
Arl2.17

THE SENATE

Hon. Muriel McQ. Fergusson moved, with
leave of the Senate, that the amendment be
concurred in now.
She said: Honourable senators, this amendTuesday, April 28, 1970
ment changes the definition of "radiation
The Senate met at 8 p.m., the Speaker in emitting device" in section 2(h), which is the
the Chair.
interpretation section of the act, and brings
under the act amy device that emits radiation.
Prayers.
This amemded section would then bring under
the act, for example, such devîces as televiCANADA SHIPPING ACT
sion sets.
Amendment concurred in.
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST READING
The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that a message had been received from the
House of Commons with Bill C-10, respecting
the Canada Shipping Act.
Bill read first time.
Han. Mr. Martin moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for second
reading on Thursday next.
Motion agreed to.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
RESEARCH CENTRE BILL
CONCURRENCE BY COMMONS IN SENATE
AMENDMENT

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that a message had been received from the
House of Commons to acquaint the Senate
that they have agreed to the amendments
made by the Senate to Bill C-12, to establish
the International
Development Research
Centre, without any arnendment.
RADIATION EMITTING DEVICES BILL
COMMONS AMENDMENT

CONCURRED

IN

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that a message had been received fromn the
House of Commons returning Bill S-14, an act
respecting the sale and importation of certain
radiation emitting devices, and acquainting
the Senate that they have passed this bill
with the following amendment, to which they
desire the concurrence of the Senate:
Page 2, lime 9 to 13: Strike out and substitute therefor the following:
"(h) 'radiation emitting device' means
amy device that is capable of producing
and emitting radiation; and"
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable semators, when shahl this amendment be taken
into consideration?

DOCUMENTS TAB LED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Capital budgets of the Cape Breton
Development Corporation for the year
ending December 31, 1970, pursuant to
sections 21 and 26 of the Cape Breton
Development Corporation Act, chapter 6,
Statutes of Canada, 1967-68, together
with copy of Order in Council P.C. 1970672, dated April 17, 1970, approving
same.
Statutory Orders and Regulations published in the Canada Gazette, Part II, of
Wednesday, April 22, 1970, pursuant to
section 7 of the Regulations Act, chapter
235, R.S.C., 1952.
Copies of correspondence exchanged
between Mr. H. A. Mann, Chairman of
the National Harbours Board, and the
Minister of Transport with respect to Mr.
Mann's resigmation, dated April 15-17,
1970.
Copies of Agreement, dated April 21,
1970, between the Government of Canada
and the Governmemt of the Province of
Newfoundland, with respect to Special
Areas and Highways.
Copies of Agreement, dated Aprîl 21,
1970, between the Govermment of Canada
and the Governmemt of the Province of
New Brunswick, with respect to Special
Areas and Highways.
Copies of Agreement between the Government of Canada and the Government
of the United States of America on
Reciprocal Fishing Privîleges in Certain
Areas off their Coasts. Dome at Ottawa
April 24, 1970.
Report of the National Harbours Board,
including its Accounts and Financial
Statements certified by the Auditor General, for the year ended December 31,
1969, pursuant to section 32 of the
National Harbours Board Act, chapter

April 28, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 28.1970SENATE

187, and sections 85(3) and 87(3) of the
Financial Administration Act, chapter
116, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of the Canadian National Railways for the year ended December 31,
1969, pursuant to section 40 of the
Canadian National Railways Act, chapter
29, Statutes of Canada, 1955.
Report of the Canadian National Railways Securities Trust for the year ended
December 31, 1969, pursuant to section 17
of the Canadian National Railways Capital Revision Act, chapter 311, R.S.C.,
1952.
Report to Parliament; of the Auditors
on the Accounts of the Canadian National
Railway System for the year ended
December 31, 1969, pursuant to, section 40
of the Canadian National Railways Act,
chapter 29, Statutes of Canada, 1955.
Report of The Seaway International
Bridge Corporation, Ltd., including its
Accounts and Fmnancial Statements certified by the Auditor General, for the year
ended December 31, 1969, pursuant to
sections 85(3) and 87(3) of the Financia
Administration Act, chapter 116, R.S.C.,
1952.
Report of The St. Lawrence Seaway
Authority, including its Accounts and
Financial Statements certified by the
Auditor General, for the year ended
December 31, 1969, pursuant to sections
85(3) and 87(3) of the Financial Administration Act, chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of exemptions authorized by the
Minister of Transport under section 137
of the Canada Shipping Act in cases
where no master or officer was available
with required certificate and experience,
for the year ended December 31, 1969,
pursuant to section 137(2) of the said Act,
chapter 29, R.S.C., 1952. (English tex.

tomorrow. Apparently the business of this
house has reached relatively the same position as that in the other place. I have been
advised that the House of Commons has also
decided to devote one full day to, committee
work on Thursday in order to facilitate the
general business of that house.
In order to fadilitate in particular the consideration being given to the White Paper by
the Standing Senate Conunittee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce, it seems appropriate
that the whole of Wednesday, beginning at 9
a.m., be devoted to, that subject. The suggestion has also been made that, if the Senate
does not sit on Wednesday, many of our
members would then be able to attend the
interesting and important meetings of that
conunittee which wrnl go on throughout the
day and probabiy into the evening.
Hon. Mr. Fournier <De Lanaudière):
Honourable
senators, I
do not wish
to confuse the issue, but concerning the
motion moved by the honourable Senator
Smith, I should like to make a sllght
amendment.
Instead of meeting at two o'clock Thursday
afternoon, I should prefer to meet at three
o'clock. The reason for my suggestion is that,
tomorrow those of us from the Province of
Quebec who have not yet fulfilled their citizens' voting duty will have to go and vote,
and because of celebrations, which no doubt
wil last a little longer than usual, I should
prefer not being called here earlier than three
o'clock Thursday.
The Hon. the Speaker: Do I understand that
the Government Leader or Senator Smnith
wishes to speak?

Hon. Mr. Smith: Honourable senators, I
have no personal objection to coming back at
any hour of any day, because, like Senator
Fournier (De Lanaudière) and many others in
this chamber, I amn in Ottawa most of the
ADJOURNMENT
time. However, there has been no opportunity
to canvass the viewpoint expressed by SenaHon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators, tor Fournier (De Lanaudière), and if others
with leave of the Senate, and notwithstanding hold a similar view we would appreciate
Rule 45(1) (g), I move that when the Senate hearing from them. I can then have a rapid
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until consultation with my leader to see if we can
Thursday, April 30, at 2 o'clock in the after- suit their convenience.
noon.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Maybe the problem could
Perhaps honourable senators would find it
helpful if I were to indicate the rea- be resolved if we were to give an assurance
sonmng behind this motion, which, if passed, to Senator Fournier (De Lanaudière) that we
would mean that the Senate would not sit will ait until at least 4 o'clock.
22481-10à

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): If I arn
here at 4 o'clock, 1 may well be here before
the honourable gentleman.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Very good.
The Hon. the Speaker: It is moved by honourable Senator Smith, seconded by honourable Senator Cook that when the Senate
adjourns today, it do stand adjourned until
Thursday, April 30, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
Do 1 understand that the honourable Senator Fournier (De Lanaudière) is pursuing the
amendment he has indicated?

April
Arl2,1728, 1970

BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
COMMITTEE
AUTHORITY

TO

MEET DURING

S=TING

0F THE SENATE
Hon. Donald Smith, with leave of the
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(a),
moved:
That the Standing Senate Committee
on Banking, Trade and Commerce have
power to sit while the Senate is sitting on
Thursday, April 30, 1970, and that Rule
76(4) be suspended i relation thereto.

He said: Honourable senators, perhaps a
short explanation would be in order on this
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): I arn motion too.
pursuing the amendment.
The Chairman of the Standing Senate ComThe Hon. the Speaker: If the honourable mittee on Banking, Trade and Commerce has
Senator Fournier (De Lanaudière), will nomi- made representations to the effect that
nate a seconder, I shall place his amendment arrangements have been made for a number
of important witnesses to appear on Thursday
before the house.
before bis committee, whicb is in the process
In amendment it is moved by honourable of considering the White Paper on Taxation.
Senator Fournier (De Lanaudière), seconded It also appears that their schedule, commencby honourable Senator Prowse that when the ing at 9 arn., will take them into the late
Senate adjourns todayafternoon on that day, therefore, it would be
appreciated by
Hon. Mr. Grosart: On a point of order, Mr. those appearing and suit the convenience of
before the committee if perSpeaker, is an amendment to a motion to mission to sit while the Senate
is sitting could
adjourn in order?
be granted for this occasion only.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, I
Motion agreed to.
think we will want to recognize the proposition put forward by Senator Fournier (De
UKRAINIANS IN CANADA
Lanaudière). I would simply say that f rom, the
business we have arranged for Thursday,
STATISTICAL COMPENDIUM
there is no doubt that the Senate will be
On the Orders of the Day:
sitting past 3 o'clock on that day. For a long
time now we have selected the hour of 2
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable senao'clock. This hour seemed generally to meet tors, before the Orders of the Day
are
the convenience of honourable senators for I wýould like t, take a few moments called,
of the
that day. However, I can tell Senator Fournier Senate's time to inform the chamber
that there is no doubt whatever that we very worthwhile work being done o! the
by
will be sitting well past 3 o'clock on Thurs- member of Her Majesty's Loyal Oppositionone
in
day. If that meets his convenience, I would the Senate.
hope he would recognize that an effort has
been made to meet his wishes.
Hon. Senalors: Hear, hear.
Han. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière):
Honourable senators, we have an amendrnent
to the motion to adjourn which is flot debateable. Therefore I want to withdraw my
amendment; otherwise, the discussion might
last until next week because of the honourable
gentleman who is playing on the rules.
Honourable senators, I withdraw my
amendment and I shall do my very best to be
here on Thursday at 2 o'clock ini the afternoon.
Motion agreed to.
[Hon. Mr. Flynn.]

Hon. Mr. Macdonald: I draw to your attention the fact that Senator Paul Yuzyk, Professor of History at the University of Ottawa, is
presently conducting a comprehlensive statistical survey o! Canada's Ukrainian population,
wbicb survey is later to be published in book
form.
Supported by a Canada Council grant; to
the University of Ottawa totalling approximately $50,000, the three-year study is
intended to be the first authentic and com-

April 28, 1970

Apri 28,1970SENATE
DEBATES

plete analysis of the Ukrainians in Canada. It CRIMINAL CODE <HATE PROPAGANDA)
will look at them from several aspects, and
BELL TO AMEND-SECOND READINGfrom. their origins in Canada to the present.
DEBATE CONTINUED
To say the least, the project is tirnely, given
The Senate resumed from Thursday, April
Canada's present constitutional problems. We
are living ini a period of Canada's history 23, the adjourned debate on the motion of
when linguistic and cultural rights and prob- Hon. Mrs. Fergusson, for the second reading
lems of national unity are being discussed of Bull C-3, to amend the Criminal Code.
and examined, probably as neyer before. This
Han. Daniel A. Lang: Honourable senators,
project will serve to increase the amount and
improve the quality of the statistics available this order stands in the name of Senator
Martin. I wonder if he wiil permit me to
on one of Canada's ethnie groups.
proceed at this time.
This is one Canada Council grant of which
I arn sure we can ail heartily approve. I arn
The Han. the Speaker: Honourable senaconvinced that the work will be done thor- tors, is it agreed that the honourable Senator
oughly and conscientiously, and that the out- Lang should speak in place of the honourable
corne will be of great benefit to the people of Senator Martin?
Canada.
Han. Senatars: Agreed.
Hon. Senatars: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Lang: Honourable senators, this
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, we evening I shouid like to express my appreciaare grateful to Senator Macdonald for fur- tion, which I know is shared by ail members
of this house, to Senator Fergusson for
nishing us with this information.
moving the second reading of this bill and ini
Senator Yuzyk will be undertaking a work doing so to give such a
of importance. We extend to hlm our best of its legislative history.comprehensive review
So many years have
wishes in the prosecution of this assignment, elapsed
since this measure first came before
one that will enable him to write about the us that many of the events and circumstances
Ukrainian population and to provide statisties surrounding it have dimmed in oui memories.
about this important section of the Canadian Without Senator Fergusson's research and
family.
assistance it would have been very difficuit
In these days much emphasis is placed,' and for us to regain oui perspective and focus of
rightly so, upon our obligations to the two the issues involved.
I should like also to compliment Senator
founding groups of our country. As we note
this obligation, we also recognize the obliga- Choquette for the learned observations he
tion we have to the other groups that com- made upon the legai implications of this bill,
pose the Canadian nation. The Ukrainian particularly in the light of recent judicial
decisions. Indeed, I should like to
population, which is some 700,000 or 800,000 ail honourable senators who have compliment
contributed
in number, represents a significant and valua- to this debate for their thoughts and considerbie portion of Canada. Canada is a mosale; it ations on this most important piece of crimiis flot a melting pot. It is a country in which nal legisiation.
the cultures of ail the peoples must be given
Honourable senators, I would merely
an opportunity to flourish.
remind you that this bill first came before us
Among those who received the first certifi- in 1966, and that this is the fourth occasion
cates of Canadian citizenship in 1946 was the upon which it has been introduced in this
first Ukrainlan to come to Canada. He had house. On past occasions in this chamber I
settled in the west, where he carried on the have made my views on this bil known, and
business of farming. He was the first of a tonight I do not intend to repeat either my
very large group of Ukrainians who came to concern or the reasons for my objections.
live ini Canada. Senator Yuzyk is one of these.
Bil C-3, wbich we are now considering, is
I speak for ail members of this house when I a vastly improved piece of legislation over
say that in recognizing Senator Yuzyk and the original Bill S-49 and its two successor
this assignment we pay our tribute to and bis. The amendments made by the Senate to
salute the Ukrainian people in our country Bill S-21 just a year ago remove some of the
who have piayed such a noble part in Canadi- most dangerous and objectionable features. It
an affairs.
is worth while, I think, to recali briefly the

SENATE DEBATES
contribution made in this regard by Senator
Roebuck and his committee in amending the
definition of "genocide" so that the advocacy
of certain legitimate causes could not mistakenly be included within the ambit of the
broad and vague generalities defining the
offences. Another amendment provided a
safeguard in requiring that the consent of the
Attorney General be a prerequisite to a
prosecution under the operable sections of the
bill. A further amendment proposed by the
committee provided for the inclusion of particular defences which are to be available to
an accused. This, again, has the purpose of
restricting and delimiting the objectionable
broad and vague interpretations that could
possibly be given to the offence of "inciting
hatred". These and other minor amendments
greatly reduce the potential hazards inherent
in this bill. The bill that is now before us
embodies these amendments, and this fact in
itself is a high commendation of the work that
Senator Roebuck and his committee so ably
accomplished.
In addition, honourable senators, the House
of Commons and its Justice and Legal Affairs
Committee further refined this legislation
during the time they were seized of it over
the past several weeks. These amendments, in
my opinion, go still further towards improving this bill. In fact, the bill comes before us
in a form that is almost tolerable in our free
society.
While referring to the work done by the
House of Commons on this bill I would draw
the attention of the Senate to the substitution
of the word "means" for the word "includes"
in the definition of "genocide" in the proposed
section 267B. This is the use of a restrictive
as opposed to an inclusive word, I think very
properly, confining and delimiting the nature
of the offence to advocate. In the former
legislation, senators will recall, offences under
section 267 were described as "inciting
hatred or contempt". This has wisely been
restricted now by eliminating the words "or
contempt", so that the offences can only be
committed by "inciting hatred".
Another amendment made by the House of
Commons of the greatest value and importance was that of restricting the offence
under section 267B (2) to the incitement of
hatred "other than in private conversation".
This amendment removes the worst "police
state" aspect of the previous bill. It removes
the possibility of the invasion of privacy and
the informer concept which heretofore was
projected even into a man's own home. These
are now gone.
[Hon. Mr. Lang.]

April 28, 1970

Finally, the House of Commons added subsection (d) to 267B (2), and in recognition of
the very real possibility that this bill when
passed into law would be applied in suppressing the utterances of groups such as Indians
or blacks who are making very legitimate
grievances known against the white group, or
any other group falling within the definition
of identifiable. In all the amendments made
both by the Senate and the House of Commons, the Minister of Justice has concurred.
For his wisdom and insight in so doing he
deserves our fullest commendation.
Because of these amendments, much of
what I have said previously in this chamber
in criticism of this bill is no longer relevant.
Accordingly, I will repeat none of it here
tonight. However, I must say that I still suffer
from most grave concern as to whether this
bill should be passed into law. In my speech
to the Senate on June 17 last year I noted
that the problems giving rise to the setting
up of the Cohen Committee and its report,
upon which this bill was based or rationalized,
were so trifling, so pitiful and so few as to be
worthy only of our scorn and disregard. I
mentioned at that time that there were then
only seven objectionable pamphlets known to
have been circulated in or around the time of
the Cohen Report. There were only three
known mental incompetents in Canada who
from timue to time engaged in trying to incite
hatred. These people and their documents
seem to have now disappeared. So my reservation as to the necessity of this bill remains
stronger than ever before and simply because,
amended and amended as it is in an attempt
to insert safeguards against abuse, it is still
dangerously close to creating an instrument
that infringes upon our most fundamental
freedom, namely, freedom of speech.
The police powers contained in the bill to
arrest public speakers under section 267B (1)
and the criminal offence of communicating
certain statements under section 267B (2) are
the most dangerous powers. I cannot find a
"clear and present danger", to use the words
of American jurisprudence, anywhere in
Canada that alone could warrant the creation
of these dangerous weapons. However, in all
fairness let me say that the nature and extent
of the potential danger to our freedom of
speech and the nature and extent of a clear
and present danger, if any, can most often be
a matter of one's own opinion from where
one views the society in which he lives.

April 28, 1970

Apri 28,1970SENATE
DEBATES

Some honourable senators may very honestly feel that the danger to our freedom of
speech inherent in this bil is non-existent or
infinitesimal, or they may feel that there is a
very real threat and danger to our society
from. hatemongers. I respect their opinions.
There may be some who, having heard René
Levesque last week shouting bis frnprecations
upon WASPS, may feel that this bill is necessary to suppress such incitement to batred
against an identifiable group know as white
Anglo-Saxon Protestants.
Honourable senators, I have no concern in
these regards, and you will realize from what
I arn saying tonight that I arn firmly convinced i the wisdom, honesty and responsibility of the average Canadian who relies
upon freedom of speech as the one and only
basic way that wrongs can be righted.
As 1 said, opinion here may be a question
of one's own judgment. I would not attempt
tonight or at any Urne to try to place my
judgment before that of any of my honourable colleagues in this regard. However,' tonight I would like to draw the attention of the
Senate to most important developments whîch
have arisen since we were seized of this
matter last year and which we did not know
of at that time. These two developments alone
may cast a very different light upon the problem we are dealing with.
Firstly, honourable senators, in July of last
year there was published in the United Kingdom a study entitled "Colour and Citizenship:
A Report on British Race Relations". I hold
aloft the volume to give you an idea of the
size of thuis particular study. It was commissioned in 1962 by the Institute of Race Relations under grants from the Nuffield Foundation and was conducted by a committee under
the chairmanship of Mr. E. J. B. Rose. I
should tell honourable senators that the Institute of Race Relations is an unofficial and
non-political body founded in England in 1958
to encourage and facilitate the study of the
relations between races everywhere. This
study took seven years to complete. Apart
from this report, there were involved with
the study 19 large scale research projects
and 22 smaller projects. It is a massive, impressive and scholarly work. I recommend
it to anyone who is interested in the scientific
appraisal of human race relations in our
modemn society.
Honourable senators will recaîl that in the
Cohen Report there is a comprehensive
review of comparable legislation in other
jurisdictions in the world to the bill now
before us. At page 52 there is set out section

6(l) of the Race Relations Bill, which at the
time of the Cohen Report was before Parliament in the United Kingdom. Since the Cohen
Report the British Race Relations Act has
become law. That subsection is set out in the
Cohen Report which, to paraphrase it, states
that it in fact creates the offenoe of stirring up:
-hatred agamnst any section of the
public in Great Britain distinguished by
colour, race, or ethnic or national origin.
Honourable senators will realize from that
quotation that, in effect, section 6(l) of the
British Race Relations Act was the basic
precedent for the bill before us today, and the
precedent behind the recommendations of the
Cohen Committee.
Since the Cohen Report was made, section
6(l) of the British Race Relations Act has
passed into law in the United Kingdom. I
think it would be most worth while for us to
learu what the British experience bas been
under that section, and the conclusions
reached by the Rose Committee after three
years' experience of that act being law. Dealîng with the various prosecutions that
have taken place ln England under section
6(l), at page 544 the Rose Comrnittee reports
as follows:
-the appearance o! the report of Lord
Hunt's Committee on the Immigrants and
Youth Service provided useful additional
material for a case for favoured treatment for the second generation and the
pretext for Duncan Sandys to comment:
"Instead of tackllng the problem at its
source, the Government has just published a report wbicb urges us to accept a
large increase in mixed marriages as an
essential element in our domestic policy
of integration. The breeding of millions
of hall-caste children will merely produce
a generation of mîsfits and increase social
tension", a remark for which attempts
were made to institute a prosecution
against him under Section 6 o! the Race
Relations Act, without success. This failure contrasted rather pain! ully with an
increasing
number
of
prosecutions
brought against black orators ln Hyde
Park and ultimately against Michael de
Freitas, who had found an appreciative
new audience as Michael Abdul Malik
and unexpectedly crowned bis career
with the legitimation of martyrdomn.
That was as a resuit of a prosecution and
conviction under the Race Relations Act.

SENATE DEBATES

In its conclusions, the Rose Committee
reports at page 687 specifically about section
6(1) of the act, with which we are concerned
as follows-if honourable senators will bear
with me quoting again from the report
because of the importance of the matter:
There is, however, one provision of the
Race Relations Act 1965 about which we
do wish to make a specific recommendation: namely, section 6, which makes it a
criminal offence by speech or writing to
incite others to racial hatred.
In our view, this provision suffers from
serious disadvantages. First, by penalizing not only speech or writing which is
likely to result in violence but also
speech or writing which incites racial
hatred, section 6 comes close to encroaching upon freedom of expression. Secondly, in view of the existing law relating to
public order, sedition, and criminal and
obscene libel, it is doubtful whether section 6 was a necessary or desirable extension of the criminal law.
Thirdly, section 6 may actually arouse
public sympathy for those who are
threatened with prosecution or in fact
prosecuted under it. Fourthly, when a
prosecution is brought under section 6, it
may give far wider publicity to racialist
views than they would otherwise receive:
the trial itself becomes a platform for
racial incitement. Fifthly, section 6 will
lead to the prosecution and conviction of
those who use crude, flamboyant, vulgar
speech, but it will not touch those who
express highly prejudiced opinions in a
more sophisticated style. As a result, the
law will appear to be unequally
applied.-For all these reasons, we
recommend that Section 6 should be
repealed.
Honourable senators will understand from
this that this kind of legislation in the United
Kingdom bas proved at the very best highly
unsatisfactory, if in fact it has not proved
actually to be effective in promoting the
cause of hatred rather than deterring it.
Surely in considering this bill now before us,
this experience, so fully analyzed and reported upon in the United Kingdom, should guide
us in our deliberations. God only knows, we
do not want to pass here unwittingly a bill
which in effect promotes hatred rather than
suppresses or extinguishes it.
The Rose Committee Report is the first
major development that has taken place since
we last considered this bill.
[Hon. Mr. Lang.]

April 28, 1970

The second major event which has taken
place bas already been referred to by honourable senators in other speeches. It is, of
course, the decision handed down by the
Supreme Court of Canada on November 20
last year in the case of Her Majesty the
Queen v. Joseph Drybones.
In my opinion this is probably one of the
most important and significant judgments
ever handed down by the Supreme Court of
Canada within the history of that court. In
fact, I would say it is not only the most
important, it is a revolutionary judgment as
far as our Canadian jurisprudence is
concerned.
To comprehend fully the significance of this
case it is important to understand that the
Canadian Bill of Rights, after it was passed in
1960, had been held by the lower courts and
generally by authors of jurisprudence to be
merely a rule of interpretation for other
legislation.
In his dissenting judgment, Mr. Justice
Pigeon expressed what had been the general
law before the majority judgment in that
case. On page 8 of his dissenting judgment, if
I may read it to you, he expresses very succinctly the conventional interpretation up to
that time. He said:
On the whole, I cannot find in the
Canadian Bill of Rights anything clearly
showing that Parliament intended to
establish concerning human rights and
fundamental freedoms some overriding
general principles to be enforced by the
courts against the clearly expressed will
of Parliament in statutes existing at the
time. In my opinion Parliament did nothing moreThat is, by passing the Bill of Rights.
-than
instruct the courts to construe
and apply those laws in accordance with
the principles enunciated in the bill on
the basis that the recognized rights and
freedomsbe enumerated.
Honourable senators, Mr. Justice Pigeon
was repeating what had been up to the time
of this decision the view held by the judiciary
on the Bill of Rights.
However, Mr. Justice Ritchie in delivering
the judgment of the court held otherwise. I
think honourable senators will recall that Mr.
Drybones was convicted under section 94(b)
of the Indian Act for being "unlawfully intoxicated off a reservation". The question raised
by this appeal has its origin in the fact that

April 28, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

in the Northwest Territories it is not an
offence for anyone except an Indian to be
intoxicated other than in a public place. The
question before the court really was, can an
Indian assert his right to equality with the
white man before the law, notwithstanding the Indian Act, by relying on the fundamental freedoms assured to him and to al
Canadians under the Bill of Rights? The clear
and unequivocable answer given by the court
was that he can.
Honourable senators, on page 7 Mr. Justice
Ritchie sums up as follows:
It seems to me that a more realistic
meaning must be given to the words in
question and they afford, in my view, the
clearest indication that section 2That is of the Bill of Rights.
-is intended to mean and does mean
that if a law of Canada cannot be "sensibly construed and applied" so that it does
not abrogate, abridge or infringe one of
the rights and freedoms recognized and
declared by the Bill, then such law is
inoperative "unless it is expressly
declared by an Act of the Parliament of
Canada that it shall operate notwithstanding the Canadian Bill of Rights."
Honourable senators I repeat that word
"inoperative". In other words, if a law of the
Parliament of Canada cannot be construed
without a conflict between it and the Bill of
Rights, that law is inoperative and cannot be
enforced in our country.
Honourable senators can imagine how
many laws already passed and how many
laws to be passed in the future might come
into conflict with the Bill of Rights. You will
also realize that this decision changes the
very nature of our Supreme Court of Canada
from a purely interpretative body bound by
stare decisis and precedents into a creative
judicial instrument far more akin to the
Supreme Court of the United States. In my
opinion this is a judicial revolution of the
first order.
It is interesting to note that after his retirement as Chief Justice and notwithstanding his
dissent in the Drybones case, Mr. Cartwright
as recently as April 11 in an address to the
Ontario County and District Courts Judges
Association told his audience that the Canadian Bill of Rights has to come first with the
courts, and judges must refuse to apply any
federal law that encroaches on the freedoms
set out in the legislation.

Honourable senators, if I may leave that
point now and refer to page 61 in the Cohen
Report, I think the remarks of the commission
there will meet with the agreement of all
senators. The report says:
It is our opinion that the Canadian
people already have made the decision
that as among conflicting values, preference must always be given to freedom of
expression rather than to legal prohibitions directed at abuses of it. This is not
to say that freedom of expression is
regarded as an absolute, but only to insist
that it will be esteemed more highly and
weighted more significantly in the legislative scales, so that legal markings of the
borderline areas will always be such as to
permit liberty even at the cost of occasional licence. But at some point that liberty becomes licence and colours the
quality of liberty itself with an unacceptable stain.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Would the
honourable senator permit a question. I have
before me a document entitled, "Report of the
Special Committee on Hate Propaganda in
Canada". Will the honourable senator be good
enough to advise me whether in identifying
this as the Cohen Report he is referring to
the specific document which reads "Report of
the Special Committee on Hate Propaganda in
Canada"?
Hon. Mr. Lang: I can assure the honourable
senator that I am. The Cohen Report is
common parlance for the report on the Special Committee on Hate Propaganda.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Thank you very
much.
Hon. Mr. Lang: The quotation I was giving
concludes with these words:
At that point the social preference must
move from freedom to regulation to preserve the very system of freedom itself.
I think that is a profound expression and
one that none of us would quarrel with.
There is undoubtedly, as the report states,
some point at which social preference must
move from freedom to regulation. And the
difference of opinion on this matter among all
people is as to where that point is. The question is whether that point has really been
reached in Canada or whether it has not. The
strongest advocates of this bill will admit that
it may come close to abridging the right of

SENATE DEBATES
freedom of speech as expressed in the Bill of
Rights, but that nonetheless they feel it is
necessary.
In my opinion that point bas flot been
reached in Canada, and in my submission the
bil is flot only unnecessary, but, if passed,
will aggravate the very evil it is designed to
remove.
Honourable senators, I should now like to
summarize, if 1 may, what I have said s0 far.
The Bill of Rights states "Every law of
Canada shahl, unless it is expressly declared
by an Act of the Parliament of Canada that it
shall operate notwithstanding the Canadian
Bill of Rights, be so construed and applied as
not to abrogate, abridge or infringe" freedom
of speech. This bill does not say that it shall
operate notwithstanding the Canadian Bil of
Rights. The question thon is, can it possibly
ho construed so as not to infringe freedom of
speech? I submit that that is a question of
interpretation; it is a legal question; it is a
question for the courts to decide; it is not for
us, a hegisiativo body, to decide.
Some people have argued that a review of
this hegisiation by the Supreme Court of
Canada under these circumstances wilh
undoubtedly corne about after this bill is
passed into law and someone bas been convicted. The presumption is that some convicted person will appeal through ail the courts,
right from the Magistrate's up to the
Supreme Court of Canada. I ask honourable
senators, how many persons without the
financial means can afford to take their
appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada? Or
how many, like Mr. Drybones, would find
counsel willing and prepared to expend
months of their time and effort to carry the
case forward without hope of remuneration
but only the satisfaction of having served the
cause of justice? Mr. Drybones was a fortunate man.
Honourable senators, I know we are flot 50
devoid of a sense of our responsibility as to
pass the burden of tosting this legisiation
before the courts to some hapless accusedwe know not who it may be.
I ask honourable senators are we to pass
this bill into law and then go through the
unfortunate experience Great Britain bas
had, hoping for its repeal afterwards?
It bas been contended that this bill, being
Govornment policy, must pass. Undoubtedly it
is the clear duty and responsibility of the
representative of the Goverrnent in this
chamber to advocate the passage of this bill,
because it is Government policy and ho is a
[Hon. Mr. Lang.]

April 28, 1970
Arl2.17

member of that Government. But I suggest to
honourable sonators, both on my sido of the
house and the opposite side, that with the
exception of the Leader of the Government in
the Sonate none of the rest of us are members
of that Government. In any event, I hope that
Government policy has not yet become boly
writ in this chamber. This is the kind of bill
for which the Sonate was designed. If Government policy pervades this chamber against
our best judgment and conscience, thon I
question the continued existence or the
worthwhile continued existence of this body.
I suggest that it is the duty of every senator
to act in accordance with bis own best judgment and conscience in this matter. If in our
collective best judgment we do not perchance
entirely agree with Government policy, thon
perhaps Canada will rise up and applaud the
Senate-a Senate discharging its responsibilities without fear or favour. It may ho that in
one stroke the image of the Sonate as a more
rubber stamp for Government policy may ho
wiped away, to bo replaced by a new image,
the correct one, as the parliamentarian guardian of our human rights and freedoms. That
challenge is inherent in this logisiation; it
challenges us ail as members of this body.
But, honourable senators, as I montioned
before, the question of whether this bill
infringes upon the fundamental freedomns
guaranteed by the Bihl of Rights is judicial
rather than legisiative in character. If before
the Drybones case this bill had passed into
law and had been tested before the courts, it
would have been interpreted to conform as
chosely as possible with the Bill of Rightsbut that is ahi. If it couhd not have been
interpreted s0 to conform, this bihl wouid
have prevaihed and been enforced notwithstanding the Bill of Rights.
But that is not; the case today. The Drybones case makes it chear, in the words of Mr.
Justice Ritchie, that
"If a law of Canada cannot ho sensibly
construed and appiied so that it doos not
abrogate, abridge or infringe one of the
rights and freedoms recognized and
declarcd by the Bihl of Rights thon such
haw is inoperative".
I submit that it may well ho that this bill
when passed wihl ho inoperative within the
meaning of Mr. Justice Ritchie's words.
Honourable senators, is this not a case for
ascertaining this, and in advance?
Honourable senators wihl recahl that there
is a statutory method of accomplishing this
contained in section 55 of the Supreme Court

April 28, 1870

DEBATES
Apri 28.1970SENATE

that with the arguAct. If I may paraphrase that section, it is to that one must assume to the Supreme Court
important questions of law or ments to be presented
the effect that
heariterpretation of any of Canada, factums, the preparation and the
fact touchig the
by
Dominion legisiation may be referred by the ing, and finally, its consideration
judgment would be
Governor in Council to the Supreme Court Supreme Court, the
uniikely to be handed down before Parliaand consideration.
for hearing
ment begins its summer recess, would not the
I do not think I have to stress that this is effect of such a reference mean i fact that
certainly an important question of law within the bil would be precluded from getting
the meaning of section 55 of the Supreme through in tis session, and woiild it not then
Court Act. I therefore propose tonight to have to go through the entire parliamentary
move an amendment to the motion for second process again i a new session?
reading. May I explain i advance the nature
of the motion that I intend to make?
Hon. Mr. Lang: 1 think, honourable senator,
Ini the parlance of parliamentary jurispru- you are asking me to speculate as to the
dence, it is known as a reasoned amenciment, condition of the Supreme Court calendar at
and its wording is fixed by parliamentary this moment, and in attempting to answer, I
usage. The purpose of tis axnendment is flot would merely be speculating. It is my opinion,
to kfi this bill; it is, in the words of May, "to however, that in a matter of such importance
arrest passage of the bihll". If my amendment the Supreme Court would set aside its regular
should perchance carry i this bouse, it would docket to deal with tis immediately. If my
arrest passage of this bull until the Govern- recollection is right, the reference on the
ment decides whether or not it wishes to breathalyzer cases is being deait with on a
refer it to the Supreme Court of Canada for peremptory basis. Therefore, having regard to
an opinion under that section of the Supreme the overriding importance of this case, I amn
Court Act to which I have just referred.
sure the Supreme Court would likely deal
Surely, honourable senators, i a matter of with tis on a peremptory basis also. Howm3y
such importance, the Government would look ever, that is not a mnatter within
knowledge.
favourably upon this established constitutional
procedure, particularly today in the light of
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): But if it
the Drybones decision and the experience did not do so, and Parliament were to
under the United Kingdomn legisiation as adjourn, would not the bull have to go
referred to in the Rose Committee R eport. If through the entire parliamentary process
the Government decides not to refer the bill, again?
a motion to rescind this amendment, if
passed, can be made and second reading wil
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Even if it did, what differthen resumne on the legisiation. If the Govern- ence would it make? If the matter is imporment should decide to refer this to the tant enough, it can come back to us a fifth
Supreme Court of Canada, wich, in turn, time.
decides that this bill does not abridge any
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): I would
freedoms established under the Bill of Rights,
then second reading will resume in this stili like an answer to my question.
chamber. Surely, honourable senators, under
Hon. Mr. Lang: If the Supreme Court of
ail the circumstances and in a matter of such Canada did find that this bill did not infringe
importance and which gives rise to such con- upon the fundamental freedoms in the Bill of
troversy, would not this procedure seem most Rights, then the legisiation would pass both
reasonable to everyone concerned? Surely we houses in record time and there would be no
have confidence in the judicial wisdom and objection whatever to its passig ito law.
impartiality of the judges of our Supreme
Let me say that in making tis motion, I
Court.
arn not really tryig to appeal to you as LibHon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): May I erals or Conservatives; I am appealing to
ask the honourable senator a question at tis your reason and good judgment and, indeed,
point? He says that the Governiment could by to your hearts. Hate is really not cured by
Order in Coundil refer the matter to the endangering the flower of freedom of speech.
can appeal to the
Supreme Court of Canada for interpretatior Free speech which alone our only ultimnate
of men is
under section 55 of the Supreme Court Act. hearts and minds
wrongs can be made right.
Taking into accounit the fact that this Parlia- assurance that
Hate is not cured by the hate of prosecution;
ment will probably begin its summer recesE
by love and understanding.
towards the end of June, and also the f aci hate is cured only

SENATE DEBATES
May 1 quote a poemn by W. H. Auden which
prefaces the Rose Committee Report, because
I think it sums up what 1 arn trying to say:
AU I have is a voice
To undo the folded lie,
The rornantie lie in the brain
0f the sensual man-in-the-street
And the lie of Authority
Whose buildings grope the sky:
There is no such thing as the State
And no one exists alone;
Hunger allows no choice
To the citizen or the police;
We must love one another or die.
AMENDMENT-DEBATE

ADJOURNED

Honourable senators, in amendment I move,
seconded by Senator Paterson:
That this bill be flot now read a second
time, but that it be resolved by the
Senate that, in its opinion, the subi ectmatter thereof should be referred by the
Governor in Coundil to the Supreme
Court of Canada, pursuant to section 55
of the Supreme Court Act, for hearing
and consideration as to whether in any
circumstances the whole or any part of
its provisions would or might be held to
be inoperative as an abrogation, abridgment or infringcement of any of the fundamental freedoms dealt with in the
Canadian Bill of Rights.
Hon. Senatars: Hear, hear.
The Hon. the Speaker: It is moved by
honourable Senator Fergusson, seconded by
honourabie Senator Inman that this bill be
now read a second tirne.
In amendment it is moved by honourable
Senator Lang, seconded by honourable Senator Paterson that this bill be not now read a
second timeHon. Senators: Dispense.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure,
honourable senators, to adopt the motion ini
amendment?
Hon. J. Harper Prowse: Mr. Speaker, may I
ask direction? Am I correct in assuming that I
am free to speak on the amendment without
jeopardizing my right to speak on the main
motion when the amendmnent is decided?
The Hon. the Speaker: You are perfectly
right. We are now deaiing with the motion in
amendment of the honourable Senator Lang.
[Hon. Mr. Lang.]

April 28, 1970
Arl2.17

Han. Mr. Prowse: Honourable senators, I
know of one instance where this type of
procedure was followed by a governiment. It
was used by the Government of Alberta in
1947 in connection with the Alberta Bill of
Rights Act, which had two parts, one setting
out a glowing number of rights which citizens
of Alberta would be presumed to have, and
the other setting out the means by which
those rights were to be achieved. 0f course
the second part included the right to get into,
the fields of currency, banking and other matters on which there had already been rulings
and which everyone knew were beyond the
power of the Government.
So that they would not find themselves
caught with half a bill, the Governiment used
the procedure which is available in Alberta,
as has been outlined by the honourable senator here, of referring the bill. It was referred
to the Supreme Court o! Alberta, and jumped
fromn there to the Privy Council. The
Supreme Court of Alberta thought that the
first part of the bil, dealing with matters o!
civil affairs, was within the powers o! the
provincial government and was perfectly
proper; they said that part of the bill was
operative and in order. However, they said
that the second haîf was beyond the powers
of the Government, and therefore they had to,
throw it out.
The Government o! Alberta took the appeal
to the Privy Council, and there they argued,
because they were the only interveners, that
because they did not have the powers to give
ail the rights they had set out in the other
haîf, the whole bill should be thrown out. The
Privy Council then threw the bill out.
I was later present at a meeting attended
by the Attorney General who had carried the
argument to, the Privy Council. He expiained
how sad it was they were not able to go
ahead and put the bill into eff et, but the
Privy Council just would not let them. do so.
In other words, it was a subterfuge used to
camouflage the fact they were holding out
something they knew they could not produce
and had no way of producing, but in a way
they attempted to throw the biame for their
lack of guts on to somebody else.
Let us watch ourselves with this particular
bill. Let me refer you to the Drybones case,
which is supposed to be what titis is ail about.
First of ahl, the honourable senator who
quoted the Drybones case made a mistake in
reading the facts. The facts are not that only
Indians are not allowed to get drunk in the
NJorthwest Territories. The fact is that only

.April 28, 1970

Apri 29,1970SENATE
DEBATES

Indians are flot; allowed to get drunk anyment are limited to a situation in wliicli,
where in Canada. There are two sections
under the laws of Canada, it is made an
under whicli Drybones couid have been
offenoe punishable at law on account of
race, for a person to do sometliing which
cliarged. The first is the section under which
he was charged, section 94 of the Indian Act,
ail Canadians wlio are not members of
whicli says that hie is guilty of an offence if
that race may do with impunity; in my
lie is intoxicated off a reserve. There is proviopinion the samne considerations do not
sion for a minimum fine, and the maximum
by any mneans apply to ail the provisions
of the Indian Act.
terni of imprisonmient is tliree months under
the Indian Act.
Now, do you foilow?
The Northwest Territories Liquor Ordinance says:
Hon. Mr. Choquonse: Do we ever!
No person shall be in an intoxicated
Hon. Mr. Prowso: I wisli you liad followed
condition in a public place.
it earller, and then we would not have liad to
In other words, there was a difference. The listen to so much poppycock about it.
Indian Act says that the Indian cannot get
Hion. Mr. Choquette: Oh, corne on!
drunk anywhere in the Nortliwest Territories
because there are no reserves, but of course
Hon. Mr. Prowse: The Drybones case lias
there is the provision in the Indian Act which no applicability to the particular piece of
says that hie cannot get drunk on a reserve. legisiation we are tailking about. Tlie whole
The Indian Act says that an Indian cannot get basis of the Drybones case is that tlie Indian
drunk anywhere, including lis own home.
Act was legislation whicli could apply only to
The fact is that Drybones was drunk in a an Indian and that is wliy lie was being
liotel in Yellowknife, but instead of being prosecuted. Teil me where in Bill C-3, there
charged under the Liquor Ordinance, under is any provision which. wiil apply to any
which anybody else would have been cliarged, Canadian by reason of bis race, religion,
where the maximum penalty wouid have national background or any other group you
in, otherwise than on the
been 30 days, hie was charged under section want to put li
94 of the Indian Act wliere the maximum basis of his own individual beliaviour, no
penalty is 90 days. It is true that lie was fined matter who lie or she may be? I challenge
$10, wliich is the fine that would have been anyone to point out anytliing there, and
meted out, presumably, to an ordinary drunk unless you cati do tliat, we would be wasting
under the Liquor Ordinance, but the appeal the tinie of the court and making ourselves
was based on the fact tliat lie had been look like fools to be referring it to tliem.
charged under tliis section of the act which
Now, there is ail this taik, this poppycock
applied only to a named, identifiable section about, "If you do not vote the way I do, tlien
of the people, identifiable by race as Indians. you are being unfair and untrue." I tliouglit
It was said this offended against the act, and we miglit be able to have this discussion on a
that was the basis of tlie argument.
completely reasonable hevel. First of ail, I
Mr. Justice Ritchie did not; say that this hear people talk about this bill as thougli it
judgment was any great lialimarli on our were some great threat that was being
mardi to create a third legisiative body in imported into our law.
the country, namely, the judiciary. At page 7
The honourable Senator Choquette talked
lie said this:
about this the other niglit, wlien lie was
I tliink a declaration by the courts that Acting Leader of the Opposition. He talked,
a section or portion of a section of a as did my lionourable friend this evening,
statute is inoperative is to be distin- about free speech. He read an editorial from
guislied from the repeal of such a section the Globe and Mail, and pointed out the kind
and is to be confined to the particular of language that was used ini the political hife
circumstances of the case in whicli the of this country 100, 75 or 50 years ago, and
declaration is made.
then lie went on to say that we did not put
In other words, lie said this applies to Dry- the speakers in jail. If we liad we would have
bones, and to this section and this particular jailed bishops, priests, and teadhers as weil as
prime ministers and editors. No, instead of
kind of case.
that we just lianged Louis Riel. Tlie only
At the very end of his judgment hie said:
reason lie liad to be hanged was because the
It appears to me to be desirable to statesmen of this country were so busy seekmake it plain that these reasons for judg- ing out nasty tliings to say to each other that

SENATE DEBATES
they did not have the tdime to look at what
was happening in their own country. If they
had been more concerned about their country
there would have been neither a first nor a
second Riel Rebellion. Those rebellions were
the resuit of negiect, and that neglect arose
because these men were intoxicated by their
own rhetoric. Then the Globe and Mail says
what I would have expected it to say. In fact,
the aid Globe did more ta lay the foundations
of the differences that exist between the races
in Canada today than any-thing done by any
other instrument in this country. The unbridled remarks of those men, based upon their
prejudices of one another, are the foundation
of the whirlwind we are reaping today in the
bitterness and misunderstanding that exist in
Canada.
How do you buiid a united country by caîling its other citizens ail the vicious naines
you can think af? How do you build a marniage by allowing the wife and the husband to,
say vicious, nasty, hateful, and spiteful things
to each other? How do you build a country by
saying ta people: "This right to teach hate is
samething we must cherish. It is of value
to us"?
Let us look at this bill on which my honourable friend wants the Supreme Court of
Canada to waste its time. I would hate to
think right now that that court, which could
give such a long, clear judgment on the plight
of a pitiful Indian man from Yellowknife who
got a littie drunk, is going to listen long to
people who say that in order to have religiaus
freedom in this country we must have the
right to preach hate. 0f course, they will not.
With that kind of an exampie staning us in
the face, can anybody who calls himself a
Canadian, who says hie is interested in his
country, and who expects to be admired for
his love of his country, stand up and say that
they have a better system in Northern Ireland
than we have here, and that we are domng
something wrong, that we are infringing in
part on the basic religious freedoms of people
by saying to them: "You may worship in any
way you please; you may worship any god
you please, provided part of your worship
does not mean the taking of live sacrifices,
does not mean the preaching of hatred and
murder"'? That, my friends, has been part of
religion on this continent, and stili is in our
own lifetime. It is the reason why they have
the Black Panther movement in the United
States today. Every vicious bit of trouble we
face in the world today is the resuit of people
being allowed to preach hatred of one
another.
[Hon. Mr. Prowse.]

April
Arl2.1728, 1970

We have all remarked to one another on
the horrendous things that have happened ini
the naine of God, in the naine of organized
religion, and even in the namne of Jesus
Christ. Perhaps God will find a way to understand and forgive, but I arn damned if I can.
This is incredible. Does my honourable
friend suggest that the Supreme Court of
Canada can see its way dlean ta say that
section 2,67A is inoperable? Section 267A
reads:
(1) Everyone who advocates or promotes genocide is guilty of an indictable
offence and is liable ta imprisonmient for
five years.
(2) In this section "genocide"~ means
any af the following acts committed with
intent ta destroy in whole or in part any
identifiable group, namely:
(a) kiliing members of the group, or
(b) deliberately inflicting an the group
conditions of life calculated to bring
about its physical destruction.
(3) No proceeding for an affence under
this section shail be instituted without
the consent of the Attorney General.
Subsection 3 is there to preclude a frivolous
prosecution under the section.
Does anybody believe that today we make
our country one bit better, that we add one
whit to anybody's freedom, that we make this
country a safer place in which to bring up
aur children, by saying that we are not going
ta make it a crime for one Canadian to say
that some other group of Canadians should al
be dumped in the St. Lawrence River, or into
the Pacific Ocean, or into Hudson Bay, or that
they should be gassed?
We have a population of 20 million people,
and in aur lifetime we have seen the destruction of six million people at one Urne in this
world. What is the matter? Do we have to
wait until we blow the country apart, or until
we have incinerated 600 million people,
before we realize that we do nat add anything
ta understanding by allowing peaple ta
preach hatred of their fellowmen?
Perhaps I went ta the wrong church, but I
was taught that the basis of Chnistianity was:
Love one another; do unta others that which
you would have done unto you. I do not know
of any part of the Christian religion that
requires me ta believe that I have the right ta
hate somebody else. That is the only thing
that is prahibited by this section.
Let me go on. The word "contempt" has
been remaved from section 267B, and it was
admirably and fairly done. I agree with what

April 28, 1970

Apri 20.1970SENATE
DEBATES

Senator Lang said in this respect, but I disa- do we make it better? Look at the defences
gree as to what he disagrees with. I exercise that are avallable:
my right to disagree. However, let me read
(3) No persan shail be convicted of an
offence under subsection (2)
section 267B and try to see what infringement
(a) if he establishes that the statements
of the Bill of Rights there is here. Any
communicated were true.
honourable senator who does not have a copy
of the Bill of Rights will find it ini Hansard of He has the responsibility ta prave that the
April 21. Section 267B reads:
statement was true or that lie reasonably
(1) Every one who, by communicating believed it was true-as thaugli this was
statements in any public place,' incites samething new imparted into aur law. There
hatred against any identifiable group is not a flrst-year law student wlio does not
where such incitement is likely to lead ta know that one of the basic principles of law
is that lie who asserts must prove. That is ail
a breach of the peace, is guilty ofthis says-one of the basic principles of the
I should lilce to be told where we make common law. If I amn going ta make a stateCanada a better place in which ta bring Up ment about you, then presumably I have the
aur children by saying that anybody is free ta evidence ta prove it. Bring it out and let us
say anything he wants, fia matter how spite- see what you have, that is ail it says.
If you think tis is samething different, that
ful or hateful it is, about any other graup of
people. We are doing a fine thing, are we not? we have not put anuses in this code before,
Does any honourable senator think for one let us get nice and political wlile we are at it
moment that the Supreme Court of Canada is and show what the Taries did. I like ta take a
going ta find that a section which pravides look at tis, because I think it is a nice piece
of legisiation ta begin with. It is a good piece
that you cannot say about a group of people o! legislation and I want ta read it ta you.
what the Criminal Code already says yau This was Davey Fulton's dlaim. ta fame. Some
cannot say about an individual is inoperable? o! you may recail it; some o! you may even
And this section does not even go that far. have voted for it. It is section 150 o! the
Does any honourable senatar think tha-t the Criminal Code, dealing with crime comics.
court is gaing ta say that is an infringement Section 6 reads:
of a right that everybody should be left with?
Where an accused is charged witli an
offence under subsection (1) the fact that
If the Supreme Court is now the legisiative
the accused was ignorant of the nature or
group that the honaurable Senator Lang
presence of the matter, picture, model,
thinks it is, or if it is just the interpretative
phanagrapli record, crime comnic, or other
group which I think it is, on neither basis is it
thing by means o! or in relation ta whicli
going ta find that that is flot gaing ta give us
the offence was committed is flot a
a better chance o! having a better Canada
defence ta the charge.
than we have riglit naw. How can it possibiy
It does not matter whether lie knew it was i
hurt anyane?
the stuif he sent out or not. It does not make
Subsection 2 reads:
a bit of difference. Section 267B (4) provides
Everyone who, by communicating for the forfeiture of certain equipment if the
statements, other than in private conver- man is convicted. Section 267c provides for
sation, wilfully promotes hatred against the seizure of matter whicli is suspected af
any identifiable graupbeing hate prapaganda. To say that tis is a
big departure fram the criminal law is popThis now gets down ta the point where a pycock.
persan wirites something, uses the telephone
Section 267c:
or does something else other than in a private
(1) A judge wlio is satisfied by inforconversation. If you want ta corne into my
mation upon oath that there are reasonaoffice you can tell me anything you want ta
ble grounds for believing that any publiabout any graup of people and no one will be
cation, copies o! wich are kept for sale
able ta interfere. However, the moment you
or distribution in premises witin the
start send.ing it out, communicating it and
jurisdiction of the court, is hate propamaking it available, sending Indians or
ganda, shail issue a warrant under lis
anyone else pamphlets saying they ail ouglit
hand authorizing seizure of the copies.
ta be shat or drowned, you are guilty. Where
(2) Within seven days af the issue of

SENATE DEBATES
the warrant, the judge shall issue a summons to the occupier of the premises
requiring him to appear before the court
and show cause why the matter seized
should not be forfeited to Her Majesty.

April 28, 1970

and I must take responsibility to our own
consciences for what we do in this House.
I am going to vote against this amendment.
As soon as I get a chance I will vote in favour
of this bill, and I will sleep. I hope the rest of
you will sleep as well.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Croll, debate
adjourned.

That reads just like the section here. He must
appear and show cause.
Then we have other things where people
have to prove. Section 162 in the Criminal
CANADA-UNITED STATES INTERCode is a good one:
PARLIAMENTARY GROUP
162. Every one who, without lawful
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING-ORDER
excuse, the proof of which lies upon him,
STANDS
loiters or prowls at night upon the property of another person near a dwelling On the order:
house situated on that property is guilty
Resuming the debate on the inquiry of
of an offence punishable on summary
the Honourable Senator Phillips (Rigaud)
conviction.
calling the attention of the Senate to the
Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the CanSection 253 is a good one. Mr. Fulton did
ada-United
States Interparliamentary
not have anything to do with this-I do not
Group held at Washington, Cape Kenknow who is to blame. It is part of our genernedy, Houston and San Antonio, 10th to
al practice in Canada.
15th March, 1970.-(Honourable Senator
253. (1) The proprietor of a newspaper
McDonald).
shall be deemed to publish defamatory
matter that is inserted and published
Hon. Alan Macnaughton: May I ask that
therein, unless he proves that the this stand until Tuesday, May 5.
defamatory matter was inserted in the
Order stands.
newspaper without his knowledge and
without negligence on his part.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
I have been able to find about 25 of these
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, it
examples in just a few minutes and I have
not been practising criminal law for some had been expected that there would be three
time. Anyone who stands up and tells you senators prepared to speak on Bill C-3. We all
that asking a man under certain circum- understand the absence from the Senate of
stances to take the responsibility of proving one honourable senator, who has suffered a
his statement or explaining or justifying his sad bereavement. In the circumstances, we
position is something new to our law, either had arranged to go on with the resumed
does not know what our law is or thinks we debate on the Thirteenth Meeting of the
States
Interparliamentary
do not. It is one or the other. There cannot be Canada-United
anything in between. As far as this bill is Group. However, Senator Macnaughton feels
concerned, there is nothing in it that could that his speech will be of one hour's duration
possibly come within the terms of the Dry- and he would prefer to have an opportunity
bones case, which says it was legislation to deliver it without interruption. I am sure
which could apply to only a particular kind we would all recognize this wish. We will
adjourn until Thursday at 2 o'clock, and I
of Canadian. This will apply to any Canadian. hope that we will be able to sit on that day
Therefore the Drybones case speaks to some- for some considerable time and dispose of this
thing entirely different and has no applicabil- matter.
ity at all. Secondly, the Government must
The Senate adjourned until Thursday,
take responsibility for its legislation and you April 30, at 2 p.m.

DEBATES
Apri 30.1970SENATE

April 30, 1970

THE SENATE
Thurmday, April 30, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
RULES
PROCEDtJRE ON NOTICE TO ADJOUTRN

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, on Tuesday last, as reported at page 941
of the Debates of the Senate> the honourable
Senator Smith moved:
-that when the Senate adjourns today
it do stand adjourned until Thursday,
April 30, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
The honourable Senator Fournier (De Lanaudière) then suggested an amendment to the
motion, with a view to changing the hour
of sitting. Later, the honourable Senator
Grosart raised a point of order to the effect
that an amendment to a motion to adjourn is
not in order.
Having considered the discussion that
ensued, I should like to point out that it is my
opinion that the honourable Senator Smith's
motion was not a motion for adjournment,
but merely a motion to suspend the rides of
the Senate respecting the time and hour of
sitting of the Senate. Such a motion is, therefore, debatable, amendable and, of course,
votable.
While the motion for the ordinary daily
adjournment at the close of the day's business
is to be decided without debate or amendment, when the Governinent Leader or the
Acting Government Leader makes a motion
after we have completed the business of the
day that the Senate do now adjourn, it is,
according to the jurisprudence, usage, and
.custom that such a motion is not debatable,
not amendable, but, of course, votable.
I would like to cite here Bourinot, fourth
edition, page 349, which says:
A motion to adjourn is not debatable,
except in the case of a speciai motion to
adjourn made for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public
importance.

Therefore, honourable senators, it is my
opinion that the debate on the honourable
Senator Smith's motion was perfectly in
order, as was honourable Senator Fournier's
amendment which was later withdrawn.
We have a precedent for this procedure.
On July 10, 1961, ini the Senate Journals at
page 602, the honourable Senator Aseltine
moved a motion drafted in the same terms as
that of Senator Smith. It was debated and the
honourable Senator Macdonald, P.C., then
Leader of the Opposition, moved an amendment which was accepted by the Chair, debated and voted on.
Some honourable senators might ask me
what is the rule wbich applies to the speciflc
case, that when the Leader of the Governinent
moves that the Senate do now adjourn, this
motion is not dehatable and not amendable.
There is no such specific rule. Therefore, we
must rely in these cases on the custom and
practice which has been followed froin tiine
immemorial.
I give this opinion in the hope that it may
clarify the matter, although it is not a definite
ruling. In the event of a similar situation
arising in the future, I would invite any honourable senator to express his views for gulidanoe before a definite ruling is given.
Hon. Allister Grosart: I arn sure ail honourable senators would wish me to express
thanks to Your Honour for giving us the
benefit of your wisdom. I am also certain that
ail honourable senators f ully agree with your
interpretation of the rules.
I would add, not as a correction but as an
explanation in view one of Your Honour's
remarks, that on the occasion in question I
dîd not object to either an amendment or
debate. I asked a question in the hope that we
would have the benefit of Your Honour's
wisdomn, which we have just received,
because it was then obvious to me that this
was flot a motion to adjourn, but a motion
that when the Senate adjourned certain
things should happen. It was not; a question of
setting aside our rules. The motion was one
that we often have before us. I suggest that
there is a distinction between a motion to,
adjourn and the usual motion that when the
Senate adjourns on that day it adjourn to a
certain day and hour, which makes it an ordinary substantive motion.

The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed that for
This would apply when an honourable senain
tor for a reason which he considers to be of the turne being the matter should be left
abeyance, and if a similar case arises in
the utmost importance rises and moves that
future a ruling can be given?
the Orders of the Day be set aside in order te
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
discuss a speciflc matter.

SENATE DEBATES

April
Arl3,1730, 1970

ADJOURNMENT
Hon. David A. Croîl: Honourable senators,
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators, the forrn of presentation of Bull C-3, an act to
with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding amend the Criminal Code, could stand as an
Rule 45(l)(g), I move that when the Senate example for the presentation of ail bills. It
adiourns today it do stand adjourned until may well remain. as a model until something
Tuesday, May 5, at 8 o'clock in the evening. better cornes along. It was precise in form; it
was clear in purpose; it was methodical in
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable sena- objectîvity; and it carried conviction both of
tors, may I interject that in my opinion this purpose and o! principle. It was presented by
is the kind of motion that might be debatable, one who understood what the bill was ail
amiendable and votable.
about and what it meant to a yet sulent
minority.
Hon. Donald Smith: In view of the ruling of
It will flot be a matter o! surprise when I
His Honour the Speaker I arn sure there
would be no objection to my making a short say that I arn entirely in favour of the bil
staternent on the business which is expected and that 1 reject the amendment.
The advocacy of genocide and the dissemito be before us next week.
In addition to the items now on the Order nation o! hate propaganda are abhorent now,
Paper, we xviii have Bill C-182, an act to as they were when the problemn was fIrst
amend the Supreme Court Act. It is expected studied by a comrnittee of distinguîshed
that this bill will be given third reading in jurists, including the present Prime Minister,
the Commons tomorrow. Therefore, it is in 1965. Towards the end of the last session of
advisable that we endeavour to finish the Parliament, having added certain safeguards,
the Senate passed the hate propaganda bll.
debate on the current items.
The Commons will adjourn today about 3 Prorogation then intervened, and the bill died
o'clock in order to devote the balance of the on the Order Paper. The House of Commons
day to committee work, with a view to has now passed tis bill with certain safehaving a number of bis reported that are guards, as was ably explained by Senator
now before their commuittees. Therefore, it is Fergusson when she introduced it in tis
expected that by the following week there house.
No piece of legishation brought before Parwill be a number of bis coming to us with
which we must deal as expeditiously as possi- liament has been discussed as fully, or debatble in the llght of the volume of legisiation ed as strenuously in as many parliamentary
that will be coming to us and which will have committees and in both houses, nor has a bill
to be disposed of before the summer been under consideration for as long a time
as has the present bll. We have had plenty o!
adjournment.
A number of the bills to be considered in time in which to make up our minds. Let us
the next few weeks are of major importance now, at long last, join with our brethren in
and will require our very careful considera- the House of Commons and enact this bull
into law.
tion both in the Senate and in committee.
The Special Committee on Poverty will sit
I listened with interest to the speech of
on Tuesday and Thursday of next week. The Senator Choquette in which he endeavoured
Standing Senate Committee on Banking, to draw yet another series o! red herrings
Trade and Commerce will continue its study across the traîl. Then I heard the speech of
and hear witnesses on the White Paper on Senator Lang on Tuesday evening in which
Wednesday and Thursday. The Standing he offered the amendrnent. Surely, in the
Senate Committee on National Finance will light of the questions asked by Senator Connolly (Ottawa West) it is evident that the
sit on Thursday.
amendment was designed to kill the bill, if
Motion agreed to.
not directly then indirectly. And kili the bill
it will, rnake no mistake about that.
CRIMINAL CODE (HATE PROPAGANDA)
Hon. Mr. Flynn: When my honourable
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING-DEBATE
CONTINUED ON MOTION IN AMENDMENT
friend says "kill the bill" I do not think hie
The Senate resumed frorn Tuesday, April really means that, because tis bill has been
28, the adjourned debate on the motion in resuscitated three times since it was first
amendment of Hon. Mr. Lang to the motion introduced.
of Hon. Mrs. Fergusson, for the second readHon. Mr. Croll: The amendment will mean
ing of Bill C-3, to amend the Crirninal Code.
finality.
[The Hon. the Speaker.]

April 30, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 30.1970SENATE

what this bill aims at curtailing is not; freedom, but the abuse of freedom. The opponents to tis bill say that civil rights, the
Hon. Mr. Croil: Tihis is a dramatic occasion. right to free expression, will be curtailed if
I dismiss as hypothetical and irrelevant the not destroyed by the bill. These persons show
examples set forth in the editorial quoted littie faith in the worlc of our democratic
from the Globe and Mail. It is an excellent system when they paint fearful pictures of
newspaper-one of the best in Canada-but Canada becommng a semi-fascist state by
in tis instance in the area of hate propagan- reason of a measure designed to route out evil
da it has been, in my view, very wide of the in our midst.
mark. What may have happened in the disHon. Mr. Flynn: May I ask the honourable
tant past in the cut and thrust of political
debate and during rowdy campaigns has no senator a question?
relevance today. It is true that some of the
Hon. Mr. Croli: Yes.
utterances that were made then would not be
tolerated or condoned today, but we are not
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I think the honourable
legislating for yesterday. We are legislating senator mentioned that there is less discrimifor today and tomorrow, and for an age of nation in Ontario today than there was severenlightenent in which the advocacy of geno- ai years ago. To what cause or causes does he
cide and the assimilation of hate literature attribute this improvement?
are an abhorrence to civilized people everyHon. Mr. Croil: I said that I attribute it to,
where. We cannot dismiss recent history with
its gloomy record of genocide by saying, ",Yes, the fact that there was anti-discrimination
that was terrible, but that is ail past now, and legislation, which had an educative effect. It
we know better." Do we know better? Should was an indication to the people of Ontario
that this was the vlew of the Governinent.
we flot; make sure o! things in the future?
Some felt that it was the law and that they
Some years ago and withln the recollection
of us in this chamber, anti-discrimination had to live within the law.
legisiation was introduced in Ontario. Many
Hon. Mr. Flynn: To which law are you
well-meaning people said that it is impossible referring?
to legislate tolerance. Time has proved them
Hon. Mr. Croli: It is an Ontario law. I said
to be absolutely wrong. In Ontario we have
been successful to a point in legislating toler- that it is an anti-discrimination law in the
ance. We have removed discrimination where Province of Ontario. It is under one of the
it hurts most-in employment and accommo- statutes of Ontario, passed several years ago.
dation. I do not say there is no longer any
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Do you think there is a
discrimination in Ontario. We have not yet
attained that state. But I do say that the difference in Ontario as compared with other
discrimination in Ontario today is only a tiny provinces?
fraction o! what it was in those bad old days.
Hon. Mr. Croli: Yes, It was one of the fi.rst
No society can tolerate hate merchants-at of such acts, and others have followed. It had
least not for long-without suiffering incalcu- a definite purpose, it has proved itself, and it
lable damage. I am flot speaking o! the is being praised by everybody.
damage to the warped individuals, for they
Hon. Mr. Martin: It was brought in by a
are probably beyond redemption anyway. 1
mean the damage to the very f abric of our Conservative Goverament.
society, for hate is a corrosive force. It is a
Hon. Mr. Croli: Yes.
violent emotion which stirs up an equally
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I did not hear that?
corrosive and violent reaction, as Senator
Prowse so clearly indicated when he last
Hon. Mr. Croil: The honourable Leader of
spoke. It starts a chain reaction which can
the Gvvernment pointed out to me that it was
only end by invading every sector of our
society with its poisonous fail-out. This in! a- brought in by a Conservative admidnistration
mous thing can and must be stopped, for if in the Province of Ontario. He thinks that
that is a very important point, and that it wll
we allow the tongue of hate and the pen of
have an eifect on Conservatives who sit on
hate to go unchecked we shail surely regret it
the other side of this house.
at a later date.
Hon. Mr. Choquet.: 1 can assure my
must not curtail that most
It is said that we
precious thing, freedom. Honourable senators, honourable friend that it will not.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: But do not; be so dramatlc
about it.

SENATE DEBATES
Han. Mr. Flynn: You are reluctant to adopt
the argument of your leader.
Hon. Mr. Martin: He did not want to seem
political.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You did flot mind.
Hon. Mr. Craîl: I thought that they had had
ail the politics they could digest yesterday.
As I was saying, the persons who speak in
such termas show littie faith in the workings
of our democratic system. when they paint
fearful pictures of Canada becoming what
they cail a fascist state. This bill will flot
interfere with the right of the individual to
speak his mind, to criticize or to advocate
ufipopular causes. But the hatemonger is in
Our midst. Those sick persons with minds
twisted by prejudice will not be permittcd te,
stir up hatred, for hatred is a forerunner of
disorder and violence.
We live in a society where freedom itself is
curtailed by common consent in order that we
mnay live under the rule of law. Our society
has laid down rules of conduct to which we
must adhcre under pain of punishment. No
government can afford to turn away from a
problcm which cries for an equitable solution.
This bill gives Government approval to a
principle that has long been neglected. There
cannot be freedom for some and not for
others. There can be no unity or harmony in
this land of ours as long as we permit the
racists to spread their foui propaganda,
secure in the knowledge that they are free to
undermine us by using our own democratic
rights for their evil purposes.
No charter on human rights in the world
permits the deliberate defaming of any group
by the evil-minded few, for hate literature is
the handmaiden of genocide. Its only aim is
the systematie denegration and eventual extermination of the group which it attacks. It
is a crime against society and, like any other
crime, it must be proscribed.
As to the Drybones case, which was discussed at length, I entirely agree with that
decision. Many of the provisions of the Indian
Act discriminate against the native population.
Not only should the Indians have equality
before the law, but it is high time that the
Indian Act was revised, if not scrapped. But
to conclude from that case that legisiation
against the advocacy of genocide or the dissemination of hate propaganda is in violation
of the Canadian Bill of Rights is wrong. It is
a complete non sequitur, which in legal terms
means it is not applicable to the principle at
[Hon. Mr. Choquette.]

April 30, 1970
Arl3,17

ail. It may be true that there has been in the
past no prohibition against advocating genocide or engendering hatred of identifiable
groups, but to magnify the absence of such
prohibition into a fundamental freedomn,
whether of speech, the press, or religion, is to
misread the entire tenor and effect of the
Canadian Bill of Rights, and indeed of the
majority judgment in the Drybones case.
The key word in the Canadian Bll of
Rights is "fundamental", as it qualifies "freedom". The so-called freedoms to advocate
genocîde or disseminate hate propaganda are
not, in my view, fundamental within the
meaning of that bll, nor do I believe that the
Supreme Court of Canada would s0 hold. In
any event, I arn sure it would be an exercise
in futility to even consider referring the present bll to the Supreme Court.
As Mr. Justice Ritchie stated in giving the
mai ority judgment in the Drybones case:
I think a declaration by the courts that
a section or portion of a section of a
statute is inoperative is to be distinguished
from the repeal of such a section and is
to be conflned to the particular circumstances of the case in which the declaration is made. The situation appears to me
to be somewhat analogous to a case where
valid provincial legisîntion in an otherwise unoccupied field ceases to be operative by reason 0f conflicting federal
legisiation.
It would be quite unrealistic to request the
Supreme Court of Canada to conjure up every
possible set 0f circumstances that might arise
and to give an anticipatory judgment in
respect thereof. Indeed, if we were to refer
every bill that may have constitutional or
quasi-constitutional overtones to, the Suprerne
Court, the process of legislation would grind
to a haît. We must make up our minds as
parliamentarians whether to pass this bill or
not. Like any other piece of legisiation, the
hate propaganda bill may be challenged in
the courts. That is what the courts are for,
and that is as it should be.
Senator Long, ot page 947 in Hansard of
April 28, has this to say:
Honourablo senators I repeat that word
"inoperative". In other words, if a law of
the Porliament of Canada connot be construed without a conflict between it and
the Bill of Rights, that law is inoperotive
and cannot be enforced in our country.
Honourable senators can imagine how
many laws already possed and how many
lows to be possed in the future might

April 30, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

come into conflict with the Bill of Rights.
You will also realize that this decision
changes the very nature of our Supreme
Court of Canada from a purely interpretative body bound by stare decisis and
precedents into a creative judicial instrument far more akin to the Supreme Court
of the United States. In my opinion this is
a judicial revolution of the first order.
It so happens that this was said on April 28.
On April 29 Mr. Justice Bora Laskin was
being sworn in as a Justice of the Supreme
Court of Canada, and Mr. A. S. Pattillo of
Toronto, President of the Canadian Bar
Association, speaking after Mr. Turner, is
quoted in the Globe and Mail of that day, as
follows:
-told of his great concern about those
who advocated that the Canadian court
follow in the footsteps of the United
States Supreme Court and make law
rather than interpret it.
The Canadian court should not become
involved with such new functions but
should remain a court of law to hear
appeals from provincial courts and the
Exchequer Court, he said.
"The court of last resort should not get
mixed up in the legislative process." This
was the role of Parliament.

that the bill will commend itself to the
majority of the Canadian people, as it did to
the majority of their elected representatives.
It will certainly commend itself to the minority groups in this country who have felt the
eflects of hate propaganda in the past and
know what it can do to the souls of men.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: How many such
groups came to make representations before
the Senate committee on the occasions we
sat? Can you tell us that?
Hon. Mr. Croll:
hearings we had
number of groups.
Senator Prowse
and a very large
over many days,

In the course of the many
there was a very large
There were hearings under
and
Senator Roebuck
number of groups came in
as I remember.

Hon. Mr. Choquette: How many minority
groups? I attended every session. How many
minority ethnic groups came to say, "Protect
us against this type of propaganda"?
Hon. Mr. Croll: Did you ask how many
minority groups, or how many groups?
Hon. Mr. Choquette: How many minority
groups?
Hon. Mr. Croll: I thought you asked how
many groups?

Hon. Mr. Choquette: No.
He could not have said that at a better time,
as far as I am concerned.
Hon. Mr. Croll: I cannot tell you how many
Nor do I see any need to refer this bill to a groups.
committee. The bill, in my opinion, is good
Hon. Mr. Choquette: I can. Only one.
law. It is not only a Government bill, but one
which has been prepared by the Department
Hon. Mr. Croll: Oh no. There were more
of Justice and sponsored by the Minister of than that, far more than that.
Justice. It remains only for us to reach a
The only purpose of referring this bill to a
decision.
committee was to clarify the position vis-à-vis
Hon. Mr. Flynn: That is only normal. What the Canadian Bill of Rights. Now that the
is new about the bill being sponsored by the amendment is before us and we are able
Minister of Justice?
to vote on it, the Senate itself can decide
that question. I think we have had a good
Hon. Mr. Croll: The new thing is that you
at this bill. We have had the amendment,
it. It is constitutional and we look have given it consideration, and I think
people question
we
do not set ourselves up against the Minister the time has now come, or should be very
of Justice on one pretext or another.
nearly at hand, when we should be dealing
by way of second and third
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Do you say therefore that with this bill
reading as expeditiously as possible.
the Supreme Court would not rule that a bill
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Would the honourable
is ultra vires because it is sponsored by the
senator permit one question? In view of the
Minister of Justice?
fact that he has referred to the amendment
Hon. Mr. Croll: Certainly he could be and the intention of the amendment, would
wrong, but he gives thousands of opinions a he be prepared to accept the statement by the
year and yet has not very often stumbled on sponsor of the amendment (Hon. Mr. Lang)
one during the course of my life. I believe that it was not the intention to kill the bill?

SENATE DEBATES

April 30, 1970)

Hon. Mr. Croll: I did not suggest it was his
I would feel much happier about supporting
intention to kill the bill. I said the effect the bill if I believed that hatred could be
would be to kill the bill.
legislated out of existence. All the testimony
of history shows that
Hon. Mr Grosart: With respect, I think lated out of existence. hatred cannot be legisMy concern about this
the honourable senator said he questioned bill is that it would make it possible, or at
the statement that that was not his intention least make it easier, for a goverrnment or a
in moving the amendment. I am merely group to infringe on the people's rights in the
asking whether the honourable senator will area of freedorn of speech. The degree of
accept the statement by Senator Lang that freedom of speech that we enjoy today has
that was not his intention.
been fought for and won at an extremely
Hon. Mr. Croll: I will accept it from you on high cost, and I would hate to see this freedom infringed upon in the slightest possible
behalf of Senator Lang.
way.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I was not speaking on
I listened to Senator Lang's presentation
behalf of Senator Lang.
with a good deal of interest, and for me his
suggestion that the bill be referred to the
Hon. Mr. Croll: Certainly, I accept it.
Supreme Court was a good and logical step.
Hon. Donald Cameron: Honourable sena- Contrary to what bas been said, such referral
tors, I had not intended to participate in this would not kill the bill. It might for this sesdiscussion, and what I have to say will be sion, and it might not. However, as has been
very brief. However, in light of the discussion pointed out, the bill could be resuscitated and
that has taken place I should like to make brought back for a fifth time, and even for a
ninth time if it had a cat's nine lives.
some observations.
In saying that I support the amendment, I
In the fifteen years that I have been in the
Senate I have never received as much mail or want to emphasize that to say those who may
copies of petitions as have come over my not favour the current bill are in favour of
desk in the last month in connection with this genocide or encouraging hate literature is not
bill. This does not necessarily mean that those true. I am sure all members of this house
who are writing or signing petitions are right. abhor the poisonous type of material that
comes over our desks occasionally, and no one
The second observation I make is that this
is a second landmark, in my recollection: this wants to encourage that sort of thing. Howis the first time in fifteen years that a bill ever, I very much fear that the kind of legisdealing with the same subject, albeit in lation contained in this bill, full of good
amended form, has come before this chamber intentions and desirable and idealistic purposes, will not achieve the purpose for which
four times.
it is designed. For that reason, I will support
I have read the bill carefully and have been the amendment.
glad to see the series of amendments that has
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
greatly improved the current version over its
predecessors. In studying the history of the rise to say a few words on the amendment. I
bill, I have been impressed with the powerful do intend to take part in the debate on the
support it has had from some of our most substance of the bill, but I felt that as spokesdistinguished legal minds in Canada. These man for the Government I should explain the
include the Prime Minister, distinguished Government's position on the amendment
deans of law and others. However, I have moved by Senator Lang, an amendment
always had a very high regard for the legal which on the surface might understandably
acumen of Dr. Frank Scott of McGill, who is be regarded as a prudent and satisfactory
also former Dean of Law of that institution, way of dealing with
a problem that confronts
and I have much sympathy with his point of
honourable senators. However, on the closest
view.
analysis it must be clear that such an amendI make my observations in this debate with
ment cannot be accepted, certainly not by the
a great deal of diffidence, because I am not
trained in the law. At the same time, I have Government, and should not in my judgment
seen many miscarriages of justice, often in be accepted by honourable senators.
cases where the so-called "little people" have
Hon. Mr. Flynn: When you say it cannot be
given up their rights because they felt they accepted by the Government, you are not sugcould not afford to challenge big government gesting that if we voted for the amendment it
or big bureaucracy.
would defeat the Government?
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

April 30, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Martin: Oh no. My honourable
friend knows that the Constitution is such
that, regardless of what action is taken here,
such action does not in any way affect the
integrity or the maintenance of the government of the day. Such a decision by the
Senate would mean that this bill would not
be finalized during this session of Parliament.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: In this chamber we are
freer to speak our minds than are the members in the other place in that respect.
Hon. Mr. Martin: We are free here, as they
are in the other place, each to act according
to his or her conscience. But what I have
risen to do is, first, to point out the position of
the Government and, second, to argue against
the amendment in its very terms as presenting us with a completely impossible
proposition.
What is the amendment? It reads:
That this bill be not now read a second
time, but that it be resolved by the
Senate that, in its opinion, the subjectmatter thereof should be referred by the
Governor in Council to the Supreme
Court of Canada, pursuant to section 55
of the Supreme Court Act, for hearing
and consideration as to whether in any
circumstances the whole or any part of
its provisions would or might be held to
be inoperative as an abrogation, abridgment or infringement of any of the fundamental freedoms dealt with in the
Canadian Bill of Rights.
Now, It must surely be clear that there are
some self-evident propositions that assert
themselves at once on the mere reading of
this amendment.
We are here considering a bill which, on
the last occasion it was presented to us was
passed by this Senate. It was carefully examined in committee, where there was vigorous
and sometimes heated, but I think respectful,
debate. That examination was followed by
passage of the bill in this chamber. The bill
was sent back to the other house, where it
was not proceeded
with because
of
prorogation.
This time the bill comes to us with a different genesis. It comes to us from the House of
Commons in the first instance, after a careful
consideration in the Legal and Constitutional
Committee of the other place, followed by an
intense and vigorous debate and acceptance
by the other place. It comes to us with that
history, and it is a bill which Senator Lang
now admits is better than when we dealt with

it first. It is now proposed we do not pass it
but send to the Supreme Court for an opinion. An opinion on what?-on whether it is in
violation of the Bill of Rights Act or whether
there is sufficient doubt in the light of the
Drybones case to warrant a re-examination of
the legality of the measure.
First of all, we are asking the Government
to agree to this. That surely must be an
untenable position. Then we are asking
individual senators to agree to it. It is suggested that having gone through this history,
where there can be no doubt about the Government's conviction about the desirability of
this bill and about the conviction of the
majority in the other place and the majority
in this place-it is suggested that, notwithstanding that, we should refer this bill to the
Supreme Court of Canada to determine its
legality and to determine whether or not it
conforms to the Canadian Bill of Rights.
I suggest to honourable senators that any
government that would bring in a bill which
it was prepared to submit to the Supreme
Court for a test of its legality would not be
doing its job. No government has a right to
bring to Parliament a bill which it feels is not
legal or is unconstitutional.
And so, without any reservation I say at
once to all honourable senators that this Government has no reservation about this bill.
The officers of the Crown have given their
advice, and the Government believes in the
purposes and objectives of this bull. It does
not regard this bill as an abridgment of
human rights. It looks upon this bill as an
extension of the law of libel now existing
in the Criminal Code with respect to
individuals. We now make it applicable to the
group. That is what this bill does. And we say
that there is no doubt about the legality of
the bill.
When Senator Choquette was speaking the
other day I interrupted his able speech to tell
him that there was never any question in my
mmd about the paramountcy of the Bill of
Rights. I said so when that bill was being
debated in the other place. I recognize that in
the Drybones case there is an assertion of the
paramountcy of the Bill of Rights, within the
meaning emphasized the other night by Senator Prowse when he quoted from the judgment of Mr. Justice Ritchie.
It is worthwhile recalling that paragraph in
Mr. Justice Ritchie's judgnent which puts the
Drybones decision in a proper context in

SENATE DEBATES
respect of this measure. This is what Mr.
Justice Ritchie said:
It appears to me to be desirable to make
it plain that these reasons for judgment
are limited to a situation in which, under
the laws of Canada, it is made an offence
punishable at law on account of race, for
a person to do something which all
Canadians who are not members of that
race may do with impunity;-

April 30, 1970

Hon. Mr. Grosart: Is that not a matter for
the Supreme Court of Canada to decide
rather than the Leader of the Government?

Hon. Mr. Martin: I should say, with the
greatest of respect, that it is not a matter for
the Supreme Court to decide but that it is a
matter for Parliament to decide. When my
honourable friend spoke last week I dealt
with this problem. I said that, where there is
any doubt about the law, that is a matter for
the courts, or a matter for the Supreme
And these are the significant words:
-in my opinion the same considerations Court. But when it is a question of policy-is
what we are now discussing-it
do not by any means apply to all the and that is
a matter for the Parliament of Canada. I do
provisions of the Indian Act.
not believe it is the function of the Supreme
What is there in the Bill of Rights that Court of Canada to have handed over to it
suggests the law of genocide is contrary to any responsibility which belongs to those who
that act? Where in the Bill of Rights is there sit in either of the Houses of Parliament.
any provision against making statements calHon. Mr. Grosart: Will the honourable
culated to incite hatred and disturb the public
Leader of the Government explain why most
peace? Where in the Bill of Rights is there
far has been on the constituany provision that touches any one of the of his speech so
provisions of substance in the bill now before tionality of the bill?
your honours?
Hon. Mr. Martin: I have not been discussThe Bill of Rights was designed to provide ing the constitutionality of the bill. There is
for freedom of speech, but it never implied nothing constitutional in this problem. There
that freedom of speech was absolute. Freedom is an alleged legal problem, and that is differof speech is guaranteed within the context of ent from a purely constitutional problem. No
the law, within the context of the Bill of one on either side has argued that this bill is
Rights. If we were, for instance, to say that ultra vires. Only if there were such an arguthere was an absolute freedom of the press as ment put forward, could the question of conprovided for in the Bill of Rights, we would stitutionality be raised.
be saying that the Bill of Rights itself was
Hon. Mr. Grosari: May I ask the honourcontradictory in that no individual would
have the right to any action that would able Leader of the Government if he is not
involve any abridgment of the freedom of the using the legal phrase "ultra vires" in a very
narrow sense, which is a fault from which
press.
academics seem to suffer? The phrase "ultra
So it is no wonder that in the Drybones vires" merely means "beyond the power", and
of them, both not necessarily in respect of federal or procase the judges-practically all
in the minority as well as in the majority vincial jurisdiction. It just means "beyond the
judgments-speak of the Bill of Rights as power", and that, I suggest, is, the whole
being applicable in the particular case of this point being raised by the amendment.
unfortunate Indian citizen, but not in any
way involving other sections of the Code
Hon. Mr. Martin: All I can say to my
which, if one were going to be consistent, as a honourable friend is that I have noted his
result of the Drybones case, would have to be observation.
amended.
The majority of the court in the Drybones
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Would the honourable case limited their position to the particular
senator permit a question? Would he not situation before them in that case. It would be
agree that the Bill of Rights is applicable to a mistake for us to infer from that judgment
that there is now a wholesale abrogation of
every statute in Canada?
the laws of Canada which affect human rights
Hon. Mr. Martin: I would say that the Bill and fundamental freedoms.
of Rights is applicable to every statute in so
I suggest to honourable senators that it is
far as any other statute deals with matters perfectly evident that the scope of each right
covered by the Bill of Rights. But this par- and freedom must be conditioned by the
ticular bill does not in any way involve any existence of the others. It is, for example,
evident that the right of the individual to the
matter touched by the Bill of Rights.
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

April 30, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 30,1970SENATE

protection of the law under section 1(b) of the
Bill of Rights necessarily implies that freedom of the press does flot; permit the press to
prejudice the individual's right to a fair trial.
That is the substance of that section.
As almost every law affects one or more of
the fundamental rights, it would be virtuafly
meaningless to preface every piece of federal
legisiation in this category with a declaration
that it operates notwithstanding the Bill of
Rights. Although the present bill has been
described as being directed to group protection, it is fully in accord with section 1(a) of
the Bill of Rights. It is enacted to prevent
and, if necessary, to penalize the very discrimination referred to in section 1, to which
Senator Choquette directed our attention, and
thereby to ensure to each individual who is a
member of a group that is especially open to
discrimination the right of that individual to
life, liberty, and security of the person contemplated by the very first of the human
rights and fundamentaýl freedoms recognized
by the Bill of Rights.
Far from being a case for an express declaration under section 2 of the Bill of Rights,
Bill C-3 which we are now discussing is in
accordance both with the spirit and the
letter of the Bill of Rights. It is up to, honourable senators who take issue with that to
show wherein there is any provision in the
Bill of Rights on which this amendment rests
that cails into account any provision of the
bill now before us.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: How about the onus of
proof that is placed on the accused?
Hon. Mr. Martin: I amn going to deal with
that.
There is nothing, in my judgment, to Senator Choquette's point that subsections (1) and
(2) of section 267c offend against what he
calîs "the doctrine of presumed innocence
referred to in section 2 of the Canadian Bill
of Rights". This is the question that Senator
Choquette has just asked me about that section which deals with the onus of proof.
Section 2(f) relates to "the right to be presumed innocent until proved gullty according
to law." The entire field of criminal law
abounds with cases where the due admninistration of justice would be completely thwarted and criminals would go free were it not
for special provisions dictated by the circuxnstances regarding the burden of proof.
In Tuppe'r vs. The Queen, decided on June
6, 1967 and reported in (1968) 1 Canadian
Criminal Cases, 253, the Supreme Court of
22481-11

Canada upheld a conviction of the accused on
a charge of possession of housebreaking
instruments and, without a single reference to,
the Bill of Rights, accepted that the burden of
proof in that case shifted to the accused to
show on a balance of probability that there
was lawful excuse for possession of an instrument in respect of which nothing more had
been shown than that it was capable of being
used for housebreaking.
What about the provisions in the Criminal
Code with respect to unlawful assembly, and
the whole series of provisions in which the
question of the presumption of innocence is
deait with? In any event, apart from the
question whether it would be either meaningless or, worse stull, misleading to insert a
declaration in Bill C-3, it would open the way
to attack on almost every piece of legisiation
as being admittedly designed to abridge
fundamental rights.
The Criminal Code contains hundreds of
sections dealing with matters that would have
to be revised. The Criminal Code would have
to be revised if we were to accept the argument that the Bill of Rights, whîle flot applicable to a particular bill such as this, neyertheless required other bis dealing with
fundamental freedoms in one way or another
to be amended in order to, give meaning to
the effect of the Drybones case which, as Mr.
Justice Ritchie said, must be read in the context of the particular circumstances pertaining to the unfortunate Indian citizen whose
case was before them.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: Does that not apply to
any judgment of the Supreme Court of
Canada, or of any other court?
Hon. Mr. Martin: 0f course, but I do not
see how Senator Grosart's question in any
way affects what 1 have been saying, or in
any way destroys the view that the Government takes, and that I am sure ail honourable
senators on reflection will take, that to asic
the court at this stage to pass on a bill represents an unprecedented act, and one that
would bring great condemnation upon a government that took such a course. No government has the right to bring before Parliament
any bill if it has any doubt about its legallty
or if it lacks conviction as to, its worth.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: What is the purpose of
section 55 of the Supreme Court Act? It is
useless. Why do you not repeal it?
Hon. Mr. Martin: No, Senator Flynn. I
think section 55 concerning constitutional ref-

SENATE DEBATES
erences is used not in cases such as this-not
in the case of a bill that is before Parliament.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Why not? Why do you say
it would not apply to such a bill?
Hon. Mr. Martin: That course would be
open only if the administration supported the
view that there was doubt as to the legality
of the bill, but that is not the case here. The
Government has not the slightest doubt about
the legality and worth of this bill, as was
made clear by the Minister of Justice in the
other place.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: What you are suggesting is
that the Government never has any doubt as
to the validity of everything it proposes.
Hon. Mr. Martin: No, I am not suggesting
that.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: That is what you are suggesting. You are suggesting infallibility on the
part of the Government.
Hon. Mr. Martin: What I am seeking to do
is deal with this point. I have said that in this
instance the Government has no doubt, and in
the other place-

April 30, 1970

Code, one amendment was recently tested in
one of the appellate courts, I think in British
Columbia. I refer to the breathalyzer case. I
have no doubt that at some point this legislation may be tested in the courts, as is the
right of any litigant, or anyone charged under
the Criminal Code in respect of this or any
other provision in it. That is the normal process. I have no doubt that at some point that
will be done. However, to ask that it be done
now, after it has passed the other place, after
it bas been discussed in this house twice, gone
through a committee with exhaustive examination, and after it has gone through an
exhaustive examination in the other place,
after it was discussed before the Canadian
people, that we should at this stage express
doubt about a bill which Senator Lang says
now is a better bill in its terminology than
the other, is a position that I do not think can
be accepted.
Honourable senators, we all recognize that
this is an important measure. We are proceeding with this matter because we feel that
it is important. I can understand Professor
Frank Scott, who is a long and dear friend of
mine and who is one of the best constitutional
lawyers in the country, taking the position
that he did before the committee. However,
because he is an eminent constitutional
lawyer does not mean that in every particular
he is right. One can refer to other constitu-

Hon. Mr. Flynn: You said it never has any
doubt when it introduces a bill before Parliament; that it has to be sure of itself all the
time. That is what you are suggesting, and
tional authorities.
that is what you have said.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You can say the same
Hon. Mr. Martin: I do not think my friend
intends to be over polemic in this matter. I thing of the Minister of Justice.
did not intend to beHon. Mr. Martin: It is clear that in this bill
we are saying, first of all with regard
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Well, you did.
to genocide, there is an obligation on us to
Hon. Mr. Martin: I am discussing this provide in our criminal law against genocide
matter as objectively as I can, and I assure if we want to accept our obligations under
my honourable friend that that is the only the United Nations. The United Nations has
purpose of my thrust.
passed a convention outlawing genocide and
In the circumstances the Government takes calling upon member states to take steps in
the stand that the case is clearly distinguisha- their own country to make it illegal. That is
ble from the situation in the Drybones case done in one section of the bill. In every other
and that, as with every other provision of the section we have recognized the changing chaCriminal Code and other penal statutes, the racter of
the society in which we live. It is a
bill does not require an express declaration
society that permitted hate in the hands of a
under section 2 of the Bill of Rights and that,
man like Hitler to be used in circumstances
as with every other provision of the laws of
that brought about the terrible experience of
Canada, it will be open to any defendant
the world in the Second World War. It may
who holds a contrary view to raise the
be said that there is no comparison between
matter before the courts in the ordinary way.
the situation in Germany and that in Canada.
It will be recalled that in respect of another
measure that was dealt with by the other
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Do you think Hitler would
house and by Parliament when we provided have been bothered by a bill like that in
for a series of amendments to the Criminal Germany?
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

April 30, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Martin: Yes. I think if in the days
of the Weimar Republic there had been a law
such as this-as there is in Britain, the Scandinavian countries, and practically every
other European country since the days of
Hitler-he would not have found it possible
to make the monstrous progress he did with
dire consequences for the rest of the world.
It is for this reason that in Britain and
practically all European countries measures
such as this exist. It is not that we feel that
we have now a major threat as they did in
the Weimar Republic, but this at least is a
preventative measure. We are now by this
bill applying the laws of libel to a group. A
group of human beings surely is not any less
sacrosanct than is an individual. No one
denies the importance of protecting the
individual against libel. Why should we not
extend the law of libel to protect the group?
In doing so we are taking, apart from the
substantive course, a step that serves notice
that this country believes that whatever may
have been the political philosophy of the
nineteenth century, in this period in the
twentieth century we cannot condone the
kind of discrimination which this bill is
designed to prevent.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: May I ask the Leader of
the Government a question so as to make the
position of the Government even clearer?
Does he suggest that if the Senate were to
pass this amendment the Governor in Council
would refuse to submit the bill to the
Supreme Court?
Hon. Mr. Martin: That is a matter that the
Government would have to take into
consideration.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You are not suggesting
that?
Hon. Mr. Martin: I am not suggesting that
and I am sure my honourable friend does
not project that as a serious question at this
time.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Oh, yes, I do. On a previous occasion we passed a recommendation of
this kind which has never been followed by
action by the Governor in Council.
Hon. Mr. Martin: My honourable friend
and I have kept the debate on a fairly high
plane today and I propose to leave it there.
On motion of Hon. Mr. O'Leary, debate
adjourned.
22481-11à

CANADA SHIPPING ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND

READING

Hon. Donald Smith moved the second reading of Bill C-10 to amend the Canada Shipping Act.
He said: Honourable senators, this presentation on second reading will take me just a
few minutes. It is not something that will be
drawn out as are some other debates we seem
to get ourselves into these days.
I would first like to point out that the bill
deals with a phasing out of the plan which
has provided medical and hospital treatment
for sick mariners, authorized under federal
legislation since 1867. I do not know whether
my colleagues from New Brunswick are
aware that that province had such a plan in
operation in pre-Confederation days, when,
for example, the port of Saint John was one
of the greatest on the American continent.
Therefore, they were quite conscious of the
need of such a plan to take care of the health
of foreign seamen who visited their port.
In the discussions which took place at the
time of Confederation, the Province of New
Brunswick requested that this be a matter
which should be undertaken in the future by
the federal Government. Of course, there
followed the act that provided for such a plan.
I think most of us who were brought up
within the sight, sound and smell of salt
water realize perhaps more than others that
those who have sought a way of life on the
sea-particularly in the early days-have traditionally been a special breed of man. It is
evident from reading our history-and the
memories of some of us goes back a fairly
long way-that until more modern days these
seamen suffered great hardships, with very
low earnings, living under extreme measures
of discipline. I may say that the latter was
particularly so for seamen of the Royal Navy.
I cannot help but remind honourable senators
that Sir Winston Churchill once described the
traditions of the Royal Navy as being three in
number: rum, women, and the lash.
For an historically correct version of the
use of the lash for discipline in pre-Confederation times in Halifax harbour, I would refer
honourable senators to a history in the form
of a novel written by a fellow townsman of
mine, Thomas H. Raddall, entitled Hangman's
Beach. This book vividly and authentically
describes the effect of this system on human
beings, which permitted the use of the lash
in those early days.

SENATE DEBATES
I find it interesting to discover that
New Brunswick pioneered in the field of
providing a form of medical services insurance. For over a hundred years the essentials
of the plan were to make available a fund
from which the cost of treating sick mariners
from foreign vessels could be met without
placing the burden of debt on the abandoned
seamen or on the residents of the port being
visited.
Contributions to this fund have been compulsory for foreign vessels on entering a
Canadian port, and take the form of dues
collected by the customs officer on a tonnage
basis. The existing rate, which has been the
same for some years, is two cents per registered ton. To put it in a little better perspective, it would mean that a 5,000-ton freighter
on entering Halifax harbour would pay dues
of $100, which would be their contribution to
the fund.
Hon. Mr. Raitenbury: Three times in any
one year.
Hon. Mr. Smith: If they entered a Canadian
port three times in a year they would have to
pay the same dues on each of those three
occasions.
Hon. Mr. Martin: What does that mean,
threc times a year?
Hon. Mr. Smith: Three different voyages
during a calendar year.
Hon. Mr. Martin: You sailors are like lawyers, you have a special jargon.
Hon. Mr. Smith: I do not know about the
jargon. I often have difficulty in understanding debates between lawyers.
Hon. Mr.
themselves.

Martin:

The

lawyers

do

Hon. Mr. Smith: This system, which was
brought a little closer to me, living as I have
most of my life in a small town and not in
the Port of Halifax in my province, bas been
made available for many years on an optional
basis to Canadian fishing vessels. Under the
terms of the bill it will remain optional. Most
fishing vessels have paid the required dues. In
a great many cases the dues were very low
indeed, amounting in some instances, for a
man with a small vessel with two or three
men abroad, to $2 a year for his first three
voyages, making a total amount paid to the
fund of $6. Most of these fishing vessels paid
the dues because they were taking advantage
[Hon. Mr. Snith.]

April 30, 197(Y

of a very low cost sickness insurance plan,
which included doctor's fees, hospial costs
and the costs of essential drugs.
It is evident that in relation to the total
amount of dues collected these benefits were,
for the fishermen at least, exceedingly generous. They were so generous that the fund was
scarcely kept in balance until about the 1940s,
when the costs of medical care spiralled while
the revenues remained on the same fixed basis.
In recent years the deficits for the whole fund
have been close to the order of $200,000 a
year. The deficit was entirely brought about
because of the large number of fishing and
coastal vessels that took advantage of the
plan and made heavy demands on the service.
I can recall that during the 1940s the
former Auditor General drew the attention of
Parliament to the disparity which was developing between revenues and expenditures.
Since it was understood that the deficits were
caused to a large extent by the claims made
with respect to fishermen, whose earnings
were far down on the economic scale, the
comment of the then Auditor General did not
stir up as much sympathy or concern as the
present Auditor General seems to stir up in
connection with other matters. In fairness to
the Auditor General, I believe that be continued to make reference to this matter in
later reports to Parliament.
However, there were some of us in the
other place at the time who were able to
convince the minister responsible for the
administration of the act to postpone taking
action that would have been detrimental
indeed to the low income fishermen. I am sure
honourable senators will not be surprised to
learn that the responsible minister was one
who we all know would be expected to have
a great deal of sympathy and understanding
in such matters. He is the present Leader of
the Government in the Senate (Hon. Mr.
Martin), who at that time was the kindly
disposed Minister of National Health and
Welfare, and I commend him on his generosity in postponing the day of reckoning for our
fishermen.
With the coming into force of medicare in
some of the provinces concerned with deepsea fishing, and of course with hospital insurance in effect in all the provinces, a scheme
for sick mariners becomes much less meaningful for Canadians. However, Quebec, New
Brunswick and Prince Edward Island are not
yet in the national medicare plan. Therefore,
Bill C-10 continues to make the sick mariners
service available on an optional basis. The

April 30. 1970

Apri 30.1970SENATE
DEBATES

bill, however, provides that medical services
will no longer be provided to mariners who
are eligible for treatment under a medical
care insurance plan in the meaning of the
terms of the agreement.
Hon. Mr. Ratienbury: Are we talking about
lshermen now?
Hon. Mr. Smnith: Yes, Canadian fishermen.
It would only be Canadian fishermen who
would be eligible for treatment under a medical care insurance plan, that definition being
contained in the agreement between the federal and provincial governiments. In other
words, when medicare is in effect in every
province of Canada the historic medical. service for Canadian fishermen will no longer be
required by them.
There is also contained in the bill a provision that the owiner of a foreign ship will in
future be hiable for the medical and hospital
treatmnent of those employed on the ship
while in Canadian ports. I arn sure this will
be of some interest to Senator Rattenbury,
who probably knows more about shipping
than anyone else in this chamber, because
that was at one time his profession. On January, 1, 1971, when this clause cornes into force
and when medicare is operating in ail the
provinces affected by this bill, the end wrnl be
near for a very important and historic health
plan. The sick mariners' service deserves the
gratitude of thousands and thousands of men
who have "gone down to the sea in ships"
and over the years received the benefits of its
operation.
Honourable senators, if the bil is given
second reading it is my intention to refer it
for detailed consideration to the Standing
Senate Committee on Health, Welfare and
Science.
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable senators, I do not propose to deal with this bill at
any length. The sponsor has explained the
proposed amendments very clearly, and I
think we can all agree that changing circumstances have made some of the provisions of
the old act unnecessary. As hie said, bringing
into effect the hospital insurance, and ln some
cases Medicare, has done away with the need
that used to exist for a fund for sick mariners.
Honourable senators, I think it would have
been helpfui if the bil had contained some
explanatory notes, as there usuaily are in
such bills, especiaily showing what provisions
are being repealed. However, that is by the
way.

Our only concern now should be that we
must be assured that no advantage which a
sick mariner or any seaman now enjoys
would be taken away from him by this
provision.
Perhaps some of the things which occur to
me may neyer happen, but, for example, the
bill provides for what is cailed designated
doctors; and most seaports have designated
doctors already, although they are perhaps
called port doctors. It occurs to me that there
may not be any doctors in some of the
small centres having fish processing plants,
and it should be possible that if a seaman
becomes sick or is injured hie can go to any
doctor and payment will be made from the
fund.
The same thing applies with respect to the
application to customs officers for medical aid.
Unless there is an emergency, there must in
the ordinary event be an application in writing to the customs officer who serves the ship.
Under the provisions of the old act they could
have medical care that way. But it could very
well be that a person might have to travel
considerable distances before coxning to a port
where there is a customs officer now, because
it has been the process over the last number
0 f years to do away with the customs officers
in smail ports.
There is also no provision for the supplylag
of drugs to an injured seaman. I amn not sure
if there is any such provision under the present act, but in any event I think it is something which should be looked into because it
could well happen that a seaman would be
unable to go back to his ship during
convalescence and when ini need of drugs.
And yet there is no provision whereby he can
get drugs unless hie pays for thema himself.
I do not think there is anything else I could
usefully add at this time. If anything occurs
to me I shahl bring it Up when the bill is in
committee.
Hon. Nelson Raitenbury: Honourable senators, I view with some apprehiension the passage of this act which, as both honourable
senators have mentioned, phases out certain
practices which have been in existence for a
century. I was not aware of the ramifications
of the act in so far as it applied to the fishermen of Canada, but I arn very much aware of
its ramifications in so far as it applies to deep
water sailors.
I can see problems arising when a foreign
ship arrives in a port such as Saint John or
Halifax, and it becomes the responsibility of
that ship to provide urgent medical care, hos-

SENATE DEBATES
pifai or surgicai as the case may be. Under
the provisions for sick mariners this service
was taken care of automatically, but I should
like to ask the sponsor, who becomes responsible for it now? Do the officers of the ship go
out and 1ook for their own doctor? It is difficuit enough for a resident of Canada to get a
doctor to corne to his house these days, lot
alone try to get one to go to a foreign-owned
ship.
Hon. Mr. Smith: Honourablo senators, any
answer I could give to that question would
not be too meaningful. I assume that a customs officer would be available in every case
of a foreign ship coming into a Canadian port.
If the captain of a ship or the agent of a ship
had no knowledge of how to go about getting
a doctor, hie would quickly find somebody
who would steer him in the right direction.
On the question of responsibility, the
responsibility spelled out in the blli is reiated
to the payments of the medical expenses in
connection with medical care, and I assume
that every slip going inito a port lias an agent
there who would make some kind of guarantee to a liospital or other supplier of medical
services in that port city to see that the
account was paid.
I have no fear whatsoever of any seaman
ever being denied medical attention, and I
have little fear that the account would not be
paîd by the owners of the ship and consequently become the responsilility of the particular province or the particular port city.
Nevortheless, I certainly welcome the question of the honourable Senator Rattenbury
and I suggest that hie be present when the bull
is being considered in committee. Perhaps hie
would be more satisfied with an answer from
one of the officiais.
I have nothing to say at this time with
regard to the other matters raised.

April 30, 1970
Arl3.17

SOUTHEAST ASIA
NON-GQVERNMENTAL TRADE AND
MISSION

GOODWILL

The Sonate resumed froin Wednesday, April
22, the adjourned debate on the inquiry of
Hon. Mr. Cameron that hie will cali the
attention of the Senate to the visit to Southeast Asia, in March and April 1970, of the
Annual Non-Governmnental Trade and Goodwili Mission.

Hon. Muriel McQ. Fergusson: Honourable
senators, although I did not in 1970 accompany to Southeast Asia the Non-Governmental
Trade and Goodwiil Mission about which
Senator Cameron spoke in this chamber on
Wednesday last, lecause I have accompanied
the same group on two previous and similar
missions, I trust you wll not consider it
irroievant for me to speak lriefly about them.
These missions are composed of alumni of
the Banff Sdhool of Advanced Management.
Ail honourale senators know of the Baniff
School of Fine Arts, which was founded in
1933. Senator Cameron was director of that
school-his campus in the clouds-for many
years prior to lis retirement in 1969. Under
lis direction it hias become recognized as one
of North America's foremost cultural centres.
From 102 students in 1933 it hias expanded
tremendously until the~ enroilment iast year
was 1,250.
The Banff School of Fine Arts is widely
knowii but it may lie that not ail members of
this house are aware that in 1952 Senator
Cameron founded the Banff Scbool of
Advanced Management, of which hie continues to be the director.
The Banff School of Advanced Management
is a co-operative undertaking sponsored by
the Universities of Alberta, British Columbia,
Manitoba and Saskatchewan. It gives courses
to enable executives in business to learn
Hon. Mr. Raitenbury: I would suggest to about, and make use of, modern ideas and
the honourable sponsor that also present at discoveries in their own fields. The course
the committee hearing should le some knowl- gives them a broad knowlcdge of manageedgealle officiai fromn the Department of ment functions and responsibilities. The
Transport or whatever dopartmnent is con- school is for businessmen and women who
either own large businesses or bold manageriai
cerned with the handling of this matter.
Motion agreed to and bll read the second positions in such lusinesses. The objective
of the schooi is to make the graduates familtime.
iar with teclinological discoveries and other
modern devices and methods so that they
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE
wiil ho up-to-date and able to compete with
On motion of Hon. Mr. Smith, bill referred the most advanced operators in their own
to the Standing Senate Committee on Health, fields. They have adopted the dinosaur as the
Welfare and Science.
symbol, which they wear on their cuff-iinks
[Hon. Mr. Rattenbury.]

April 30. 1970

Aprî 30.1970SENATE
DEBATES

and tie-clips te remind them that the dinosaur is extinct because he could flot adapt.
The moral is very plain.
As Senator Cameron told us, the first of
these trade and goodwill missions, which took
place in 1966, came about through bis interest
in the ceuntries he visited when attending as
a Canadian delegate the Ninth Annual Generai Meeting of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, held in Kuala Lumpur in
1963. He found that there was a lack of
managerial technique, and following this trip
he arranged for scholarships so that four students from Malaysia interested in acquiring
managerial skills were able to attend the
Banff School of Advanced Management. As
he told us, thîs aroused great înterest in the
Canadians attending the schcol, and from this
interest developed the Annual Trade and
Goodwiill Missions.
Since then many students frem other countries have attended the Banff School. Senator
Cameron refers to them as his "off shore"
students, and I believe there were reunions
with a number of these students, now prominent businessmen in their own countries,
when the group visited Asia earlier this year.
These "off shore"' students now come from
not only southeast Asia but from many other
countries. Honourable senators may be interested to know that the Honourable Milton F.
Gregg, a former Minister of Labour and later
Canadian High Commissioner to Guyana,
recently visited Guyana as the representative
of Canada when Guyana fcrmally declared
that it was a republic. On that occasion Mr.
Gregg met a former student of the Banff
School of Advanced Management who now
holds a good position in Guyana. He spoke in
glowing terras of the work donc by the school
and its director.
Af ter he returned from the first of these
trips in 1966, Senator Cameron told me about
it and said that he was planning a simîlar
trip for the same group te Russia, Poland,'
Czechoslovakia, and East Germany in 1967.
Because I was greatly interested-although 1
arn net an alumnus of the Banff School of
Advanced
Management-Senator
Cameron
and Mrs. Cameron were good enough te ask
me to accompany them in 1967, which I was
very glad to do. Again in 1969 1 had the
privilege of accompanying this trade and
good will mission to the Middle East, where
we visited Greece, Turkey and Israel.
The objective of these visits by the alumni
of the Banff School of Advanced Management
is the development of an outward look for

Canadian businessmen and women. It gives
them an oppcrtunity to see at flrst hand what
the people of other countries are doing, particularly the people who, in those countries,
are carrying on businesses similar to those
which the members of the tour party are
carrying on in Canada. It is important, toc,
for Canadians to see for theniselves what is
happening in other countries, and te be able
to make their own assessments independent
of the news media.
To accomplish this Senator Cameron sends
biographies of each member cf the mission,
tegether with lists of their interests, te the
Canadian Trade Commission offices in the
countries to be visited. The Canadian Trade
Commission officers, with the help of the
Chambers of Commerce or ether similar
groups in the varieus ceuntries, arrange fer
seminars for discussion, and also for each
member of the party te meet people in the
country visited who have similar business or
other interests, and with whcm it sometimes
happens
that business connections
are
established.
In Turkey ail businesses must beiong te the
Chamber of Commerce, which has tremendous state backing. Tbrough the Chamber of
Commerce it is possible te get in touch with
people in any kind of business.
It is net my intention te give details regardîng either of these visits in which I participated, but honourabie senators will readiiy
understand that a visit of such a group cf
Canadians arouses censiderable interest in
any country, particuiarly when the group is
led by a senator, a circumstance which. opens
many doors that otherwise weuld be closed.
AiU the members of the group realize and
appreciate this. Consequently there were
many deiightfui entertainments and some
sight-seeing, besides attendance at seminars,
discussion greups, and visits te construction
sites, industnial plants, and universities. Perhaps even more important were the smaii
informal meetings between the visitors and
hosts who had similar interests.
Our special Senate interests were net forgotten by Senator Cameron and myself, for in
Czechosievakia we mentioned te one cf the
ministers of the gevernment that we were
both members in Canada of a Special Joint
Committee on Penitentiaries and that we
would like te know more about the penitentiary system and penai reform in Czechosiovakia. Very quickly, and without our
asking, a three-hour session with the Associate Director and two senior psychologists

SENATE DEBATES
from the Czechoslovakia Committee on Penal
Institutions was arranged. One thing that
impressed us both was that in Czechoslovakia
people who are in jail are paid for the work
they do there, which makes it unnecessary for
the families of those incarcerated to go on
welfare. It certainly seemed to me-and I
think Senator Cameron agreed-that this is
something we might well consider following
in Canada.
I might mention at this point that during
the time the Special Joint Committee on
Penitentiaries was sitting I visited a number
of the correctional institutions we were studying, particularly the Women's Prison, about
which I hope to speak in this house before too
long. Because I had visited the Women's
Prison in Kingston, which is the only federal
prison for women in Canada, I visited-and
this was not on the programs of the trips I
was taking-women's prisons in New Zealand, Australia, Japan and Iran.
I found that there were many things that
we could learn from people in those countries.
However, this impressed itself mostly on my
travelling companions, because now when I
meet them in different places they are apt to
say, "Have you been in any women's prisons
lately"? That seemed to impress them more
than anything else I did on the trip.
In Poland we met with a mixed group of
workers and were much impressed by the
equality between men and women both in the
holding of positions and the carrying on of
administrative and other jobs.
As I said before, the fact that a Canadian
senator is leader of the group opens many
doors, but that same fact also places certain
responsibilities and obligations on the group.
Although each person defrays his or her
expenses entirely, the fact that the group is
led by a senator gives it a semi-official standing in the eyes of the citizens of another
country. All members of the group are conscious of this, and certainly on the two trips I
took with them they conducted themselves so
as to leave a good impression of Canada.
They are excellent ambassadors for Canada.
To illustrate one such responsibility, I
would like to tell you of an incident that
occurred when we visited Ankara, the capital
of Turkey.
There are many memorials throughout
Turkey to the national hero, Kemal Ataturk,
who instituted sweeping changes in Turkey
after the Ottoman Empire ceased to exist and
the Sultanate was abolished in 1922 and 1923.
Kemal Ataturk is deeply revered by Turkish
[Hon. Mrs. Fergusson.]

April 30, 1970

citizens and there is a most impressive
mausoleum in Ankara which contains his
tomb. It was suggested to our mission that
Turkish people would appreciate it if, as
Canadians, our group would visit the mausoleum and lay flowers on the tomb of Ataturk.
This we were glad to do and early one
morning all our group, led by Senator Cameron, Mrs. Cameron and me, preceded by a
Turkish officer and two soldiers bearing our
immense floral offering, marched one-half a
mile to the mausoleum and laid our flowers
on the tomb.
The floral piece necessarily had to be large
enough to be suitable as a gift from Canada
and we all gladly paid our share for it. I
mention this merely to show that, as Canadians, we found we had responsibilities in
many countries as well as many privileges. I
am told that a similar presentation of flowers
was made by the 1970 group when they visited Hiroshima.
Honourable senators may or may not know
that in the last 10 years or so I have travelled
to a number of foreign countries mostly as a
tourist but also on occasions as a member of
government delegations to meetings of the
Interparliamentary Union, the Commonwealth
Parliamentary Association and once to a
United Nations seminar, as well as on the two
Banff School of Advanced Management missions to Russia, Poland Czechoslovakia and
East Germany and to the Middle East. Travelling with groups like the Interparliamentary Union and the Commonwealth Parliamentary
Association
one meets many
members of the government and of the legislature in the country one is visiting. They are
our opposite numbers and we do meet many
of them. However, travelling with Senator
Cameron, because of his wide knowledge of
people in other countries, his group also
meets a great many of the members of
government.
I found that few groups travelling in
foreign countries get the same exposure to
wide sections of the citizens of those countries
as do the members of Senator Cameron's
missions.
The members of these groups have an
opportunity to meet and hold intimate discussions with the people who have similar interests, and they also have the opportunity to
expand trade to and from Canada, which
has occurred in a number of instances.
Referring to expanding trade from Canada,
I feel I should mention that sometimes when
prospective buyers in foreign countries have

April 30, 1970

DEBATES
Apri 30,1970SENATE

shown an interest in Canadian products they
find Canadian prices prohibitive. This is
something that shouid be given serious consideration in Canada. Are we pricing ourselves
out of those markets?
Honourable senators, because I feel that
among our colleagues there shouid be more
recognition of the great contribution which
Senator Cameron is making to promoting
goodwill and improving good trade relations
between Canada and other countries, and
because I know he is too modest to draw
attention to the cred.it which he deserves for
this initiative-I welcome this opportunity to
tell you of a few of the many things I
observed when participating in two goodwill
the trade missions which were so very ably
led by Senator Cameron.

22481-12

BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, if
we adjourn now we wrnl be able to attend to
some committee work. I propose that we do
adjourn for that purpose now, it being understood that we will return on Tuesday to, deal
with the legisiation that is before us and with
other bis. 1 understand that the Leader of
the Opposition (Hon. Mr. Flynn) has lined up
the work of the evening in a way that wardeep-hearted
gratitude and
rants my
approval.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: As usual.
Han. Mr. Martin: As usuel.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, May 5,
at 8 o'clock in the evening.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE

Tuesday, May 5, 1970
The Senate met at 8 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
SUPREME COURT ACT
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST

READING

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that a message had been received from the
House of Commons with Bill C-182, to amend
the Supreme Court Act.
Bill read first time.
Hon. Mr. Martin moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for second
reading on Thursday next.
Motion agreed to.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Copies of a contract between the Government of Canada and the municipality
of Gold River, British Columbia, for the
use or employment of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, pursuant to section
20(3) of the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police Act, chapter 54, Statutes of
Canada, 1959. (English text).
Report on the Administration of the
Canada Student Loans Act for the loan
year ended June 30, 1969, pursuant to
section 18 of the said Act, chapter 24,
Statutes of Canada, 1964-65.
Consolidated Index and Table of Statutory Orders and Regulations published in
the Canada Gazette, Part II, for the
period January 1, 1955 to March 31, 1970.

May 5, 1970

mendation whereby this might become the
general rule so that it would not be necessary
to pass this motion every day.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, that
is the intention.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: When?
Hon. Mr. Martin: Soon. Senator Molson is
not here tonight.
Motion agreed to.
BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
COMMITTEE
AUTHORITY

TO MEET DURING
THE SENATE

SITTING OF

Hon. Donald Smith, with leave of the
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(l)(a), I
move:
That the Standing Senate Committee
on Banking, Trade and Commerce have
the power to sit while the Senate is sitting tomorrow, Wednesday, May 6, and
Thursday, May 7, and that Rule 76(4) be
suspended in relation thereto.
Motion agreed to.

Hon. J. Campbell Haig: Honourable senators, may I ask what is the exact meaning of
this motion? We had a committee meeting a
couple of weeks ago and had to be there at
1.30 p.m., but we could not stay there and
have our attendance recorded in this house.
We had to dash in to this chamber, bow to
Mr. Speaker, sit in our seats and then walk
out and return to the committee.
I think the rule should be changed, so that
when senators are serving on a standing committee, and when a motion such as that now
before us is passed, we should be able to
remain in the committee meeting and not
have to dash in here, register our attendance,
and dash out again.
I would ask the Leader of the Government
ADJOURNMENT
to give this matter some attention and discuss
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators, it with Senator Molson when he returns, so
with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding that the rules may be amended in this
Rule 45(1)(g), I move that when the Senate respect.
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senatomorrow at 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
tors, I am not quite clear as to the point
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable sena- Senator Haig has in mind. Would the mover
tors, apparently it has become our rule that of the motion have anything to add which
we will meet at 2 o'clock in the afternoon might clarify this question for honourable
each day. I was wondering if the Government Senator Haig?
would indicate why they do not refer this
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
matter to the proper committee for a recom- this matter has been discussed previously.

May 5, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Unfortunately, Senator Molson is engaged on
business in the city this evening. However,
this matter will be discussed with him and it
can be taken up by the committee. The point
is definitely under consideration.
Hon. Mr. Haig: Thank you, Mr. Leader.
Motion agreed to.
CRIMINAL CODE (HATE PROPAGANDA)
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING-DEBATE
CONTINUED ON MOTION IN AMENDMENT

The Senate resumed from Thursday, April
30, the adjourned debate on the motion in
amendment of Hon. Mr. Lang to the motion
of Hon. Mrs. Fergusson, for the second reading of Bill C-3, to amend the Criminal Code.
Hon. Mr. Gratan O'Leary: Honourable
senators, when I had the honour and the
privilege of heading a Royal Commission on
Publications I was greatly concerned that in
our report and in our inquiries we did not say
or suggest anything that might be construed
as an interference with press freedom. Thus I
inserted in the first paragraph of my report
these lines:
In our society, freedom of expression is
so firmly established as to require overwhelming justification of anything that
might be construed as interference by the
state. So sacred indeed is the freedom of
expression.. .so essential is it to our way
of life that its protection benefits from
every doubt of State measures which
concern it.
With great earnestness, honourable senators, with great sincerity, I suggest to you
that this bill dealing with hate literature does
not provide overwhelming justification for
what might be construed, and indeed is being
construed, as state interference with freedom
of expression. I am not a professional libertarian. In fact, I have often felt that our
professional libertarians, with their extreme
statements, do more harm than good to freedom. I have never believed that freedom of
speech is an absolute. And I have always
tried to remember that no right includes a
privilege to injure the society granting it.
But, honourable senators, holding that position, I am afraid of this bill; I am afraid of
what might or could happen should it become
law. I suggest to you that it risks too much
for too little.
What is the sense of saying in this bill, in
this proposed law, that we prohibit people
advocating genocide? Does any honourable
22481-121

senator in this house believe that among our
Canadian people with all their foibles and
faults, and with all their weaknesses, there
would be any group, any influential group,
who would propose genocide in Canada? I
feel that there is no more reason to believe
that any influential or powerful section of our
people would propose genocide any more than
they would propose going back to the burning
of witches.
It seems to me that laws should deal with
realities and I hope, and most earnestly
believe, that no one in this country, no matter
to what group they belong, and no matter
what their racial origin might be, would seriously propose genocide in Canada. In this bill
I think we are setting up a straw man and
creating a situation which does not exist,
which will not exist and about which we do
not need to pass laws.
I have read this Hate Literature report
again and again, I have read the debates of
the other place, I have read very carefully the
speeches made in favour of this bill, and I
heartily agree with those who despise and
hate-if I may use that word; a better word
would be "deplore"-people who circulate
what is called hate literature. No one in this
house, no sensibk or fair-minded Canadian
would agree to support or condone what is
termed hate literature, and God knows we
get a lot of it. But in reading the report of
the Committee on Hate Literature, one discovers that most of this does not come from
Canadian sources. What is the sense of asking
me or any honourable senator in this house
to legislate against things coming to us from
Mississippi or Alabama? This is not affec:ing
our Canadian public life, in fact it is not
affecting Canadian life at all.
I have lived for many years in this country
and I know all about hate literature. As a boy
I remember Maria Monk. Some of you may
not, but I do. That surely was hate literature.
All of us know what is printed and circulated
about the alleged Knights of Columbus Oath.
All of us know what is circulated and printed
about the Protocols of Zion. These are all
proven forgeries, honourable senators, and
yet they are circulated. But, in the end result,
what harm have they done to our Canadian
society? I have not been injured by the
alleged confessions of Maria Monk. I am sure
that a certain honourable senator in this
chamber-I have in mind Senator Lazarus Phillips-has never personally been
injured, nor indeed very much concerned,
about the forgeries of the Protocols of Zion.

SENATE DEBATES
We all get these papers. But after all, what
has been the consequence? The consequence
over a number of years has been the
ecumenical movement. The consequence over
the years has been greater understanding
between Christians and Jews. Intelligent, educated Christians have not believed, and do
not believe, in the Protocols of Zion. I do not
think that intelligent non-Catholics believe in
the alleged Knights of Columbus Oath.
Honourable senators, the only sure cure for
that sort of thing is the better education of
our people. When people are educated and
when they become civilized, they become
immune to that sort of thing, and I honestly
believe that our Canadian people have
become immune to it. I honestly believe that
the hate literature we all receive in our mail
week after week means absolutely nothing to
us. My mastebasket is filled with it; I have
ceased to read these things.
I belong to a religion that has been
attacked; I belong to a religion that has been
persecuted, as we all have been. Go back into
history. Read the recent book on Mary, Queen
of Scots, and you will know of the often
bitter stream of bigotry and prejudice that
existed in those days. Those things have disappeared, not because of a law such as is
proposed in this bill, but because people have
become better educated. I think that is the
answer and the only long-term answer to the
liar and the bigot. You cannot by law stop
people lying; you cannot by law stop people
being bigots; you cannot by law, I am sure,
stop people circulating hate literature; but
you can stop it by a higher degree of education among our people.
This is why I feel that we in this Senate,
this house which is supposed not only to help
put good laws on the statute books but is
supposed to prevent bad laws going on the
statute books, should pause before we pass a
law of this kind.
There is no member of this house for whom
I have greater respect than Senator Fergusson. The other day I listened to ber present
this bill and, as usual, she did it very well,
with moderation, lucidity and knowledge.
But, honourable senators, if this bill becomes
law it will not be administered by people
with the civilized mind of Senator Fergusson.
This law will be administered by the attorneys general of our provinces, and these
people are not always of the civilized stature
of Senator Fergusson. They are not always of
the civilized stature of the distinguished
leader of this house, nor of the Prime Minister of Canada. This law will be administered
[Hon. Mr. O'Leary.]

May 5, 1970

by the attorneys general of our provinces, and
they will be subjected to tremendous pressure
by small groups who want this law passed.
That is its danger.
It is all very well to say, "Oh well, no one
is going to advocate or commit genocide, and
so nothing is harmed," but pressure will be
exerted on those administering these laws to
prosecute people for alleged statements of
this, that or another kind. This is the danger,
the danger of this law in fact infringing upon
honest dissent.
Is there a single member of this house who
does not believe that honest dissent is a vital
need in a society such as ours? I am a believer in dissent; it is our democratic way. I
shall come later to comment on some things
said the other day by the distinguished
Leader of the Government in the Senate
which astonished me, knowing that he is a
veteran, honoured and renowned sentinel of
parliamentary supremacy.
Honourable senators, that is why before
passing this bill, before taking a risk for too
little, we should ask the highest authority in
the land whether it does infringe upon liberties; whether it is in conflict with the Bill of
Rights; whether it should even be construed
as something which a democratic society
should not pass; whether, in fact, it can be
used to mute or stifle free speech in this
country. What are the objections to such a
course? Why should we not ask the highest
court in the land whether this bill contains
implications of that kind, interfering with or
whittling down the rights guaranteed by the
Bill of Rights?
I see that one of our distinguished senators
has just taken his seat, and I can say to him
now, and to the Senate, that I had my first
doubts about this bill after listening to the
powerful speech he delivered against it a year
or two ago. Tonight I hope to vote with him
against the dangers of this bill.
A minute ago I asked: What are the objections to this measure? Senator Connolly
(Ottawa West), for whose opinion I have an
affectionate regard, raised the question the
other day of this bill being delayed. Honourable senators, what is wrong with delay? It is
our historie function to arrest, or to delay,
any bill, or any proposed law that might
infringe upon the rights of the individual.
That is one of the prime reasons for our
existence here.
Senator Croll-another senator for whose
opinion I have the highest regard-said the
other day that this amendment if passed will

May 5, 1970

May 5 1970SENATE
DEBATES

kill this bil. Does he really believe it would
be a catastrophe for Canada if this bil is
kilied? We are here to kill bad bis. We are
here to approve good bills. We are here to
delay the passage of bills that we think are
bad. This is our function. Our function is not
merely to put legisiation on our statute books,
but to prevent bad legisiation from getting on
our statute books.
But most of ail, honourabie senators, I was
dismayed the other afiernoon to hear the
honourable Leader of the Government in this
house say that when a bill of this kind cornes
before us it is the be-ail and end-ail of the
discussion. He said, "We wouid neyer bring a
bill before Parliainent unless we were absolutely certain that we were right." When I
read that I remember Crornwei1's famous passage addressed to the Long Parliament:
I beseech you, gentlemen, in the naine
of Christ to consider the possibility of
your being wrong.
This is flot a bill, thenHon. Mr. Martin: I arn sure that Senator
0'Leary wishes to be fair in bis recitation of
what I said. I said that the Government bad
brought forward a bull that it beiieved to be
legal and not inconsistent; witb the Bill of
Rigbts, and a bill in wbich it had faith.
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: I do not want to misrepresent of ail people the bonourable Leader
of the Governinent in this bouse, so I will
read what he said:
But when it is a question of policy-and
that is wbat we are now discussing-it is
a matter for the Parliament of Canada. I
do not believe it is tbe function of the
Supreme Court of Canada to have
handed over to it any responsibility
which belongs to those wbo sit in either
of the Houses of Parliament.
He went on to say:
There is an alleged legal problem, and
that is different from a pureiy constitutional probiem.
He then said:
..
the view that the Government takes,
and that I arn sure ail bonourable senators on reflection will take, that to ask
the court at this stage to pass on a bill
represents an unprecedented act, and one
that would bring great condemnation
upon a government that took sucb a
course.
Hon. Mr. Martin: That i.s right.

Hon. Mr. O'Leary: He continues:
No government has the rigbt to bring
before Parliament any bill if it bas any
doubt about its legality or if it lacks conviction as to its worth.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Tbat is rigbt.
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: Very well. 0f course you
can do that, but do you not think of the
possibility of your being wrong? You are not
coming here with a bill, apparentiy; you are
coming here witb an encyciical, an ex cathedra encyclical, saying, "You reject this at the
pain of punishinent." That is what you are
saying.
If you are coming here saying, "This is the
law, this is the law from the heart of ail
truth," then what in God's name is the use of
this Senate at ail? What is the use of section
55 of the Supreme Court Act? Tben you say,
and many of my friends bave said it to me,
"Oh, but tbey say tbat is all right. After tbe
bill is passed you can go to the Supreme
Court, but you cannot go to tbe Supreme
Court while the bull is in process of being
legisiated." Tbey say and the leader said the
otber day that this is unprecedented. I do not
know and I do not care wbetber it is a new
precedent we are creating.
I arn one of those liberais witb a small "1",
of which there are a few left in the country,
wbo do not belleve it is wrong to do a tbing
for the first Urne. I believe witb the immortai
Bacon that "it is as well to create good new
precedents as to bonour old ones." If we are
doing the rigbt and sensible tbing in asking
the Supreme Court, not to write legîsiation
for us-I do not want the Suprerne Court to
be a device to enable me to evade my
responsibiity-we
are not
asking tbe
Supreme Court to dictate poiicy, to write
poicy or to write new legisiation. We are
asking them a simple question of law. Does this
bill or does it not interfere witb, or diminish,
or in any way affect the Bill of Rigbts?
That is ail we are asking. We are not asking
tbem to write policy; we are not asking
tbern wbether the Government's poiicy is
rigbt or wrong. We are asking tbemn a simple
question to enable us i our minds to decide
wbat should be done about this particular
bill. Sureiy that is a simple proceeding; sureiy
that is an bonest proceeding. We bave bere
the bigbest court in the land. We are sitting
bere and we are worried about this bill. We
are worried wbetber it contravenes any
buman liberty or individual liberty i this
country. That is ail. If tbey say yes, it does not

SENATE DEBATES

mean they are interfering with Government
policy. They are merely saying that this particular bill has legal defects. That is all. This
is not a question of whether you are a Liberal, Conservative, or neither. I am asked to
vote for a bill and I want to know what are
the implications of this bill? How is it going
to affect the rights of the individual? Surely I
have a right to ask the highest authority in
the land to give me an answer.
There is no sense in telling me that I am
asking the Supreme Court to accept my
responsibility; no sense in saying to me that
this is a precedent. Let it be a precedent! Let
is be anything you like! But if it is right, if it
is common sense to do it, then I am prepared
to do it, and I think every honourable senator
in this bouse should be prepared to do it. It is
as simple as that.
We are asked to pass this bill. Frankly, I
believe in much of the bill, but I think a lot of
it is nonsense. I repeat again that here we are
taking too much risk with a treasured and
vital part of our way of life. We are leaving
the gate open to people who want to suppress
free speech in this country to get along with
their wishes and desires, and I do not want
that.
I repeat, I am not a professional libertarian.
I do not go around shouting that freedom is
an absolute. Freedom is not an absolute. Freedom of speech is not an absolute, nor is freedom of assembly. All these things are curtailed by laws that we have at present. Nor
do we want to superimpose upon the statute
book of Canada something that could be construed, and is being construed, as interference
wi.h liberty.
Why do you want to do this when it will
achieve nothing? Do you think we will stop
people advocating genocide? Do you think we
are going to stop genocide? Do you believe
that any responsible group of people in this
country is prepared to commit genocide
against Canadians? This is nonsense! There is
no movement in this country, and there is no
danger of any movement in this country, on
behalf of genocide. To put an unnecessary
law like this on the statute book of Canada
that could be used to mute and stifle honest
dissent, is in my judgment something this
Senate should never do.
This is the sort of thing we were created to
avoid, to prevent. This is in line with the
historic role of this Senate. If the Senate
passes this bill, if the Senate refuses to accept
the amendment proposed by Senator Lang,
then this Senate will be deserting the true
[Hon. Mr. O'Leary.]

May 5, 1970

reasons for its existence. We will be deserting
the real reasons for our being. For God's
sake, we are not sitting here to have bills
come to us with the sponsor saying, "This is
the law of the Almighty. This is infallible.
This is omnipotent, and don't you dare in this
Senate, or in this chamber, challenge such a
thing. We are the all-wise people."
I would say this about a Conservative government just as readily as I am saying it now
about a Liberal government. Of course you
think you are right. Hitler thought he was
right. If you are going to come here and say
to this Parliament, "You must not reject this
bill. You must not even ask the highest
authority in the land about its implications,"
then you are placing the Parliament of
Canada in the position of the Diet under the
Russian czars and the Reichstag under HiJler.
There would then be no sense in having a
second chamber. In fact, there would be no
sense in having a Parliament if we had to
conclude that the ministers, the executive,
were always right. Human nature was not
constituted that way.
I believe in the spirit of this bill. I detest
and abhor hate literature as much as any
man or woman in this house. I abhor it as
much as Senator Fergusson. I abhor it as
much as the distinguished Leader of the Government. I abhor it as much as Senator Connolly (Ottawa West) or Senator Croll. But I
do believe in freedom, as far as you can have
it with qualifications. We must not and should
not in this chamber do anything that can be
construed, and in fact is being construed, as
interference with the freedom of the
individual.
So, honourable senators, with all my heart,
with every bit of earnestness I can command,
I ask you to support this amendment, and in
asking you that I am only asking you to conform to the spirit and high traditions of this
chamber.

Hon. Lazarus Phillips: Honourable senators,

by a curious quirk of circumstances I follow a
senator for whom I have the deepest affection,
indeed love. Notwithstanding what I have
said, I am in profound disagreement with his
presentation of the case. Having said that, I
shall try, as a trained lawyer after all these
years, to prove my point.
First, may I remind my dear friend Senator
O'Leary that this bill was studied before by
the Senate and received very careful consideration. This is not the first time it has
appeared before us. The inference that would
normally be drawn by those who are not

May 5, 1970

May 5 1970SENATE
DEBATES

fainiliar with the facts; would be that this bill,
havmng been passed in the other place, has
corne to us for consideration for the first tirne.
The honourable senator knows this not to be
the fact.
Indeed, Senator Lang, to whose motion by
way of amendment we are addressing our
observations, was good enough to refer to the
fact that this bill that now cornes before us
frorn the other place had previously been considered by this august charnber. He referred
to the fact that in conimittee in the last session we deait wîth the bill and rnade a series
of very important arnendrnents to it. As a
matter of fact, when Senator Lang rose and
rnade cornplirnentary references to the mernbers of the committee, particularly Senator
Roebuck and the other members of the cornrnittce, of which I had the honour to be a
member, I was rerninded of that old classical
expression timeo Danaos et dona ferentesbeware the Greeks who bear gifts. I was flot
disappointed, because he ended his speech
with what I regard as a completely irrelevant
motion by way of amendment.
Now we have bad ail tbrough the yearsand I was flot here for part of the deliberations-a welter of words and a sea of sernantics as far as this bill is concerned, and 1
tbink we have reached the point where we
might summarize wbat bas taken place by
way of argument and see whether there is
any menit in the observations that have been
made by honourable senators wbo are against
this bill.
I may say at once-and I do not say it by
way of false pride or anything of that
nature-there is no lawyer in this bouse
whose ability, expenience or training warrants birn to state to bonourable senators that
bis views deserve more consideration than
tbose of any honourable senators who are
not lawyers. Brifliant legal rninds like
Senator Choquette and Senator Lang bave
expressed certain views. Other brilliant legal
minds like Senator Martin, Senator Croli and
Senator Prowse have expressed other views.
I would support the views against the
amendment. I do not ask you to accept rny
experience or my views as being ex cathedra
or baving any ecumnenical value by way of
differentiation frorn those of rny dear friends
wbo bave talked against the bill proper and
wbo have talked in part in favour of the
arnendrnent.
Wbat I propose to do, bonourable senators,
before 1 arn finisbed, is to draw on tbe shades
of the leading legal rninds of Canada in the

twentieth century and see what they have to
say about some of the objections that reflect
the fears of those who are against tbe bill and
in favour of the arnendment, and let us see
whether the opinions pro and con are supportcd by these great legal brains. I think you
will find before I arn through that I will have
the support of two chie! justices of Canada,
and other great legal brains wbo support my
objection to tbis arnendment and support rny
view to be ultirnately in favour o! this bill.
Hon. Mr. Lang: My honourable colleague
said that he would bave the autbority o! two
of the chie! justices of the Supreme Court of
Canada, and that he would cite tbat as support for bis position. Would rny honourable
friend object to referring this bill now, not to
just two Supreme Court Justices of the
Suprerne Court of Canada, but rather to the
full court o! tbe Supreme Court of Canada.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): I do not regard
your question as being serious and I do not
propose to answer it. The answer is that 1 do
object for the reasons I have developed so far
and for the further reasons I propose to present for your consideration, Senator Lang,
and that of other bonourable senators in this
house.
Hon. Mr. Lang: I did not; hear the answer

to my question.
Hon. Mr. Phihips (Rigaud): My answer is
that 1 did not regard your question as being
serious and I do not propose to support such
reference because I bave already indicated
that I propose to vote against the arnendment.
Hon. Mr. Lang: Thank you.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Tbat is quite
clear surely by now, before I have even startcd developing rny views that I arn strongly
agamnst this arnendment.
Before I propose to analyse the legal issues
involved in this rnatter, let me deal with two
other interesting phases that bave presented
thernselves to me and which I would ask
honourable senators to consider. I shall try
to quote chapter and verse in favour of what
I arn saying.
I find it utterly amazing that the two speakers who are supporting the amendment that
bas been rnoved by Senator Lang are contradictory in their support of the arnendment. I
refer to Senator Lang and to Senator Gosart.
Let us sec what Senator Grosart bas to say
upon certain aspects of this matter. Incidentally, bonourable senators, Senator Grosart's

SENATE DEBATES
acute mind has been reflected on more than
one occasion in this house, but it has been
particularly reflected in the speech he delivered before this august chamber on April 23,
1970. Bear with me for a few moments on
some remarkable observations and some conclusions that flowed from his remarks. I quote
from page 930 in the Debates of the Senate:
There is conflict, inevitable conflict,
between the right to speak and be heard
and the right to be protected against any
damage or violence that may be incited
by the exercise of that right by others.
There is a further quote on page 930 from the
honourable Senator Grosart.
The specific intention, of course, is to
protect minorities from violence. I say
that because in some of the discussion
this fact seems to have been overlooked.
There seems to have been an impression
at times that the purpose of this bill is to
protect minorities from vicious and contemptuous statements. But if you read
the bill carefully you will find that that is
only a subsidiary purpose and intent. In
two operative sections, 267A and 267B,
we find the purpose of the bill clearly
defined. The use of the words "killing'
and "physical destruction", in section
267A; and the requirements for a successful prosecution, in section 267B, that
there be evidence of "breach of the
peace" or incitement thereto. I also say
that it need hardly be argued before
anyone familiar with our statutes, that
that right is adequately protected by the
existing statutes, not merely by the Bill
of Rights but by others.
In other words, Senator Grosart takes the
position that this bill is not in conflict with
the Bill of Rights, but rather that this bill is
redundant and not necessary because we have
the Bill of Rights to protect us on the points
that are covered by the bill. If there is any
doubt as to his line of reasoning let us look at
page 931 where, after laying the basic foundation for his observations, he gives three
reasons why he is against this bill and supports the very brilliant speech that was delivered heretofore by Senator Choquette. It is
fantastie and interesting to analyze the arguments that have been presented in this chamber in favour of the amendment and against
the bill. In his first reason Senator Grosart
stated the following:
.. I am not convinced that there is need
for such additional protection. For one
[Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud).]

May 5, 1970

reason the right is assured in more than
one of our statutes, particularly in the
Bill of Rights.
We have the statement of the honourable
senator, who proposes to support Senator
Lang's amendment, that the bill should not be
given second reading, that it is not necessary,
because the Bill of Rights gives us that
protection.
Then we come to the honourable Senator
Lang who moved the amendment. Here we
have this extraordinarily interesting attitude,
that his amendment is based upon the idea that
we get this bill at all costs to the Supreme
Court of Canada for judicial decision because
this bill is in conflict with the Bill of Rights.
He finds in what he considers the sensational
Drybones case such an extraordinarily revolutionary development in the status of the
Supreme Court of CanadaHon. Mr. Lang: Mr. Speaker, on a point of
privilege, I would like to stress to my honourable colleague that the point of my amendment was not made on the basis that this bill
was contrary to the Bill of Rights, but was to
ask the Supreme Court of Canada whether its
interpretation would be that this bill was in
conflict with the Bill of Rights.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Honourable
senators, I disagree with the honourable senator. All I do is ask honourable senators who
are in this house to read Senator Lang's
speech. I say, and I repeat with considerable
emphasis, that one of his arguments, involving the necessity of interfering with the
normal course of parliamentary legislation in
bringing this issue to the Supreme Court of
Canada, is that the bill would interfere with
the Bill of Rights. I simply leave it on that
basis to honourable senators to come to their
own conclusions in listening to my observations and in reading the honourable senator's
speech.
As a matter of fact, Senator Lang became
so lyrical on the issue of the effect of the
Drybones case, that he said the whole character of the Supreme Court of Canada has
changed as a result of the Drybones case
and, he said, thank God that it bas, because
we will now be in a position to approximate
its status more or less to the Supreme Court
of the United States. Whether or not the
Supreme Court of the United States is worthy
of emulation, is a matter of opinion. Whether
one would wish to have our Supreme Court
assume powers similar to those in the United
States is also a matter of opinion.

May 5, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

the legislative process of the country.
I am against such an assumption of power.
Surely, that is the role to be performed
In support of my observations, I ask honouraonly by the legislatures and Parliament.
ble senators to listen to an extract from a
speech by Mr. Arthur Pattillo, who is one of
specific and more direct
the great lawyers of our country, now Presi- What can be more
that is a right to be perdent of the Canadian Bar Association, when than that-surely
and Parliament.
he spoke at the Supreme Court of Canada on formed by the legislatures
He continued:
April 28, 1970 on the swearing in of Mr.
I appreciate your lordship's understanding
Justice Bora Laskin. I quote from what the
the distinction I am trying to make. But
President of the Canadian Bar Association
does the public?
had to say about the functions of the
Supreme Court of Canada.
I am trying to get this to the public, through
this house. Mr.
Hon. Mr. Lang: I hope my honourable col- the honourable senators in
Pattillo continues:
league will explain to this chamber this eveI would hope that in the years ahead,
ning what legal effect the pronouncement of
whenever the opportunity arises, the
the President of the Canadian Bar Association
members of this court would stress the
may have in terms of law in Canada, as
differences between our Supreme Court
opposed to the pronouncements of a judge of
of Canada and the Supreme Court of the
our court.
United States so that the Canadian public
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): I am stressing
would have an opportunity to appreciate
that I am quoting the views of Mr. Pattillo,
the difference and not be misled by the
not in relation to judges of the Supreme
mistaken ideas of political scientists
Court of Canada but in relationship by way
trained in countries other than Canada.
of dissent to the views that the honourable
Honourable senators, the first point I wish
senator bas given in his capacity as a member
that in support of this
of the Canadian Bar. I am not relating Mr. to make, basically, is
amendment we have the honourable Senator
Pattillo's observations to that of the view of
position that this measure
judges: I am expressing the views of another Grosart taking the then by contrast we have
is redundant. And
Canadian lawyer who, shall I say, enjoys the honourable Senator Lang, I still insist,
equal eminence to that of the honourable taking the position that we must have a
senator.
ruling of the Supreme Court of Canada
of Rights
Hon. Mr. Lang: Honourable senators, I must because it is in conflict with the Bill this bill
and, he says, let us find out whether
say that I am sitting in this chamber not as a is legal, otherwise why proceed with a bill
member of the Bar but as a senator.
that could be considered inoperative. This
was the very expression which the senator
Hon. Mr. Willis: Hear, hear.
used.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Would the
Honourable senators, I now come to my
honourable senator allow me to quote? I come second point. I find it even more amazing, and
back to Mr. Pattillo, as a lawyer who is emi- I for one could not believe my eyes after I
nent and is President of the Canadian Bar read honourable Senator Lang's speech. I listened to him and I thought I must have misAssociation. He said:
This is what the honourable
I believe that this court is strictly a court understood him. reported at page 949 of
senator says, as
of law hearing appeals from the provin- Senate Hansard:
cial courts and from the Exchequer Court
If the Supreme Court of Canada did
of Canada. It is our court of last resort.
find that this bill did not infringe upon
When I read of persons suggesting that
the fundamental freedoms in the Bill of
the role that this court should play in
Rightsconstitutional cases should be similar to And, incidentally, there is support for my
the role which the Supreme Court of the argument, that he says that it is in conflict
United States plays in its country, I with the fundamental freedoms in the Bill of
become greatly concerned because how- Rights.
ever well grounded such role may or may
- then the legislation would pass both
not be in the United States Constitution,
houses in record time and there would be
it is not the function of the court of last
no objection whatever to its passing into
law.
resort in Canada to get itself mixed up in

SENATE DEBATES
Now, what have we here? We have honourable Senator O'Leary-God bless him, I have
already indicated what I think of him-who
says that this bill violates the fundamental
freedom of speech. We have honourable Senator Choquette, who gives his paean in favour
of freedom of speech. Honourable Senator
Lang, when he made these observations,
became so emotional about freedom that he
ended his speech with a poem.
Where are we at this point? We have the
statement that we are violating freedom of
speech. We are submitted to this fear that we
may lose the traditional liberties we have had
through the centuries, that we are impairing
the rights of free speech and that it goes by
the board. But if X number of justices of the
Supreme Court of Canada take the position
that this bill is legal and constitutional, then,
Senator Lang says, everybody in this house
will vote in favour of this bill. What happens
to our conscience? What happens to our conception of whether we are interfering with
the rights of liberty and the rights of freedom
of speech? In other words, the decision of X
number of justices will decide our consciences
as to whether we should vote in favour of the
bill which does or does not limit freedom of
expression.
Quite frankly, that is the most surprising
suggestion I have heard since I have had the
honour and privilege of being a member of
this very august chamber.
Now let us look at the Bill of Rights. Let us
sec what it says in terms even of the priorities that are involved in the protection of the
citizens in this great country of ours. One
reads:
1. It is hereby recognized and declared
that in Canada there have existed and
shall continue to exist without discrimination by reason of race, national origin,
colour, religion or sex, the following
human rights and fundamental freedoms,
namely,

May 5, 1970

(e) freedom of assembly and association;
and
(f) freedom of the press.
But the first right given is the right of the
individual to life, libertyHon. Mr. Flynn: May I put a question? An
I correct that the honourable senator is trying to imply that, with respect to these freedoms he has enumerated, there should be a
certain priority in the order in which they
are enumerated in this act?
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): This is the
answer, Senator Flynn: Not necessarily but I
think on occasion it has relevancy and
bearing.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I doubt it very much.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Not necessarily,
I said; but I still say it bas relevancy and
bearing in terms of interpretation. That is a
matter of opinion, Senator Flynn.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Yes, I agree to that.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): You will agree
with that, will you?
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Yes, we agree on that.

Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Now, having
said that, let me fulfil my promise to quote
from the series of judgments from the
Supreme Court of Canada on the question of
freedom of speech and see how the courts
express themselves on this vital question, and
see whether it should or should not be circumscribed on certain occasions.
Incidentally, all of the cases to which I
refer are Supreme Court cases. The first case
I will quote from is well known to all lawyers-Boucher v. The King. In that case
judgment was rendered on December 5, 1949.
I quote from the then Mr. Justice Kerwin on
the question of freedom of speech:
In coming to a conclusion on this point,
Honourable senators, what comes first after
a jury is entitled to consider the state of
this introductory statement?
society or, as it is put by Chief Justice
Wilde in his charge to the jury in The
(a) the right of individual to life, liberty,
security of the person and enjoyment of
Queen v. Fussel.. .:
property, and the right not to be
"You cannot, as it seems to me, from a
deprived thereof except by due process
correct judgment of how far the evidence
of law;
tends to establish the crime imputed to
(b) the right of the individual to equality
the defendant, without bringing into that
before the law and the protection of
box with you a knowledge of the present
the law;
state of society, because the conduct of
(c) freedom of religion;
every individual in regard to the effect
(d) freedom of speech;
which that conduct is calculated to pro[Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud).]

May 5, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

duce, must depend upon the state of the
society in which he lives. That may be
innocent in one state of society, because
it may not tend to disturb the peace or to
interfere with the right of the community, which at another time, and in a different state of society, in consequence of its
different tendency, may be open to just
censure."

never clained to be familiar with every judicial decision rendered in the courts of this
country, and not having the case before me I
am not ready to express an opinion thereon.

Hon. Mr. O'Leary: My honourable friend
quoted from Sir Lyman Duff, a man for
whom I had tremendous respect. But would
my friend, having referred also to the case of
Boucher v. The King, mind quoting the words
I quote from the judgment in Re Alberta of Mr. Justice Rand therein? The report of
Legislation, Supreme Court of Canada, March Mr. Justice Rand in the case of Boucher v.
4, 1938. The observations and the quotations The King appears in the report on hate literacome from one who, by common consent, is ture, and I would ask you to refer specifically
considered to have been one of the greatest to what Mr. Justice Rand said about freedom
legal brains in the Twentieth Century, Sir of speech and the danger of interfering with
it.
Lyman Duff, the late Chief Justice. I quote:
The right of public discussion is, of
Hon. Mr. Philips (Rigaud): There is room
course, subject to legal restrictions; those for differences of opinion with respect to the
based upon considerations of decency and subject matter of the degree to which there
public order, and others conceived for the would be freedom of speech, Senator O'Leary.
protection of various private and public All I am trying to do is quote the opinions in
interests with which, for example, the support of my case that there is justification
laws of defamation and sedition are con- for delimiting the right of freedom of speech,
cerned. In a word, freedom of discussion and it will be your privilege, sir, in replying
means to quote the words of Lord to me on other occasions to quote dissenting
Wright in James v. Commonwealth of opinions. It is not the first time that the deciAustralia, (1936) A.C. at p. 627, "freedom sions of courts have not been completely
governed by law."
unanimous, and I for one would not suggest
that the opinions of Mr. Justice Rand and Mr.
The Chief Justice continues:
Justice Lyman Duff may not be at variance
Even within its legal limits, it is liable with the views expressed by other judges. All
to abuse and grave abuse, and such abuse I am doing in this house is to express the
is constantly exemplified before our eyes; view of very eminent juristsbut it is axiomatic that the practice of
this right of free public discussion of
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: With selected quotations.
public affairs, notwithstanding its inci- I think since you are quoting the case of
dental mischiefs, is the breath of life for Boucher v. The King, in all fairness you
parliamentary institutions.
should quote what was said by Mr. Justice
learned col- Rand.
Hon. Mr. Lang: May I ask my
league a question? With great respect I defer
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): I have referred
to his knowledge of the law, but might he to the case and the honourable senator is free
also give to this chamber a quotation from to study it and answer my observations if he
the learned Chief Justice from whom he has so desires. After all, honourable senators, this
just quoted, Mr. Justice Duff-a quotation in is not a seminar in law. We are trying to deal
connection with the reference of the Alberta with the subject matter of an amendment
legislation to the Supreme Court of Canada which is before a legislative chamber.
under Section 55 of the Supreme Court Act in
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: With selected quotations.
connection with an act passed in Alberta and
referred to as the "Accurate News Act",
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): If the honourawhich was an attempt by the Aberhart govble senator will allow me to proceed, I will
ernment to suppress the free interplay of quote the case of Switzman v. Elbling and
news media?
Attorney-General of Quebec, which is a
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): I will say to the Supreme Court case of March 8, 1957. Here
honourable Senator Lang that I am reason- again we have the view of Chief Justice
ably familiar with certain legal cases, with Kerwin, and I quote from the report as
which I have dealt in practice; but I have follows:

SENATE DEBATES
It has also been contended that this
legislation constituted an obstacle to the
liberty of the press and the liberty of
speech. I believe in those fundamental
liberties: they are undeniable rights
which, fortunately, the citizens of this
country enjoy, but these liberties would
cease to be a right and become a privilege,
if it were permitted to certain individuals
to misuse them in order to propagate
dangerous doctrines that are necessarily
conducive to violations of the established
order. These liberties, which citizens and
the press enjoy of expressing their
beliefs, their thoughts and their doctrines
without previous authorization or censure, do not constitute absolute rights.
They are necessarily limited and must be
exercised within the bounds of legality.
When these limits are overstepped, these
liberties become abusive, and the law
must then necessarily intervene to exercise a repressive control in order to protect the citizens and society. . . . Destruc-

tive ideas of social order and of
established authority by dictatorial methods, do not have more rights in electoral
periods than in any other times.

May 5, 1970

Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): My answer is
that I have given the reference to the case
and the honourable senator is free to get the
law books and read it.
I now come to the case of Moses McKay
and Sarah McKay v. Her Majesty the Queen,
which was a Supreme Court judgment.
Hon. Mr. Lang: I am sorry, but I am not
sureHon. Mr. Smith: Let him get on with his
speech.
Hon. Mr. Lang: I am not sure, honourable
senators, if the honourable senator is referring to the Supreme Court of Canada, the
Supreme Court of Ontario or the Supreme
Court of British Columbia.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): I stated earlier
in my speech that all my references are to the
Supreme Court of Canada. Having said that, I
wish to quote from the case of McKay v.
The Queen, which is a 1965 judgment, as
follows:
Freedom of discussion is not an unlimited
right to urge views, political or other, at
any time, in any place, and in any
manner. It is a freedom subject to law,
and, depending on the nature of the legislation involved, may be subject to certain
restrictions, whether federal or provincial.

Hon. Mr. Lang: Honourable senators, I
really do not wish to interject, but I wonder
if my honourable colleague would give us the
court in which that judgement was pronounced and the facts of the case involved,
and the law, whether it was the Criminal
I would think, honourable senators, that I
Code or statute, that was in question in the have given sufficient reference by way of
judgment.
chapter and verse to support the point that
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): In the interests there is no justification in my mind for the
of brevity, Senator Lang, I think I am sup- emotional fears that this country may be
coming to its end,
porting my case by quoting the references, and that a horrible that anarchy will set in,
precedent will be estaband honourable senators have the complete lished if we introduce legislation that this
right to read the judgments in detail. Other- Government has thought necessary for the
wise my observations would go to unusual purpose of curbing unbridled licence.
lengths. The honourable senator is perfectly
I remember last year when I sat in the
capable of finding out all the details, since I committee, I took the position, as honourable
have given him the reference for the case, senators know who sat with me, that there
and if he is of the opinion that I have in any were certain sections and subsections that
way been unfair by taking something out of were too broad, and I pressed for their elimicontext, he will have the opportunity to say nation in order that I might in all conscience
this at the appropriate time. If he is right, be able to rise and support a bill that in my
and I do not think he will be, I will accept the opinion would not interfere with the important legacy and rights of every Canadian citicastigation which undoubtedly will follow.
zen. I yield to nobody in this chamber as a
Hon. Mr. Lang: I think I must rise to native-born Canadian in my appreciation of
remind my colleague that unfortunately I have the institutions that have fashioned this counno opportunity to reply to this debate. That is try. I was born and reared here. I took part in
the First World War and my son fought in
why I am trying to press my colleague for his the Second World War,
and I appreciate the
answer.
fundamental privileges involved in freedom
[Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud).]
of assembly and freedom of speech. But I

Iday 5, 1970

May 5 1970SENATE
DEBATES

also, if I may introduce a personal angle,
belong to a race and I practice a religion that
does not justify my being as optirnistic as
sorne honourable senators are as to the goodwiil and good faith of ail my feilow cîtizens. 1
do flot think that we live in the Elysian Fields
and that there is no danger of some kind of
prejudice being raised against us or any
minority race. I fail to see the reason for al
this terrific excitement against a bill that
merely provides that it wouid be mlegal to, try
to, kili an identifiable group, that it would be
illegal to speak or preach with a view to,
inducing hatred for such a group which in
turn might lead to, physical violence. And, la
the last instance, there are ail sorts of protections given to, an accused.
I say, honourable senators, that I have a
respect for freedom of speech equal to that of
any member of this chamber. Some of my
feflow Canadians, however, have a dislike for
certain people who, because of differentialions, are to be submitted to humiliations and
threats introducing fear for their safety, and I
caîl upon ail my feilow citizens and honourabie senators in this chamber to appreciate the
fears of these people who feel that situations
couid arise in which we wouid need the
necessary legal protection.
Honourable Senator O'Leary referred to the
fact that he had thrown some of this literature attacking m-y race ln the wastepaper
basket. One of the letters that I have seen
accused the race and religion to which I have
the honour of belonging of bemng Nazis, and
of deliberately creating a situation in order to,
bring about this bill.
There are Canadians who do not like
minority races; there are Canadians who
practise different religions; there are people
who are prejudiced because of colour; and
there are people generally who indulge in the
spirit of hate. I hasten to say that 1 have
reference to no one la thîs chamber, and I
believe and say from the bottomn of my
heart-if I did not believe it I would not say
it-that there is flot one honourable senator
in this chamber whose views are expressed
other than on the basis of the highest considerations. But this chamber is flot Canada in
its entirety. What harm. wrnl be done if we
pass a piece of legisiation in which we say
that you must not kill an identifiable group,
that you must flot laduce hatred that rnay
lead to physical force, and that you must not
latroduce something that wrnl generate hatred
for people, as long as the prospective accused

is given ail the protections we give him? We
have reduced the provisions of this bill to the
irreducible minimum.
I ask honourable senators to probe their
consciences carefully. This amendment, if
passed, wouid interfere with the normal legislative process. I could take any other bill that
cornes before this house and say that I do not
like such and such provision and, therefore, I
think we had better send the bull to the
Supreme Court of Canada to find out whether
it is legal or not. The parliamentary process
of passing legislation has nothing to do with
the judicial process. Frorn this angle, this bill
is no different from any other that cornes
before us from the other house and the bill
we passed last year in a modîfied form. If we
were to pass titis arndment we would be
destroying the parliamentary systemn and
rnaking a mockery of the Parliament of
Canada, as would also be the case if honourable senators or members of the other house
were to, say that they think such and such
provisions are illegal and unconstitutional,
and move that they be sent to the Supreme
Court of Canada to, determine whether, if
passed, the bull would be legal and operative.
It would be revolutionary to support this
amendment. In this respect this bill is no
different from any other.
I ask honourable senators who have corne
to know me well la the short period I have
been here to believe I amn speaking as a
Canadian, although I bave also referred to my
background, of which I arn intensely proud,
as you ail know, and as I think I have every
right to be.
Sorne Hon. Senalors: Hear, hear.
Han. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): But la fighting
against this arndment I arn speaking as a
Canadian, and I also caîl upon the conscience
of rny feliow Canadians to see that the necessary legisiation is passed, so that the world at
large will know that we la Canada do not like
people who preach hate, who preach violence,
who threaten people who are different from
them.
Honourable senators, this is a free and
noble country; let us keep it so.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I move the adjourrnent
of the debate.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I would ask the honourable senator whether he will proceed tomorrow, and then perhaps we could have the vote
on the amendment tomorrow.

SENATE DEBATES

May 5, 1970

Hon. Mr. Flynn: I will be prepared to speak doing so they were breaking the rules. That is
tomorrow. I do not know whether there are not so long ago, is it?
other honourable senators on this side who
Surely, honourable senators, there has
wish to speak.
never been a time when there was as much
understanding between groups and religions
Hon. Mr. Martin: We still have time now.
as there is now. Is this the time to bring in
Hon. L. P. Beaubien: Honourable senators, I this sort of bill? Surely, that is something
have been impressed by all the distinguished about which we should think.
legal brains on both sides of the house and,
On motion of Hon. Mr. Flynn, debate
speaking for my part, I would like to try to adjourned.
bring this bill down to the sort of huindrum,
CANADA-UNITED STATES
horse-sense point of view of the man in the
INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP
street.
In the last few years we have experienced
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING-ORDER
STANDS
all kinds of abuses. We have had robberies,
murders, and all kinds of acts of violence
On the Order:
on the part of students, labour and others,
Resuming the debate on the inquiry of
but when we are considering the adthe Honourable Senator Phillips (Rigaud)
vocacy of genocide because of colour, race
calling the attention of the Senate to the
or religion, I think I can say that there has
Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the Cananever been a time when we have seen such
da-United
States
Interparliamentary
wonderful changes in the feelings of people
Group held at Washington, Cape Kentowards one another as there have been in
nedy, Houston and San Antonio, 10th to
the last fiteen years.
15th March, 1970.-(Honourable Senator
Honourable senators, six or seven years ago
Macnaughton, P.C.).
Cardinal Leger held a service in Notre Dame
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, if
Cathedral which was attended by the Anglican Bishop of Montreal and the head Rabbi, Senator Macnaughton will permit me, I
and others. Protestant hymns were sung and should like to say that I was hoping that
the Rabbi gave the benediction. Unfortunate- tonight we could have voted on the amendly, I was not present, but I should have been. ment to the motion for the second reading of
My great grandfather, whose house stood a the bill we have been discussing. The honourhundred yards away, and who helped to build able Leader of the Opposition thinks that we
the cathedral, would have dropped dead had shall be able to do that tomorrow. I do not
think it is fair now to expect Senator Mache witnessed that service.
naughton to proceed with this
know
When Monsignor Gallagher was installed as he has an important speech to order. I and if
make,
the new pastor of the English Catholic
he proceeds now he will run beyond the hour
Church, the man who led the procession into of 10 o'clock. I shall do my best to accommothe church was the Anglican Bishop of Mont- date him at some other time.
real. Has there ever been a time in our
Hon. Alan Macnaughton: Honourable senamemory when there has been so much tolertors, I concur in the remarks of the honourance between religions in our country?
I remember going to funeral services when able Leader of the Government.
I was in the army during the war, and CathThe Hon. the Speaker: Order No. 2 stands.
olic pastors were not allowed to attend such
Order stands.
services if they were being conducted by a
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2
padre of another religion. They went, but in p.m.

May 6 1970SNATE
DEBATES

May 6. 1970

THE SENATE
Wednesday. May 6, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
NORTHERN INLAND WATERS BILL
FIRST READING
The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that a message had been received from the
House of Commons with Bfi C-187, respecting inland water resources in the Yukon Territory and Northwest Territories.
Bil read first time.
Hon. Mr. Martin moved that the bil be
placed on the Orders of the Day for second
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.
DOCUMENT TABLED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Capital Budget of the Canadian Overseas Telecommunication Corporation for
the fiscal year ending March 31, 1971,
pursuant to section 80(2) of the Financial
Administration Act, chapter 116, R.S.C.,
1952, together with a copy of Order in
Couneil P.C. 1970-666, dated April 17,
1970, approving samne. (English text).
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators,
with leave of the Senate and notwitbstanding
Rule 45(l)(g), I move that when the Senate
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until
tomorrow at 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
Motion agreed to.

than bim, even when we are discussing the
Hate Propaganda bill, because I have the
utmnost respect for his opinions. However, as
to bis remarks about Senator O'Leary, I
cannot agree with him, despite my admiration
and very high respect for bis views.
I intend to restrict my remarks tis afternoon to the amendxnent. Mention bas been
made that there has been a great deal of
emotion introduced into the debate up to now.
To some extent, I agree. Tbere bas been emotion in the speeches made for and against the
amendaient, or for and against the bil, but I
think that if we restricted our discussion to
the purport of the amendment itself, it would
not generate any emotion. This is a tecbnical
matter-a question of reason-and I think
that we in this chamber could be very rationai in discussing it.
In order to, let us say, clear the air as far
as this matter is concerned, 1 shall read again
the amendaient moved by Senator Lang, as
reported at page 950 of Hansard:
That this bill be flot now read a second
time, but that it be resolved by the
Senate that, in its opinion, the subjectmatter thereof should be referred by the
Governor i Council to the Supreme
Court of Canada, pursuant to section 55
of the Supreme Court Act, for hearing
and consideration as to whether in any
circumnstances the whole or any part of
its provisions would or might bc held to
be inoperative as an abrogation, abridgment or infringement of any of the fundamental freedoms deait with in the
Canadian Bul of Rigbts.

Therefore, this amendxnent seeks the opinion
of the Supreme Court on the validity of Bill
C-3.
The Leader of the Government bas commented on wbether or not we were trying to
say it is ultra vires. The vaidity of the passing by Parliament of a bull like this is in
CRIMINAL CODE (HATE PROPAGANDA)
essence a question of whether it is ultra vires.
If the Supreme Court decides that the bull or
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING-DEBATE
part of it is invalid, it would do so because it
CONTINUED ON MOTION IN AMEND)MENT
is ultra vires, either because it contravenes
The Senate resumed from yesterday, the
a general law which Parliament bas said
adjourned debate on the motion in amendshould govern ail other laws, such as the
ment of Hon. Mr. Lang to the motion of
Canadian Bill of Rights, or because the ConHon. Mrs. Fergusson for the second reading
stitution does not allow tbe enactaient of such
of Bill C-3, to amend the Criminal Code.
a law by Parliament.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable Senators,
Some say that Parliament is supreme;
if I may paraphrase Senator Phillips' (Rigaud) others say it is not, tbat it cannot abridge any
introductory remarks of last evening, I would of the fundamental freedoms. So, tbe question
say that there is no one I hate to follow more before us under the amendment is whether

SENATE DEBATES
we should seek the opinion of the Supreme
Court as to the validity of the whole or a part
of the bill with which we are dealing.
The amendment does not bring in only the
question of whether the Bill of Rights renders
this bill or any part of it invalid, but whether
the Constitution can be interpreted as taking
away from Parliament the right to abrogate
or infringe upon any of the freedoms that are
mentioned in the Bill of Rights or elsewhere,
or, as is said in the amendment, any of the
fundamental freedoms dealt within the
Canadian Bill of Rights. Even if it was not
specifically mentioned in the Bill of Rightsand I suggest it is-the problem would
remain the same.
I should say first that it is not because you
are in favour of the bill or its objectives, that
necessarily you should vote against the
amendment. That is not the point. Some
objections have been made to the amendment
which are rather technical. I shall mention
two of them.
The first was mentioned by Senator Croll
and Senator Connolly (Ottawa West). They
said that the effect of voting in favour of this
amendment would be to kill the bill. It might
kill the bill for the present session. That is a
practical problem. If we were at the beginning of a session it would not have the same
effect. Possibly the Supreme Court could hear
the case and dispose of it in time for us to
deal with the bill at the current session.
Those honourable senators say that adoption
of the amendment would kill the bill because
it is too late in the session to deal with it.
As I mentioned when I interrupted Senator
Croll, this is the fourth time we have considered this bill. Therefore, even if it is not
passed this session, and we have to start
over again in the next session, there is nothing
mortal in following such a procedure. If my
honourable friend Senator Croll, who has
raised this objection, were to say to me:
"If we do not get this bill passed in one month
there will be very serious consequences," then
I would agree with him. But he cannot show
proof for the absolute necessity of having this
legislation placed immediately upon our statute books. There is no urgency about it.
If the objective is valid, if the bill is intra
vires of Parliament, if it does not not infringe
upon our constitutional freedoms, it will come
before us again in due course, and it will be a
good thing for Canadians as a whole to be
more acquainted with it, and to be assured
that what we will be doing then will be
something positive and will not limit the
[Hon. Mr. Flynn.]

May 6, 1970

freedoms that they have enjoyed heretofore.
Therefore, this question of delay is to me a
tactical argument rather than an argument of
substance against the amendment. It is a mere
tactical argument-nothing more. From the
standpoint of the Government it may be a
good argument, but it is certainly not a good
argument for the Senate.
A second objection-what I call a technical
objection-has been raised by the Leader of
the Government. He repeated this several
times, but I wish to quote from page 963 of
Hansard. After replying to a question by
Senator Grosart, the leader said:
...

to ask the court at this stage to pass on

a bill represents an unprecedented act,
and one that would bring great condemnation upon a government that took such
a course. No government has the right to
bring before Parliament any bill if it has
any doubt about its legality or if it lacks
conviction as to its worth.
Whether or not it lacks conviction as to its
worth, I would first say is entirely irrelevant.
We always have to assume that the Government believes in what it is doing. Whether it
has any doubt as to the validity of a bill, to
me is irrelevant-perhaps not entirely irrelevant, but it should not be proposed as a
solution to a problem such as the one with
which we are now faced.
Senator O'Leary last evening replied directly to the question of whether or not we have
a precedent. It does not matter whether we
have or have not.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Whether we have what?
Hon. Mr. Flynn: A precedent for this kind
of procedure.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Would my honourable
friend permit me to intervene?
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Yes.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Since Senator Flynn's
intervention of last Thursday I have had an
opportunity to review this matter. I find that
the provisions of section 55 of the Supreme
Court Act have not been resorted to in
respect of a government measure during the
process of legislation. Governments have
'acted under section 55 in cases where they
wished to test the legality or constitutionality
of a provincial act. The law officers tell me
that it has never been done with respect to a
federal act that was in the process of being
legislated.

May S. 1970

DEBATES
May 6 1970SENATE

Hon. Mr. Flynn: I arn very sorry, but I have
to contradict the honourable Leader of the
Government. There are precedents, and they
took place while the leader was in the other
place, during his first terni there. Section 55,
to which we are referring, reads as follows:
Important questions of law touching <a)
the interpretation of the British North
America Act...
(d) The powers of the Parliament of
Canada, or of the legisiatures of the
provinces, or of the respective governments thereof, whether or not the particular power i question has been or is
proposed to be exercised ... may be
referred by the Governor i Council to
the Supreme Court for hearing and
consideration;
There is no doubt, I suggest to the honourable leader, that the amendment squares with
this text; it can be embodied into this text
under the ternis of the proposed legisiation. I
say that this has been used before a bill has
been enacted by Parliament and after it was
introduced into Parliament.
Hon. Mr. Martin: A private member's bill.

this question of the bill's validity to the
Supreme Court of Canada, and thence at that
time to the Judicial Commnittee of His Majesty in Council. His reason for so, requesting
was explained as follows:
It will otherwise be futile for hon.
members to discuss... the supreme legal
issue, as to whether the bill in its present
form is within the legisiative jurisdiction
of Parliament... When this bil has
been referred by the Governmnent to the
Supreme Court of Canada and the final
judgment of the judicial committee has
been rendered on such reference, then
and only then may this Parliament deal
inteiligently with the provisions of this
bill.
The Goverument could have abstained if
the argument of my honourable friend is
valid; it could have decided that the other
place had only to deal wi-h it under section
56. But the then Minister of Justice, the Right
Honourable Ernest Lapointe, for whorn I amn
sure the honourable Leader of the Government had at that time and stiil bas the highest admirationHon. Mr. Martin: That is right.

Hon. Mr. Flynn: No, no. In 1939 a bull was
presented which was to bring about the abolition of appeals to the Judicial Commrittee of
the Privy Council.

Hon. Mr. Flynn: - did not so act. This was
his reply to the suggestion made by MIr.
Caban:
I have been told that some members of
Hon. Mr. Martin: Will my honourable
this bouse approve the suggestion that
friend not agree that that was a private memthe Supreme Court and the Privy Council
ber's bill?
should pass on the jurisdiction of this
Parliament in the matter but that they
Han. Mr. Flynn: A private member's bill is
would prefer to have this reference made
flot a prîvate bill. This is a public bull.
before they are cailed upon to vote on
Hon. Mr. Martin: The bull proposing the
the principle of the bill. Under section 55
abolition of appeals to the Judicial Committee
of the Supreme Court Act wewas mntroduced by a private member.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: It may have been.
Hon. Mr. Martin: It was not a government
bull.

Meaning the government of the day.
-may refer the question of the constitutionality of any legislation, whether federal or provincial, to the Supreme Court.

Hon. Mr. Flynn: I suggest that it was a He does not say whether initiated by the
public bill just the sanie. A private bill is government or by a private member.
dealt with in the Supreme Court Act, section
Hon. Mr. Martin: Except that it bas neyer
56. It may be referred by the Senate or the
other place. It does not have to go through been done.
the Government in this case, even if it were
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Well, it was done here.
initiated by a private member.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Not on a private bill.
Hon. Mr. Martin: That is a very different
matter.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: No, a private member's
bul. The honourable leader is playing with
Hon. Mr. Flynn: The Honourable C. H.
Cahan requested that the govermnent refer words. Tis is a public bill.

SENATE DEBATES

May 6, 1970

Hon. Mr. Martin: It was a public bill intro- Mr. Lapointe could have taken the attitude
duced by a private member. It was not a that it was no concern of the Government, if
government bill.
the case of the honourable leader is correct.
But I say when it is
Hon. Mr. Grosari: On a point of order. Is section applies-sectiona public bill the same
56-as applies in all
the Leader of the Government going to sug- cases. However,
Mr. Lapointe said:
gest that we continue the discussion of this
My intention, therefore, is to recommend
bill in Committee of the Whole, or does he
to the Governor in Council that this
intend to abide by the rules?
power be used and the bill referred to
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I do not mind interrupthe Supreme Court of Canada for the
tions at all. I would rather have the Governpurpose of ascertaining the jurisdiction
ment Leader interrupt as often as he wishes
and powers of this Parliament to enact
because it helps me to clarify my thoughts,
the proposed legislation. I intend to have
and his.
this done in the very near future, so that
when the matter comes before ParliaHon. Mr. Martin: That is right.
ment again there will be no doubt whether or not we have the right to deal with
Hon. Mr. Choquette: That is what he wants.
it. Therefore, having come to this concluHon. Mr. Martin: That is exactly why I do
sion, I think I should move the adjournit.
ment of the debate in order that the bill
may remain on the order paper until the
Hon. Mr. Flynn: When Mr. Lapointe said
end of the session, and as soon as possible
"any legislation" I do not think he was
the reference will be made.
making the subtle distinction the Leader of
the Government is trying to make now-for, In other words, for all practical purposes, the
of course, his own purposes. He said:
Government which had adopted this bill
. . any legislation, whether federal or said- "We are going to get the opinion of the
Supreme Court before we make up our minds
provincial to the Supreme Court.
about it." You cannot give any other interpreI read again paragraph (d) of section 55: tation to this precedent. As I said, this has
'...
the powers of the Parliament of reference to the stage of second reading in
Canada or of the legislatures of the prov- the other place, and Mr. Lapointe is to be
inces, or of the respective governments looked upon
as a very learned authority in
thereof, whether or not the particular
power in question has been or is pro- matters such as this. I am quite sure that at
that time the present Leader of the Governposed to be exercised.'
ment was in the house and probably applaudMr. Lapointe continued, and I quote from ed the decision and the attitude taken by Mr.
page 2815 of the House of Commons Hansard, Lapointe.
April 14, 1939:
Of course there are the precedents of legisMy intention, therefore, is to recommend
lation being enacted and then submitted to
1o the Governor in Councilthe Supreme Court. But my honourable friend
Even if it was a private member's bill, he said that when it is introduced by the Govcould have abstained. But he said that if the ernment and is a Government bill, this should
house wished to adopt an order under section never happen. But what about the decision of
56, he would have no objection. And I am the Liberal Government after 1935 to seek the
going to quote from section 56 to clarify the opinion of the Supreme Court on the question
difference between the initiative of the Gov- of the validity of some legislation adopted
ernment and the initiative of one of the two by the preceding government? If my honouraHouses of Parliament. Section 56 reads as ble friend is correct, then the course of the
follows:
government in those days should have been to
The Court, or any two of the judges bring in legislation to abrogate the legislation
thereof, shall examine and report upon which it thought was invalid. Was the then
any private bill or petition for a private Minister of Justice convinced that there was
bill presented to the Senate or House of only one way to deal with the legislation
Commons, and referred to the Court adopted by the Bennett Government? Did he
under any rules or orders made by the bring in bills to abrogate that legislation? No.
Senate or House of Commons.
What did the government of the day do? It
[Hon. Mr. Flynn.]

SENATE DEBATES

-May 6, 1970

referred the matter to the Supreme Court of there is any other point of order to be raised,
Canada under section 55 of the Supreme I would like honourable senators to raise
them at this time.
Court Act.
Hon. Mr. Martin: But the bills were then
law.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I know, but they were bills
.and laws which had been initiated by the
Government and which had been adopted by
the house at that time, and if the succeeding
Governrment was infallible, as the present one
is or claims to be in this matter, it did not
have to ask the opinion of the Supreme
Court. It merely had to bring in a bill to
abrogate these laws rather than to ask the
Supreme Court about it.
Hon. Mr. Martin:

My honourable friend

inay not recall the circumstances.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Order.
Hon. Mr. Martin: The opposition of the day
argued that the bills were contrary to the
Constitution and the government argued that
these bills were perfectly in order.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: Order.
Hon. Mr. Martin: The bills passed both
-House of Parliament and became law.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Order.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Then there was a change
of government. The new government brought
the matter before the Supreme Court of Canada for a constitutional reference under section 55.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I heard an honourable senator call for
order. Therefore I feel I should intervene at
this time.
The same situation developed last evening.
I should like to make it very clear that
when an honourable senator has the floor,
and another honourable senator rises and
asks him if he will permit a question, or if he
rises on a point of order or privilege, the
honourable senator who has the floor may
decline to answer the question, or decline to
accept it, or decide that he will answer questions at the end of his remarks. Up to the
present it does not appear that the Leader of
the Opposition has refused any questions. In
fact, he has agreed. So I do not think there is
a point of order.
I am following the proceedings, and I would
like this debate, which is very interesting and
lively, to continue and to proceed in order. If

Hon. Mr. Grosart: I raised the point of
order, Mr. Speaker, because the interruption
was not in keeping with the ruling Your
Honour has just made. In the interruptions as
made there was no question asked and no
permission was sought to ask a question.
The reason I believe the rule to be important is that there are senators here who try to
observe the rule which requires that senators
shall make one speech and one speech only on
a motion before the Senate. I raise this point
because in my view the Leader of the Government was making a speech. In fact, he has
made several speeches on this amendment,
and this is not permitted by the rules.
I agree with Your Honour that it is an
interesting debate, and I have no objection to
interrogation, but I suggest there are methods
under the rules by which that can properly
be done. I suggest to the honourable the Leader
of the Government that if he wishes to put
himself within the rules, he should now move
that this discussion continue in Committee of
the Whole, I would welcome such a motion
from the Leader of the Government and I
believe it would make the discussion still
more interesting.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I have no objection to a
motion of that sort, but I would like it to
come after I have concluded my remarks. As I
said previously, I have no objection to yielding for a question from either side of the
house.
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne:
logical.

You have to be

Hon. Mr. Flynn: I like to hear you say that.
There is no doubt that the Leader of the
Government has not, let us say, abused his
right to put questions, as I may have on previous occasions abused this right.

Hon. Mr. Martin: I do not think you have.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I now come back to the
Bennett legislation, honourable senators, and I
will have something to say about what the
Leader of the Government had to say on this.
The Liberals had promised to send the legislation to the Supreme Court for a ruling on
its constitutionality, but when the debate took
place in the other house, Mr. Lapointe again
spoke for the Government and explained that
the Opposition Leader, Mr. Bennett, was
wrong in claiming it was a mistake to refer

SENATE DEBATES

legislation to the Supreme Court when Parliament was in doubt as to its validity.
Mr. Lapointe said that he had no sympathy
for the argument that legislation of dubious
constitutional rectitude should be left on the
books until someone challenged its validity
and the Privy Council declared it void. He
firmly asserted:
I believe that before taking a step
involving the expenditure of millions of
dollarsThe question here is not one of money; however, whether it be one of millions of dollars
or a very important principle, matters not.
-belonging to the Dominion of Canada
we must be sure of our law, and it is not
after the thing is on the statute books
that the ratepayers should be compelled
to apply to the courts in order to ascertain whether or not the legislation is
valid.
The foregoing is reported at page 2872 of
Hansard of the other place of 1936.
Now, the Leader of the Government says
that if it is the Opposition which has doubts
as to the validity of a bill, it should wait until
it is elected to office and then refer the legislation to the Supreme Court of Canada; and
that when it is the Government which has
doubts this should never be applicable.
It is not a question of whether the Government bas doubts; it is a question of whether
Parliament has doubts.
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: There is a difference
between the two. That is a distinction the
Leader of the Government should make. He
has not made it. If the Senate as a whole has
doubts, it should ask the Government to send
this bill to the Supreme Court, and the
Government should respect the opinion of
Parliament.
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.

May 6, 1970

becomes obvious that there is a difference of
opinion as to the validity of a measure, then
these doubts justify Parliament in asking the
Government to refer the matter to the
Supreme Court of Canada under section 55.
I shall mention the Aeronautics case of
1930. At a conference in Ottawa between
representatives of the federal Government
and several provincial governments in November 1927, the representatives of the Province
of Quebec raised a question as to the legislative authority of the Parliament of Canada to
sanction regulations for the control of aerial
navigation generally within Canada or, at all
events, in their application to flying operations carried on within a province, and it was
agreed that the question so raised was a
proper question for the determination of the
Supreme Court of Canada. It was federal
legislation. It was questioned by a province,
and the Government did not say to the province, "You go and ask the Supreme Court."
It said, "We are going to ask-"
Hon. Mr. Martin: That is right.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: "We do not believe we are
infallible. We are going to ask the Supreme
Court." Consequently, a list of questions were
submitted to the Supreme Court for hearing
and consideration pursuant to section 55 of
the Supreme Court Act. That section reads
the same today as it did then.
The same situation applied with regard to
the problem of radio communications. The
Minister of Justice of that period recommended that in view of the fact that the jurisdiction of Parliament had been questioned, the
opinion of the highest judicial authority in
Canada, the Supreme Court, should be
obtained with the least possible delay.
Therefore, I suggest to you that the objection of the Leader of the Government, as he
has put it, should not be binding upon the
Senate. I agree that the Government should
not introduce legislation when it has doubts
as to its validity; but when the Senate or the
House of Commons has doubts, it should ask
the Government to submit the matter to the
Supreme Court. The Government should not
refuse to do so, if requested either by the
Senate or by the House of Commons. It has
done so on previous occasions when requested
by provincial authorities or provincial legislatures.

Hon. Mr. Flynn: This is the main point I
want to make.
Some other references have been made to
provincial legislation, but what does it
change? The question is not whether the Government has doubts-it never has doubts. It
has the opinion of the Department of Justice,
Hon. Mr. Martin: Would the honourable
and it usually believes the bill it presents
senator permit a question?
to Parliament to be valid. Of course this is
normal, but when, during the debate, it
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Certainly.
[Hon. Mr. Flynn.]

May 6. 1970

DEBATES
May 6 1970SENATE

Hon. Mr. Martin: Does he flot recali that a because, if foflowers of the Governinent were
similar situation arase in the House of Cam- ta believe the Leader of the Governinent, that
when the Governinent introduces legisiation
mons last year an the Officiai Languages Bil?
it is entirely sure of its validity and cannot
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Yes.
accept the idea of having the opinion of the
Hon. Mr. Martin: In 1969 it was praposed, Supreme Court about it, thien the inembers
in practically identicai ternis, that the Officiai wouid be believing the false thesis of the
Languages Bill be referred ta the Supreme Leader of the Gavernment and cansequently
Court of Canada. The Minîster of Justice,' would be prevented framn making up their
speaking for the Government, taak the posi- minds an the question itself.
What is the question in this amendment?
tion that that couid flot be dane whiie the
matter was in legisiative transit. It was ex- Who is right? Is it those who say that this
actly the same situation, and this was the bill does not infringe upon freedomn of
position taken by the other bouse generaily. speech? I respect their opinions. There are
Sa, if the honourabie senatar wants a prece- many who have said they have no doubt, and
dent, does he not admît there is one in the they have said it emphatically. This was said
only instance when an effort was made with by Senator Croîl. He said, "I have no doubt at
ail. It is s0 simple." Same would say that they
regard to Government legisiation?
have no doubt that it is ultra vires, but many
Hon. Mr. Flynn: 1 arn not suggestingi, ta the say that they have such doubts, and nobody
honourable Leader of the Government, and 1 can contradict that statement of f act. There
hope that he is not indicating that I have are many wha have doubts and who have nat
suggestedspoken in this debate.
This is the question. Wh'en a large segment
Hon. Mr. Martin: No, no.
of this hause, or of Canadian public opinion,
Hon. Mr. Flynn: -that when one or two bas doubts as ta the validity o! tis legishamembers have doubts that necessarily the tian, is it not a wise course for the Senate,
matter should be referred ta the Supreme cansidering its special raie, ta agree ta dissiCourt. When it is the overwhelming opinion pate thase doubts by referring the matter ta
of Parliament that there is a problemn as ta the Supreme Court of Canada? I respect the
the vaiidity of a certain measure or piece af opinion of those who have no doubts, but
legisiation, this is something else. If I remem- have they respected the opinion of those who
ber carrectly, on the question af the ian- up ta naw da have doubts? This is reaily the
guages bill the problemn of its canstitutionality question at the bottomn af this amendment,
was raised by oniy a few members, and it whether hanaurabie senators like it or not.
was sa clear that the measure was confined ta
In committee we heard the opinion o!
the federai field of authority that the problemn Professor Maxwell Cohen who is, no doubt, a
was raised only theoretically as ta whether in great jurist. There was no dissent in the
practice it would invade provincial jurisdic- repart of the Cohen committee. 0f course
tion. In fact, the words were very clear. It is there was not. They prabably did nat consider
not the same problemn here at ail.
this special point. There is no special reference in the repart as ta the possibility that
Hon. Mr. Martin: It is the saine principie.
this might be determined by the Supreme
Han. Mr. Flynn: I suggest to you that the Court of Canada as infringing upon fundaproblem of the number who have daubts mental freedoms. They believed it did not,
about the validity of this bill does not com- but they did not deai wîth this special aspect
pare with the situation which the honourable a! the prablem.
Leader bas just mentioned. 1 arn sure that he
On the other hand, we had Professor Frank
Scott, a former dean of the McGill Law
would nat dare say that.
Faculty, who is, I think, a jurist of the same
Hon. Mr. Martin: It is the saine principie. calibre as Mr. CohenWhat we are going ta do on the arnendment is
Hon. Mr. Martin: There is no daubt about
ta determine the numbers.
that.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Yes, af course, but if the
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Up ta now I would say that
number is to be determined, taking for grant- we are fifty-fifty as far as jurists are coned the validity of the argument of the Leader cerned. Senatar Croil mentianed the opinion
of the Government in the Senate, it would of the Globe and Mail, but I point out that
nat refiect truly the opinion o! the Senate there were other editarials in the Globe and

SENATE DEBATES
Mail which expressed doubts as to the constitutionality of this measure. The Montreal
Gazette has expressed doubts about it, as have
many other newspapers.
My mail and yours, honourable senators,
bas shown that there are doubts in the minds
of the public as to the validity of this bill
because of the possibility that it may infringe
upon freedom of speech. You have received
the same letters I have. I do not say that
necessarily they are right, but I would say
that the volume of opinion suggesting that
this legislation may be an infringement upon
freedom of speech is such that it should not
be lightly discarded, as was suggested by
Senator Croll. In his view we should not
bother with such letters, and the Government
should not be bothered about them; it is not
important whether a large segment of public
opinion and a large number of jurists who
are specialists in this field express doubts.
The attitude of the Government is that we
should not care about that; and I suggest that
that is the attitude of those who have spoken
against the amendment.
Personally, I am not convinced that this bill
infringes upon the freedom of speech. I am
not entirely convinced. I have doubts. I
respect the contrary opinion, and I ask you to
respect mine. I ask you to respect the opinion
of those who are not here but who have
expressed some worries.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: May I ask a question
of the honourable senator? Does he think the
130 members of Parliament who abstained
from voting in the other place had doubts?
Hon. Mr. Smith: They were absent. They
did not necessarily have doubts.
Hon. Mr. Choquele: They were conveniently absent.
Hon. Mr. Denis: I have doubts about it.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Last evening Senator Phillips quoted from some decisions of the
Supreme Court of Canada to support his
opinion-which, again, I respect-that this
bill does not touch upon freedom of speech or
freedom of the press. I do not claim any merit
in being able to find quotations that will contradict his. Lawyers know that one can always
find authority in support of the contrary view,
but I was impressed by a few remarks of some
of the judges of the Supreme Court of Canada
in two cases, the names of which will bring
back memories to many honourable senators.
The first is the case of Saumur v. City of
Quebec. This will ring a bell in the memory
[Hon. Mr. Flynn.]

May 6, 1970e

of Senator Lamontagne. He will remember
when Professor Frank Scott testified before
the committee he said that with legislation
such as the bill presently before us we are
going back to the pre-Boucher case days. I
ask honourable senators: Are we going back
to the pre-Saumur case days and the pre-padlock law days?
So far as the case of Saumur v. City of
Quebec is concerned, some of you will
remember that the question before the court
concerned a municipal by-law of the City of
Quebec that would have prevented the distribution of literature without first obtaining a
permit from the chief of police. The Jehovah
Witnesses were distributing some literature
which I think could very well be described as
hate literature in that it expressed contempt
for Roman Catholics, and the validity of the
by-law was submitted to the Supreme Court
of Canada. It was declared invalid for a
reason which has nothing to do with the
debate here. They decided that it was a
matter of criminal law and was without the
competence of the provincial legislature. The
court could have just said that, but Mr. Justice Rand decided that the occasion warranted additional comments, and I should like to
quote from his reasons for judgment at page
330 of (1953) Supreme Court Reports. Mr.
Justice Rand, dealing with the question of
whether this matter was concerned with education, something within the provincial field,
said it did not, and he went on to say:
So it is with freedom of speech. The
Confederation Act recites the desire of
the three provinces to be federally united
into one Dominion with a constitution
similar in principle to that of the United
Kingdom. Under that constitution, government is by parliamentary institutions,
including popular assemblies elected by
the people at large in both provinces and
Dominion: government resting ultimately
on public opinion reached by discussion
and the interplay of ideas. If that discussion is placed under license, its basic condition is destroyed: the government, as
licensor, becomes disjoined from the citizenry. The only security is steadily
advancing enlightenment, for which the
widest range of controversy is the sine
qua non.
He was thereby suggesting-and the other
quotation I will give from Switzman v.
Elbling from which Senator Phillips (Rigaud)
quoted last night will complete this argument-that the Constitution of Canada being

May 6, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

identical in principle with that of the United
respect to criminal law and to make laws
Kingdom, Parliament was without the power
for the peace, order and good government
to infringe upon the freedom of speech. In the
of the nation.
famous padlock law case, it will be rememI should say that this is criminal law that
bered that the purpose of this act was to we are enacting, but if it infringes upon the
prevent the distribution of Communist and freedom of speech, then in the opinion of Mr.
Bolshevik propaganda.
Justice Abbott it would be without the
powers of Parliament. That was before the
Hon. Mr. Choquette: By the way, they are Canadian Bill of Rights.
all for this bill.
Now, this question is clear. Does or does
not Bill C-3 infringe upon the freedom of
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Yes.
speech and the freedom of the press? Some
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: The good old days.
say "Yes", others say "No". I suggest that
An hon. Senator: What about the Roncarelli the volume of those who have doubts, even if
there is a majority here in this Senate who
case?
have no doubts, would justify voting for the
Hon. Mr. Flynn: This is something men- amendment, because we have to respect
tioned by Professor Scott, but to me it has no public opinion, and we have to respect even
relevance to the present situation.
minority opinion if it represents a large segment of the general opinion of the public in
Hon. Mr. Martin: I agree.
Canada.
I say that this is the nature of the case that
Hon. Mr. Flynn: It was an administrative
faces us now. Even if you are entirely sure,
decision.
you cannot vote against this amendment
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: A personal decision.
without telling those who have doubts, "We
Hon. Mr. Flynn: If you wish. It is very don't care about your views. We are not woroften so. The honourable senator will have a ried about your views. Because it is the Govlot of difficulty distinguishing when the Prime ernment that has introduced this bill we are
Minister makes a decision between a personal satisfied that it is valid." I suggest that it
decision and one that is in the exercise of the would be a very wise decision for the Senate
authority he has as Prime Minister. I do not to support this amendment. I am not saying
think he would dare go too far on those the Government should-that is another
thing. That is why I doubt that the opinion
grounds.
of the Leader of the Government should have
I was referring to the padlock law case. any weight in a debate like this as such. I do
Communists and Bolsheviks at one time were not mean personally, but when the Leader of
certainly trying to stimulate contempt and the Government speaks in his capacity as
hatred, at least against the capitalistic socie- leader I doubt that it has any weight in the
ties. Again the Supreme Court was called Senate when we are dealing with a problem
upon to rule on this provincial legislation, like this. I think the Senate as a whole should
and again they came to the conclusion that it show some respect for the very large segment
was without the power of a provincial legisla- of the population that has serious doubts
ture. They decided that it was ultra vires and about the result of this legislation.
declared it null and void. Yet at that time
If we can resolve this doubt with a decision
they again decided that they should go further and ask whether Parliament could have of the Supreme Court, that it does not
enacted that kind of legislation. Mr. Justice infringe upon the freedom of speech or the
freedom of the press, then those who are
Abbott said this:
against the principle of the bill could vote
Although it is not necessary, of course, against it, and those who are worried only by
to determine this question for the pur- this point, whether it is ultra vires of Parliaposes of the present appeal, the Canadian ment, could very well support it. That is the
Constitution being declared to be similar explanation that has to be given to the
in principle to that of the United King- amendment moved by Senator Lang, and I
dom, I am also of opinion that as our suggest that it would be the most reasonable
constitutional act now stands, Parliament decision for the Senate to make in these
itself could not abrogate this right of dis- circumstances.
cussion and debate. The power of ParliaHon. Mr. Paterson: I wish to adjourn the
ment to limit it is, in my view, restricted
to such powers as may be exercisable debate.
under its legislative jurisdiction with
Hon. Mr. Martin: Well-

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Choquette: That is a motion for
an adjournment, surely.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: And not debatable.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is there a seconder
to Senator Paterson's motion?
Hon. Mr. Martin: On a question of privilege, is it not possible for us to intervene?
The Hon. the Speaker: I will hear the
Leader of the Government.
Hon. Mr. Grosar±: It is not a question of
privilege.

May 6, 1970

CANADA-UNITED STATES INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP
THIRTEENTH

ANNUAL MEETING-DEBATE
CONTINUED

The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the inquiry of Hon. Mr.
Phillips (Rigaud) calling the attention of the
Senate to the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of
the Canada-United States Interparliamentary
Group held at Washington, Cape Kennedy,
Houston and San Antonio 10th to 15th March,
1970.

Hon. Norman McL. Paterson: Honourable
senators, I have spoken with honourable
Senator Macnaughton, and having obtained
his permission, I would ask to be allowed to
The Hon. the Speaker: I must remind the speak briefly on this motion.
honourable Leader of the Government that
this motion is not debatable and is not
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senaamendable, though it is votable.
tors, is it agreed that honourable Senator PatIt is moved by the honourable Senator Pat- erson shall proceed at this time?
erson, seconded by the honourable Senator
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Cameron, that this debate be adjourned until
the next sitting of the Senate. Is it your pleasHon. Mr. Paterson: I think you will find the
ure, honourable senators, to adopt the subject of my remarks a good deal more
motion?
pleasant to debate than that which has been
under discussion this afternoon.
Some Hon. Senators: Agreed.
At the outset I would like to clear the
Some Hon. Senators: No.
atmosphere by saying that being impressed
The Hon. the Speaker: As there is uncer- with the natural resources of Quebec, which I
tainty of opinion, I would ask those in favour think is probably the richest province in
of the honourable Senator Paterson's motion Canada, having untold millions in iron ore
above the ground, an unrivalled forestry
to please say "Yea".
which was grown free by the Almighty,
Sotie Hon. Senators: Yea.
and water power both developed and
having been closely
The Hon. the Speaker: Those against the undeveloped, and
motion of the honourable Senator Paterson, associated for the last few years with that
province in the transportation business, I took
please say "Nay".
it upon myself to find out more about Quebec
Hon. Mr. Martin: There is no motion, Mr. and about the development on the St. LawSpeaker. Senator Paterson has moved to rence. So, honourable senators, if you will
adjourn the debate and it was agreed.
bear with me, I will take you for a short ride
The Hon. the Speaker: I must remind the down the St. Lawrence River.
A short time ago I asked my son in WinGovernment Leader that in my opinion this
nipeg and my son in Fort William to join me
mo'ion is not debatable or amendable.
in Montreal. There we boarded one of our own
Hon. Mr. Martin: That is right.
ships, the Paterson, and we went to Baie
The Hon. the Speaker: But it is votable, Comeau. Our ship was coming through the
and when I put the motion I heard some Seaway with a load of corn and soya beans
from Toledo, bound for Baie Comeau. Baie
honourable senators say "No".
Comeau is a port on the St. Lawrence, 211
Hon. Mr. Martin: No. They agreed.
miles east of Quebec City on the north shore.
It is considered to be an
The Hon. the Speaker: Do I understand that except when there are all-year-round port
excessive winter
there is unanimity? Is it carried?
conditions.
Motion agreed to.
Considering it to be an all-year-round port,
On motion of Hon. Mr. Paterson, debate some years ago the late Colonel Robert
adjourned.
McCormick, owner of the Chicago Tribune
Hon. Mr. White: Where is the question of
privilege?

[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

May 6. 1970

DEBATES
May 6 1970SENATE

and the New York News, developed a power
plant, built a pulp and paper mil and
induced other industries to corne in there.
Quite a large aluminum industry and the
Cargiil Grain Cornpany, possibly the largest
grain company in the world, decided to come
in and because of the power there they built
a 14-million bushel elevator at Baie Comeau
for the purpose of unloading lake ships and
reloading into ocean-going ships.
Now, honourable senators, while we were
unloading the corn from our ship, my sons
and I got a car and drove over to Port Cartier
where there is a tremendous iron ore development. The man in charge told me that hie
thought the United States Steel Company had
spent in the neighbourhood of $1 billion developing the port, the townsite, the railroad,
mining equipment, pellet plants and docks. It
is an enorrnous shipping point, and it bas
progressed and given great employment.
After visiting Port Cartier, we returned to
Baie Comeau, boarded our ship and went
over to Sept îles (Seven Islands). Seven
Islands was developed by the M. A. Hanna
Company of Cleveland, a very large iron ore
and steel manufacturing company, and the
Great Lakes Steel Company. These people
also spent $1 billion in developing the townsites of Seven Islands, Wabush and Shefferville. The railroad is probably the most up-todate in the world; it operates by push-button,
bringing iron ore down to the lakefront in
solid trains. We had a good chance to see the
operation and the loading of the boats. They
also have spent in the neighbourhood of $1
billion, providing employment and developing
three very splendid townsites and a busy
industry.
Nearby is Pointe Noire, developed by the
Pickands Mather Company of Cleveland with
American capital, and Youngstown Sheet and
Tube Co.
1 wanted to impress upon honourable senators-and I regret there are so f ew in the
chamber at the moment-how much we are
indebted to the Arnericans for their assistance
in developing our resources. Canada is 100
years old. For the first 75 years nothing was
donc to develop that part of Canada, and
since then we realize that it was quite
impossible for any Canadian to do what the
Amnericans have done. We do not possess the
risk money, and we do not have the market
for the goods. They possess both, and they
were able to develop these resources and
bring great industries and prosperity at times
to that part of the country.
22481-13

I wish to mention also that i my experience money is the cowardlliest thing in the
world. When you frighten money, it shrinks
away. Therefore, I think that Canadians
should be very careful 1 about scaring away
our golden eagle, as I cal the United States.
Leaving this part of the world for the
moment and travelling west to Saskatchewan-and I have barely sketched the development in Quebec-we corne across potash. International Metals and Minerais came in and
buit a shaft, and when they got down 4,000
feet they ran into Blairmore sands and the
sides of the shaf t caved in. I believe it cost
them $40 million extra to protect that shaft
and to learn from Germany how to overcome
their difflcul;ies. In the resuit, Ihis has led to
a tremendous development in the potash field.
I have known about this industry for a long
lime, and I want to tell you of the rather
interesting development there. Firsi let me
point out that where people's money is, there
their interests lie also.
Shortly after the Canadian Pacific came
through where I was born in Portage la Prairie in 1883, the largest grain cornpany in the
United States, the Peavey Grain Company,
which was then in Chicago, came into
daughters,
had
some
Canada. Peavey
and one of them married a young man
named Heffelfinger whose grandson has lived
in Winnipeg for some years and manages the
interests of the Peavey Company and the
Heffelfingers. One of the former employees of
Peavey was a man named Augustus Searle
from Minneapolis. His son came into Winnipeg, has taken over the interests and is one
of the big grain people of western Canada,
and has become a citizen of Winnipeg, like
young Heffelfinger. They have taken an interest in Canadian affairs, and their sons and
daughters are Canadians. That is why I say
that when you have placed your money, you
follow it with your interest.
I hope that with this short travelogue I
have cleared the air somewhat regarding our
indebtedness to our great neighbour to the
south.
Hon. Alan Macnaughion: Honourable senators, I arn quite sure that my rambling words
will not spark the intellectual debate we have
enjoyed during the last two or three days, but
at the request of my leader I would like to
make a few remarks on the recent Thirteenth
Meeting of the Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group, which was held last
March 10 to 15. In all, some ten senators have

SENATE DEBATES

participated in this discussion to date, including most of my colleagues who formed part of
the Canadian delegation.
Our delegates have reported to you on the
meetings and, in addition, the official report
of the Canadian delegation has now been
tabled and printed as an Appendix to the
Debates of the Senate of Thursday, April 16.
Honourable senators, I have little to add to
the excellent presentations by my distinguished colleagues on the delegation, our CoChairman, Mr. Speaker Deschatelets, and
Senators Phillips (Rigaud), O'Leary and
Willis, except perhaps to say a few words a
little later on the subject of pollution, on
which I was requested to lead off the discussion during our informal meetings.
I do want to say, however, that the number
of speeches we have heard to date on this
subject and the useful and constructive discussion we have had is a very good reflection
of the usefulness and importance to us of the
institution itself, the Canada-United States
Interparliamentary Group, which, as honourable senators are aware, is the only institution
of its kind that regularly brings together
legislators from the Canadian Parliament and
the United States Congress to discuss the
broad spectrum of matters of mutual importance and concern.
My colleagues on the delegation have also
reported fully on the warm hospitality offered
to the Canadian delegation by our United
States hosts in a most memorable social program, and I must say that these reports seem
to have given rise to suggestions from some
honourable senators that these visits tend to
be regarded as something of a junket. As a
long-standing participant in these CanadaUnited States Interparliamentary meetings
and as a former Canadian co-chairman of the
Interparliamentary Group, let me say that
this particular institution is the last one in
the world that could rightly be regarded as a
"junket." Certainly, it is not so regarded by
those who elect to become niembers of our
Canadian delegations. We have meetings on a
formal agenda which is prepared well in
advance. This subject has been well discussed, so I will not read the subjects that
were on the agenda, except to say that on the
economic side we discussed in particular, but
among others, pollution and the environment,
and on the defence side problems arising
from Arctic sovereignty, NATO and NORAD,
along with other matters.
Our delegates participated in an intensive
series of briefings-we had twelve of them.
[Hon. Mr. Macnaughton.]

May 6, 1970

Various officials from different Government
departments assisted and were good enough
to give us the benefit of their knowledge.
Hon. Mr. Martin: How many meetings were
there?
Hon. Mr. Macnaughton: There were twelve
briefings, with officials from the Departments
of External Affairs, Finance, Industry, Trade
and Commerce, National Defence, Immigration, and Energy, and from the Bank of
Canada. So, honourable senators will see that
we left for Washington reasonably well
briefed.
Some may say that this is rather an extensive briefing for a formal discussion that took
place within a period of a day and a half or,
at the most, two days. But all those who have
served on these Canada-United States delegations will be able to verify that it is really the
informal contacts and discussions that take
place between individual delegates or groups
of delegates from either side that are the
most directly useful aspect of these meetings,
and in fact are the real measure of the usefulness of this bilateral institution. This is one
of the reasons that the social program is so
important to delegates on both sides. If it is
weil arranged, the social program provides
ample opportunity for informal discussion
among delegates-for those important occasions when delegates can explore attitudes
underlying the official positions taken by one
or other of our two countries. In this respect,
it was well organized.
The honourable Senator O'Leary bas
referred to the fact that these meetings of the
Canada-United
States
Interparliamentary
Group are held in camera, and that there is
general agreement or understanding that no
names shall be mentioned and no text of
speeches reported. This policy has been closely followed up to the present time.
On the other hand, the honourable Senator
Grosart expressed the hope that a rather
fuller disclosure of the work done by the six
Senate representatives would prove of some
interest to this chamber, even though the
exchanges of views that took place were
unofficial and not binding upon the government of either country.
My particular assignment was to introduce
and lead a general discussion on the quality
of the environment. I hope honourable senators will bear with me while I explain some
of the background which led to a general
discussion of pollution.

May 6, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

In 1965, President Johnson issued a statement from the White House-and while I am
not quoting from the words I used during
these discussions, nevertheless I am trying to
give the general tenor of the reasons for
introducing this subject-which reads, in
part, as follows:
Ours is a nation of affluence. But the
technology that has permitted our affluence spews out vast quantities of wastes
and spent products that pollute our air,
poison our waters, and even impair our
ability to feed ourselves. At the same
time, we have crowded together into
dense metropolitan areas where concentration of wastes intensifies the problem.
Pollution now is one of the most pervasive problems of our society. With our
numbers
increasing, and
with our
increasing urbanization and industrialization, the flow of pollutants to our air,
soils and waters is increasing. This
increase is so rapid that our present
efforts in managing pollution are barely
enough to stay even, surely not enough to
make the improvements that are needed.
Looking ahead to the increasing challenges of pollution as our population
grows and our lives become more urbanized and industrialized, we will need
increased basic research in a variety of
specific areas, including soil pollution and
the effects of air pollutants on man. We
must give highest priority of all to
increasing the numbers and quality of the
scientists and engineers working on problems related to the control and management of pollution.
Now what is pollution? Well, according to
the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
Commercial Letter of January/February
1970, pollution may be defined as being artificially induced deterioration of the natural
environment-air, water or soil. It may be
considered in many ways. Because of its
effects on human lives, it is a health problem.
Because of its effects on health and property
it is an economic problem. Because of its
effects on animals and vegetation, it is a
problem in conservation of natural resources.
Because of its effect on the senses, it is an
aesthetic problem.
Pollution has beset mankind for centuries;
volcanoes have always belched out clouds of
gas, dust and streams of lava; the Romans
built the world's first major municipal sewer
system to alleviate water pollution. Babylon
and Nineveh were destroyed primarily
22481-131

because silt overcame the irrigation system.
As early as the 13th century severe penalties
were introduced in England in an attempt to
prevent burning of Newcastle sea coal.
Although smog in Los Angeles did not attain
dangerous proportions until the early 1940's,
Spanish explorers recorded noticing the haze
from Indian campfires hanging over the area.
Until the coming of the industrial revolution there was little or no interference with
nature's self-regenerating system. But since
World War II, the problem of pollution bas
assumed alarming proportions. First, populations began to grow rapidly in size; secondly,
they grew in wealth and production rose to
satisfy the increasing demands. This lead to
ever-greater use of the earth's mineral
resources for industrial purposes, which in
turn generated further waste, both in the production of goods and in their consumption. A
third factor influencing the pollution problem
has been the rapid advance in industrial technology. Every day new and more exotic techniques are introduced and new and more,
exotic products come on the market. The
wastes from some of these developments are
virtually indestructible, and cannot be entirely integrated into the natural cycles of our
environment. Man has begun to overpower
his environment, both with his ingenuity and
with his sheer numbers.
What is water pollution? Water is polluted
when it constitutes a health hazard or when
its usefulness for a particular purpose is
impaired. The major sources of water pollution can be classified as municipal, manufacturing, mining, steam electric power cooling,
and agricultural.
Nutrients, especially phosphates, have been
and are being added to the water in such
quantities that Lake Erie, for example, is in
an advanced state of eutrophication. As
recently as 1929, Lake Erie possessed a high
degree of oxygen saturation throughout its
depth, indicating little organic pollution. In
1957 low oxygen was first observed at the
bottom of the centre of "
ke. By 1964,
2,600 square miles-about a saarter
of the
total area-had an extremely low oxygen
level, indicating pronounced pollution. In the
opinion of some experts, the lake may have
already reached the stage where, even if the
supply of new nutrient material were cut off,
the process of accelerated aging is irreversible, or could continue for years. Accelerated
aging is also occurring in Lake Ontario, Lake
Michigan and the St. Lawrence River.

SENATE DEBATES
I shall have something to say about Arctic
pollution later on.
What is air pollution? Essentially, the
nature of air pollution is the same as that of
water pollution. The impurities introduced
are not absorbed adequately or rapidly
enough. Air pollution can therefore be defined
as the presence in the earth's atmosphere of
substances, gases or radiations which render
the air injurious to humans, animais, crops or
property. Except for pollens, aeroallergens
and the dust spread by wind erosion, the most
troublesome pollutants are man-made.
Air pollution is damaging to human health,
comfort and welfare. It adversely affects
animal and vegetable life, corrodes metal,
stone and other materials and generally
causes a deterioration in the enjoyment of
life.
Air pollution's major effect on health
appears to be the result of irritant materials
acting on the respiratory tract, althcugh there
is growing evidence that polluted air may be
responsible for other aliments. In the opinion
of many medical experts, it can contribute to
the frequency of lung cancer, emphysema,
chronic bronchitis and asthma. All chronic
respiratory diseases involve stress on the
heart since the heart must work harder to
compensate for the lack of oxygen absorption.
What is soil pollution? The most froquent
charges of soil pollution are associated with
the disposal of solid wastes and the use of
fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides by the
agricultural industry. There are three main
sources of solid wastes-garbage generated by
households, businesses, and industry; mineral
wastes from mines, mills, smelters, refineries,
and foundries; and agricultural solid wastes.
What is noise pollution? When considering
pollution, many people do not realize that
excessive noise is a pollutant. Since our
minds can ignore it while our bodies still
suffer, too much noise is apparently taking a
heavy toll of human health. The most pronounred physical effect of noise is damage to
the car. Exposure to intense noise over varying durations causes partial and in some cases
permanent hearing loss due to actual cell
damage in the organ.
But noise has other, more far-reaching
effects. There is a wealth of reliable data
from medical sources in support of the conclusion that sustained exposure to noise is a
contributing factor in chronie fatigue that
lowers bodily resistance, increases blood pressure and decreases working and mental efficiency. Noise can rob a sleeper of the most
[Hon. Mr. Macnaughton.]

May 6, 1970

restful type of sleep. A National Research
Council of Canada experiment indicates that,
contrary to popular belief, people do not
adapt to critical noise levels and will continue
to lose sleep forever.
Legislation in Canada-just a word at this
time about that subject. The traditional
approach to pollution in Canada has been
legal regulation and the fines for violation,
low in comparison with the usually high costs
of control. Legislation as a whole is very confused with federal, provincial and municipal
be
at
appearing
to
authorities
often
cross-purposes.
The British North America Act gives the
provinces jurisdiction over pollution control
within their boundaries. The Government of
Canada has, however, enacted several pieces
of legislation covering water pollution. These
laws are concerned with the pollution of fishories, waterfowl habitat, boundary waters,
navigable rivers, harbours and territories
lacking a separate government structure.
It soon became evident, of course, that our
American colleagues had aise given a great
deal of thought to these questions. In fact, as
early as December 5, 1969-that is three
months before our meeting-a bi-partisan
group of nine congressmen called for the
designation of the 1970s as the "Environmental Decade". These members of Congress were
especially concerned with the conservation of
our environment and they proposed to work
diligently on a broad series of fronts.
I hope honourable members will allow me
to refer to their statement because it analyzes
in an interesting way many of the environmental problems that should be considered.
Under the heading of "Water", the statement, which I am abbreviating, says in part:
(a) Alil over the country man is running out of sources of usable water.
(b) Worse, almost every lake and
stream we have is becoming more and
more polluted.
(c) It is not enough to clean up our
waters after they have been polluted.
Effort must be made to find and eliminate
sources of pollution before they begin.
(d) A new and alarming form of water
pollution is over-heating our waterthermal pollution-caused by fossil-fuel
and atomic power-generating plants.
(e) Wetlands and estuaries are where
land and water meet. Destroy them and
we destroy the areas where our fish and
wildlife breed, and where the air we
breathe gets its start.

May 6, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Under the heading "Air", the statement
reads in part:
(a) Air pollution brings emphysema,
bronchitis, lung cancer and death. It
blackens our skies, smarts our eyes,
wrecks our food, clothing and shelter. It
is getting worse.
The internal combustion engine, with
its carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxides,
is the worst single polluter.
(b) Industrial and power plants, with
their sulphur oxides and hydrocarbons
and particulate matter, are the second
worst source of pollution.
(c) One of the newest forms of air pollution is noise-by jet planes, by motor
vehicles on the freeways, by building
construction crews. In many cities and
suburbs, we have already exceeded the
noise levels where mental and physical
health is endangered.
Under the heading "Land", the statement
has this to say:
(a) The earth and the fullness thereof
get less full every year.
(b) To farm erosion has now been
added the bulldozer of the suburban
developer and the highway engineer, silting up our streams and ponds and lakes.
(c) Chemical pollution of our soil (as of
our air and water and wildlife) is growing worse. Fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides, chemicals of war threaten not just
the good life, but life on this earth
altogether.
(d) If people are going to find land on
which ta live and breathe and enjoy life,
we must stop the senseless carving up of
our landscape by the highway engineers,
the suburban developer, the jetport
authority.
(e) We must expand our programs for
setting aside parks, playgrounds, wilderness areas, wild rivers and seashores, and
fish and wildlife areas.
(f) Our land (as well as our water and
air) are about to be engulfed by solid
wastes and their by-products-junked
automobiles, glass bottles, steel and
aluminum cans, used packaging and other
detritus.
(g) Litter-trash and garbage and cigarette butts-are contributions to ugliness
that almost all of us make almost every
day.

Item 4 is "Wildlife":
The pollution of our land, our Waters,
our air, the destruction of wetlands, the
increased use of chemicals and, above all,
the inexorable grab at wildlife habitat by
our increasing population, pose a clear
and present danger. Already 89 birds and
mammals are on the list of endangered
species, and man himself may not be
exempt. We must preserve more wildlife
habitat, and particularly we must massively assist our marine resources.
"Minerals and Forest Resources" is item
No. 5:
Mineral and forest resources are
increasingly being destroyed by our
industrial technology.
Item No. 6 is "People":
All of these environmental resources
must be preserved not only for themselves but for the life, liberty and happiness of our people. Environment is for
people.
And yet population-how many people
and where they reside-can affect our
environment equally with what we do or
fail to do with it. In our metro areas
where most of us live, our slums, our
traffic jams, our noise, our foul air and
water, our sprawling suburbs, point an
ominous warning.
If the environment is for people, it is
also people-mostly private citizens and
not just the government-who must lead
the fight to preserve our environment.
Among citizens we turn to youth as the
great hope for the environmental decade.
Young people are understandably outraged
by the cynicism and materialism of their
older generation. We urge them to substitute constructive impulse for negativism
and to build for future generations an
environment worthy of free men and
women. We hope they will conduct studies, sponsor educational forums, initiate
petitions, support court suits, pressure
administrative agencies, draft legislation
and do the many things needed to help
protect against environmental destruction.
Now surely there is food for thought in the
many extracts from this declaration I have
read to the Senate.
The honourable Senator Grosart, in the
course of his interesting speech, also referred
to the question of the Arctic. This questioi is

1000

SENATE DEBATES

so vital, so urgent and so topical that, at the
risk of already having spoken too long, I
would like to discuss the subject in greater
detail.
Polar navigation is as old as the Eskimo.
The Eskimo has not found the problems
of living in these latitudes or navigating
in these waters to be insurmountable, as
he has learned to make nature work for
him, rather than against him.
Today, we are learning what the
Eskimo learned 3,000 years ago, that any
good seaman can make his way around
the Arctic, so long as he understands,
either empirically or scientifically, the
principles that govern movements of
masses of ice and water. Operations in
these northern waters have been characterized by a fear of being frozen in for
the winter. In the days of the sailing ship,
or the low-powered steamer, there was a
great deal of justification for this sort of
concern.
In recent years successful operations in
high latitudes have robbed the Arctic of
most of its old terrors. The Arctic is no
longer a region of forbidding and uninhabitable wasteland. It is a fascinating,
beautiful, though rugged, area of land
and water, ice and snow, sunshine and
darkness, where those with the knowhow, the desire, and the equipment which
modern technology has placed at our disposal can work and live comfortably,
safely and profitably the year round.
This Arctic, this Canadian Arctie, is
our business-ours to exploit, ours to
defend.
So wrote Commodore O.C.S. Robertson,
R.C.N., retired, in a foreword to a book by
T. A. Irvine, The Ice was all Between, in
1954.
The original motive for the discovery of a
Northwest Passage was for commercial purposes in connection with trade to the Orient.
There were many seaborne expeditions that
sought a feasible route across the Arctic.
There were many failures, but all did much
towards furthering the charting and the mapping of what is now the Canadian Arctic.
Think of Martin Frobisher in 1576-79, of
John Davis in 1585-88, or Henry Hudson and
of William Baffin, the great navigator, in
1616, of Captain John Ross and William Parry
and the overland discoveries of Hearne of the
Hudson's Bay Company and Mackenzie of the
North-West Fur Company, between the years
1825-45. In 1847, Sir John Franklin in
H.M.S. Erebus and Captain Crozier in H.M.S.
[Hon. Mr. Macnaughton.]

May 6, 1970

Terror sailed from England but nothing more
was heard of the expedition until Captain
McClintock finally confirmed its fate in 1859.
Franklin and over a hundred officers and men
had died of starvation after abandoning their
ships in 1847.
In 1903-07 Roald Amundsen, in his ship the
forty-seven ton Gjoa, navigated the Northwest Passage from east to west.
In 1919 Captain Bernier in the Canadian
Government supply ship Arctic attempted
the passage and reached McClure Strait, where
he was thwarted by heavy ice but not before
lie claimed all the Arctic islands for Canada.
Captain Bernier, who comes from L'Islet,
P.Q., is also a strong conservationist who
opposed the shooting of polar bears, whales
and other land animals by exploiters of any
nation. Here is a great authority on the north
and a great Canadian whom we have failed to
recognize.
In 1940-42 the R.C.M.P. vessel St. Roch, of
eighty tons, under the command of the late
Superintendent H. A. Larsen, was the first
ship to complete the Northwest Passage from
west to east.
In 1944, Larsen in the St. Roch accomplished the passage from east to west in 86
days. The St. Roch is now being permanently preserved in Vancouver.
In 1954 H.M.C.S. Labrador, under the command of Commodore O. C. S. Robertson, on
a voyage of scientific investigation, became
the first deep-draft ship to transit the Northwest Passage. The route was via Lancaster
Sound, Barrow Strait, Viscount Melville
Sound and Prince of Wales Strait. H.M.C.S.
Labrador then continued on and became the
first ship to circumnavigate North America.
I have given this short historical account in
order to show that a lot of information about
the Canadian Arctic is available.
Canadians have been excited by the breakthrough in transportation made by the S.S.
Manhattan and John A. Macdonald in opening up the Northwest Passage, and well they
might because this is one of the most significant acts to occur in many years-significant
because it has dramatized the opening of
Canada's newest and promising frontier. In
the past we have considered our country to
have had only three boundaries-to the south,
the United States; on the east coast, the
Atlantic Ocean; and on the west coast, the
Pacific Ocean. If we thought of the north at
all, it was only as an area of ice and snow
extending to the North Pole. But in fact it is
the new frontier.

May 6, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

In the fall of 1968, the Humble Oil and
Refining Company approached
Northern
Associates in Montreal and asked for a report
on whether it was possible for an oil tanker
to traverse the Northwest Passage from east
to west to Prudhoe Bay. This Canadian group
of marine architects and engineers had had
the foresight to collect and put together over
many years, data drawn from the accounts of
the early explorers, the logs of whaling ships,
the early Hudson Bay Company reports, ice
observatory flights of modern aircraft, personal experiences and the Danish, American
and Canadian weather and meteorological
reports.
Details concerning ice information, such as
ice cover, new ice, one-year, two-year ice,
multi-year ice, floes and ice surface features
in the different areas and according to years
of observation were known.
Meteorological information, such as wind
force, gales and their number and duration at
different times of the years and in different
locations; precipitation, cloud cover, percentage of time with fog and temperatures were
also available.
Climatological information dealing with the
dates ice formation begins, maximum ice
thickness, puddling, thaw holes and average
dates of ice cover and open water and icebergs and ice islands was known, as was
information on currents and tides.
Ail this information was eventually put
into a written report. In January 1969, a
verbal presentation was made and an affirmative answer given to the basic question, "Was
passage feasible?" It is of interest to note that
Finnish experts had said, no, it can't be done
without an escort of at least six heavy ice
breakers.
The Canadian experts advised that under
these Arctic conditions, a ship to succeed must
be of a certain shape, strength and power and
follow a predetermined route.
The S.S. Manhattan, an existing vessel, was
subsequently cut into four pieces, strengthened and rejoined.
The rest is history, except for one further
important Canadian detail. Captain Pullen,
R.C.N., retired was loaned to the S.S.
Manhattan as Canadian Government Observer, by the Northern Associates. He gave
advice and acted as liaison between the Manhattan and the two Canadian ice breakers, S.S. John A. Macdonald, under Captain
Fournier, and S.S. Louis St. Laurent, under
Captain Dufour. Thus did the S.S. Manhattan
succeed.

The Government is and should be deeply
concerned with the problem of environmental
protection. During the past two or three years
we have seen incidents of massive pollution
disaster-the Torrey Canyon off the coast of
the United Kingdom; Santa Barbara, California; the tanker Arrow in Chedabucto
Bay-all have shown the damage that can be
done.
Now as the economic pressures of resources development increase in speed and
scope, the need for environmental protective
measures takes on a new sense of urgency.
The Prime Minister stated in the other
place, October 24, 1969, that Canada has four
primary interests in the Arctic: the security
of Canada, the economic development of the
north, the preservation of the ecological balance and the continued high stature of
Canada in the international community.
The Financial Post of April 25, 1970,
reprinted a most interesting extract from a
speech given by the Prime Minister to the
Canadian Press Annual dinner recently.
Because so little is known about how to
deal with the new conditions in the north and
because the subject of Canada's fourth frontier is so important, and because the proper
use and development of Canada's fourth frontier is of such great importance, not only to
Canada but to our American cousins to the
south, I am going to ask the indulgence of the
Senate to put on record some of the excellent
and most up-to-date information on Arctic
conditions, as outlined by the Prime Minister.
He said in part:
The Arctic ice pack has been described
as the most significant surface area of the
globe, for it controls the temperature of
much of the northern hemisphere. Its
continued existence in unspoiled form is
vital to all mankind. The single most
imminent threat to the Arctic at this time
is that of a large oil spill.
Not only are the hazards of Arctic
navigation much greater than are found
elsewhere, making the risk of break-up
or sinking one of constant concern, but
any major maritime tragedy there would
have disastrous and irreversible consequences. The deleterious effects to the
environment of a major oil spill would be
so much greater than those of a spill of
similar size in temperate or tropical
waters that the result can be said with
scientific accuracy to be qualitatively
different.

SENATE DEBATES

May 6, 1970

regime designed to ensure to human
beings the right to live in a wholesome,
natural environment.
I repeat now what I said at that time,
that a combination of an international
regime, and the exercise by the Canadian
Government of its own authority in the
Canadian Arctic, will go some considerable distance to ensuring that irreversible
damages will not occur as a result of
negligent or intentional conduct in the
Arctic areas.
The biosphere is not divided into
national compartments, to be policed and
protected by national regulations. Yet
neither is the current state of international law sufficiently developed to
permit instant and effective protection
for the Canadian Arctic against activities
which are already under way. Our pollution legislation is without question at the
outer limits of international law. We are
pressing against the frontier in an effort
to assist in the development of principles
for the protection of every human being
on this planet.
We need law now to protect coastal
states from the excesses of shipping
states.
As honourable senators know, the Arctic
Waters Pollution Bill is directed towards the
prevention of pollution of Canadian Arctic
waters. It deals with pollution arising from
shipping, from land-based installations and
from commercial activities such as oil drilling, carried out on the continental shelf.
Canada bas decided to lead the way and to
show by example what should be done in an
effort to bring about effective pollution control regimes acceptable to all nations.
The Honourable Jean Chrétien, the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, in his speech to the honourable memHe then went on to say:
bers of the other house on the second reading
But we know that Arctic shipping and of the bill on April 16, concluded with these
Arctic mineral exploration activities are words:
Mr. Speaker, with this legislation we
occurring now and that in the interest of
are pioneers on the frontier of internaNorthern Canada they must be controlled
tional law. This legislation goes beyond
and encouraged. Until such a regime
any previous action by the Canadian
exists, therefore, Canada must take steps
Government for the control of pollution
to ensure that irreparable harm will not
and is in advance of any action by the
occur in the interim.
international community. Although we
have taken this action unilaterally, we
This is why I stated in the House of
stand ready at all times to enter into
Commons last October that we were
international agreement which will proinviting the international community to
vide for control over the dangers of poljoin with us and to support our initiative
lution. Until this occurs, however, we
for a new concept, an international legal
For example the injuries which would
result cannot be measured in terms of
dollars, as they can elsewhere because
the damages would not be of a temporary
nature. Nor is there now known any
technique or process which can control,
dispel or reduce vagrant oil loose in
Arctic waters. Such oil would spread
immediately beneath ice many feet thick;
it would congeai and block the breathing
holes of the peculiar species of mammals
that frequent the region; it would destroy
effectively the primary source of food
for Eskimos and carnivorous wildlife
throughout an area of thousands of
square miles; it would foul and destroy
the only known nesting areas of several
species of wild birds.
Because of the minute rate of hydrocarbon decomposition of frigid areas, the
presence of any such oil must be regarded as permanent. The disastrous consequences which the presence would have
upon the marine plankton, upon the process of oxygenation in Arctic North
America, and upon other natural and
vital processes of the biosphere, are
incalculable in their extent.
Involved here, in short, are issues
which even the more conservative of
environmental scientists do not hesitate
to describe as being of a magnitude
which are capable of affecting the quality
and perhaps the continued existence of
human and animal life in vast regions of
North America and elsewhere. These are
issues of such immense importance that
they demand prompt and effective action.
But this huge area cannot be protected
by Canada alone. Just as the Arctic environment is of benefit to many nations, so
only, in the long run, will international
controls be able effectively to protect it.

[Hon. Mr. Macnaughton.]

May 6, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1003

It was a conflict, he noted, that Americans
had faced before, but that now appeared in
aggravated form. Many people, he continued,
would put the blame for it on our remarkable
Honourable senators, I have taken far too advances in technology. He went on to say:
much of your time already, but there are
These ambivalent feelings about our era
honourable senators in this chamber who
and about modern progress stem from an
desire more information on our talks with our
underlying fear that we are no longer in
American friends, and I am trying to comply
control-that technology has gotten away
with these requests.
from its human base, and that machines
In order to complete my report, I must
rather than men guide the future of our
mention one further dimension of the subject
institutions.
of environment, which I injected into our disDr. DuBridge, too, spoke in this practical,
cussions on pollution. I hope to summarize
this briefly. It has to do with "a crisis of thoughtful vein:
We will not deal with these matters by
leadership and trust in our technological
destroying science and technology themworld." It concerns the challenges facing the
selves, unless we wish to revert to the
technology of tomorrow. A simple way of
kind of society which so many peoples
stating the problem would be to ask the quesare desperately trying to change.
tion: Are men or machines in charge?
This whole problem was ably debated at a Obviously, no one seriously considered such a
symposium held in September last year on reversion. As Dr. DuBridge put it:
the campus of Newark State College, at the
Our hope for the future is to pursue
invitation of top management of the Standard
science and technology more actively,
Company of New Jersey, and is ably set
Oil
while at the same time we seek more
called "The
out in their company magazine
considerate and effective ways of using
Lamp", winter edition, 1969.
the resources and technology to improve
Perhaps the main thrust of the symposium
the quality of life for all people.
was stated by Dr. Johnson of the MassaIt was a hopeful but at the same time a
chusetts Institute of Technology, when he
cautious prediction, and it underscored the
said:
and eduIn the seventies, our primary mission is necessity for government, industry
for human cation to deal directly with the complaints
technology
harness
to
causes. . We must make a special effort against technology.
Each speaker discussed techniques for dealto meet in a systematic way the massive
ing with these complaints, and they agreed on
needs of our society.
what had to be done. Each felt that technoDr. Lee A. DuBridge, President Nixon's logical leaders must grapple with social probScience Advisor, then referred to the rising lems that were once considered general conchorus of complaints "about some of the cerns of society rather than the specific
unfortunate side effects which certain techno- responsibility of scientists and engineers.
logical changes have brought about." Concur- Among those mentioned were the problems of
of
ring in Dr. DuBridge's analysis, Dr. Johnson improving health, of aiding the cities,
strengthening the humanities and arts.
elaborated on these complaints thusly:
But Dr. DuBridge took a more specialized
In the past few years, indeed in the past
approach. For him, one among all social probfew months, we have witnessed dramatic
lems stood out: the problem of environment.
outbursts of sentiment and protest on He expressed it this way:
university campuses around the world.
It surely will command major attention
in this nation in the coming years. Here
Pointing to a general restlessness in the
is a case in which the private sector must
too
whole decade, he noted that it would be
combine efforts with local, state, and fedeasy to attribute it to the common dynamics
eral agencies to give more adequate
of social change. He continued:
attention to the huge and ever more comI believe there is a deeper cause at the
plex problem of using our environment
root of these conflicts. It is the conflict
more wisely. We must, in other words,
use technology to cancel out the adverse
between the small face-to-face kinship
effects which technology has sometimes
group on the one hand and a bureaucratproduced.
ic and impersonal society on the other.
must and will act now to protect the
ecology of the north. This bill is evidence
of our determination in this regard.

22481-14

1004

SENATE DEBATES

During the course of the symposium,
Charles B. McCoy, President of E. I. du Pont
de Nemours and Company, discussed the
practical question of the mechanics of solving
social problems. "The challenge," he said, "is
for industry to devise more imaginative ways
to place its technological resources in the service of man; to couple its business goals with
the clear and pressing needs of society." As
the principal agency for the advancement of
technology-the agency performing twothirds of the nation's research and development-industry had not only a responsibility
in this area but an enormous opportunity.
Mr. McCoy continued:
In my view industry has moved away
from the narrow idea that a business corporation is merely an organization
formed to make and sell goods that provide a fair return to the owners. Instead,
we have come to look upon our enterprises as mechanisms invented by society
to translate scientific knowledge into
goods and services that society needs. We
have become more human because we see
ourselves in this role.
He predicted:
Personally, I have no doubt that the companies that will be the most profitable in
the long run will be those that serve
society best.
And he added:
Society will reward those that help
unclog our highways, rebuild and revitalize our cities, cleanse our streams and
conquer poverty and disease-not those
whose pursuit of the dollar blinds them
to such needs.
Honourable Senators may recall that on
November 25, 1969. I presented a motion
asking for the setting-up of a special Senate
committee to study the whole question of the
quality of our environment. That motion is
still waiting in the wings.
There is no longer doubt of the existence of
a general concensus in Canada on the urgent
need for action to undo some of the damage
that our various technologies have done to
the environment in which we must live.
My basic view is that in Canada and other
countries there is a great deal of expertise on
the problems of pollution of the environment,
but that it has not been drawn together in
any way that makes public access to this
body of knowledge at all easy. My aim is not
so much to select and recommend solutions to
[Hon. Mr. Macnaughton.]

May 6. 1970

the problem as to lay out before the public
the range of solutions that are available and
the problems and possibilities that they offer.
This is, of course, a function of education,
and as we attempt to come to grips with the
problems of expanding technologies the need
for a highly informed public opinion will
increase. Men who exaggerate the difficulties
of producing this high level of general knowledge probably are very mistaken. The public
tends to be receptive, not indifferent or hostile, to people who are seeking to inform it.
I think there is a concensus among Canadians that economic progress alone cannot provide a satisfying or healthful life. It is perfectly true that we all want automatic
washing-machines and dishwashers, automatic driers, new automobiles and color television sets-all the physical accoutrements of
the affluent society. But we demonstrate
every weekend how many other less material
things we also want-to ski in pleasant surroundings, to swim in water that does not
involve the risk of illness, and simply to look
at agreeable scenery.
I will close with a quote from the Commercial Letter, January/February, 1970, of the
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce:
The rehabilitation of our environment is
possible and immediately desirable. The
question now is: do we want more of the
same, more goods and more smog, noise
and dying lakes or are we willing to sacrifice some of our material things for a
better environment?
The long-term
answer involves not merely new laws and
new regulations, necessary though they
are, but a fresh recognition of the consequences of unregulated expansion.
Every community, industry and citizen
in Canada must participate in the program for pollution abatement. Without
this support, preventive measures can
produce only limited results. The public,
in particular, must realize that progress
cannot be made without the expenditure
of very large sums of money which may
be reflected in higher prices and may
include the disappearance from the
market of some products now considered
essential.
The imperative nature of the fight
against pollution
bas
already
been
brought home to us. Man is no exception
to the basic rule that the quality of all

living things is a direct result of the
quality of the environment.

May 6, 1970

DEBATES
May 6 1970SENATE

1005

Hon. Mr. Flynn: You are speaking for both
Honourable senators, I thank you for your
sides of the bouse, of course.
interest and especially for your patience.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Smith, debate
Hon. Mr. Smith: He hopes s0.
adjourned.
Han. Mr. Martin: 1 arn speaking for both
BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
sides, but flot speaking with my tongue in my
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, cheek.
before moving that we adjourn, and looking
lion. Mr. Flynn: My smile was directed at
across at the Leader of the Opposition (Hon. the decision of the Leader of the Government
Mr. Flynn), who obviously f eels pleased after to stand Item No. 3, concerning the Senate
a very able, although mîsguided effort, I review of statutory instruments. I was not
express the hope that tomorrow any honoura- objecting to adjourning the debate on the last
ble senators who wish to take part in the motion.
debate on Bill C-3 will do so in order that we
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2
can reaeh the objective that I thought we had
p.m.
reached on Tuesday.

22481-141

1006

SENATE DEBATES

May 7, 1970

forces and tyranny. We, as well as future
generations, must ever remember that day.

THE SENATE

[English]
Thursday, May 7, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
CESSATION OF HOSTILITIES IN EUROPE
COMMEMORATIVE CEREMONIES
Hon. Paul

Martin:

Honourable

senators,

before we proceed with the first item of business, with the consent of all senators, it would
seem appropriate that we note the anniversary tomorrow of the close of the thunder of
the guns of Europe in World War II. The
armies of the United Nations stood at ease 25
years ago tomorrow for the first time in more
than five years. The fugitives, the dispossessed, the homeless, paused a moment in
their desperate, aimless wanderings.
Young people today, many of them not of
age to experience the significance and the
tragedy of that conflict, may well wonder
about its horror and about its cause. Those of
us who were contemporary with the event
will recall the mischief of the madman who
perpetrated it and the challenge that was successfully launched against his armies.
We note with much pride that today in the
membership of this chamber there are twelve
senators who served in our Armed Forces and
helped to bring about victory over the Nazis.
These men followed in the great tradition of
courage and gallantry of their predecessorsmany of whom were members of this bousewho fought in the First World War.
The liberation of Holland is being marked
at the present time at The Hague. Two members of this house, along with representatives
of the other place, compose the Canadian
delegation to mark the liberation of Holland,
which came as one of the contemporary episodes at the conclusion of World War II.
[Translation]
I believe it is appropriate to pause for a
moment on this anniversary of the end of
hostilities in Europe. Those war months and

years cost Canada the lives of nearly 45,000
young men and women. They gave their lives
to preserve liberty because they believed that
happiness was impossible without freedom.
It was a day of triumph, joy and thanksgiving for the peoples liberated from barbarian

Those of us who were living at that time
certainly will not forget what we owe to
brave men and women from our own country
and from the Allied nations. We remember
well the leadership of such great personalities
as Winston Churchill, Franklin Roosevelt,
Mackenzie King the Prime Minister of
Canada of that day, and the heads of governments of other countries, who demonstrated
the undoubted capacity of the power of free
men.
Let us remember this anniversary. Let us
affirm that we will do all we can to prevent a
repetition of the terrible events of the Second
World War.
[Translation]
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, I
agree with the Government Leader that it is
fitting to mention in a particular way this
25th anniversary of the allied victory in
Europe which put an end to the Second World
War.
As can be seen outside the Parliament
Buildings, we are getting ready to commemorate that anniversary. We will never do too
much to remind those who have lived
through the events that took place between
1939 and 1945, as well as those who have only
heard about them, what a horrible nightmare
the last World War was.
[English]
I think we can congratulate ourselves on
the fact that, although we do not have an
absolute peace, at least the peace we have

had since the Second World War has lasted
longer than that which followed the First
World War. As you recall, there were only
twenty years of peace between the Armistice
of 1918 and the beginning of the new war in
1939. So, perhaps on this occasion we should
call to mind the fact that the United Nations
Organization bas been instrumental in preserving a peace, which, if not the absolute
peace the world is seeking, it is nevertheless a
substantial degrec of peace.
This time in Canada and elsewhere we are
worried about conflicts in other parts of the

world such as the Middle East and IndoChina. These conflicts make our peace still
shaky, but if we remember what happened
during the First World War, what it meant in
suffering, in destruction and in anguish, I
think all people will resolve to do their

May 7, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

utmost to eliminate dissensions and strife
which could mean a renewal of world conflict
that threatens to spread from these places.
I was not a member of the Armed Forces
during the last war. I served on the domestic
front in carrying out a function in the Wartime Prices and Trade Board, in Quebec City,
the same as that provided by Senator Fergusson in Saint John. Nevertheless, I well remember that very sunny and beautiful day in May
1945, at about 11 o'clock in the morning, when
we were told that the German Army had
finally surrendered unconditionally. I recall
the emotion of the moment which was felt by
those of us at home and by those on the
battlefields in Europe and everywhere, where
people were waiting for an end to that awful
nightmare. That emotion comes back to me at
this time, and because I feel it in this way I
appeal to everybody the world over to share
it with me, and as a result of these vivid
memories of what the end of that awful war
meant we can resolve to continue our fight
for peace.

ý1»07

Hon. Donald Smith moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators,
with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding
Rule 45(1)(g), I move that when the Senate
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until
Tuesday next, May 12, at 8 o'clock in the
evening.

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
wish to follow the practice of indicating on
this motion our anticipated business for next
week.
We will deal first with Bill C-3. We still
have before us the amendment. I gather from
my conversations with the Leader of the
Opposition and others that we may reasonably expect to proceed with that amendment
and vote on it next Tuesday, and expectantly
with the main motion on Wednesday.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
We would wish to conclude the debate on
Bill C-182, to amend the Supreme Court Act,
the second reading of which we will be conDOCUMENTS TABLED
sidering this afternoon. The bill will be
referred to the Committee on Legal and ConHon. Paul Martin tabled:
stitutional Affairs, in order that that commitCopies of Consumer Research Report tee may commence consideration of it.
No. 1 on Hearing Aids, issued by the
Also on the Order Paper for second reading
Department of Consumer and Corporate
will be Bill C-187, respecting inland water
Affairs and dated January 1970.
resources in the Yukon Territory and NorthCopies of Financial Statement on the west Territories. This is an
important bill that
operation and maintenance of the Great will require careful study and consideration
Slave Lake Railway, constructed by the by the Senate.
Canadian National Railway Company
I expect that also on Tuesday we will have
under authority of chapter 56, Statutes of
Canada, 1960-61, together with a state- for consideration Bill C-186, to provide for a
ment showing the net capital investment, Law Reform Commission. Further, I anticifor the period April 1, 1969 to December pate from the present schedule in the other
31, 1969, pursuant to section 9 of the said place that there may be one or two other
bills before us on Tuesday.
Act.
The Special Committee on Poverty will
meet on Tuesday and Thursday; Banking,
CANADA SHIPPING ACT
Trade and Commerce on Wednesday and
Thursday; and National Finance on Thursday,
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT OF COMMITTEE
to continue its study of the Main Estimates
Hon. Hédard Robichaud, Acting Chairman for 1970-71.
of the Standing Senate Committee on Health,
Motion agreed to.
Welfare and Science, reported that the committea had considered Bill C-10, to amend the
Canada Shipping Act, and had directed that CRIMINAL CODE (HATE PROPAGANDA)
the bill be reported without amendment.
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING-DEBATE
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this bill be read the third
time?

CONTINUED ON MOTION IN AMENDMENT

Hon. Norman McL. Paterson: Honourable
senators, after listening to the learned discus-

SENATE DEBATES

sion of our colleague Senator Lang, I was so
impressed with the simple logic of his argument that I was pleased to have the honour of
seconding the motion. Having done so, I felt it
my duty to say a word on it. I am not versed
in the law and I cannot indulge in any legal
arguments. However, I do want to say a few
words.
First of all, I hope that my leader will
forgive me, but I let my conscience be my
guide. Secondly, I wish to express to all who
have spoken my appreciation of the high
standard of excellence of the speeches on
both sides. I am quite sure that this debate
will have done this Senate a great deal of
good, both in the chamber and outside, no
matter which way the vote goes.
On motion of Hon. Mr. White, debate
adjourned.
SUPREME COURT ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READINGDEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Lazarus Phillips moved the second
reading of Bill C-182, to amend the Supreme
Court Act.
He said: Honourable senators will remember that shortly after I had the honour of
becoming a member of this chamber I was
assigned the responsibility of dealing with the
then bill involving amendments to the
Supreme Court Act. That bill was introduced
in the Senate as a Government measure on
September 24, 1968, and was passed by this
chamber on October 23 of that year. Subsequent to the passing of the bill it was sent to
the other place. As a result of the prorogation
of the session, the bill that we passed in this
bouse did not become law. Bill C-182, which
we now have before us, was introduced in the
other chamber at this session, and on May 1
last was passed by that house. The bill presently before us, with two exceptions, is in
similar form to the bill that was passed in the
Senate in the last session.
The two exceptions to the bill that we
passed are due, one to the result of representations made by the Canadian Bar Association, to which I shall refer, and the other as a
result of the debate that took place in this
chamber. In this respect it is interesting to
note that, although the bill passed this chamber in the form in which it was originally
submitted, due consideration was given to
some observations that were made by honourable senators on both sides of the bouse, as a
[Hon. Mr. Paterson.]

May 7, 1970

result of which there is a basic revision in
one of the amendments to the law.
At this point I should like to pay my compliments to honourable senators who are
responsible for this revision, including senators on the other side of the bouse. Sadly, I
must refer to the unfortunate absence of our
very eminent colleague Senator Roebuck, who
took an important part in objecting to one
aspect of this bill. His objection, supported by
others, is reflected in the bill presently before
us.
I therefore say that, with two exceptions,
the amendments contained in this bill are the
same as those included in the bill to amend
the Supreme Court Act which passed the
Senate chamber on October 23, 1968. The first
exception is that in the Senate bill it was
proposed to amend section 36 of the Supreme
Court Act to provide that the right of appeal
thereunder was on a question of law alone.
As already indicated, this bill amends section
36 to provide that appeal lies on a question
that is not a question of fact alone, thereby
allowing for appeals as of right on that section on questions of mixed law and fact; whereas, in the bill that we passed in 1968 the
appeal as of right was given only when there
were questions of law involved.
This change that we are considering was
drafted after receiving representations of a
special committee of the Canadian Bar
Association, which was of the view that to
provide a right of appeal on a question of law
alone was too confining. The net result is that
in the amendments now before us appeals as
of right will not be allowed on questions of
fact exclusively, but will be allowed when the
subject matter involves a question of fact as
well as of law.
The second substantive change which reflects itself in the bill before us, and which is
a variation of the bill that the Senate passed
in 1968, is as follows.
The Senate 1968 bill-if I may so describe
it-proposed increasing the dollar amount in
respect of which appeals would be allowed by
application to the Supreme Court where the
amounts involved exceeded $2,000 and went
up to $10,000, and in respect of those appeals
already mentioned that can be taken to the
Supreme Court without prior determinatior
by provincial courts of appeal. This would
have brought the monetary figure in these
appeals in line with those in section 36 which,
as I have already indicated, covers appeals as
of right to the Supreme Court, but which will
now be as of right provided there is involved
a question of law as well as of fact.

May 7, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

The original proposal increasing the
amount required from $2,000 up to $10,000,
honourable senators will remember, ran into
considerable opposition when I presented the
then bill before this chamber. The opposition
was based on the grounds that the public's
access to the Supreme Court would be
restricted. Since leave to appeal from the
Supreme Court will have to be obtained, it is
not considered now necessary to have any
monetary limit. If on an application for leave
to appeal, the Supreme Court considers the
appeal has merit, it should and will go forward regardless of the amount involved.
I think we in this chamber should be very
happy that as a result of this forum being
made available for expressions of opinion
that come before it, we now have the opportunity of seeing in this very important bill
effect given to the views that were expressed
by the senators and which are now reflected
by way of amendment to the Supreme Court
Act.
With this background and having regard to
the fact, firstly, that the bill as passed by the
Senate in 1968, subject to the two variations
that I have mentioned herein, is the same bill
that was so passed in 1968, and having regard
further to the fact that if, as I hope, this bill
will receive second reading, it is my intention
to move that it be sent to the Legal and
Constitutional Affairs Committee for detailed
consideration.
I trust that honourable senators will agree
that it will not be necessary for me to go into
much detail with respect to those features of
this present bill which had already been
passed in 1968 in sittings of the Senate and
which are reflected word for word in the
present bill.
The changes are sound, honourable senators. The few changes to which I have just
referred are as follows.
In section 1, the proposed amendment to
section 36 of the Supreme Court Act will now
provide that appeal lies in respect of the
amounts referred to therein and in respect of
proceedings upon a writ of habeas corpus or
mandamus when there is involved a mixed
question of law and fact and where the issue
is not restricted to a question that is not a
question of fact alone. This change is made as
a result of representations by the Canadian
Bar Association. That is the import of section
1 of Bill C-182.
In respect of section 2 of the bill-this is
the section which is amended to give effect
to the observations made in debate in this

house-we now have an appeal to the
Supreme Court per saltum irrespective of the
amount involved. I have already indicated
that this is entirely due, I would think, to
the views expressed in this house.
With respect to section 3 of the bill dealing
with quorum on application for leave, the
section is in exactly the same wording as
passed in 1968 and covers the issue of the
quorum of judges of the Supreme Court that
would be required in various instances as to
application for leave. Therefore, I think it
would be completely redundant for me to
explain it again.
With respect to section 4, this eliminates
the right of original jurisdiction, as honourable senators will remember, in respect to the
subject matter of habeas corpus. It will be
remembered that there was concurrent jurisdiction in the lower courts as well as in the
Supreme Court of Canada with respect to the
subject matter of habeas corpus. Because of
the fact that amendments were made some
time ago in the Criminal Code, pursuant to
which rights of appeal were given from the
lower courts to the Supreme Court of Canada
in matters of habeas corpus, honourable
senators will remember that it was deemed
not necessary to have concurrent jurisdiction.
Indeed it was somewhat contradictory to have
the concurrent jurisdiction in the Supreme
Court vested in this matter, as well as in the
court's jurisdiction on appeal.
Section 4 of the present bill before us is in
exactly the same wording as in the Senate
bill passed in 1968. Therefore, again with
your approval, I think it would be redundant
if I were to give explanations that have
already received consideration of honourable
senators and heretofore approved in the 1968
passing.
With respect to section 5 to section 10
inclusive, they are purely procedural and are
exactly in the form and wording as passed in
1968. Section 11 is the usual section-this act
shall come into force on a day to be fixed by
proclamation.
Attached to the bill is a schedule involving
consequential amendments, every one of
which is exactly in the form as passed in the
Senate bill of 1968.
Honourable senators, I spare you further
detailed explanation which I do not think is
necessary. I hope that this measure will receive your concurrence by way of second
reading, at which time I propose to rise to

SENATE DEBATES

May 7, 1970

either by a department of Government or by
a so-called independent regulatory tribunal,
and ends with an appeal or appeals, if proHon. Lionel Choquette: I beg leave to vided, from a decision of the department,
adjourn the debate.
either to the courts, a board of review, or in
On motion of Hon. Mr. Choquette, debate some instances to the cabinet itself.
adjourned.
It is important to emphasize, as one senator
has emphasized, that we have never had at
the fedoral level in Canada a thorough scruSTATUTORY INSTRUMENTS
tiny of the administrative process.
PROPOSED STUDY OF PROCEDURES BY LEGAL
Both the United States and Britain have
AND CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
In
and examination.
had such studies
-MOTION AGREED TO
Britain, the Franks Report in 1957, and the
on Ministers Powers in 1932,
The Senate resumed from Thursday, April Committee
reviewed the entire administrative process. In
23, the adjourned debate on the motion of
the United States the Report of the AttorneyHon. Mr. Martin that the Standing Senate
Administrative
on
Committee
General's
Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Procedure reviewed the federal administraAffairs be instructed to consider and, from
tive process in 1941. This review resulted in
time to time, to report on procedures for the
the Administrative Procedures Act, passed by
review by the Senate of instruments made in
Congress in 1946, a year after World War II.
virtue of any statute of the Parliament of
In 1955 a Task Force on Legal Services and
Canada, and to consider in connection thereProcedures made a comprehensive study of
with any public documents relevant thereto.
the entire field of federal administrative law,
and submitted its conclusions, honourable
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senatorssenators will remember, to a commission
The Hon. the Speaker: I must inform headed by former President Hoover.
honourable senators that if the Government
As was pointed out, I think by Senator
Leader speaks now his remarks will have the
Hayden, in Ontario we have had such a study
effect of closing the debate.
recently in the form of the commission headed
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, on by former Chief Justice McRuer who, in a
February 19 I proposed that the Standing throe-volume report on the administrative
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitution- process in the Province of Ontario, made
al Affairs be instructed to consider and from some very important recommendations which
time to time report on procedures for the undoubtedly our Standing Senate Committee
review by the Senate of instruments made in on Legal and Constitutional Affairs will wish
pursuit of any statute of the Parliament of to consider-as it bas the right to consider,
Canada and to consider in connection there- under the powers proposed for it by the resowith any public documents relevant thereto. lution before honourable senators.
The debate on the motion bas been extensive.
The McRuer Report included a number of
All senators who participated have supported studies of specific administrative processes
the proposal.
such as expropriation and licensing. However,
Consideration has been given as to what as my colleague the Minister of Justice stated
recommendations senators thought the com- only a few weeks ago, at the federal level
mittee might bring forward. There was not "the administrative process still remains
full agreement as to whether there should be largely an unexplored labyrinth."
a committee of this house, or a joint commitThe Special Committee on Statutory Instrutee with the other place, or whether the work ments in the other place, under the able
contemplated by the reviews proposed should direction of Dr. Mark MacGuigan, reviewed a
be left to the other place. In closing the
part of the process, admittedly very thoroughdebate on this resolution today, I would like ly, but I suggest that there are other equally
to make some observations on what might be
important parts of the administrative process
called the administrative process, in addition
made by honourable senators that were not reviewed by that committee.
to those already
This will present to the Standing Senate
and myself when I introduced this motion.
and Legal
on Constitutional
process begins when an Committee
The administrative
enabling statute is passed by Parliament, con- Affairs an opportunity to break new ground,
tinues through the regulation-making stage in what we have all acknowledged during this
and the implementation of those regulations, debate is an important area, when one bears
[Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud).]

ask that it be sent to the Committee on Legal
and Constitutional Affairs for detailed study.

May 7, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

We have, for
in mind that much of the legislative impact country, as in other countries. and Television
from statutory powers but instance, the Canadian Radio
derives admittedly
not by direct recitation in statutes themselves. Commission, the Canadian Transportation
the National Energy Board, the
The difficult legal and political problem of Commission, Appeal Board, the Tariff Board,
stated the Immigration
the administrative process was
Tribunal, to mention but a
other day, I note, by Professor John Willis of the Anti-Dumping agencies of Government.
few of those new
the University of Toronto Law School. He
These agencies are necessary m our comsaw it as the need to reconcile the imperatives of effective government on the one plicated society today, to provide systematic
hand, and procedural justice and the rights regulation of particular industries or activitics. But questions have been raised by variof the individual on the other.
and a legal
For example, the Expropriation Act, which ous experts of both a political
ably raised in
is now before the Legal and Constitutional character and they have been who took part
Affairs Committee-which provided for a this debate by the 22 senators
prior notice to the person whose land is to be in this very important discussion.
taken, the right to a hearing on the need for
One of the legal-political issues often raised
the expropriation, some legal expenses to the is as to what kind of decisions these commisperson expropriated, an appeal procedure, sions should make. To what extent should
and more liberal compensation provisionsthey make policy decisions and to what
redressed the legal balance in favour of the extent should they simply settle disputes? As
individual and against the state, where the distinguished from a legal issue, another
state wants to take the individual's land. political issue that is often raised is the
There are also a number of other peripheral degree of responsibility of the agency to the
problems such as the danger that a regulatory cabinet and to Parliament.
agency may in time become too closely
Some American administrative law experts
associated with the industry it regulates.
have argued that a regulatory tribunal can
But the central problem, as I have stated, become aligned too closely with the "estaband as I repeat, is the reconciliation of the lishment" of the industry it is supposed to be
interests of the individual and the interest of regulating and the public interest could suffer
the Government.
as a result.
The legislative part of the administrative
Another issue is the organization of the
process was examined by a special committee tribunals and what kind of men are appointed
of the other place. It made a number of to them.
recommendations which we have before us.
With respect to the procedures of the variIt recommended, in general-and this the
bas often
will wish to recall-more precise ous tribunals, one question that
committee
at
prior consultation with been raised is whether Canada should have
enabling legislation,
the federal level an act similar to the Ameriaffected groups before drafting regulations,
an expansion of the scope of the definition of can Administrative Procedures Act. The
regulation, and the review of all regulations American act lays down procedural guidelines
applicable to most statutory tribunals for both
by a parliamentary committee.
judicatory
When I introduced this resolution, I could their policy-making and their
policy-making
not, nor can I now, say what will be the functions. With respect to their
is a general
attitude of the Government with regard to or rule-making function, there
to be
any particular proposal of the committee. But right of the citizen, or affected group,
in consulted.
I can say that the Government is interested
And it will not be overlooked that, while
having the closest attention paid to this probhem, and when we have the recommendations we are discussing this matter, the Governof the committee, then certainly my col- ment has taken legislative action a step to
leagues and I will at once address ourselves to provide some restraint on the finality of judgthe recommendations in the light of our ment of some administrative bodies, whose
decisions hereafter will be subject to appeal
responsibilities.
process by the newly reorganized federal court, the
Another part of the administrative
is
is the organization, the administration, proce- former Exchequer Court. When that bill
of the so-called before us we will have a chance to examine
dures, and judicial review
closely
independent regulatory tribunals. There has the extent to which this reform is
tribunals in this related to the subject matter of this debate.
been a proliferation of those

1012

SENATE DEBATES

With respect to the procedures of the tribunal when it adjudicates, the issues are the
evidentiary rules: for example, whether hearsay evidence can be received and acted
upon; whether material can be received from
a third party which neither adversary has
had occasion to challenge; whether there is
an appropriate
separation
of functions
between investigator and judge in connection
with the particular matter being heard; and
whether there is any requirement for a reasoned decision.
There is, of course, no unanimity of
opinion on the desirability of an Administrative Procedures Act similar to the American Statute. Some authorities argue that
since tribunals perform very different functions, a uniform code of procedures would
introduce undesirable rigidities. Compare, for
example, it is argued, the function of the
Administrative Appeal Board with some of
the functions of the National Energy Board.
The former would surely be much more judicial in nature than the latter.
A second major problem in the administrative process is the extent to which judicial
review of the activities of administrative
tribunals ought to be permitted. It is clear
that there ought to be some judicial review.
The one mechanism by which we can be
assured that the decisions of a tribunal will
be made properly for the benefit of those for
whom it was established is the review of its
decisions by the independent courts. And I
have foreshadowed some action in this direction when I referred to the amendments in
the new federal court which will provide for
appeals from quasi-judicial and administrative bodies.
The general problem with respect to judicial review of the decisions of tribunals is
reconciling the need for an independent
review of those decisions in the event that it
acted arbitrarily and did not give full recognition to an individual's rights, on the one
hand, and the need for the tribunal to be left
alone to exercise its discretion in an intelligent way, free from unnecessarily heavyhanded interference from the courts, on the
other hand.
I have already twice directed your honours'
attention to the bill providing for the new
federal court, which is a revision of the
Exchequer Court. The terms and provisions
will be found in Bill C-192, now before the
committee of the other place and which should
be examined by our committee when it begins
its functions.
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

May 7, 1970

I would in anticipation call the attention of
honourable senators to section 28 of that bill,
which provides that the new federal court of
appeal will have jurisdiction to review the
decisions and orders of all federal boards on a
variety of grounds. Moreover, they will not
be hampered by the legalistic distinctions
which developed around the old remedies of
certiorari, prohibition and mandamus.
There are many other less comprehensive
changes such as the simplification of proceedings against the Crown. They will subsequently le instituted by simple declaration.
A third area of concern in the administrative process is the recourse of the citizen
against inertia or arbitrary action on the part
of a government agency or department. It has
been argued that an ombudsman or some
similar institution is the best safeguard of the
individual's right to a fair decision by the
Government because obtaining his services
would not involve the expense of a court
hearing.
Others argue that the Member of Parliament in this place or in the other place is
better equipped to get results. We recall the
proposal of Senator Croll that there should be
constituted in this house a Senate committee
that would act as an ombudsman. No finality
was reached on that proposal, despite the
serious attention given to it, but, if I had had
occasion to make further comment on the
proposal, I would have said that the principle
of an ombudsman in every jurisdiction where
it exists is above the legislative authority, and
that the legislative authority itself must be
the subject of examination by an ombudsman
and not form part of the ombudsman process.
I recognize that there are four provinces in
Canada that have ombudsmen. They are not
legislative ombudsmen but have authority
over and above the executive and the legislature itself. Those four provinces are New
Brunswick, Quebec, Manitoba and Alberta.
Other jurisdictions have ombudsmen or similar institutions. I do not say that ihat is
necessarily what we need; I simply throw
out to the committee the suggestion that this
is the kind of matter that the committee will
want to examine. In fact, it is probably yet
too soon to judge the degree of success of the
institution of ombudsmen.
Now, the inquiry to be made by this committee into the administrative process could
be, as Senator O'Leary has indicated, one of
the most important steps that the Senate
could take.

May 7, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

We were reminded by Senator Phillips
(Rigaud) in the memorable speech he made
on this subject, of the revelations by Lord
Hewart in his The New Despotism forty years
ago. Forty years is a long time, and it took a
long time, even in the United Kingdom, for
action to be taken to correct some of the
abuses that flowed from the statutory powers,
delegated legislation. In the increasingly complicated society of today it is clearly necessary
to recognize the application of the principles
of The New Despotism to our period.
I suppose a corresponding authority on this
subject is the book written by Louis L. Jaffe,
of Harvard University, Judicial Control of
Administrative Action. I had occasion to
examine this book and read it about two
weeks ago. I do not deny for a moment that it
certainly covers more ground than is
envisaged in Lord Hewart's book, but nevertheless the precision of language, the hitting
of the point with an accuracy for which English judges are so famous, makes it difficult
for me to think that Professor Jaffe has reasoned in the matter more successfully than
the Lord Chief Justice of England. But Mr.
Jaffe did conclude his important work by
sayng:
The grant of general powers, however
justified, implies a responsibility for close
legislative attention to the course of
administration. The legislature must be
ready to intervene when administration
runs into crucial issues for the settlement
of which the existing standard is an
inadequate guide. When such issues arise,
there is no longer the excuse that the
legislature is without the time, the information or the competence to deal with
them.

That sets out in one paragraph, I think, the
work of this committee.
Now my last word is to note that the Chairman of our Legal and Constitutional Aff airs
Committee is not with us. His illness is such
that it is not expected that he will be able to
preside over the deliberations of that committee in the foreseeable future. We have been
thinking much during the past two months of
the chairman, Senator Roebuck, whom we all
miss greatly in this house. I know that when
he returns to us-and I venture to express the
hope that he will-he will take his place in
that committee, carrying on the important
contribution that he bas made to our parliamentary life. There will be no contribution
open to him or to any other honourable senator at the present time that will be as potentially productive as this one.
Motion agreed to.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. Donald Smith: As a matter of information, may I be permitted to remind honourable senators that there will be a meeting
of the Standing Senate Committee on Legal
and Constitutional Affairs to deal with the
Expropriation Bill on Tuesday next at 4.30
p.m. I understand the Minister of Justice will
be in attendance at that time.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, I
know we will all be here in satisfactory numbers on Tuesday and Wednesday. With that
parting shot, I move the adjournment of the
Senate.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, May
12, at 8 p.m.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE

May 12, 1970

Constitutional Affairs, reported that the committee had considered Bill C-136, respecting
the expropriation of land, and had directed
Tuesday, May 12, 1970
that the bill be reported with the following
The Senate met at 8 p.m., the Speaker in amendment:
Page 36: Strike out subclause (2) of
the Chair.
clause 36 and substitute therefor the folPrayers.
lowing:
(2) Where the amount of the compensaLAW REFORM COMMISSION BILL
tion adjudged under this Part to be payFIRST READING
able to a party to any proceedings in the
Court under section 29 in respect of an
The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
expropriated interest does not exceed the
that a message had been received from the
total amount of any offer made under
House of Commons with Bill C-186, to estabsection 14 and any subsequent offer made
lish a commission for the reform of the laws
to such party in respect thereof before
of Canada.
the commencement of the trial of the
Bill read first time.
proceedings, the Court shall, unless it
Hon. Paul Martin moved that the bill be
finds the amount of the compensation
placed on the Orders of the Day for second
claimed by such party in the proceedings
reading on Thursday next.
to have been unreasonable, direct that
the whole of such party's costs of and
Motion agreed to.
incident to the proceedings be paid by
the Crown, and where the amount of the
DOCUMENTS TABLED
compensation so adjudged to be payable
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
to such party exceeds that total amount,
Report dated April 9, 1970, of the Rethe Court shall direct that the whole of
strictive Trade Practices Commission
such party's costs of and incident to the
under the Combines Investigation Act,
proceedings, determined by the Court on
respecting Road Paving in Ontario.
a solicitor and client basis, be paid by the
Crown.
Report of the Prices and Incomes Commission (Mr. John H. Young, Chairman)
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senaon Glass Container prices, dated May 7, tors, when shall this report be taken into
1970.
consideration?
Copies of a Proclamation, dated May 7,
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud) moved that the
1970 and issued under section 87(1) of the report
be taken into consideration at the next
National Energy Board Act, chapter 46, sitting of the Senate.
Statutes of Canada, 1959, extending the
Motion agreed to.
application of Part VI of the said Act to
include Oil, pursuant to section 87(4) of
BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
that Act, together with copies of amendCOMMITTEE
ments to the National Energy Board Part
AUTHORITY TO MEET DURING SITTINGS OF
VI Regulations.
THE SENATE
Report on the Operation of the RegionHon. Donald Smith, with leave of the
al Development Incentives Act for the
period April 1 to April 30, 1970, pursuant Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(a),
to section 16 of the said Act, chapter 56, moved:
That the Standing Senate Committee on
Statutes of Canada, 1968-69.
Banking, Trade and Commerce have
Copies of Agreement, dated May 11,
power to sit while the Senate is sitting on
1970, between the Government of Canada
Wednesday, May 13, and Thursday, May
and the Government of the Province of
14, 1970, and that Rule 76(4) be suspendManitoba, with respect to the Special
ed in relation thereto.
Area of The Pas.
[Later:]
Hon. Malcolm Holleft: Honourable senators,
EXPROPRIATION BILL
on a point of order, may I ask a question of
REPORT OF COMMITTEE PRESENTED
His Honour the Speaker?
Hon. Lazarus Phillips, Acting Chairman of
As many honourable senators will be
the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and engaged in committee work during the

SENATE DEBATES

May 12, 1970

Wednesday and Thursday sittings of the
Senate, if a vote takes place in the chamber
will these senators be notified?
The Hon. the Speaker: Should a vote occur,
the division bell will ring as usual. In such
circumstances it will be the duty of the
Whips on both sides to see that their membership is at full strength in the house.
Hon. Mr. Holleit: Thank you.
Motion agreed to.
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators,
with leave of the Senate, and notwithstanding
Rule 45(1)(g), I move that when the Senate
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until
tomorrow at 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
might I ask the Leader of the Government if
he has yet spoken to Senator Molson with a
view to having the appropriate committee
convened to deal with the matter of changing
our rules in this regard?
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
Senator Smith has spoken to the chairman of
the committee, as I have, and I understand it
is his intention shortly to deal with this
matter.
Motion agreed to.
BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
COMMITTEE
CHANGE

IN MEMBERSHIP

Hon. Donald Smith, with leave of the
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(l)(h),
moved:
That the name of the Honourable Senator Aird be added to the list of senators
serving on the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce.
Motion agreed to.
CANADIAN

NATIONAL RAILWAYS

PLATFORM EXTENSIONS AND OTHER PASSENGER SERVICES ON OCEAN
LIMITED-INQUIRY ANSWERED

Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Government, pursuant to notice:
What was the cost to the Canadian
National Railways to extend the station
platform to accomnodate passengers on
the Ocean Limited at each of the follow-

ing stations, including refuelling, servicing, and lighting equipment:-Chipman,
McGivney Junction, Juniper, Plaster
Rock, Grand Falls, St. Leonard, Edmundston, Blue River, Escourt, Monk, Armagh,
Ste. Claire, St. Isidore Junction and
Joffre?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
The Canadian National Railways advise as
follows:No work
performed
$
Chipman
11,358
McGivney Junction
29,135
Juniper
6,915
Plaster Rock
7,905
Grand Falls
7,559
St. Leonard
5,830
Edmundston
73,051
Blue River
Estcourt
Monk
9,736
Armagh
Ste. Claire
St. Isidore
Joffre
17,640
PASSENGER SERVICE BETWEEN MONCTON AND
EDMUNDSTON-INQUIRY ANSWERED

Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Government, pursuant to notice:
1. What was the cost to the Canadian
National Railways of operating passenger
service between Moncton and Edmundston for the months of January and February 1970?

2. What was the number of passengers
carried?
3. What was the gross revenue from
this service?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
The Canadian National Railways advise
as follows:1. Railway costs of this nature are considered confidential in view of the Railway's competitive situation. The Railway
Act, as amended by the National Transportation Act, recognizes this situation
and has provided for confidentiality of
railway cost data with the limited exception that where such information is
obtained by the Canadian Transport
Commission in the course of any investigation under the Railway Act, such information shall not be published or revealed

1016

SENATE DEBATES

in such a manner as to be available for
the use of any other person unless, in the
opinion of the Commission, such publication is necessary in the public interest.
2. January, 800; February, 1,227.
3. January, $4,043; February, $5,991.
PASSENGER SERVICE BETWEEN EDMUNDSTON
AND JOFFRE-INQUIRY ANSWERED
Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired
Government, pursuant to notice:

of the

1. What was the cost to the Canadian
National Railways of operating passenger
service between Edmundston and Joffre
for the months of January and February,
1970?
2. What was the number of passengers
carried?
3. What was the gross revenue from
this service?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.

The Canadian
advise as follows:-

National

Railways

1. Railway costs of this nature are considered confidential in view of the Railway's competitive situation. The Railway
Act, as amended by the National Transportation Act, recognizes this situation
and bas provided for confidentiality of
railway cost data with the limited exception that where such information is
obtained by the Canadian Transport
Commission in the course of any investigation under the Railway Act, such information shall not be published or revealed
in such a manner as to be available for
the use of any other person unless, in the
opinion of the Commission, such publication is necessary in the public interest.
2. Edmundston-Charny, January, 693;
February, 1,190.
3. Edmundston-Charny, January, $3,923;
February, $6,306.
TRANSPORT DEPARTMENT
STORAGE AND CARE OF CUSTER CHANNEL
WING AIRCRAFT BY DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORT-INQUIRY ANSWERED
Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Government, pursuant to notice:
1. What was the amount paid to the

Department of Transport by the owner in
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

May 12, 1970

1967 for storage of the Custer Channel
Wing aircraft at a Department of Transport hangar in Newfoundland?
2. Who authorized the transfer of the
aircraft from the Department of Transport hanger to a bomb-proof shelter, and
for what reason?

3. Who authorized the chopping of the
aircraft into several pieces while it was
in storage with the Department of Transport, and for what reason?

Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
1. $183.93 for the period September 8,
1967 to August 15, 1968.
2. The transfer was authorized by local
Department of Transport officials, as the

space in the hangar was required for
other purposes.
3. The Department of Transport has no
knowledge of the aircraft being chopped
into several pieces. The aircraft was
involved in an accident while landing at
Gander and the Accident Investigation
Authorities disassembled the engines
during the course of their investigation,
in accordance with the Air Regulations.

INQUIRIES
DELAY IN ANSWERS FROM CROWN
CORPORATIONS-QUESTION
Hon. Edgar E. Fournier: Honourable sen-ators, before the Orders of the Day are called I
should like to make an observation as to my
notices of inquiry respecting the Canadian
National Railways. Before doing so I wish to
compliment the Leader of the Government in
this house on a TV appearance he made in
New Brunswick last Saturday on the program
Newscope. I happened to be at home and saw
the program, and I was very pleased with the
way in which he approached the subject of
the Senate. He did a fine job.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
The Hon.

the

Speaker: Order. Before the

honourable Senator Fournier proceeds further,
I ask him if his remarks will conclude with a
question,
Period.

because we are on the

Question

Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigou.
che): Mr. Speaker, my question will follow
these remarks.

May 12, 1970

May 12 1970SENATE
DEBATES

In my view, the honourable Leader of the
Hon. Mr. Smith: What is the question?
Governrnent did a very good job, and his
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Res±igouremarks added greatly to the public's understanding of the Senate. However, I took che): 1 will have two questions next Tuesday.
exception to one part of the program. The
honourable leader found it hard to face
CANADA SHIPPING ACT
the camera when hie over-praised the Prime
Minister. 1 thought hie stretched things a littie
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING
bit, especially at this time when the Prime
Hon. Donald Smith moved the third readMinister is out of the country enjoying the
Sun of the Pacific and the hula dancers, and îng of Bll 0-10, to, arnend the Canada Shipat a time when Canada is facing a threatened ping Act.
mail strike and is in need of a leader more
Motion agreed to, and bill read third tirne
than ever.
and passed.
Hon. Mr. Smith: Order.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska.]Restigouche): That concludes my compliments. I have
to do a littie swimming before I put my
question.
I arn not disappointed that rnany of these
inquiries remain unanswered because this is a
situation for whîch we are entirely responsible. We have given too much power to
these Crown corporations-and there are 47
of them. Although many of them are doing
good jobs, some are not doing so well.
Both sides of this house are equally guilty.
When I was a member of the Opposition i
the other place and we wanted to, make sorne
remarks about the C.B.C. or the C.N.R., the
Government members would put their hands
up in the air and say, "Don't touch the
C..."or: "Don't touch the C.N.R.," 0f
course, when we were in power the situation
was reversed when the other side made the
same remarks.
I do not know whether I arn out of order,
Mr. Speaker, in making these remnarks, but I
thought I should say a f ew wordsThe Hon. the Speaker: I would like the
honourable Senator Fournier to, put his question now.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche): Agaîn, it is a matter of expressing an
opinion. These inquiries are very simple, and
their answers do not involve lengthy
research. The facts are there in the books,
and ail that has to be done is to, look at the
books. 1 arn convinced that the C.N.R. has the
books and the correct figures, but these are
inquiries which they do not very much care
to answer. I must conclude with that. I think I
have put my question very plainly, honourable senators. In the future I wish to, say more
about the Canadian National Railways.

CRIMINAL CODE (HATE PROPAGANDA)
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING-DEBATE
CONTINUED-MOTION IN AMENDMENT
NEGATIVED

The Senate resurned from Thursday, May 7,
the adjourned debate on the motion in
amendrnent of Hon. Mr. Lang to, the motion
of Hion. Mrs. Fergusson for the second reading of Bil C-3, to amend the Criminal Code.
Hon. George S. White: Honourable senators, I wish to speak very briefly in support of
the amendaient rnoved by Senator Lang to
Bil C-3.
Like rnany other senators, I have been
interested in this bill since the date it was
first introduced into this chamber some four
years ago. I have read ail the speeches in the
other house and i this chamber. I attended
the committee meetings last year when the
bill was before the committee and I have
knowledge of ail the various briefs presented
to that committee. Now we corne to, the tirne
when the bul is being presented for the
fourth time in this chamber.
Despite ail that has been said for and
against this bill, both i the comrnittee and in
this chamber, it appears that no person or
brief has put forward or advanced one valid
reason or argument as to why this bill is
necessary in Canada. On the other hand, many
briefs, editorials in newspapers frorn coast to
coasL, letters from Canadian citizens and much
evidence produced before the committee last
year showed that this bil is not only vicious,
but dangerous, unnecessary and practically
imnpossible of enforcement.
Honourable senators who served on that
comrnittee will well recail that the briefs presented and the entire evidence before the
comrnittee did not recite or give one single
case of violence or evidence of any incident
or happening in Canada that would make it

1018

SENATE DEBATES

May 12, 1970

necessary for the introduction of this farreaching and most objectionable bill. It is true
that there were references to the lunatic
fringe, hatemongers, crackpots and similar
words. There was a direct reference to one
named individual but, I repeat, no brief or
evidence gave any instance in the slightest
degree to show why it was necessary to have
a bill of this type. There has been no evidence presented from the department of the
attorney general of any province of Canada of
any acts of violence or other offences being
committed as a result of the mailing of racist
pamphlets in the years 1964 and 1965 to thousands of Canadians in all provinces of
Canada, or a report of any other acts of violence or offences of any nature that would
make this bill necessary.
I refer now, honourable senators, to the
important observation and warning by Senator O'Leary at page 974 of Hansard, with
reference to this bill:
This law will be administered by the
attorneys general of our provinces, and
they will be subjected to tremendous
pressure by small groups who want this
saw passed. That is its danger.

Further on he said:
But I for one could never agree that the
Supreme Court of Canada should supplant the authority and jurisdiction of the
Parliament of the nation.

In listening to the debate on this amendment, it is difficult to understand the opposition of some honourable senators to such a
reasonable and prudent procedure as referring this bill to the Supreme Court of Canada
to obtain a decision on the matters set out in
the amendment moved by Senator Lang. In
his amendment, after the usual wording, the
purpose is:
-for hearing and consideration as to
whether in any circumstances the whole
or any part of its provisions would or
might be held to be inoperative as an
abrogation, abridgment or infringement
of any of the fundamental freedoms dealt
with in the Canadian Bill of Rights.

Hon. Mr. White: If such a reference is made
to the Supreme Court, how can the honourable Leader of the Government say that the
Supreme Court is making a decision as to a
matter of policy? Al the reference to the
court would do would be to make a decision
on whether or not any part of the bill:
-might be held to be inoperative as an
abrogation, abridgment or infringement
of any of the fundamental freedoms dealt
with in the Canadian Bill of Rights.

The honourable Leader of the Government
(Hon. Mr. Martin) has stated that such a reference would result in leaving to the
Supreme Court of Canada the decision on a
matter of policy. At page 933 of Hansard the
honourable Leader of the Government said:
No one has more respect for the Supreme
Court than I have, but this is the Parliament of the nation. I do not think any
Member of Parliament, whether of this
chamber or the other, would want to
leave to the Supreme Court the decision
on a matter of policy.
[Hon. Mr. White.]

Hon. Mr. Flynn: I wonder what he meant?
Hon. Mr. White: At page 961 the honourable Leader of the Government said:
And so, without any reservation I say at
once to all honourable senators that this
Government has no reservation about
this bill. The officers of the Crown have
given their advice, and the Government
believes in the purposes and objectives of
this bill.
He later said:
And we say that there is no doubt about
the legality of the bill.
Hon. Mr. Choque±e: Who made that naïve
statement?
Hon. Mr. Flynn: He was simply repeating
what Senator Croll had already said.
Hon. Mr. Martin: A friend of yours.

How can anyone interpret the amendment as
asking the Supreme Court of Canada to make
a legal decision on a matter of policy? Certainly no one is suggesting in the slightest
degree that the Supreme Court of Canada
should supplant the authority and jurisdiction
of the Parliament of Canada.
Again at page 961 of Hansard, the honourable Leader of the Government in the Senate
said:
And so, without any reservation I say at
once to all honourable senators that this
Government has no reservation about
this bill.
Later, he repeats what he said:
And we say that there is no doubt about
the legality of the bill.

SENATE DEBATES

May 32, 1970

According to that, the Government is now
above the courts-for the Government Leader
in this chamber has decided "there is no
doubt about the legality of the bill." He states
that the legal officers of the department gave
their opinion. It was only an opinion. Those
officials are only human. They have been
wrong in the past and they will be wrong in
the future. The honourable leader is a lawyer,
a member of the Bar, and he knows that all
lawyers give opinions. Often, at a later date, a
court rules against that opinion. One has but
to read the Law Reports to find there the
record of many cases before the Ontario
Court of Appeal, cases which were heard
before a county court or a supreme court
judge. On appeal, the judgments were set
aside, varied, or a new trial ordered. The
same applies to the Supreme Court of
Canada. Here judgments of a court of appeal
of a province of Canada are set aside, varied
or a new trial ordered. But in respect of this
bill, that will not be necessary, because
everything has been settled. The supreme
oracle has spoken. The honourable Leader of
the Government proclaims to this chamber,
and to the country at large, that "there is no
doubt about the legality of this bill."
Are we now to recognize the cabinet as
undisputed experts, now that the Leader of
the Government in the Senate bas seriously
doctrine of ministerial
the
enunciated
infallibility?
Hon. Mr. Flynn:
"seriously".

I

question

the word

Hon. Mr. White: For the Leader of the
Government in the Senate to make such a
preposterous claim is more than just appalling, it is downright frightening.
Statements such as those to which I have
just referred are what leads some of us to be
vehemently opposed to any measure which
would open the door to further limitation of
the freedom of speech. Any minister of the
Crown who ascribes infallibility to himself or
to one of his colleagues must be taken seriously and feared.
I ask honourable senators what possible
harm can be done by asking the Supreme
Court of Canada to make a legal decision, as
requested in the amendment moved by Senator Lang. In the opinion of many senators, in
the opinion expressed in many editorials in
newspapers from coast to coast, and in the
opinion of a very large number of Canadian

1019

citizens, this bill does infringe on the fundamental freedoms set out in the Canadian Bill
of Rights.
Perhaps it is folly to protest in any way
against this bill. Our Just Society has apparently decided that in the final analysis the bill
must be swallowed by Canadians, whether
they like it or not. We, the Canadian people, a
happy breed of people, are known, respected
and loved throughout the entire world for our
freedoms, for our respect for law and order,
for our friendliness and for our willingness to
help and assist others. We are renowned for
the great effort of all Canadian people who,
in two world wars, and in Korea, sent hundreds of thousands of young Canadians overseas to protect the freedom of other peoples.
Canada gave freely of its men and poured out
its wealth, not for any material gain, but
simply to protect the freedom of other
peoples.
In my opinion, we do not need this type of
legislation. In this chamber we have senators
from every part of Canada, from every occupation and profession. Surely the majority of
honourable senators, with their great experience of this Canada of ours, will not decide
that this vicious and infamous bill is necessary in Canada in 1970.
This chamber has been the subject of much
criticism in recent years. Today the Senate
has the opportunity to gain a new image, to
demonstrate to the Canadian public its value.
In refusing to pass the bill, the Senate will
preserve our human rights and freedoms.
Ail honourable senators have received
many letters from across Canada regarding
this bill. No doubt the same letter was sent to
many senators. I would like to read one letter
which was addressed to the honourable Senator Choquette. It is dated April 21, 1970, and
is signed by Nellie McMahon, who gives her
address as 320 Tenth Street, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. The letter reads:
Dear Sir,
The 'hate' bill C-3 is before the Senior
House of Canada, the Senate. We were
taught at school that the Senate was
Canada's Parliamentary "Safety Machine"
-that the Senate would not allow a bad
bill to become law. In school we were
told that the Senate was a group of
dedicated Canadians, well educated,
highly informed, etc. etc. and as long as
we had the Senate we would be protected
from oppressive and dictatorial government as well as from laws that might
benefit a few at the expense of many.

1020

SENATE DEBATES

Now you Senators have the chance to
prove to the Canadian students and to
the Canadian public at large what you
stand for and if you are going to defend
our liberties. Are we going to be allowed
our right and our Canadian heritage of
freedom of speech and the right to
dissent?
We must leave this matter in your
hands now! We trust that you yourself
will have the foresight and courageous
beliefs to say No to this dangerous and
leftist bill. Will our trust in you be
broken? We pray that it will not.
Yours respectfully,
Nellie McMahon.
I hope honourable senators will all support
the amendment moved by Senator Lang.

May 12, 1970

forward by Mr. Diefenbaker when he was
Prime Minister of Canada, at which time he
received tremendous applause from all over
the country for having done so. But let us
understand first what the Bill of Rights says.
It says that the human rights and fundamental freedoms which are enumerated in this
bill-not the broad sweep of freedom of
speech, et cetera, but human rights and fundamental freedoms which are enumerated in
this bill are recognized and declared. The
exact language is as follows:
1. It is hereby recognized and declared
there have existed and shall continue to
exist without discrimination by reason of
race, national origin, colour, religion or
sex-

These are the discriminating elements that
are declared out of bounds or in respect of
Hon. Sal±er A. Hayden: Honourable sena- which you have a purging of the discriminattors, I think I should first make clear my ing provisions which deal with any of these
aspects:
position in relation to this amendment. I am national discrimination by reason of race,
origin, colour, religion or sex. These
opposed to the amendment. I propose in due are declared
to have existed, which means
course to give the reasons why I am opposed
whatever may have been the law in relation
to it.
to these subject matters which come under
My position in relation to a similar bill in the grouping of human rights and fundamen1966 is well known to all senators, and is tal freedoms, as enumerated in this section of
reported in Hansard of that year, when I the act to which I will refer very quickly,
spoke against the bill. But I am against this that these are to be considered, construed and
amendment, which starts by seeking the usual
six months' hoist to a bill, where the intent is applied as though those discriminating words
to kill the bill. In this case I am not attribut- were not there.
Let us move next to what human rights are
ing such a motive to the senator who moved
the amendment. I propose to discuss the ques- enumerated. The human rights are these:
tion on the merits, ignoring the first part of
(a) the right of the individual to life,
the amendment which simply provides for a
liberty, security of the person and enjoysix-month hoist, and to deal with the reasons
ment of property and the right not to be
which are given as to why there should be a
deprived thereof except by due process of
six-month hoist, and to show that those realaw;
sons are not only inadequate but have no
(b) the right of the individual to equalsupport in a factual and legal consideration of
ity before the law and protection of the
the Bill of Rights and of Bill C-3 which is
before us.
law;
I intend to be fair in what I say, but I The next part deals with the freedoms.
cannot help the comment that in some of the
I might ask what the difference is between
things I have heard and in some of the things
I have read of what has been said in con- the original recital in the beginning of the
nection with this bill, the indication is that section as to fundamental freedoms and then
there bas been little if any attempt to put the enumeration which deals only with freethe Bill of Rights and Bill C-3 down side by doms. I just note that in passing. I have no
side and for a comparison to sec if there is particular comment to make on it. The freedoms are:
any conflict. This is what I propose to do.
(c) freedom of religion;
First of all I shall deal with the Bill of
Rights. I know that as long as I talk about the
(d) freedom of speech;
Bill of Rights I am sure to enjoy the support
(e) freedom of assembly and associaof the Leader of the Opposition and his suption; and
porters because the Bill of Rights was put
(f) freedom of the press.
[Hon. Mr. White.]

May 12, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

This means that we must examine Bill C-3
in relation to these restrictions, or to these
provisions under the heading of human rights
and fundamental freedoms, to determine
whether in relation to any item in Bill C-3
there is discrimination against any person by
reason of race, national origin, colour, religion
or sex.
Incidentally, I had hoped Senator O'Leary
would be present tonight because there were
a few things that he said which I should like
to comment on. But may I assure my honourable friends that there is no guarantee in the
Bill of Rights guaranteeing the freedom of
speech. You look to see what the law of the
land says in relation to that and you examine
that law of the land, and if anywhere in that
law there is a discrimination against any
person by reason of race, national origin,
colour, religion or sex, then that part of such
act must be purged in order to consider
properly the application of the law.
There are a few other things I intend to
say, but I propose now to look at Bill C-3.
Clause I of the bill gives the Section 267A. It
says-and I draw attention to the word
"everyone":
267A. (1) Everyone who advocates or
promotes genocide is guilty of an indictable offence and is liable to imprisonment
for five years.

ble group where such incitement is likely
to lead to a breach of the peace, is guilty
of
(a) an indictable offenceet cetera. Again I say to you, let us apply the
same test. Is there anything in any word, in
any clause, in any part of a sentence that is
used in this Section 267B which in any way
discriminates against any person by reason of
his race, national origin, colour, religion or
sex? Again the answer must be clearly and
emphatically no.
Then, when I look at the third offence
which is createdHon. Mr. Lang: May I ask the honourable
gentleman a question?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Mr. Speaker, if my
friend has a question which is pertinent and
not impertinent, I am prepared to listen to it.
Hon. Mr. Lang: My question is very
pertinent.
My honourable colleague has properly
pointed out that the word "genocide" is
defined in this bill in the first section. I know
that honourable senators realize that the
word "hate" is not defined under the second
section. I wonder if my learned colleague, in
his wisdom of the law and in his wisdom
generally, may be able to interpret for this
chamber what is meant by the word "hate".

"Genocide" is defined as meaning:
-any of the following acts committed
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Do I understand my
with intent to destroy in whole or in part friend to be asking me a question?
any identifiable group, namely:
Hon. Mr. Lang: Yes.
(a) killing members of the group, or
(b) deliberately inflicting on the group
Hon. Mr. Hayden: What is the question?
conditions of life calculated to bring
Hon. Mr. Lang: I will repeat it, honourable
about its physical destruction.
senators. In the first section to which my
In connection with that offence which is honourable friend referred, he mentioned that
created under Bill C-3, let us go back to the word genocide was defined, and is quite
Section 1 of the Bill of Rights and ask our- clearly defined. But, what I would like to ask
selves the question, whether there is anything my honourable friend now is this: In the
in this provision creating the offence of geno- second offence created, the pertinent word is
cide and making it an offence to advocate or "hate", and I wonder if my honourable
promote genocide. Is there anything in that friend could define that word for us since
section in Bill C-3 which discriminates it is not defined in the bill.
against any person by reason of race, national
Hon. Mr. Hayden: My friend is asking me
origin, colour, religion or sex? The answer to define the word "hatred", and I am sure
obviously and clearly and emphatically must my friend could define it himself. In fact, I
be no.
am sure every senator here could define it
Then I go on to the next offence in Bill C-3. because it is a word with such a well-known
and ordinary meaning that it does not require
It is:
267B. (1) Every one who, by corn- specific definition. But, honourable senators,
municating staternents in any public the definition of hatred is not any part of the
place, incites hatred against any identifia- argument I am making. I am saying, and I

1022

SENATE DEBATES

hope my friend understands this, that if you
read the second offence created about communicating statements in any public place to
incite hatred, and if you read it in the entire
context, taking into account the whole language of the section, checking commas,
semicolons and periods, you will find nothing
there which discriminates in any way against
any person by reason of race, national origin,
colour, religion or sex. So, the answer is not
whether "hatred" is defined or not; it is, as I
have said, a word that has a very clear and
well-known meaning.
The third offence created reads as follows:
Everyone
who,
by communicating
statements, other than in private conversation, wilfully pronotes hatred against
any identifiable group is guilty of
(a) an indictable offenceAgain, if we apply the same formula, we will
find that there is no discrimination under the
terms of Bill C-3 by reason of race, national
origin, religion, colour or sex because once
again the offence commences with the word
"everyone". You might as well say to me that
the Criminal Code itself offends against the
Bill of Rights because the Criminal Code
deals with, for example, defamatory libel.
Now, honourable senators, defanatory libel is
an offence. The appropriate section says that
"Everyone who publishes a defamatory libel
is guilty of an indictable offence and is liable
to imprisonment for two years." Now, because
it says "Everyone", it is clearly not in conflict with the Bill of Rights, and there is no
conflict with the undoubted jurisdiction of
the Parliament of Canada to enact criminal
law. And here I would point out that Bill C-3
is criminal law.
So I say to my friend, the mover of this
amendment, that if a defamatory libel is an
offence, and properly an offence, and indeed a
criminal offence under the law, then when
you use the same language in respect of
another offence such as is being created
under the authority of the criminal law, you
are reaching the same people who are covered by the word "everyone". You have not
in fact singled out any person in relation to
this particular legislation. Therefore, it cannot
be said that there is any conflict. Where can
conflict lie? It cannot be a general conflict; it
must be a conflict in the terms recognized and
declared by the Bill of Rights. In this respect
I shall at a later stage have something to say
about the Drybones case.
My great difficulty in dealing with a similar
bill some years ago was because I considered
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

May 12, 1970

that bill to be redundant, and I have not
changed my view on that point. But so far as
the terms of the offences created in this bill
are concerned, they are offences created in
the same general terms, and whether they are
in confliet with the provisions in the Bill of
Rights is not a general question as to whether
we are sweeping away the roots of freedom
of speech. That is a good rhetorical expression which is always good for some applause.
But the real test is, what are the provisions in
the Bill of Rights that are in conflict with any
of the points to be found in Bill C-3?
Honourable senators, there are two other
matters in the Bill of Rights that I wish to
deal with. One is the question of privilege.
Hon. Mr. Choquelie: I think my good friend
has asked a question, and so I am going to
ask him if he agrees with my answer.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Is my honourable friend
asking me a question?
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Yes. My honourable
friend asked a question, and I am asking him
if he agrees with the answer I am about to
give. He posed this question: What is the
difference between equality before the law
and freedom of speech so far as the Bill of
Rights is concerned?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: My friend is anticipating. This is the next point on my agenda. At
least it indicates that my friend is following
me.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: With great interest.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: There are two additional
provisions, and if any bill or any law of
Canada-and this includes Bill C-3-is found
wanting in these two particulars, then that
bill is bad law and is inoperative insofar as
any element of enforcement is concerned. The
first refers to any attack on the human
individual in regard to life, liberty, security
of the person and the right to private property, and the provision is that he may not be
deprived of these rights without due process
of law.
If you examine Bill C-3, there is ample
evidence to show that this due process of law
and the equality of the person before the law
is not violated by any of its provisions. If the
particular law we are considering in that context does not meet these requirements, it is
inoperative insofar as the provisions of that
particular law are concerned. There I am re-

May 12, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

ferring to the rights of an individual to equality before the law and to protection subject to
the law.
This is as good a time as any to point out
that there is no inequality before the law for
any person under the terms of Bill C-3, none
whatsoever. In the Drybones case, the section
referred to was a section of the Indian Act,
and the judgment in the Supreme Court of
Canada proceeded on the basis that there was
inequality before the law, and that the inequality arose out of the very language of
section 94 of the Indian Act.
To refresh your memory, that section reads
in this fashion:
94. An Indian who(b) is intoxicated,off a reserve, is guilty of an offence and
is liable on summary conviction to a
fineet cetera. There is an inequality under the
law. No person is made subject to this offence
except the Indian.
Let me refer to the decision of the Supreme
Court of Canada which is based on this question of equality before the law, and is not
based on any question of freedom of speech,
and is not a precedent which can properly be
looked at to interpret Bill C-3 in its relationship to the Bill of Rights.
In the judgment of Mr. Justice Ritchie,
who wrote the majority judgment in the
Supreme Court of Canada, in the Drybones
case, at page 7, he says:
It seems to me that a more realistic
meaning must be given to the words in
question and they afford, in my view, the
clearest indication that section 2 is
intended to meanThis is dealing with one of the authorities
which had been quoted from the judgment.
-and
does mean that if a law of
Canada cannot be "sensibly construed and
applied" so that it does not abrogate,
abridge or infringe one of the rights and
freedoms recognized and declared by the
Bill, then such law is inoperativePlease note that the test is whether or not
it abrogates, abridges or infringes "one of the
rights and freedoms recognized and declared
by the Bill". I have told you what those rights
and freedoms are as declared by the Bill, and
there is the test you must apply.
Later, at page 10 of his judgment, in dealing with the particular case, he said:
I think that the word "law" as used in
section 1(b) of the Bill of Rights is to be

construed as meaning "the law of Canada" as defined in section 5(2) (i.e. Acts of
the Parliament of Canada and any orders,
rules or regulations thereunder) and
without attempting any exhaustive definition of "equality before the law" I
think that section 1(b) means at least that
no individual or group of individuals is to
be treated more harshly than another
under that law, and I am therefore of
opinion that an individual is denied
equality before the law if it is made an
offence punishable at law, on account of
his race, for him to do something which
his fellow Canadians are free to do without having committed any offence or
having been made subject to any penalty.
It is only necessary for the purpose of
deciding this case for me to say that in
my opinion section 94(b) of the Indian
Act is a law of Canada which creates
such an offence and that it can only be
construed in such manner that its
application would operate so as to abrogate, abridge or infringe one of the rights
declared and recognized by the Bill of
Rights. For the reasons which I have
indicated, I am therefore of opinion that
section 94(b) is inoperative.
The whole burden of the decision in the
Drybones case turned on the question as to
whether the Indian Act, in this particular section and in relation to the charge which was
laid against this Indian, gave that individual
equality before the law; and since it was
aimed at him by reason of his race, the judgment in the Supreme Court of Canada was
that that section, in its application to him,
was inoperative because it violated one of the
human rights and freedoms prescribed under
the Bill of Rights.
However, the point you have to look at is
that in the consideration of any piece of legislation or any bill you must not only look at
the bill, you must look at the prescriptions in
the Bill of Rights to see whether there is
discrimination or refusal to recognize certain
human rights that are made an essential part
of the Bill of Rights.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Is freedom of speech a
sacrosanct freedom mentioned in the Bill of
Rights, or is it not?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I am glad my friend
asked the question. Freedom of speech is,
indeed, one of the freedoms enunerated in
the Bill of Rights. It is not defined. "Freedom
of speech" is whatever it means under the
law of the land, and it only ceases in its

1024

SENATE DEBATES

application and becornes inoperative if in
relation to any act there have been appended
words which provide discrimination against
any person by reason of race, national origin,
colour, religion or sex.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: Would the honourable
senatorHon. Mr. Hayden: May I be permitted to
complete my answer first? I like to answer
one question at a time.
There is no guarantee of freedom of speech
in the Bill of Rights. In the Bill of Rights
there is protection of freedom of speech if its
application has been limited or circumscribed
in ways that offend against and discriminate
under the Bill of Rights. But you find your
so-called guarantee of freedom of speech in
whatever the general laws of Canada are.
You find it in the Criminal Code.
Let me say to my friend who asked the
question that I am treating his question as
one seriously asked and seeking a serious
answer. My answer is this: Can it be suggested that freedom of speech is equivalent to
licence? Surely not. I do not think anyone
would say that. Can it be said that freedom of
speech entitles one person to defame another,
one person to incite or promote the commission of the offence of genocide? Is that freedom of speech? That may be an expression
that is used as a cliché in many of the situations in which we find ourselves today. Under
the law, if you defame a person, that person
has civil remedies; if you slander a person,
under the civil law that person has civil
remedies; and the real defence by which the
defamer or slanderer can escape is if he can
establish that what he said was truc, or was
fair comment, or if he can establish that in
answering in a fashion which might ordinarily be slanderous or libellous he was hitting a
level of discussion set by the other person.
We have defamatory libel. Would my
friend include in the definition of "freedom of
speech" the right to criminally defame? That
is a form of speech. The Criminal Code provides that it is an offenceHon. Mr. Beaubien: It is in the law now.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Yes, it is in the law now.
I will come to my friend in a moment. Do not
get restless!
"Freedom of speech" is a phrase that is
bandied about. It bas its limitations, and in
the context in which it is used my submission is that it means relative freedom of
speech-that is, there are qualifications. It
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

May 12, 1970

does not mean that every speech and everything you say is entitled to protection because
you say, "I have the right to speak freely."
Under the law you do not have the right to
speak freely: you have the right to speak
your mind freely, so long as you observe
what the law is.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You are going a bit far
there.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: My friend suggests I am
going a bit far.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: In the case of Saumur v.
City of Quebec the Supreme Court of Canada
said that freedom of religion would entitle
the Jehovah Witnesses to say anything they
wanted against the Roman Catholics.
Hon. Mr. Croll: It was not quite that.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: That is right. That is what
Mr. Justice Abbott said.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Let us not get into a
dispute such as we had the other day with
some honourable senators accusing other
honourable senators of saying certain things,
and stating that certain cases put forward
certain propositions. Let us get down to the
simple fact that under "speech" anybody who
has a mouth and who can formulate words can
speak, but the penalty for speaking is what I
am talking about. A person who has the ability of speech may put words together in such
a way as to be abusive and insulting; he may
make derogatory, defamatory, and seditious
remarks. Certainly he has the freedom within
himself to do that, but he has not the freedom
under the law to do it, and if he does it he
may be punished. Those are offences.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Not under the present law.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: What about shouting at
the Prime Minister?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: If there is a difference of
opinion as to what the authorities say, then I
point out that my honourable friend has had
an opportunity to make his speech. If he needs
more time, then I will sit down.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I am sorry. I did not
intend to interrupt you. I do not mind
interruptions.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I do not either. That is
why I am sitting down.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I assure the honourable
senator that I shall not say another word until
he has resumed his seat for good.

May 12, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1025

Hon. Mr. Hayden: I do not know about
Hon. Mr. Lang: I wonder if I may ask my
that. The phrase "for good" connotes a long honourable friend a question.
time.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Just a minute.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Perhaps I may be
Mr. Speaker, I can defend myself, so I am
allowed to ask a question. Is the honourable not disturbed my friend's question, but I
senator speaking on the proposed amendment would like him to put his question at the end
or on the bill itself?
of a sentence, and not when I am half way
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I thought I was speaking through a sentence. I expect that courtesy, at
least.
on the proposed amendment.
The Hon. the Speaker: Up to the present
Hon. Mr. Choquette: I do not consider that
much of what the honourable senator has said the procedure has been in order. It is in order
Senator Lang to rise
so
far is pertinent to the proposed for the honourable Senator Hayden if he and
will
ask the honourable
amendment.
accept a question. It is also in order for the
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I am sorry if that is my honourable Senator Hayden to say: "I have
friend's opinion. My friend is usually quite not completed my answer to the previous
observant, and he notices a point of view. I question. Please let me finish with the quessaid that as far as the bill itself was con- tion that was put to me." It is up to the
cerned I thought it was redundant, but I was honourable Senator Hayden to accept a quesnot discussing the merits of the bill. I am tion or to decline it.
discussing the merits of the amendment, and
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I am not declining to
if my friend would only resist the impulse to
interrupt because something I am saying disa- accept a question. What I am asaying to my
question put
grees with what he thinks, and look with his friend is that I dislike having
to me when I am in the middle of a sentence,
usual fair manner at what I am saying, he
would see that that is so. This amendment pro- as I am sure he does too. Now that I am at
poses that the question of the abridgement or the end of a sentence, will he please proceed?
abrogation of the rights provided under the
Hon. Mr. Lang: I thank my honourable
Bill of Rights should be referred to the friend for his courtesy. I attempted to ask
Supreme Court of Canada for its decision. I him this question three paragraphs before he
am addressing myself to the statement or heard my voice. Unfortunately, I am behind
proposition that I put earlier-perhaps my him geographically, and he does not see me
friend missed it-by saying that there was when I rise.
nothing in Bill C-3 that was in conflict with
The honourable senator stated that there is
the Bill of Rights and, therefore, there was no conflict between the provisions of this bill
nothing to be referred to the Supreme Court and the Bill of Rights, and he has given very
of Canada. I am sorry if the language which I cogent and well-founded reasons, with his
used was not clear enough to indicate that usual forensic skill,
this was the proposition I was making, and I should like to askas to why that is so. But,
my friend what are his
that it was to this that I was speaking.
objections to referring this very question to
I repeat, there is nothing in Bill C-3 which the Supreme Court of Canada. I am interested
offends in any way against any of the dis- in knowing the reason why this very question
criminations that are legislated against in the should not be referred to the Supreme Court
Bill of Rights. There are no discriminations of Canada.
based on race, religion, national origin,
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I hoped that my friend
colour, or sex. There is no such discrimination, but there is due process of law for any would ask that question, because he asked
person who is charged, and there is equality Senator Phillips (Rigaud) the same question
the other evening. I think it is my duty as a
under the law.
senator to bring whatever ability and trainIn the Lord's Day case, which was referred ing I have to bear on any bill that is
to in the Drybones case, it was held that the presented in this house. I have applied that
Lord's Day Act was not in conflict with the sense and that experience which I have
Bill of Rights. In the Drybones case it was acquired over the years to an interpretation
held that there was inequality under the law, of these two measures. I have laid Bill C-3
and that therefore the law, so far as it dealt beside the Bill of Rights, and I have put
with that Indian under the Indian Act, was before this house what the provisions of each
inoperable. Here there is not one of theseis in relation to this question of how a section

1026

SENATE DEBATES

in any law of Canada might become inoperative if it is in violation of certain provisions
of the Bill of Rights. I have applied my judgment to that, and I am prepared to make a
decision on my judgment.
If my friend wants to lean on the Supreme
Court of Canada rather than make his own
judgment or decision, then that is his privilege, and the majority of the members of this
house will decide whether he is entitled to do
that or not. Therefore, it is not only my opinion that matters. My opinion may not influence that decision one way or another. It will
be the rule of the majority when a vote is
taken on this amendment. If the majority
rules that the amendment succeeds, then it
may be that Bill C-3 will be referred by the
Governor in Council to the Supreme Court of
Canada, but on that point I have something
further to say which bas not been discussed
so far.
My friend's amendment is that the Governor in Council be asked to refer this bill to
the Supreme Court of Canada under section
55 of the Supreme Court Act, but I wonder if
he has given any thought to the fact that the
Parliament of Canada, since the decisions that
were referred to in the reasoned speech of the
honourable Leader of the Opposition, resulting from what successive ministers of justice
had done in respect to referring bills at various stages to the Supreme Court of Canada,
has provided in section 3 of the Bill of Rights
a procedure for the determination of whether
this bill is in violation of the Bill of Rights.
Parliament, including the Senate and the
House of Commons, has made this provision:
The Minister of Justice shall, in
accordance with such regulations as may
be prescribed by the Governor in Council, examine every proposed regulation
submitted in draft form to the Clerk of
the Privy Council pursuant to the Regulations Act andThis is the pertinent part.
-every
Bill introduced in or presented
to the House of Commons, in order to
ascertain whether any of the provisions
thereof are inconsistent with the purposes
and provisions of this Part and he shall
report any such inconsistency to the
House of Commons at the first convenient
opportunity.
Parliament-the Senate and the House of
Commons-have laid down this as the procedure for determining whether or not any bill
that comes into the flouse of Commons is
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

May 12, 1970

consistent with the Bill of Rights. The statutory direction by Parliament is to the Minister of Justice to make the examination and to
certify it.
I ask this question: Parliament, having
made an election as to the procedure to
be followed, is that not the governing
procodure, and in those circumstances that
part of section 55 is not operative in the
sense that under it the Government of the
day does not have to refer bills that are
in the course of going through Parliament?
Obviously, where the validity or constitutionality of a bill is being challenged, that is by
reference to the Supreme Court of Canada at
the instance of the Governor in Council.
We had a situation here some years ago
which many senators present will remember.
For a number of years the late Senator Euler
persisted in introducing bills declaring that it
was legal to make, import and sell oleomargarine in Canada. J was his chief lieutenant. I
did not succeed very well, nor did he. Every
time it came to a vote there were many
against and very few for his bill. Finally,
after that had occurred a number of times, he
introduced a resolution asking the Governor
in Council to refer the question of the constitutionality of the oleomargarine statute,
which had been passed in 1885, to the
Supreme Court of Canada. This was a perfectly proper reference under section 55. It
was done and, as you know, it is history now
as to the course which that hearing took.
Ultimately, that 1885 statute was declared to
Le unconstitutional.
I am saying, and I invite argument on it,
that Parliament having determined a course
of procedure for dealing with bills that come
b efore the House of Commons that may in
any way be inconsistent with the Bill of
Rights, a statutory duty is imposed upon the
Minister of Justice to make that decision and
to certify it. Parliament having done that, I
question-I am not ready for a constitutional
debate on it, but I offer it as a serious question to consider-whether in those circumstances the Governor in Council would regard
section 55 as being the proper instrument to
use, or would say that the parliamentary
instruction by statute in the Bill of Rights is
the procedure by which we should deal with
the bill.
I have talked too long already, but sometimes there is no way of governing the
debate. Questions provoke answers and some
questions provoke long answers. I met both
kinds tonight. However, may I summarize, to
make my position absolutely clear.

May 12, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

I am speaking against the amendment on
the basis that there is no conflict between Bill
C-3 and the Bill of Rights. I would make this
further statement, that in the comparison of
the terms of the Bill of Rights and the provisions that are sacrosanct in it there is no
conflict between them and those of Bill C-3.
There is no singling out of any person, any
individual, by race, national origin, colour,
religion or sex. There is no denial of due
process of law in the questioning of any
human right to life, liberty or enjoyment of
property. There is no inequality created by
this bill under the law. Everyone is equal
under the law.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: Does this bill not make
hatred a criminal offence, and is this not the
first time it ever has been designated as such?
If I am right, do you not think it should be
defined?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I am sorry, there was
one word in my friend's question I did not
catch.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: Does this bill not make
hatred a criminal offence? Is that not what
you said?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: No.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: And if it is designated
as a criminal offence for the first time, do you
not think it should be defined?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: No. I assume my friend
has read the section of the bill. I read it once
tonight.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: Yes, you read it to us
tonight.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: It states:
267B (1) Every one who, by communicating
statements in any public place, incites
hatred against any identifiable groupNow my friend wants to know why hatred
should not be defined. I would say it is a
word. If you are going to define every word
on the assumption that people do not know
the meanings of words, you would define
every word in every piece of legislation.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: I can say I hate snakes
and all sorts of things. I do not think your
point is well taken. If hatred is going to be a
criminal offence, I think you have got to
define what it is.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): Surely
the offence is incitement to hatred, not hatred
itself.
22481-15

Hon. Mr. Beaubien: You have got to hate
something.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Let us talk about the
same kind of hatred. This is making statements in a public place which incite hatred
towards an identifiable group. Let us go on
and see what the answers are.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: Could you give us some
examples of anyone who has incited hatred in
the last ten years?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Oh, yes. It has gone on
in Toronto in the Allan Gardens, where some
of this Nazi group made violent statements in
relation to people of the Jewish faith. We
have had many such instances in the public
picketing sprees that have occurred in
Toronto. I am sure you have a few of them in
Montreal, so you must know that some of the
statements there are intended to incite hatred.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: Well, they do not seem
to be considered a criminal offence in Montreal. They are encouraged there.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I am discussing it generally across the land and this is federal legislation. If my friend is looking for the meaning
of hatred, look at some of the defences to any
such charge. They are:
(3) No person shall be convicted of an
offence under subsection (2)Of wilfully promoting hatred.
(a) if he establishes that the statements
communicated were true;
(b) if, in good faith, he expressed or
attempted to establish by argument an
opinion upon a religious subject;
(c) if the statements were relevant to any
subject of public interest, the discussion
of which was for the public benefit, and
if on reasonable grounds he believed
them to be true; or
(d) if, in good faith, he intended to point
out, for the purpose of removal, matters
producing or tending to produce feelings
of hatred towards an identifiable group in
Canada.
If my friend says to me that he wants feelings
of hatred defined, I am sorry I cannot do any
more; it is a well-known word and it is in the
dictionary.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Love is in the same
category.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Well, I do not profess to
be an expert on that. I will bow to what my
friend has said.

May 12, 1970

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Choquette: You could legislate on
love.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I promised the honourable
senator that I would not interrupt him until
he resumed his seat. However, may I put only
one question? He said that the Government
was sure that the bill was legal. I respect the
opinion of the Government, which he shares,
but I suggestHon. Mr. Hayden: That is not what I said.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: What did you say then? I
am willing to accept anything you say.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: We must be exact. I
referred to section 3 of the Bill of Rights and
read it. I said this is the procedure that Parliament has said must be followed, and that is
what the Minister of Justice certifies. He studies and he reports if there is any inconsistency.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I accept that. I am not
arguing that point.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I just wanted to be sure
you understood what I said, since you are
asking me a question.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: There is no doubt about
that. I am not a member of the Government,
and the honourable senator is not a member
of the GovernmentHon. Mr. Hayden: That is right.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: -but if the Senate as
distinguished from the Government did not
share the opinion of the Government or of
the Minister of Justice, who did not recommend to the Governor in Council that the
matter be submitted to the Supreme CourtHon. Mr. Hayden: I should tell my friend
first that I learned a long time ago not to deal
with hypothetical questions.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Oh no, it is an actual
on what is proposed in the
question
amendment.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: In your question you are
asking me to be the one to say.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I mean the Senate.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: The Senate by its
majority can vote for or against the
amendment.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Yes, if there is doubt.
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

Hon. Mr. Hayden: That is the only way in
which the reference can be dealt with, by
vote.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Very good, I do not need
more than that.
Hon. Mr. Holleit: If this exchange across
the chamber has finished, I would like to ask
the honourable Senator Hayden a question.
He is versed in the law and I expect he will
be able to answer this simple question. Is it
not a fact that every offence mentioned in
Bill C-3 could be taken care of under the Bill
of Rights and the Criminal Code?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: No; and I am not sure
that is the question my friend intended to
ask.
Hon. Mr. Hollefi: What is that?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: The answer is, No.
Hon. Mr. Hollet: No what?
Hon. Mr. Haydon: There are no offences
created in the Bill of Rights. There are rights
created in the Bill of Rights.
Hon. Mr. Holleit: But if you break these
rights, if you infringe upon them, is there no
law to take care of that situation?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: If you infringe upon the
rights prescribed in the Bill of Rights, then to
the extent of that infringement the particular
law is involved.
Hon. Mr. Hollet: That is exactly what I
asked.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: And that is the answer I
have given.
Hon. Mr. Hollet: Then you do not need
this Bill C-3.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Why not?
Hon. Mr.
redundant.

Hollet:

You

said

it

was

Hon. Mr. Hayden: For a different reason I
said in my opinion Bill C-3 is redundant.
Hon. Mr. Holleti: Yes.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Not redundant because
of the Bill of Rights, but redundant because
of the Criminal Code.
Hon. Lionel Choqueile: I have already
spoken on the bill, but I just want to say one
or two sentences before the vote is taken on
this amendment.

May 12, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Hayden: Is this a question you are was taken to that. However, I believe that at
asking me?
this point it is not possible for an honourable
Hon. Mr. Choquette: I have not spoken to senator to speak twice in the debate.
the amendment, and I want to say one or two
The Hon. the Speaker: That is correct. That
things on it before the vote is taken.
is why I interrupted the honourable Senator
The greatest protection afforded to Canadi- Lang in his remarks and asked if there was
an citizens now and for the future is not in unanimous consent. If there is not unanimous
the so-called Hate Bill, but in the Canadian consent I will have to put the motion.
Bill of Rights as interpreted by the Supreme
It is moved by the honourable Senator FerCourt of Canada in the Drybones case.
gusson, seconded by the honourable Senator
The Hon. the Speaker: It is moved by the Inman, that Bill C-3, intituled an act to
honourable Senator Fergusson, seconded by amend the Criminal Code, be now read a
the honourable Senator Inman, that Bill C-3, second time.
In amendment it was moved by the honouintituled an act to amend the Criminal Code,
rable Senator Lang, seconded by the honourabe now read a second time.
In amendment it is moved by the honoura- ble Senator Paterson, that this bill be not now
ble Senator Lang, seconded by the honourable readSenator Paterson, that this bill be notHon. Senators: Dispense.
Some Hon. Senators: Dispense.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your pleasure,
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it your wish, honourable senators, to adopt the honourabIe.
honourable senators, to adopt the honourable Senator Lang's amendment?
Senator Lang's amendment?
Some Hon. Senators: No.
Some Hon. Senators: Yes.
Some Hon. Senators: Yes.
Some Hon. Senators: No.
Hon. Daniel A. Lang: Honourable senators,
I should like to rise on a question of privilege
because during the debate a sugges.ion has
been made that the purpose of this amendment was, in effect, to kill the bill. I want to
assure honourable senators that this is not the
purpose I had in mind in moving this amendment. I would like to tell honourable senators,
in order to underline this fact, that I spoke to
the Leader of the Government before I
brought in this amendment-

The Hon.
uncertainty-

the Speaker:

Since there is

Hon. Mr. Lang: Mr. Speaker, am I denied
unanimous consent?
The Hon. the Speaker:
senator.

Yes, honourable

Hon. Mr. Lang: I am denied it?
The Hon. the Speaker:
denied unanimous consent.

Yes, you were

Hon. Mr. Bourget: On a point of order, Mr.
The Hon. the Speaker: Order. We must Speaker. I think the honourable Senator Lang
proceed in an orderly manner. I was about to is quite right in asking permission to speak,
put the main motion and the amendment, but according to Rule 28, which says:
the mover of the amendment (Hon. Mr. Lang)
A senator shall not speak twice to a
is now asking permission to make a few
question before the Senate except in
remarks in clarification. Is it agreed, honouraexplanation of a material part of his
ble senators, that the honourable Senator
speech in which he may have been misunderstood, and then he shall not
Lang proceed with his remarks for a few
introduce new matter.
minutes?
I think this rule applies to Senator Lang.
Some Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Hon. Mr. Lang: Honourable senators, I was
sayingHon. Mr. Martin: Mr. Speaker, I do not
object, but I would point out that a question
of privilege was raised just as you were about
to put the amendment to a vote. No exception
22481-151

Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: The question has been put.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, may I make a suggestion? Under Rule 28
the honourable Senator Lang may be in order
in speaking a second time in explanation of a

1030

SENATE DEBATES

material part of his speech. I ask him to
be very particular on this point and not
introduce any other matter.

May 12, 1970

Some Hon. Senalors: Nay.
The Hon. the Speaker: In my opinion the
nays have it.
And more than two honourable senators
having risen.

Hon. Mr. Lang: I had no intention of introducing any other matter. My intention in
speaking was mainly to attempt to disabuse
The Hon. the Speaker: Please cal in the
anyone who might have misunderstood the
purpose of my amendment, which I think honourable senators.
complies with the rule. My purpose was not
Motion in amendment of Hon. Mr. Lang
to kill the bill.
negatived on the following division:
In order to assure honourable senators
YEAS
more fully on this matter, I was about to say
that I advised the Leader of the Government
Honourable Senators
that if he would make an undertaking to this
chamber that if and when this bill became Aseltine
MacDonald
law he would cause the Government to refer Beaubien
Macdonald
it to the Supreme Court of Canada, I would Belisle
Méthot
withdraw my amendment. I think that that Blois
O'Leary
request, which I made in all sincerity, which Choquette
Pearson
not acceded to, brings home more Flynn
request was
Phillips
than anything else I can say the fact that the Fournier
(Prince)
purpose of this amendment is not to kill the
Quart
(Madawaskabill, but in fact to obtain the reference asked
Sullivan
Restigouche)
for.
Welch
Grosart
White
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable sena- Haig
Willis-22.
tors, on the motion for second reading of this Hollett
bill, it is moved in amendment, by the hon- Lang
ourable Senator Lang, seconded by the honNAYS
ourable Senator Paterson:
That this bill be not now read a second
Honourable Senators
time, but that it be resolved by the
Isnor
Senate that, in its opinion, the subject- Aird
Kinley
matter thereof should be referred by the Basha
Kinnear
Governor in Council to the Supreme Benidickson
Laird
of Canada, pursuant to section 55 Boucher
Court
Lefrançois
of the Supreme Court Act, for hearing Bourget
Macnaughton
and consideration as to whether in any Carter
Martin
circumstances the whole or any part of Connolly
McElman
(Ottawa West)
would or might be held to
its provisions
McGrand
be inoperative as an abrogation, abridg- Croll
Molson
ment or infringement of any of the fun- Davey
Petten
damental freedoms dealt with in the Denis
Phillips
Desruisseaux
Canadian Bill of Rights.
(Rigaud)
Dessureault
Prowse
Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to Duggan
Lang's Fergusson
Senator
Robichaud
honourable
adopt the
Savoie
amendment?
Fournier
Smith
(De Lanaudière)
Some Hon. Senalors: Yes.
Sparrow
Giguère
Stanbury
Gouin
Some Hon. Senalors: No.
Thompson
the Speaker: Those in favour of Hayden
The Hon.
Urquhart-40.
Hays
honourable Senator Lang's amendment will Inman
please say "yea".
The Hon. the Speaker: I declare the amendSome Hon. Senators: Yea.
ment lost.
The Hon. the Speaker: Those against honHon. Mr. Holleti: Honourable senators, I
ourable Senator Lang's amendment will please
move the adjournment of the debate.
say "nay".
[Hon. Mr. Speaker.]

May 12, 1970

SENATE I EBATES

1031

Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): It seems
to me that His Honour is perfectly right in
what he is doing. The motion was put originally when the debate began and the amendment has been dispensed with. Now that we
The Hon. the Speaker: After the amend- are back on the main motion, I would submit
ment has been declared lost, we then return it is perfectly within the right of any honourto the main motion, and I was about to put the able senator to continue the debate on the
question on the main motion when Senator main motion which has already been put.
Hollett rose. He has now moved the adjournHon. Senators: Agreed.
ment of the debate, and I am about to put
that motion.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senaIt is moved by the honourable Senator Hol- tors, there was a motion by honourable Senalett, seconded by Senator Welch, that this tor Hollett to adjourn the debate and I have
debate be adjourned until the next sitting of put the motion. I am now asking whether it is
the Senate. Is it your pleasure, honourable your pleasure to adopt that motion.
senators, to adopt that motion?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Hollett, debate
Hon. Mr. Croll: Mr. Speaker, what Senator
Smith asked is that you put the motion. Until adjourned.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2
the motion is put, there can be no motion for
p.m.
adjournment.

Hon. Mr. Smith: Mr. Speaker, I am wondering what your motion is going to be. Until we
know that, we do not know what Senator
Hollett is adjourning.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Wednesday, May 13, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
ROYAL ASSENT
NOTICE

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that
he
had
received
the
following
communication:
GOVERNMENT HOUSE

Ottawa, 13 May 1970
Sir:
I have the honour to inform you that
the Hon. Ronald Martland, Puisne Judge
of the Supreme Court of Canada, acting
as Deputy of His Excellency the Governor General, will proceed to the Senate
Chamber today, May 13th, at 5.45 p.m.
for the purpose of giving Royal Assent to
certain Bills.
I have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Louis-Frémont Trudeau,
Brigadier General
Assistant Secretary to the Governor
General
The Honourable
The Speaker of the Senate,
Ottawa.
CRIMINAL

RECORDS BILL

FIRST READING

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that a message had been received from the
House of Commons with Bill C-5, to provide
for the relief of persons who have been convicted of offences and have subsequently
rehabilitated themselves.
Bill read first time.
Hon. Paul Martin moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for second
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.
DOCUMENTS

TABLED

Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Copies of Agreement, dated May 12,
1970, between the Government of Canada

May 13, 1970

and the Government of the Province of
Saskatchewan, with respect to the Special
Area of Meadow Lake.
Report of Operations under the International River Improvements Act for the
year ended December 31, 1969, pursuant
to section 11 of the said Act, chapter 47,
Statutes of Canada, 1955.
HON. JOSEPH A. SULLIVAN
HONOUR

CONFERRED BY THE AMERICAN
OTOLOGICAL SOCIETY

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
now that Senator Sullivan has returned and
is in his place today, I take this occasion to
say that while we greatly appreciated his
being honoured a few weeks ago by the
Toronto Academy of Medicine with an honorary fellowship, the fact that he was presented the other day with the highest honour of
the American Otological Society, the Award
of Merit, gives us the greatest pleasure. I note
that Dr. Francis Lederer of Chicago presented
the award to Dr. Sullivan for his outstanding
work in surgery, teaching and research.
I should like to offer my warmest congratulations to Senator Sullivan.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
of course we on this side join with the Leader
of the Government in congratulating Senator
Sullivan. He knows how proud we are of him,

a pride that I am sure is shared by the whole
Senate.
Hon. Joseph A. Sullivan: Honourable senators, the Leader of the Government, my own
Leader: All I can say is, thank you very much
indeed.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators,
with leave of the Senate, and notwithstanding
Rule 45 (1)(g), I move that when the Senate
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until
tomorrow at 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
Motion agreed to.
[Translation]
1976 SUMMER OLYMPIC GAMES IN
CANADA
CONGRATULATIONS TO HIS WORSHIP MAYOR
JEAN DRAPEAU

Hon. Sarto Fournier: Honourable senators,
before proceeding with the orders of the day,

SENATE DEBATES

May 13, 1970

I think it is appropriate that someone should
rise in the Senate to extend to His Worship
the Mayor of Montreal, Mr. Jean Drapeau,
highly deserved congratulations for his huge
international success in Amsterdam in securing the 1976 Olympic Games for Canada. It is
a happy event and I am greatly pleased to
emphasize it.
I congratulate the main promoter of this
venture and I hope that if the event is especially heartening for the City of Montreal, it
will also be beneficial to all Canada as well as
to the Province of Quebec.
[English]
INQUIRIES
QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE

Hon. Edgar Fournier: Honourable senators,
now that the Orders of the Day have been
called, I hope I am on the right train today. I
should like to take a few minutes to make
some remarks on three subjects under Notices
of Inquiry, because I am not satisfied with the
answers I have received.
The Hon. the Speaker: If the honourable
Senator Fournier will permit me to interrupt
him, I have already called the Question
Period; I have also called the Orders of the
Day, and the Assistant Clerk bas risen and
called the first item on the Order Paper. I
realize I have not yet heard what honourable
Senator Fournier bas to say, but if it is along
the lines of his remarks of yesterday I should
think that it would be in order for him to
speak on a question of privilege.
Yesterday honourable Senator Fournier put
on the Order Paper further notices of inquiries, and voiced his complaint, with some
reason no doubt, that these questions should
be answered within a reasonable time. As I
understood it, be was complaining about the
delays in getting answers from Crown
corporations.
I would now suggest to Senator Fournier
that if he bas reason for complaint be should
rise on a question of privilege on some of
the questions he put yesterday. That would
have the favourable effect of preventing a
precedent which might well develop into a
debate.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche): Then, Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question
of privilege. I shall be very brief, because I
know everybody is busy this afternoon.
Yesterday I said that I was not satisfied
with the answers to the inquiries I have
made, but I am not blaming the honourable

Leader of the Government in this house or
his staff, because I know they are doing
everything possible to get the answers. As I
said yesterday, the answers to these inquiries
require no long research. It is just a matter of
looking at the books. I am sure that the
C.N.R. has the information.
In one of my inquiries I asked for the cost
to the Canadian National Railways of operating the passenger service between Edmundston and Joffre for the months of January
and February 1970, and other information.
The answer I received reads in part:
Railway costs of this nature are considered confidential in view of the Railway's
competitive situation.
I do not agree with that, of course, because in
most of those cases there is no competition at
all. The Canadian National Railways are the
sole operators, with no competition from
other railway lines. This is just a means of
evading an answer. I know that the C.N.R. is
very careful as to the manner in which it
answers these inquiries, because sometimes
they can burn their fingers. For instance, they
said that the Ocean Limited was taken off
because it was not paying, and then the information came out that that train was the most
profitable in the Atlantic region.
I am also dissatisfied with the answer to the
inquiry as to the Custer Channel Wing Aircraft. The third part of the answer reads:
The Department of Transport bas no
knowledge of the aircraft being chopped
into several pieces.
If they did not know that at the time, they
know it now. This is a very poor excuse, but,
of course, I expected that kind of answer.
Perhaps I have said enough with respect to
inquiries, but no doubt there will be more
comments called for in the future.
The Canadian National Railways deserves
to be complimented on its annual report. It is
a very good report. Upon reading it I have
discovered that the C.N.R. is strangled by a
long-term debt of $1,899,851,641. It is no
wonder that the railway system finds it difficult to operate with a surplus when it is
carrying a debt of nearly $2 billion. It is
obvious that this debt will never be repaid.
The result is that the Canadian National over
the last 25 years bas operated with a profit in
only 1945, 1952, 1953, 1955, and 1959. In the
last thirteen consecutive years it has shown a
deficit on account of the interest it bas to pay
on this long-term debt of almost $2 billion.

SENATE DEBATES

The interest in 1957, for instance, was $36,970,000, and in 1970 it will be over $74
million.
When we look over the financial statement
we find that the total revenues of the C.N.R.
are quite high, being over $1 billion, and that
the net income before deducting the interest
on the debt was $4 9 ,558,446-a profit of close
to $50 million on its operations, which is
good. But it can be seen that the Canadian
National cannot operate at a profit when it
has to pay interest of $74,204,900 on its longterm debt. The railway is strangled by this
long-term debt, and I hope that consideration
will be given to the removal of the debt from
its books.
I am not the first to recommend the debt
removal. This has been going on for years.
That debt could be transferred to the federal
treasury, and be taken care of there. The
federal treasury absorbed the debt of $285
million on Expo, and the country is no worse
today because of that. We can foresee a further debt being incurred in the staging of the
Olympie Games in Montreal in 1976. That
will be a national debt, and it will be taken
over by the federal treasury. I am not opposing that, but I do not like to see this debt on
the books year after year with regard to
Canadian National, and the only place they
are cutting down is on the passenger service.
The passenger service is essential in
Canada, and we do not give it enough consideration. We see that the Canadian National is
reducing its passenger revenue. I agree with
that, but we must not overlook the fact that
between 1960 and 1969 close to 15 million
people in Canada rode on Canadian National.
The exact number was 13,799,000. Most of
them have made good use of the railway, and
this figure does not include Canadian Pacific.
We know the revenue from the passenger
service on the Canadian Pacifie is higher than
that on Canadian National, so we have to
assume that possibly another 15 million
people used the Canadian Pacifie passenger
service. That makes about 30 million people,
which is a large number.
These passenger services are essential in
this country, and they helped to make the
country what it is today. Confederation was
built on transportation-not only for freight
service, but also for passenger service. Imagine what would happen to the rest of our
transportation system-the air lines, buses,
private cars and highways-if we eliminate
the railway passenger service. It would be a
massacre of the transportation system across
Canada-it would be intolerable.
[Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche).]

May 13, 1970

I believe we should consider this situation
seriously, and so should Canadian National
Railway. They have a service to render the
people, and instead of having a group of
young fellows in Montreal and elsewhere
trying to find places where they can economize, they should try to prove that the business is there, as has been shown, and that it
is a necessity for the Canadian people to have
a passenger service.
I lived in a region which was without passenger service for six or seven years. It almost
became a desolated area. Where you have no
other means of transportation, the railway
service is a "must". I hope that you will all
think of it seriously and try to do something
to improve the situation and protect the railway transportation system.
The question is asked as to where we are
going to get the money. I do not see any
reason why we cannot take $25 million or $30
million from the C.B.C. and give it to Canadian National for its passenger service. I am
convinced we need passenger service more
than we need the C.B.C. at this time. I do not
want to say anything about the C.B.C., but in
Montreal, Halifax, Toronto, and right across
the country, you can listen to five or six
channels broadcasting simultaneously, all
competitive, all giving the news and ail producing the same type of show at the same
time.
To my way of thinking, the C.B.C. served
its most useful purpose when it was needed to
provide radio and television services in remote
areas, but when it comes to being competitive
with other channels in private hands, we
should all think very seriously about it.
The C.B.C. has grown into a monster with
over 9,000 employees, and every day millions
of dollars are being wasted producing shows
that are never used. I know this for a fact,
because a show is produced and then someone
comes along and says, "That's no good. Junk
it and do something else." If we only knew
what was being spent by the C.B.C. it would
be easy to divert $25 million to $30 million to
the railway, which could make better use of
it.
CRIMINAL CODE (HATE PROPAGANDA)
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND

READING

The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mrs.
Fergusson, for the second reading of Bill C-3,
to amend the Criminal Code.

May 13, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Malcolm Hollet: Honourable senators,
it is not my intention to keep you listening to
me for very long. You have heard so many
excellent addresses on Bill C-3 that I am sure
I could not possibly even begin to entertain
you. The honourable senators who have participated in the debate thus far have delivered some of the ablest and finest addresses I
have had the privilege of hearing since my
appointment to the Senate 10 years ago, and I
want to congratulate almost every one of the
preceding speakers who addressed themselves
to this bill from both sides of the house.
I am a little worried about one matter. We
have an excellent lawyer on this side of the
house and an equally able one on the other
side, yet they cannot agree. Do lawyers ever
agree?

intent to destroy in whole or in part any
identifiable group, namely:
(a) killing members of the group, or
(b) deliberately inflicting on the group
conditions of life calculated to bring
about its physical destruction.

That is one of the most important clauses
of the bill, and I am sure that every senator
must agree with me that is absolutely redundant, and that Senator Hayden used the right
word when he said that this bill was
redundant.
In the Criminal Code we have various sections which take care of genocide, murder,
the killing of members of a group, and other
criminal acts, so why should we bring in another bill? Is it to show people around the
world what a terrible place Canada is becoSome Hon. Members: No!
ming? Are we not doing a disservice to
Hon. Mr. Holleit: Now I know why we have Canada, a country which has welcomed
judges and juries.
people from all lands where there has been
Hon. Mr. Grosari: That is why we have a trouble and all sorts of crimes committed
against humanity? Do we not welcome these
Supreme Court.
people, and invite them to settle in our counHon. Mr. Flynn: Courts do not always try and be happy? If they see this, they are
going to ask themselves, "What kind of counagree either.
try did I come to?" That is what they will
Hon. Mr. Holleit: Before I go on, I would think if Canada has such a law as this one.
like to repeat something which was said by
Then, this is an important statement in the
the honourable Senator Hayden yesterday. In bill:
reply to a question from me, he said:
(3) No proceeding for an offence under
Not redundant because of the Bill of
this section shall be instituted without
Rights, but redundant because of the Crithe consent of the Attorney General.
minal Code.
In other words, it is an attorney general who
My memory sometimes fails me, so to make has to decide
sure of the meaning of "redundant" I consul- senators, havewhether or not you, honourable
committed
ted Webster. It informs me that the word bill. To my mind, that is a crime under this
ridiculous. That too
redundant means "exceeding what is natural, is redundant
and is something against law,
usual or necessary; superfluous." So Senator order and
justice, because we do not depend
Hayden admits that Bill C-3 is superfluous on an attorney general to say whether we
and unnecessary. Therefore, there is no real have a right to go to court or not.
need for me to take up any of your time,
I think this bill is pure hogwash. I would
because Senator Hayden is versed in the law not be speaking today except that I spoke
and politics too. He said this bill is redundant, against the bill when it was here some time
so why should I waste your time talking ago and thought I ought to again say a few
about it?
words. The more I look at the bill, the more
Let us look at the bill and see why it is reasons I see why it should not be passed by
redundant. It states:
this house. After all we, honourable senators,
Everyone who advocates or promotes have a certain job to do. When a serious bill
like this comes before us we should absolutegenocidely forget our political leanings. This is imporThat is practically murder.
tant. We are the second house, but we should
-is guilty of an indictable offence and be trying to protect the rights
of our people.
liable to imprisonrnent for five years.
Even the House of Commons sometimes make
(2) In this section "genocide" means mistakes, but we are supposed to review them
any of the following acts committed with and endeavour to correct them.
22481-16

SENATE DEBATES
Senator Hayden was absolutely correct in
his remarks-and I am glad to know that he
sits on the government side of this house. I
hope that every member on that side of the
house will agree with him; they will certainly
agree with me, that this bill is completely
redundant and repeats provisions which we
already have in the Criminal Code.
One other reason for my wish to say a few
words today was because of the large number
of letters which I have received from people
all across Canada. I do not intend to quote
from all or from many of them, but there are
certain things said in some of the letters
which I think ought to be put on Senate
Hansard.

I have a letter from a lady in Vancouverand I shall not give names, because I do not
have their consent. However, she says:
Re the Anti-hate Literature Bill C-3.
I am implacably opposed as it would
rob us of freedom of speech, particularly
the freedom to dissent which we need to
preserve and protect.

May 13, 1970

recommendations of Bill C-3 particularly
in view of the fact that 50 per cent of the
membersand this is something which runs through all
the letters.

-50
per cent of the members of the
House of Commons absented themselves
when this important issue came up!
These members should be called to
account.
I expect they shall, but can you imagine 130
members of the House of Commons being,
absent when they passed this very controversial bill? I cannot quite understand it.
Hon. Mr. Choquetie: We did better here.

Hon. Mr. Holleil: Oh, much better here
because at least half our members are on
committees. In fact, I should be at a committee now.
I have a letter from the Association of
British Columbia Librarians. It reads in part:
The Association of British Columbia
Librarians strongly opposes amendments
That is one of them, and I expect most of
to the Criminal Code of Canada by
you have received a copy. I wonder if any of
adding thereto, immediately after section
you have received any letters favouring this
267 thereof, the following headingbill?
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I have.
Hon. Mr. Holleit: I have not, not one. Did
Senator Fergusson say she received some
twenty-five?
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I did not say the
number.
Hon. Mr. Hollet: I say one or two perhaps.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I do not have to
account to you for the number.
Hon. Mr. Hollet: Apparently Senator Fergusson is the only one who has received letters supporting this bill. It is too bad we were
not in the House of Commons to sec the
ladies who demonstrated there the other day.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: They were not all
ladies.
Hon. Mr. Holleti: They chained themselves
to the seats.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: They were not all
ladies!
Hon. Mr. Holleti: I have a letter from a
gentleman in Don Mills, Ontario, who says:
Will you please defend the freedom of
the electorate against the dangerous
[Hon. Mr. Hollett.]

And so on.

The fears these amendments seek to
alleviate have already sufficient avenues
of redress under other sections of the
Criminal Code. Freedom of speech is
jeopardized if these amendments are
enacted.
After all, these are of the people and these
are the people whom we serve, and we must
listen to them.
I have a rather long letter here from a
gentleman who says:
Acts of genocide or criminal libel are
already adequately provided for in the
laws of this nation as you are well
aware,And so on. I have another-I am reading only
a paragraph from each because it would take
too long to read them in full.
In regard to the so-called "hate" bill,
C-3, which was passed by the Commons,
with half the Members abstaining, and
now in your hands for consideration.
Our beloved country has enjoyed freedom of speech, freedom of the press and
all freedoms. How much of this will be
destroyed if Bill C-3 is passed in the
Senate?

May 13, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

And so on. I agree with that correspondent.
This letter is from Lethbridge, Alberta:
I agree that this bill, if passed, could
cause much more trouble than may be
existing at the present time.
Another one is from a man in Lethbridge.
Alberta people seem to be very patriotie and
anxious about our rights and wrongs.
It certainly is deplorable that so many
of the house members absented themselves from voting in Bill C-3. I must
insist that the members of the Senate
committee take a very close look at this
bill for the following reasons: (1) It was
not fairly passed in the house due to the
absenteeism of so many members; (2) It
is very ambiguous in some parts and can
be interpreted in different ways by different judges; (3) We already have the
Bill of Rights which adequately protects
our rights; (4) It can easily be used to
discriminate against free speech and take
away our democratic rights.
Honourable senators, I could have brought
down many more letters, but I just picked up
a few off the top.
This one is from Salmon Arm, British
Columbia. While I know British Columbia,
I have not been there and I do not know
Salmon Arm-but I have caught salmon.
After carefuhly reading this bill, we are
of the opinion that it is a dangerous
measure, and that it could be manipulated for wrong purposes.
And so on.

I have a letter from a gentleman in Willowdale, Ontario, which starts with these words:
With reference to Bill C-3 which
recently passed the House of Commons
with half of its members absent or
abstainingI hope you do not wonder why they all notice
that fact. After all the members of the House
of Commons and we senators are elected and
appointed by the people of this country to do
our duty towards them. When an important
bill such as this comes up for consideration, I
think it is insidious, it is deplorable, that it
come before either the House of Commons or
the Senate and be passed with approximately
half of the members absent.
Another letter reads:
The motivation behind this bill may certainly be honourable, to free this land of
illegitimate and non-factual literature
and comment against any race or nation22481-161

ality, but to attempt to legislate this into
a bill with seemingly such sweeping
power, is to overstep the fine line of the
citizen's freedom of speech and to tread a
path down the
devious
road of
totalitarianism.
And so on. Here is another letter again from
Lethbridge:
Why, Sir, was legislation of this type
ever introduced? Has not our Constitution served us well for the last 100 years
and that it will serve us equally as well
for the next one hundred years?
Many people now living in this area
and right across the country sacrificed
much at one time in leaving their homeland where for many years they lived
under "tyranny." Is the government now
prepared to restrict the very freedoms
that made Canada a haven for the many
oppressed and persecuted of other lands?
Could this be the beginning of the end of
our freedoms as the familiar "Iron Curtain" of other countries gradually closes
in around our beloved Canada? Please
think it over.
The same writer also says:
I urge you, Sir, to reject forthwith this
speech-restricting Bill which was passed
in the Commons on April 13 with only
half a Commons vote.
Here is a letter from Calgary, Alberta, in
which the writer says:
In our generation there has not likely
arisen such an opportunity for the
Canadian Senate to prove to the people
that the Senate is truly a safeguard
against an undesirable action of the
Commons.
I trust that the Senate will have the
courage and the wisdom to preserve the
freedom of speech for the people of
Canada, now.
Half the M.P.s failed to vote when Bill
C-3 (Hate) came up. Yet they are paid to
uphold our interest.
The Hate Bill could even result in the
imprisonment of clergy, or the burning of
books. Our forefathers suffered much to
give us the freedom of speech and of the
press. The least we can do now is not to
lose it.
The Senate has an immensely important role in Canada's constitutional
set-up. And I trust that every senator on

1038

SENATE DEBATES

May 13, 1970

Hon. Joseph A. Sullivan: Honourable senathe committee will prove that he is
indeed a necessary safeguard to the well- tors, I am not going to make a long speech. I
have no intention of saying anything on the
being of the Canadian people.
legislation itself, although every aspect of it is
The last letter I shall read is also from abhorrent to me. I should clarify that by
Calgary. The writer says:
saying that the legislation itself is not as
I am writing in regard to Bill C-3 abhorrent as is the modus operandibehind it.
which was recently passed in the House
In the last two weeks certain events
of Commons, despite the heavy opposition allowed me to have the great privilege of
it had from the public. It is obvious that being in scientific discussions with one of the
many who voted for this Bill were not great brains of the world, and the concluding
representing their electors, and what of remark that I will make will be self-evident.
the 130 who did not vote at all? Is this However, I wish to interject just a few philonot a rather disgusting affair? A Bill sophical notes that I think require saying.
passed here in Canada (a democratic
Canadians are now faced with a hate bill
country) to destroy freedom of speech intended to legislate against hate literature.
it was not
and 130 members felt that
Oddly enough, of the 52 examples listed, most
important enough to cast their vote. Who are Nazi, fascist, political or anti-communist;
are they supposed to be representing?
and the Black Panther tirades which call for
Now, honourable senators, I read these let- the elimination of "Whitey", especially the
ters to you because I wanted them on the White "Pigs"-the police.
record. As I said, I have not received one
The fact is that love cannot be legislated
letter in favour of Bill C-3. Moreover, I know any more than hate can be abolished by a
members on the other side of this house who, Criminal Code. To attempt to do so could well
although they brought in this bill, say that it develop hatreds where they might not otheris redundant. We all know it is redundant. It wise exist. For love rules its kingdom without
is absolutely unnecessary. I appeal to all sena- sword or policeman. Or, as the Duke of Bucktors here, irrespective of where you sit or ingham put it, "Love is rooted in esteem."
what province you represent, to think this bill Love is the rule for fulfilling all rules; it is
over very seriously, because I consider it not a laughing gas which permits evil to run
absolutely essential that it do not pass. I be- rampant. Love is compassionate discipline of
lieve it is a dangerous bill.
self and the beloved; freedom cradles in
I am not a lawyer. True, I know something responsibility and reason ready to analyze
about the law, but I am not learned in the itself.
law. Nevertheless, I do know that many lawToday's attempt to make man good by way
yers disagree with this bill. I am quite sure of legislation smacks all too much of Fabian
that some of you may disagree with what I Socialism which, as far back as 1888, was laid
am about to say now, but I appeal to you to out as a program to robotize mankind. Or, as
consider this bill carefully. It is one which Fabian Socialist Bertrand Russell spells it out
could have a very bad effect upon our coun- at page 50 of the 1953 edition of The Impact
try, the country we all love and for which at of Science on Society:
any time we have been prepared to give our
Education should aim at destroying
lives.
free will, so that, after pupils have left
school, they shall be incapable of thinkHon. Mrs. Fergusson: Honourable senaing or acting otherwise than as their
torsschoolmasters would have wished. Any
The Hon. the Speaker: I must inform
serious criticism of the powers that be
honourable senators that if Senator Ferguswill become psychologically impossible.
son speaks now, her remarks will have the
Government legislation which attempts to
effect of closing the debate.
enforce its definition of love and hate is a
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Are you closing the Frankenstein monster which we could very
well see develop.
debate already?
Now, you see what is happening in the
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I did not see any
abortion aspects of this society. Two weeks
other senator rise.
ago I had the very great privilege of introducHon. Mr. Smith: Senator Fergusson paused ing to the Academy of Medicine the Professor
of Sensory Sciences, George von Békésy, the
quite awhile-I watched her.
[Hon. Mr. Hollett.]

May 13, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Nobel Prize winner in medicine in 1961. In
one of his outstanding lectures at that seminar-speaking about the human senses, the
physiological senses of hearing, taste, etc.-he
said that the most difficult sense for human
nature to develop is that of common sense. Let
us use some common sense!
Hon. George S. White: Honourable senators, when this measure was first introduced
in the Senate as Bill S-49 in 1966 by Senator
Roebuck, he placed on Hansard of that year,
at page 1109, a definition of "Canadians" in
these words:
Canadians, according to my understanding, knowledge and experience, are
a kindly and tolerant people. As a nation
we have friends in every country of the
world, and I hope we have no enemies.
We have good will for all mankind, irrespective of colour, race or ethnic origin.
Domestically, our people, with very few
exceptions I think, are good natured,
kindly and hospitable. We have freedom,
and we have learned by experience to
preserve our ways of life by a scrupulous
regard for the ways of life and freedom
of our neighbours; and, honourable senators, we wish that kind of thing to
continue.
Certainly, honourable senators, no Canadian will quarrel with that very fine definition
of "Canadians". Surely, this definition does
not indicate that we are the kind of people
who find it necessary in the year 1970 for our
Parliament to pass Bill C-3, and certainly the
provisions of this bill are no credit to the
people of Canada. Are we, the Canadian
people, to be put on a par with the Germany
of Hitler and his gang of storm-troopers?
Some honourable senators contend that if a
law such as that contained in Bill C-3 had
been in force at the time of Hitler there
would have been no concentration camps.
How can any one seriously believe that any
law, treaty, or convention would have stopped
Hitler? Those of us who are old enough to
remember 1914 know that certain European
countries including Germany, had signed a
treaty which guaranteed the neutrality of
Belgium in the event of war. What happened
in August of 1914? The Kaiser declared that
the treaty guaranteeing the neutrality of
Belgium was a "mere scrap of paper", and he
ordered his armed hordes to march through
Belgium to attack France.
Honourable senators, I am only trying to
remind you of the type of people we Canadians are. We are not the type who would ever

advocate or promote genocide. The natural
instinct of every Canadian is to assist and
build up, and not to destroy. Canada is no
more likely to embark upon a policy of genocide than it is to start burning dissenters in
the public squares. Why, then, must we
Canadians be insulted by having this bill
placed upon our statute books?
I notice that in the speeches made in the
other place many examples were given of
far-out cases that could be prosecuted under
this measure. I note from the press that the
1970 Stratford Festival is producing The Merchant of Venice, and I ask the question: Can
the producers and actors be prosecuted under
this bill if it becomes law?
When this bill was before the other place
many interesting comments were made. I
know that I should not read the speeches
made in the other place but, if honourable
senators agree, I should like to read a part ot
the remarks of Mr. Douglas Hogarth, M.P. for
New Westminster, which appear at page 5521
of House of Commons Debates:
I cannot believe there is a single ethnie
group in this country today, as defined in
the legislation before us, which feels we
ought to go as f ar as this for its,
protection.
Further on he said:
I suggest that in this clause on genocide
we have gone too far. We are not moving
to protect the Canadian people. What we
are doing here is passing criminal legislation which is politically motivated to get
political support from ethnie groups. I do
not believe this principle is a sound basis
upon which the criminal law should be
established. The criminal law should be
established to protect the public, not to
satisfy demands from any particular
group within the public.
I would point out that it is most peculiar
that any such provision as section 267c(3)
should appear in any bill presented to this
chamber. Surely, anyone charged with an
offence under this measure is entitled not
only to appear in court but to be represented
by counsel.
Section 267B.(1) will send to jail for two
years everyone who, "by communicating
statements in any public place, incites hatred
against any identifiable group where such
incitement is likely to lead to a breach of the
peace." By subsection 2 "everyone who by
communicating statements wilfully promotes

1040

SENATE DEBATES

hatred against any identifiable group" is
liable for two years in jail. It is true that
there are some qualifications but, like the
offences, they are impossible to determine. In
any case, who can determine what may promote hatred, wilfully or unwilfully?
What is meant in the bill by the word
"hatred"? There is no definition in the bill.
There is a definition of "hate propaganda" on
page 5 of the bill, which is as follows:
"hate propaganda" means any writing,
sign or visible representation that advocates or promotes genocide or the communication of which by any person
would constitute an offence under section
267B.

May 13, 1970

bill. I refer to such words as "public place".
What is a statement which "incites hatred"?
When would such lead to a "breach of the
peace"? What is meant by "communicating
statements", "wilfully promotes hatred"?
What is meant by "if, in good faith, he
expressed or attempted to establish by argument an opinion upon a religious subject"?
How can you interpret "good faith"? How do
you define a "private conversation"? Can
more than two people be present at a private
conversation? How do you define the clause,
"if the statements were relevant to any subject of public interest, the discussion of which
was for the public benefit, and if on reasonable grounds he believed them to be true"?
Here the court must define "any subject of
In the definition section on page 3 there is public interest", "public benefit" and "on reathis very interesting definition of the word sonable grounds he believed them to be true".
"statements":
I have stated before in this chamber that in
"statements" includes words spoken or my opinion this bill is not only vicious but
and
practically
unnecessary
written or recorded electronically or elec- dangerous,
tromagnetically or otherwise, and ges- impossible of enforcement.
tures, signs or other visible representaIn speaking on the amendment last evening
tions.
I tried to point out that no evidence of any
nature or kind had been produced before the
Does this mean that the well-known and committee or in this chamber as to why this
ancient custom of putting your thumb to your bill is necessary. Certainly, no one in this
nose is now out of the window? Would a debate has presented any evidence of any
proper interpretation of this definition require nature of a single case of violence, any incithat the Nazi salute, the Fascist salute used in dent or a happening in Canada that would
the days of Mussolini, or the raised clenched make it necessary for the introduction of this
fist that is used today, be interpreted as far-reaching and dangerous bill.
including a statement promoting hatred?
Today the members of this chamber have
Could these gestures be interpreted to include
the opportunity to reject this bill and to
a statement of promoting hatred?
demonstrate to the Canadian public that the
Certainly anyone attending a hockey match Senate of Canada is still worthy of being
or other sports event in the future will have retained as part of our parliamentary system.
to control his tongue and emotions. There will
be no more references to, "Kill the referee!"
Hon. Muriel McQ. Fergusson: Honourable
or remarks as to his natal origin. All the jails senators,in Canada will not be large enough to hold
The Hon. ±he Speaker: I must inform
the persons whose statements might be considered as promoting hatred by those object- honourable senators that if the honourable
Senator Fergusson speaks now her speech will
ing to them.
In Canada today we are not facing any have the effect of closing the debate.
clear and present danger of Nazism which
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: Honourable senators,
warrants the sweeping and dangerous clauses Bill C-3 bas been discussed so thoroughly
that
proposed in this Hate Bill. To make laws for
Canadian society as though we were on the there is little if any need for me to say anybrink of toppling either into Communism or thing in concluding the debate.
I will not enter into the argument based on
Nazism is as unnecessary as to make martial
law the normal order of our community life. the Drybones case, for it seems to me it has
This Hate Bill, as at present proposed, should been explained that the decision in that case
be rejected. It is too much a resort to Nazi is not applicable to Bill C-3. There had been
methods.
little criticism of the part of the bill which
If this bill passes there will be great confu- makes it an offence to advocate or promote
sion in our courts, with various legal inter- genocide until the speech made by the honourpretations of many words and phrases in the able Senator Hollett. Certainly, I do not see
[Hon. Mr. White.]

May 13, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

why there should be. As I explained when
introducing the bill on April 16, Canada
signed the Convention on the Prevention and
Punishment of Genocide on November 28,
1949, and ratified it on September 3, 1952. Up
to 1965, 74 member nations of the United
Nations had become party to that Convention.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: May I ask a question?
You were a member of the committee, and I
am sure you heard an official from the
Department of Justice-I think his name was
Scollin-explain the bill to us. Do you not
recall that he said that this has nothing whatever to do with our commitment under the
United Nations? Do you not remember that?
Hon. Mr. Martin: He was wrong.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: If you will give me
the quotation I will be obliged, because I certainly do not remember such a statement and
I do not think that is correct. I should think
any honourable senator knows that when
Canada signs and ratifies a convention it is
obligatory on Canada to pass legislation
implementing it. This is why we are doing it
now. We are doing it all too late, I think-it
should have been done long before this.
Hon. Mr. Martin: That is right.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: Honourable senators,
it is not because we are liable to commit
genocide, but it is because we are liable to
pass legislation in accordance with the Convention which we signed and ratified.
As I referred to Senator Hollett's remarks, I
would also like to say that his objection to
the consent of an attorney general seems to
me unreasonable. The reason it was decidedand this was one of the amendments that I
pointed out in my earlier speech-that we
should have the consent of an attorney general before any action could be undertaken was
to prevent frivolous or malicious prosecutions.
I am sure that will be the effect of the
provision.
The greatest amount of criticism aimed at
the bill seems to be that it limits freedom of
speech, and particularly that it limits freedom
of speech guaranteed by the Bill of Rights.
But, as Senator Hayden pointed out so clearly
in speaking to the amendment last evening,
actually there is no conflict between the Bill
of Rights and Bill C-3.
I also point out that freedom of speech,
important as it is, is not the only freedom

that is mentioned in the Bill of Rights, and
each freedom must be conditioned by the
other freedoms also mentioned.
The Bill of Rights provides for freedom of
assembly, but there are limits to this right.
Under the Criminal Code unlawful assembly
is an offence. The Bill of Rights provides for
freedom of the press, but there are limits to
this freedom also, for certain court proceedings may not be reported by the press.
The Criminal Code makes libel and slander
an offence, but people, and even members of
the house, do not seem to understand that
Bill C-3, in effect, makes applicable to groups
what is already provided for under the Code
as to libel and slander to individuals.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Hear, hear. That is the
whole point.
Hon. Mr. White: That settles it!
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: Some have claimed
that there will be dire consequences to our
democratic institutions if this bill is passed.
In Appendix 5 of the Report of the Special
Committee on Hate Propaganda in Canada
there is a list of countries which have passed
enactments providing for hate legislation in
their countries. A large number of countries
have passed this legislation, and I would mention just two of them. One is Norway, which
passed its legislation in 1902. Another is the
Netherlands, which passed its legislation in
1934.
Honourable senators, apparently neither of
those countries have suffered dire consequences, and I think we cannot pride ourselves on being more democratic than they
are.
I would also point out that only today I
learned that Prime Minister Barrow of Barbados has just announced that he is introducing a bill making it a criminal offence to
advocate racial hatred or violence in public
places.
Freedom of speech is not absolute; it is not
an unqualified freedom any more than any of
the other freedoms mentioned in the Bill of
Rights are absolute or unqualified.
Surely the Bill of Rights was not designed
to build into our laws or guarantee a licence
to vilify, or defame, or to permit public disorder arising out of vilification. In any case,
freedom to wilfully promote hatred is surely
not a freedom people in a civilized country
should want to protect.

1042

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Choquette in his excellent speech
quoted from the evidence given in the Legal
and Constitutional Affairs Committee of the
Senate by Dr. Frank Scott, a former Dean of
the Law Faculty of McGill. For years I have
respected and admired Dr. Scott, just as I
have respected and do admire Senator Choquette, but that does not mean that I must
always agree with the opinions of either. I
would point out that the evidence given
before the Senate committee by Professor
Maxwell Cohen, who was Dean of the Law
Faculty of McGill when he testified before the
committee, is completely opposite to that of
Dr. Scott, and in my opinion and that of
many other people, is more sound.

May 13, 1970

common sense and our consciences. We can
make our own decisions in this matter
according to what seems right to us
individually.
Senator Cameron, in speaking to the
amendment to the bill, said we cannot legislate hatred out of existence. Others have said
you cannot legislate morality. I am not so
sure that that is so.
Canadians are law-abiding people and those
who break the laws are not popular in this
country. This bill merely gives expression to
principles held by Canadians, for surely we in
Canada are all against the promotion of genocide, against the inciting of hatred that is
likely to lead to public disorder and against
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Heads or tails-it is in the wilful promotion of hatred of a group
and, although there seems to be widespread
your opinion.
misunderstanding, this is what the bill is all
Hon. Mr. Croll: You are a born loser; keep about.
still!
Surely we in Canada, most of whom profess
a religion based entirely on love and believe
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: Perhaps as I proceed
with my argument you will see what I am that we should love our neighbours as ourselves, cannot object to legislation which
referring to.
Senator Choquette quoted the evidence limits the open expression of hatred, which is
given the same committee by Professor the opposite to the love in which we profess
Arthurs, Associate Dean of Osgoode Hall Law to believe. If we pass this bill, we will make
School of York University. However, I would it unpopular for anyone to do things which
remind you that the committee had contradic- we believe to be wrong.
tory evidence given by other persons learned
I would like to read some remarks made by
in the law, such as Professor Mark MacGui- Baroness Asquith of Yarnbury during
the
gan, who, before he was elected to Parliament, where he now sits as member for debates in the British House of Lords on the
Race Relations Act, which we have been told
Windsor-Walkervillecontains a section very similar to the provisions of Bill C-3. She said:
Hon. Mr. Martin: Hear, hear.
This law will, I am sure, act as a protecHon. Mrs. Fergusson: -was Dean of Law
tion and a civilizing force.
at the University of Windsor, and still continues as a Professor of Law at that university. She then went on to quote from the First
He has also been Professor of Law at Osgoode Report of the Labour Relations Board the
following:
Hall.
(1) a law is an unequivocal declaration of
Hon. Mr. Flynn: If Senator Martin were
National Policy.
available he would hold that post.
Surely honourable senators, it is our
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: Senator Martin held national policy to prevent the promotion of
it very well, during his time.
genocide, to prevent incitement of hatred
Many philosophical arguments of professors likely to lead to public disorder, and to preand others learned in law and other disci- vent the wilful promotion of hatred of a
plines can be marshalled on either side of this group. By voting for this bill we are only
question but it seems to me this is really a making an unequivocal declaration of that
very simple matter and we do not need to national policy.
resort to the opinions of such people to make
Baroness Asquith went on to quote further
our decision.
from the report, as follows:
As one of the speakers said this afternoon,
(4) a law reduces prejudice by discouragand I quite agree, we need only use our own
ing behaviour in which prejudice finds
[Hon. Mirs. Fergusson.]

May 13, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

expression. In other words, although we
are constantly reminded that laws cannot
change our hearts, laws can and do
change our habits, and a habit may well
become second nature.
G. Allport in his book The Nature of Prejudice states:
The establishment of a legal norm creates a public conscience and a standard
for expected behaviour that checks overt
signs of prejudice.
In the debate on the Race Relations Act in
Britain, from which I quoted earlier, Lord
Chorley, referring to freedom of speech, said:
Almost every Act of Parliament involves
some interference with liberty greater or
less.
And later he said:
The Criminal Code is one long interference with the liberty of the subject, but
it is an interference which is absolutely
essential if you are to have a civilized
community functioning at all.
Honourable senators, as Senator Roebuck
said, and as quoted by Senator White this
afternoon, Canadians are kindly and tolerant
people, but it is unrealistic to deny that in
Canada a problem exists regarding prejudice
against groups that can be identified by their
colour, race, religion or ethnic origin. Anyone
who has read the evidence given last year
before the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs, and the
Report of the Special Committee on Hate
Propaganda in Canada-except perhaps Senator White who was not convinced by them
-surely must realize that there is such a problem. At the moment this may not be as serious as it was at the time of the near riot in
Toronto's Allan Gardens. As a matter of fact,
I understand there was a very serious riot in
Toronto just this week.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Who caused it?
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: And if it happened
once we have no assurance that it will not
happen again. It is useless to say such things
cannot happen in Canada.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: But the riot in Allan Gardens was not the result of hate literature.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: A few years ago we
would have said that the riot which took

place on the Sir George Williams University
campus could not happen in Canada, but it
did happen.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: But that was not a case
which could be covered by this bill.
Hon. Mr. Martin: It could be.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Be serious!
Hon. Mr. Croll: Come, come.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I think we have to
decide this matter according to our own consciences and on what we believe. I have no
doubt of the sincerity of those who are opposing the bill so vehemently, but it makes me
realize that people of good will simply do not
always see alike. To me, it is incomprehensible that people of good will could object to
legislation such as this, if they really understand what the bill means.
If this bill is passed it will not interfere
with freedorn of speech; on the contrary, the
freedom of every person would be protected
from unjust attack and defamation.
Freedom of speech-like all the freedoms
mentioned in the Bill of Rights-is the right
of every peace-loving citizen, but that right
must be treated not only with respect but
with responsibility.
No person in Canada should have to live in
fear of attack because of colour, race, religion
or ethnic origin when such attack is due to
bigotry or ignorance.
Honourable senators, I meant to refer to the
quotation from the Commons Hansard by
Senator White, when he read from a speech
made by Mr. Hogarth, because I wondered if
he knew that Mr. Hogarth eventually voted
for the bill. He must have had a change of
heart. I just bring that to the attention of the
honourable senator.
Honourable senators, we have laws that
prohibit and punish those who inflict on
others bodily injury or property damage-we
do not let murderers or robbers go free.
Human beings are more than flesh and blood.
There are other ways of causing injury
besides by physical means. This bill will provide protection from such injuries, and will
make it possible for all Canadians to enjoy
self respect and human dignity; it will give
all Canadians an opportunity to live in peace
and harmony with their neighbours.
I trust that Bill C-3 will receive second
reading.

1044

May 13, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. White: May I ask the honourable pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the
senator a question? I understood her to say motion?
that in Canada prejudice exists against cerSome Hon. Senators: Yes.
tain groups. If that is correct, I wonder if the
honourable senator would identify the groups
Some Hon. Senators: No.
and give some particulars as to what has
happened.
The Hon. the Speaker: Those in favour of
the motion for second reading of this bill will
We all know them. That is please say "yea".
Hon. Mr. Smith:
not a very good question.

Hon. Mr. White: I am not asking you the
question.

Some Hon. Senators: Yea.
The Hon.

the

Speaker: Those against the

motion for second reading of this bill will
Hon. Mr. Smith: I am. merely trying to help please say "nay".
out my colleague who has given a fine speech.
Some Hon. Senators: Nay.
Hon. Mr. White: Just keep quiet for once. If
the honourable senator does not want to
The Hon. the Speaker: In my opinion the
answer my question, then very well.
"yeas" have it.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I do think it is an
unfair question.

Hon. Mr. Macdonald: We want a vote.

And more than two honourable senators
Hon. Mr. White: You should not have made having risen.
the remark you did, if it is unfair.
The Hon. the Speaker: Please call in the
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I am sure you know honourable senators.
the answer.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I like to see the unanimity
Hon. Mr. White: If that is your attitudeon the other side.
Motion of Hon. Mrs. Fergusson carried on
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: You know that there the following division:
is prejudice against coloured people in some
parts of Canada. We have had that come to our
YEAS
attention many times. The Indians of Canada
feel strongly that there is prejudice against
Honourable Senators
them, and I agree with them.
Hays
Aird
Inman
Hon. Mr. Flynn: There is no hate literature Basha
Isnor
against the Indians.
Benidickson
Kinley
Boucher
Hon. Mr. Martin: Oh, yes, there is.
Kinnear
Bourget
Laird
Hon. Mr. Prowse: There is even prejudice Bourque
Lefrançois
Connolly
against senators.
Macnaughton
(Ottawa West)
Hon. Mr. Croll: The Indians themselves say Croll
Martin
that the treaties are hate literature.
McElman
Davey
McGrand
Denis
Hon. Mr. Flynn: The treaties?
Molson
Dessureault
Petten
Duggan
Hon. Mr. Croll: Yes.
Phillips (Rigaud)
Eudes
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You see how absurd you Everett
Prowse
can be with an argument like that.
Robichaud
Fergusson
Smith
Fournier
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senaSparrow
(De Lanaudière)
Senator Fergusson,
tors, it has been moved by
Thompson
seconded by Senator Inman, that Bill C-3, Giguère
Urquhart-39.
intituled An Act to Amend the Criminal Gouin
Code, be now read the second time. Is it your Hastings
[Hon. Mrs. Fergusson.]

SENATE DEBATES

May 13, 1970

NAYS
Honourable Senators
Aseltine
Beaubien
Bélisle
Blois
Carter
Choquette
Flynn
Fournier
(MadawaskaRestigouche)
Grosart
Haig
Hollett
Lang

Macdonald
(Cape Breton)
MacDonald (Queens)
Méthot
O'Leary
Paterson
Pearson
Phillips (Prince)
Quart
Sullivan
Welch
White
Willis-24.

The Hon. the Speaker: I declare the motion
for second reading carried.
When shall this bill be read a third time?

1045

Regarding
some of Senator Flynn's
remarks, I am sure what he meant to say was
that the Minister of Justice was convinced of
the position he had taken. The particular
noun used by the Leader of the Opposition
was not used by the Minister of Justice, and
has not been used by any member of the
Government.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: No; it was an impression.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I do say to the Leader of
the Opposition that this has been a very
important debate. And, if he will allow me to
add, his own contribution, with which I did
not fully agree, was one worthy of the high
traditions of this Senate.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Motion agreed to.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, on
Hon. Mr. Martin: I move that this bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third behalf of the Senate, the Leader of the Opposition and I have a rather important meeting
reading on Tuesday next.
to attend. In view of that, I think it would be
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, desirable not to proceed with the balance of
for the record I should indicate that I have the Order Paper today. We would give conalready advised the Leader of the Govern- sideration to Items 2, 3, 4 and 5, to the extent
ment (Hon. Mr. Martin) that we would not possible, tomorrow.
insist, because we did not see any purpose in
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.
it, that this bill be referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. After the debate we have had here,
At 5.45 p.m. the sitting was resumed.
it would be useless for us to listen to, for
instance, the opinions of the Minister of JusThe Senate adjourned during pleasure.
tice. It would not add very much, because we
have been assured by the Leader of the Government that the minister is convinced of the
infallibility of the Government.
ROYAL ASSENT
The second point is that we are reasonably
The Honourable Ronald Martland, Puisne
satisfied that everyone who wanted to be
Judge of the Supreme Court of Canada,
heard on this bill was heard, either last year, Deputy of His Excellency the Governor Genwhen a Senate committee considered this eral, having come and being seated at the foot
matter, or this year when it was considered of the Throne, and the House of Commons
in a committee of the other place.
having been summoned, and being come with
their Speaker, the Honourable the Deputy of
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, as His Excellency the Governor
General was
the Leader of the Opposition (Hon. Mr. pleased to give the Royal Assent to the folFlynn) has just said, he did indicate to me, lowing Bills:
for reasons specified, that he saw no reason
An Act to Amend the Canada Shipping
for the bill going to the Standing Senate
Act.
Committee on Legal and Constitutional
An Act to establish the International
Development Research Centre.
Affairs.

SENATE DEBATES
An Act respecting the sale and importation o! certain radiation emitting
devices.
An Act to amend the Yukon Placer
Mining Act.
The House of Commons withdrew.

May 13. 1970

The Honourable the Deputy of is Exceliency the Governor General was pleased to
retire.
The sîtting of the Senate was resumed.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2

SENATE DEBATES

May 14, 1970

THE SENATE
Thursday, May 14, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
DISTINGUISHED VISITOR IN GALLERY
THE DEPUTY SPEAKER OF THE LEGISLATIVE
ASSEMBLY OF GHANA

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, the upper house is honoured today by
the visit of a very distinguished citizen and
parliamentarian of Ghana, Isaac AmissahAidoo, Deputy Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly of Ghana, who is now in the
gallery.
On your behalf, honourable senators, I
assure him that we wish that the close
ties which have existed for so many years
between our two countries will continue for
years to come. I also assure him that his visit
to Ottawa, and especially to the Senate, is
very much appreciated, and we hope that he
will visit us again in the future.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Copies of Agreement, dated May 13,
1970, between the Government of Canada
and the Government of the Province
of Alberta, with respect to the Special
Area of Lesser Slave Lake.
Copies of a Statement, dated May 13,
1970, with respect to the signing of the
Protocol and Exchange of Letters amending the 1932 Trade Agreement between
New Zealand and Canada.
Statutory Orders and Regulations published in the Canada Gazette, Part II, of
Wednesday, May 13, 1970, pursuant to
section 7 of the Regulations Act, chapter
235, R.S.C., 1952.
ADJOURNMENT

BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
would like to give an indication of the
schedule of business for next week.
On Tuesday evening the first item on the
Orders of the Day will be the third reading of
Bill C-3, to amend the Criminal Code. We
shall then proceed with the second reading of
Bill C-186, to establish a commission for the
reform of the laws of Canada; and with
Bill C-5, to provide for the relief of persons
who have been convicted of offences and have
subsequently rehabilitated themselves.
Also next week we hope to conclude the
debate on the second reading of Bill C-187,
respecting inland water resources in the
Yukon Territory and Northwest Territories.
Undoubtedly, this bill will then be referred to
committee.
The Standing Senate Committee on Foreign
Affairs will meet on Tuesday; and I believe
that the Joint Committee on the Constitution
of Canada will also meet that day. The Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce will sit all day Wednesday and
Thursday, to continue its study of the White
Paper on Taxation and also to deal with any
legislation which may be referred to it.
The Chairman of the Standing Committee
on Standing Rules and Orders has made
arrangements for a meeting of that committee
to take place at 2 o'clock on Wednesday next,
to consider the question raised by Senator
Haig regarding Rule 7(1).
The Special Committee on Poverty and the
Standing Senate Committee on National
Finance will meet on Thursday.
In view of the heavy load of committees on
Wednesday, it may be desirable that the
Senate do not sit that day. That would enable
these committees to catch up with their work
and permit the convening of Senator Molson's
committee at 2 o'clock. However, we can
decide on Tuesday evening as to the course of
events for Wednesday.
I expect also that we shall receive Bill
C-144, the Canada Water Bill, early next
week.
NORTHERN INLAND WATERS BILL

Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators,
SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED
with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding
Rule 45(l)(g), I move that when the Senate
Leave having been given to proceed with
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until order No. 6.
Tuesday next, May 19, at 8 o'clock in the
Hon. Harry Hays moved the second reading
evening.
of Bill C-187, respecting Inland Water
Motion agreed to.

SENATE DEBATES

Resources in the Yukon Territory and Northwest Territories.
He said: Honourable senators, the Northern
Inland Waters Bill is intended to provide
legislative authority for the comprehensive
management and orderly development of the
inland water resources in the lakes, rivers and
streams of the Yukon Territory and the
Northwest Territories.
More particularly, the bill provides for the
equitable distribution and fair allocation of
rights to the use of water in the region among
those individuals and public and private corporations with legitimate, but sometimes conflicting, claims on the resource. This is
achieved through provisions in the bill deal.ng with the issuance of water rights licences.
A unique feature of the bill, and one of
vital importance to the north, is that it firmly
establishes the principle that rights to the use
of water resources are conditional on the
licencee accepting responsibility for the
maintenance of its quality or restoration of
the quality of the water to acceptable standards prior to its discharge back to the natural
environment. This will be achieved by writing conditions respecting water pollution control into the terms of the water rights
licences, and should the water user fail to
meet these conditions the water licence can
be cancelled, and the right to the use of water
is then terminated.
In the past, water development projects
were too often conceived, designed and operated to meet a single requirement, and other
alternative uses of the resource were relegated to a low priority or ignored entirely.
Water is a unique resource in that it is an
essential element in practically all of man's
social and economic activities. It is becoming
more apparent each day that we can no
longer afford to allocate vast quantities of
water for single purpose developments to the
complete exclusion of other equally vital and
important uses. We can no longer afford to
develop a hydro project without consideration
of its effect on recreation and wildlife; we can
no longer create large reservoirs without considering the effects on forest and mineral
resource development in the area.
The Northern Inland Waters Bill provides
authority for comprehensive or overall planning for multi-purpose development of water
resources. It provides a sound basis for the
development and utilization of the vast quantities of water in the far north, to the benefit
of all people in the region and of the nation
as a whole.
[Hon. Mr. Hays.J

May 14, 1970

A final feature of the bill that warrants
particular attention is contained in those
provisions respecting the creation of territorial water boards in each of the two northern
territories. In the past, a number of federal
departments and the territorial governments
have exercised certain water responsibilities
in the north with very little co-ordination or
overall planning. Anyone wishing to utilize a
water resource was faced with dealing separately with a host of agencies and departments acting independently of one another.
This resulted in unnecessary delays and
duplications. The territorial water boards will
be made up of officials representing all those
federal departments having water responsibilities in the north, as well as representatives of the territorial governments. As a
result, individuals or companies requiring
water rights will deal with one agency, and
all conditions relating to their use of water
will be continued in a single document,
namely, the water rights licence.
The purposes of the bill are:
1. To provide for the equitable distribution
or sharing of rights to use water in the north
among interests with legitimate and sometimes conflicting claims on this resource;
2. To ensure that the disposition or allocation of water rights is done in a manner that
is consistent with immediate and long-term
regional and national interests;
3. To ensure that all works and undertakings planned for the use, diversion, storage or
treatment of water are designed and constructed to acceptable engineering standards;
and
4. To establish and maintain the principle
that rights to the use of water are dependent
on the users accepting full responsibility for
maintaining its quality or restoring its quality
to acceptable standards before returning the
water to the natural environment.
The features of the bill are as follows.
1. Ail property in and right to the use of
surface or ground waters north of the 60th
parallel will be vested in the Crown, Le.,
northern waters become public property.
2. Allocation of rights to the use of northern water will be accompanied by a system of
water rights licensing, whereby a water user
applies for a water right, and his plans and
subsequent construction are subject to government approval and inspection before a final
licence is issued. The proposed development
must include acceptable pollution abatement
facilities. The licence will spell out its term,

May 14, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

the allowable quality that must be maintained, and the annual water rental costs.
3. The act and regulations will be administered in each territory by a water board comprised of senior members from federal
departments involved in northern management and members from the territory.
4. The deposition of waste either directly or
indirectly into northern waters will be prohibited, except in accordance with conditions
written into a licence or permitted under the
regulations.
5. Designated government inspectors will be
authorized to ascertain that water is being
used within the terms of the act and regulations, or to determine if waste is being
deposited in northern waters.
6. Any person who unlawfully uses water
or deposits waste, or uses more water than
authorized in a licence, is liable to a fine of
up to $5,000 per day of off ence.
7. The act facilitates long-term multipurpose planning in northern watersheds, by
enabling reservation of lands to protect a
water body and reservation of water bodies
from licensing.
Honourable senators, I highly recommend
this bill to you. It is something we have been
talking about for several years. If it receives
second reading. I will ask that it be referred
to the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: May I ask the honourable sponsor of the bill (Hon. Mr. Hays) a
question? He stated that the right to the use
and flow of waters in the territory, as defined
in the act, is vested in the Crown. Would the
sponsor tell us if this is a new vestment or
whether these waters have up to this time
already been vested in the Crown?
Clause 3(1) says:
Subject to any rights, powers or privileges granted pursuant to the Dominion
Water Power Act or preserved under that
Act and to section 4 of this Act, the
property in and the right to the use and
flow of all waters are for all purposes
vested in Her majesty in right of Canada.

Hon. Mr. Grosari: I do not know the
answer. I am asking the honourable sponsor
whether this is a new vestment.
Hon. Mr. Hays: If it was not vested in the
Crown before, it is now.
Hon. Mr. Martin: It is just a re-statement.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): I should like to
ask a question of the sponsor of the bill.
I find it rather strange that this bill should
be referred to the Standing Senate Committee
on Banking, Trade and Commerce instead of
to the committee dealing with natural
resources. Why should it go to the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce?
Hon. Mr. Smith: May I be allowed to
explain that? This is quite important. I too
had some doubts when I heard that it was
intended to refer the bill to the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce. Meantime, I have looked into the
matter and find that under the new rules
that is the committee to which shall be
referred matters relating to our natural
resources. Under that heading, it seems
appropriate.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): I appreciate the
efforts of the honourable Senator Smith. He
said he would give a reason and an explanation. Would he please do that?
Hon. Mr. Smith: I said it was in the Rules.
If my honourable friend will read what I said
in Hansard, he will understand it then, if he
does not understand it now.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Macdonald, on
behalf of Hon. Mr. Yuzyk, debate adjourned.
EXPROPRIATION BILL
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ADOPTED
The Senate proceeded to consideration of
the report of the Standing Senate Committee
on Legal and Constitutional Affairs on Bill
C-136, respecting the expropriation of land,
which was presented on Tuesday, May 12.

Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, I
would ask permission to proceed with this
order before we deal with the inquiry standIs this a new vestment?
ing in the name of the honourable Senator
Hon. Mr. Hays: It is spelled out in the bill. I Thompson, if that is agreeable. This item will
assume that water has always been vested in take only a few minutes. I think it would also
the Crown. There will probably be no differ- be convenient to the chairman of the Standence under this measure. Do you think that ing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs, who has to attend a meeting of
may be a duplication in the bill?

SENATE DEBATES
the Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce. And it would greatly
accommodate me, as I have only a few remarks to make on the report. It will take a
very few minutes, if the honourable Senator
Thompson will agree.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: Certainly.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is it agreed that item No. 3 on the Order
Paper should be dealt with immediately?
Hon. Senalors: Agreed.
Hon. Lazarus Phillips: Honourable senators,
I move the adoption of the report.
Honourable senators will remember in the
debate on this bill there was complete consensus that it reflected a move in the right direction in terms of extending the privileges and
rights of the citizen.
The amendment reported from the committee is one that develops further the rights of
the citizen. In connection with this amendment, it is not only my duty but also my
pleasure to pay my respects to the honourable
the Leader of the Opposition, Senator Flynn,
who first raised this question in the house on
second reading of this bill, and be later dealt
with the subject matter in co-operation with
his colleagues in the committee. Honourable
senators will note that the amendment to
which I am now referring is the one in
respect of which I am now reporting. This
amendment was to delete lines 4 to 17 on
page 36 of Bill C-136.
The bill as it read before the proposed
amendment, provided that the whole of the
party's costs incidental to the proceedings
allowed by the court on a solicitor-and-client
basis, be paid by the Crown. However, the
right of the citizen, whose property it is
sought to expropriate, to the payment of such
costs was conditional on the point, referred to
in the bill, that the amount granted by the
court would have to exceed the total amount
of any off er made under section 14. In other
words, the right of payment of costs to the
owner of the expropriated land was conditional on the ultimate payment exceeding the
amount offered under section 14.
Under the proposed amendment, we now
have more liberal provisions. As honourable
senators will note, it cornes under two headings. If the amount ultimately granted does
not exceed the amount originally offered
under section 14, and unless the court finds
the amount of compensation claimed by such
person in the proceedings to have been unrea[Hon. Mr.

Flynn.]

May 14, 1970

sonable, then the court may direct that the
whole of such party's costs of and incidental
to the proceedings be paid by the Crown.
Then we have the addition of this further
important point that where the amount of
compensation so adjudged to be payable to
such party exceeds the offered amount, the
court shall direct that the whole of such
party's costs of and incidental to the proceedings shall be awarded by the court on a
solicitor-and-client basis, and such excess
costs are to be paid by the Crown.
This is a step which I believe is in the right
direction, honourable senators, and is in line
with the more liberal trend in expropriation,
and in line with the desire of combatting
inequities.
If I may be permitted, I should like to take
this opportunity to refer to another bill which
will be coming before us and on which Senator Choquette is to speak. It is one which
deals with the right of the poor man to go
before the Supreme Court of Canada even if
the amount involved is only $1. I mention
that because this is an amendment which
leads to the liberalization of this legislation,
and also because it accepts the views and the
results of the deliberations of honourable
senators in this chamber. These two amendments, the one in the Expropriation Act and
the one in the Supreme Court Act, embody
the concern of honourable senators in this
chamber for the average man, inclusive of the
poor man.

Perhaps I may be permitted to make the
observation that certain members of the
Fourth Estate have on occasion seen fit to
write, apparently as a matter of delight for
them, of this chamber and some of its members as representing vested interests only, and
reflecting the views of a particular segment of
the economy of our country. I think these two
amendments should dissipate that wrongful
impression, and I would hope that due publicity will be given to this point just as in the
past adverse publicity has been given in the
other direction.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
let me first of all subscribe to the last
remarks made by Senator Phillips (Rigaud).
This is not the first occasion on which the
Senate has proven that it does not represent
vested interests, and that it really has at
heart the interests of every sector of the
Canadian public.

May 14, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

With regard to the report of the committee
on this bill concerning the expropriation of
land, as Senator Phillips (Rigaud) indicated, I
raised the question about the rule, which is
the usual rule of the courts, that the loser
shall pay the costs of the winner. In expropriation cases, this rule has been applied generally as meaning that if the expropriating
party's offer is maintained by the court, then
the expropriated party has to pay the costs of
the trial, the fees of the experts called, and
other incidentals.
I suggested that this rule should not apply
in the same way in expropriation cases as it
does in other cases between ordinary litigants. After all, the initiative of expropriation
is taken by the Government or by such public
body as has the power to expropriate, and the
expropriated party has no choice but to
accept what is off ered or to suggest that he
should receive more. The principle I suggested was accepted by the committee and we
referred the matter to the Department of Justice which in turn suggested the amendment
contained in the report.
I think there is an improvement in this
since we do not end up simply giving discretion to the court to award costs on the
basis of the general rule when matters are
being dealt with by the courts. My idea was
that in expropriation cases when the expropriated party in good faith contested the
amount offered by the expropriating party,
even if the court did adjudge that the contestation was not founded in law, that the
expropriated party would be entitled, nevertheless, to all his costs, so as not to diminish
the indemnity paid to the expropriated party,
except, as I suggested, if the contestation was
not reasonable. In this respect we used the
word "frivolous"-

In other words, the test of this amendment
is on the amount claimed by the expropriated
party as compared to the amount offered by
the expropriating party. I suggest this is not
the test. I agree that in the end the court will
interpret it liberally, but it is still not the test.
If I am offered $50,000, for example, and I
refuse it and claim three times that amount
and then lose, it is not necessarily because I
claimed three times the amount that I should
not be awarded my costs, whereas they would
award costs to a party who claimed only, let
us say, an additional $5,000 over the $50,000
offered by the expropriating party.
I suggest that if the contestation of the
expropriated party is unreasonable-and that
is what I suggested to the committee-that
instead of making the amount claimed by the
expropriated party the test of reasonableness,
it should be the contestation itself. The judge
will be able to say whether the expropriated
party, by the witnesses he brings before the
court, by the experts he calls to support his
views, has a reasonable contestation of the
amount offered.
I would have much preferred the amendment to read, "unless the court finds that
contestation by such party to have been
unreasonable", rather than, "the amount of
the compensation claimed to be unreasonable". In any event, in the end, as was suggested by the Minister of Justice and other members of the committee, half a loaf is better
than none.
I am willing to accept the amendment
because it is definitely an improvement. It is
also possible the courts will interpret the
wording in the sense I was suggesting. If it
does, then very well. In any event, I thought
that my objection in principle should be
recorded. The other place will have to considHon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): I think you er this amendment, and if the members there
deem that they should further amend, they
used the expression "futile".
will have the opportunity to do so. If they are
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Yes, I used the word "fu- in agreement with the Minister of Justice, I
tile", and my honourable friend said that will not be displeased, but I would hope the
"frivolous" might be a better word, and I interpretation of the court will be in the
accepted it. That suggestion was accepted, sense I have suggested.
and now we have this amendment which was
Report adopted.
drafted by the Department of Justice and is
THIRD READING
contained in the report from the committee.
It says:
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable sena-that the Court shall, unless it finds the tors, when shall this bill be read the third
amount of compensation claimed by such time, as amended?
party in the proceedings to have been
Hon. Earl W. Urquhar: With leave, I move
unreasonable, direct that the whole of third reading now.
such party's costs of and incident to the
Motion agreed to and bill read third time,
proceedings be paid by the Crownas amended, and passed.

SENATE DEBATES
THE NETHERLANDS
TWENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF LIBERATION
-PARTICIPATION BY CANADIAN DELEGATION
Hon. Andrew Thompson rose pursuant to
notice:
That he will call the attention of the
Senate to the 25th Anniversary of the
Liberation of The Netherlands and in

particular to the participation therein of
the delegation from Canada.

He said: Honourable senators, I rise to
report to you on the visit to the Netherlands

of our Canadian delegation on the occasion of
the 25th Anniversary of the Liberation of The
Netherlands.
At the start I would like to thank Senator

Phillips (Prince) for his kindness in permitting me, the junior senator on this delegation,
to speak first in this house. I may say that
this is characteristic of his thoughtfulness
throughout this trip.

With regard to the timetable of events
during the week of May 1 to 7, may I say that
every minute of each day had been meticuously prepared, and I hold in my hand the
detailed outline of the program-consisting of
24 pages-which was given to us at a briefing
in the Canadian Embassy. We learned that

our delegation, travelling by bus and car,
would criss-cross the length and breadth of
Holland to cover 25 major events during that
week.
Let me read from one or two of the pages

concerning our "marching orders" to give you
an indication of the precisioned timetable.

07.40 .....
Event No. 0301 B .....
Pick up Air Marshal and Mrs. MacBrien
.....
Event No. 0301 C ..... .07.40
Pick up . . . . . Senator and Mrs. Phillips.
Thence in convoy with escort to Reichswald to speed 50 miles across the country.
Another example of the detailed arrangement is that at 12.45 p.m. on May 5, Mr. and
Mrs. Dubé arrive at Zutphen by helicopter, to
be picked up at 14.45 to join with the delegation coming from Deventer.
You might think, with such a crowded
agenda, that there would be moments of tension and friction among our delegation. On
the contrary, we came to know each other
with warmth and affection, and to make
friendships which I feel will be truly lasting.
For me, it was an occasion that I shall
always remember, even though I did not play
a role of great significance during the war.
[Hon. Mr.

Urquhart.]

May 14, 1970

Indeed, on the delegation I met Admiral Lay.
The last time I had met the Admiral was
when I was a junior Sub-Lieutenant in Scotland. I hardly needed to recall to him that I
had escorted him to an aircraft at Prestwick
25 years ago, and on that occasion I had
mislaid his baggage. However, despite that
unhappy event, we became close friends.
There was a warmth and bond among all of
us.
It was an extraordinary revelation to me
that this complex of programming did actually function consistently and with clock-like
precision. It was executed by a superb organizer, the imperturbable, unflappable and
always genial Colonel Pannabaker. He was
ably assisted by the equally genial and imperturbable Major Maas. All members of the
Canadian delegation are hoping that some
day lie may be attached to the embassy here,
for lie certainly won our hearts.
Mr. Alfred Pick, the Canadian Ambassador,
with these two officers, deserve our warmest
congratulations. Always with tact and graciousness, they and their charming wives
looked after our slightest difficulties. I cannot
adequately express my admiration for the
dedicated Canadians on the staff of the
Canadian Embassy in Holland. We are all
very proud of them.
You may rightly ask what was the reaction
of the Dutch people to our visit to commemorate an event that took place over a quarter
of a century ago. How can I possibly express
the warmth and deep affection with which we
were met? It was overwhelmingly moving.
Honourable senators, perhaps we should for
a moment recall those dark days of the Nazi
occupation of the Netherlands. Prior to my
visit to Holland I went to the Parliamentary
Library to read about that period of occupation. Mr. Bruins Slot, a member of the Duteh
underground organization throughout the
war, wrote of that dark period of history. He
described how the Nazi conquerors marched
into Holland in March 1940, and how at the
beginning they behaved with nothing but correctness, but then they began their insidious
evil process on a lulled population. He writes:
The people did not suspect the grandiose plans for nazifying our people. We
did not see that events did not stand
alone, but had a devilish connection with
one another. The "Jew declaration" was
the first link in a chain which ended in
the gas chamber of a concentration camp.
One hundred thousand Jewish people were
exterminated; only 30,000 survived. The vile,

May 14. 1970

SENATE DEBATES

poisoned, demented Nazi intentions suddenly
burst upon a lulled people. Also, thousands of
young Dutch men were arrested and deported
to Germany.
But make no mistake, during that period
the Dutch were extraordinarily brave. We
remember their national strikes of protest,
and the raw courage they displayed in hiding
their people. We remember their national
railway strike to assist Montgomery's advance
by hampering the German defence. We
remember the cruel and savage reprisals
inflicted upon them when the Allied attack at
Arnhem failed.
The Dutch remember vividly and passionately the glorious and gallant story of our
Canadian forces and their final breakthrough
acioss the Maas and the Rhine. It had been
333 days of hard and bloody campaigning
after the Normandy landings before the
Canadians liberated Holland. The Dutch
remember. At Groesbeek Canadian War
Cemetery on the brow of a hill looking over
the peaceful sweep of gentle farm scenery
and back to the Reichswald forest of bordering Germany there are 2,584 Commonwealth
graves, of which 2,338 belong to the Canadians of the Second and Third Canadian Infantry Division and the Fourth Canadian
Armoured Division who died in the intense
fighting of the Battle of the Rhineland. A
Cross of Sacrifice is raised on a podium
against the sky. There are two L-shaped
buildings of classical design which form the
memorial. Carved in a frieze of Portland
stone are the names of the great rivers that
marked the progress of the campaign-the
Seine, the Scheldt, the Maas, the Rhine, and
the Elbe. On the opposite building is carved
in Latin this inscription:
We live in the hearts of friends for whom
we died.
And they do live in the hearts of friends.
Mr. Chatterton, the Superintendent of the
Commonwealth War Graves Commission,
supervises that meticulously tended cemetery
with compassionate concern.
Honourable senators, let me give you some
examples to show that our soldiers live in the
hearts of their friends. Dr. Enklaar, the chairman of the Netherlands War Graves Committee, told me of a nearby village of 600 people.
Their homes have been opened to welcome
and house since the war more than 1,500
mothers, fathers, or widows who have travelled to visit the grave of a fallen soldier.
After our young Minister of Veterans
Adfairs and his charming wife-and let me

1053

say that they represented us with dignity and
sensitivity on this tour-accompanied by
Princess Margriet and her husband, walked
gravely and solemnly to lay the wreaths at
Groesbeek Cemetery, they led our delegation
back along the grass walk between the
graves. Beside each of the more than two
thousand graves there stood at attention a
litle Dutch boy or girl. It was their individual responsibility to care for that particular
grave for a year. And, believe me, they did.
As we walked down the grass lane, on either
side these Dutch children proudly waved
little Canadian flags. As we walked back in
silence we realized again that our soldiers are
indeed in the hearts of their friends.
I can think of many moving experiences
during this trip which I shall always cherish.
I remember, for example, listening to the
majestic music of Mozart's Requiem sung in a
high-vaulted church by the choir of Wageningen. This magnificent soaring music swept
through the church, again a moving respect to
our fallen soldiers.
Incidentally, upon entering any of their
great historic buildings one cannot help but
be impressed and overpowered by the Dutch
tradition of artistic creativity. After all, this
is the nation that has produced Rubens, Frans
Hals, Rembrandt, Jan Steen, Vermeer, and
Van Gogh.
Her Majesty the Queen and Prince Bernhard graciously and generously granted us a
warm and informal audience in the palace,
with its magnificient state rooms. It had been
built around 1650 by Pieter Post for the
widow of Prince Frederick Henry of Orange.
We had honoured and privileged places at
all the ceremonies. There were so many
moving occasions that I find it hard to choose
of which to tell you. We can feel proud of our
representatives, of both the veterans organizations, Colonel Roche and Mr. Lundberg.
Both with great dignity and solemnity placed
wreaths at the memorial services. It was a
deeply moving experience for all of us during
that cherished week.
I think of the Dam Square, the busy open
space which is the centre of life of Amsterdam. On May 4 our delegation, led by Mr.
and Mrs. Dubé, joined with the silent march
through the streets to the National Monument. I do not know if many honourable
senators have marched in a silent procession,
when the only sound is the soft solemn tread
of feet.
What made this occasion particularly
impressive was that ahead of me was the

SENATE DEBATES

erect, straight back of General Simonds, who
had, with General Foulkes, liberated Holland.
Beside me, walking with quiet unassuming
dignity, scorning any assistance which one
might have wanted to offer because of this
demanding schedule, were two of the most
courageous soldiers of Canada, indeed of our
Commonwealth and our free world, recipients
of our honoured and cherished medal of courage, the Victoria Cross. And let no one who
remained untouched by the ravages of war,
yet protected through their gallantry, attempt
to touch the Victoria Cross. The people of
Holland recognized it and saluted it.
I walked down the long winding stairs at
the town hall with General Triquet, V.C., and
Colonel Tilston, V.C. I looked up at the balcony above me as we were descending the stairs
and I saw some of our Netherlands hosts and
friends, who stood silently at attention, tears
in their eyes, recognizing the valour of these
two great soldiers.
General Simonds was always and everywhere applauded-an outstanding soldier for
peace. Someone asked us on our return,
"Wasn't it astonishing that the Dutch should
remember after 25 years?" But General
Simonds knew the answer. Perhaps the most
eloquent answer was in the Oude Lutherse
Kerk in Amsterdam when the Chief Rabbi
chanted the lament before all the dignitaries
of Holland, and before all of us. I watched
General Simonds light the Liberation Torch
in the Wageningen where Germany had finally
signed an unconditional surrender. He held
the torch firmly and steadily into the fiame,
determined that the torch would be fully lit.
When he had lit the torch, a number of young
boys ran to light other torches all over Holland. Believe me, I felt a great pride in
Canada. In a sense he then passed the
responsibility to continue this bond of friendship to us, the legislators.
We were very honoured that Mr. De Niet,
the President of the First Chamber, arranged
a luncheon for the Members of Parliament.
Senator Phillips (Prince) presided on behalf
of us with Mr. De Niet, I can tell you that
Senator Phillips indeed cemented the bonds
of friendship between our two parliamentary
groups on that occasion.
What were my impressions as I came back
from this trip? Certainly there was jubiliation
over the celebration of liberation. Yet, honourable senators, I had a sense of sadness as
[Hon.

Mr. Thompson.]

May 14, 1970

I partook in these celebrations. I thought of
another person, who had been jailed by the
Nazis but whose country had been released
from the Nazis by another regime, a regime
that in one night had deported over 15,000
citizens of that small country in boxcars.
Frankly, I am thinking of my father-in-law
and of his country Estonia. I am saying this
because I think we should not be lulled, we
should know what we are against, and also
we should know what we are for.
Reading the Canadian newspapers when
we were away, I could not help thinking of some of the pale, anaemic feeiings
that some Canadians have towards this great
country. I thought to myself: If only some of
those anaemic Canadians could have the
privilege of walking behind General Simonds,
General Triquet and Colonel Tilston, and
watch them pin the Canadian flag in the lapels
of little Dutch children, and see the smiles
of pride on those children's faces. If only
they could have listened to the young Dutch
children pealing out our national anthem. If
only the people of Canada could see the
greatness that Canadians have achieved in
the hearts of others throughout the world,
then we would stand firm in pride for our
great Canada.
Hon Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable Senators, I am pleased to join the remarks of the
honourable Senator Thompson. I thank him
for his kind reference to myself.
The visit of this delegation began in a way
that I am sure all Canadians would have
wished it to begin, with a request from the
Dutch people. As they planned this ceremony
in commemoration of the liberation, they issued an invitation to the Canadian Embassy
for Canadians to be present at the ceremony.
Consequently, the requests grew and grew
until a delegation from Canada attended
their liberation ceremonies.
The Dutch remember war in a fashion that
is much different from ours. We rernember
our dead and our sacrifices; the Dutch also
remember their dead, not only their servicemen, but also their resistence people and, as
Senator Thompson mentioned, the 100,000
Jews. Every five years since the end of the
war the Dutch people have held special ceremonies, and this being the twenty-fifth anniversary, members of the Canadian delegation were very much honoured and fortunate
to participate in their commemoration.

May 14, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

The delegation consisted not only of the
people whom Senator Thompson bas mentioned, but also included two of our colleagues from the House of Commons whom I
would like especially to mention. I refer to
Mr. G. W. Baldwin and Mr. Ross Whicher,
who had served in the army and had participated in the liberation of Holland. It is
also interesting to note, honourable senators, that all three Canadian services were
represented among the Canadian parliamentarians.
I would also like to mention at this time, in
addition to those mentioned by Senator
Thompson-and he was kind enough to leave
me a few names-the fact that Mr. J. C. Lundberg, the National President of the Council of
Veterans was also present, as was Mr. W. B.
Brittain, Assistant Deputy Minister of the
Department of Veterans Affairs, who won the
Distinguished Flying Cross and was shot
down on his last operation. I also wish to
mention Mr. and Mrs. Keith Kendall, special
assistant to the Minister of Veterans Affairs,
both of whom worked very long hours to
attend to the details of our trip. I regret that
it is impossible to mention all of those who
participated in planning and organizing our
trip, but I am sure that Senator Thompson
will join with me in saying thank you to each
and every one of them.
On our first day in Holland, we were
received by Queen Juliana, not so much as a
delegation, but as friends. The Queen and
Prince Bernhard both conveyed their pleasure
at seeing us, and as the Queen chatted with
Senator Thompson and myself, she produced
a cigarette case, a gift from Canada, which
she carries and which has on it a map of
Canada. She inquired about the Dutch people
in Canada, and in particular about the Dutch
war brides, and expressed a desire to meet
these people in other delegations. As we were
leaving the Orange Room where we were
received, she requested us to line up on the
staircase in an adjoining room and be photographed. On leaving, many people looked
back and saw tears in Queen Juliana's eyes,
and there were tears in the eyes of many of
the Canadians. I think this incident alone
shows how closely the bonds are between
Holland and Canada.
In the evening, our Ambassador had
arranged dinner for us to which many Dutch
burgomasters and Resistance leaders were
invited. To me it was a real honour to see
many of these people wearing the Royal
Canadian Legion tie, and they wore it with

perhaps even more honour than we who are
members of the Royal Canadian Legion.
Sunday morning, a small group of us went
to the Reichswald Forest Cemetery. This is a
cemetery where members of the Air Force
are buried, particularly members of Bomber
Command. This was the first War Graves
Cemetery I have seen. As we drove along the
small country road through the forest, the
thought struck me very impressively, that if
you wanted to stop and rest, this would be
the place you would choose.
Into the cemetery itself, with its Stone of
Remembrance and up the walk to the Cross
of Remembrance, as one walked among the
headstones, one could see a complete bomber
crew of seven men buried together, the particular task of each man as a member of that
crew being shown against his name-Air
Gunner, Wireless Operator, Pilot, Navigator,
Bombardier. On one stone I was deeply
moved to read an inscription which I had
read many times before, but seeing it actually
on a headstone made it most moving-"An
airman, 1939-45 war-known only to God".
Then we left and went back to join the rest
of the group for the ceremony at Groesbeek
and, as Senator Thompson mentioned, Princess Margriet, who was born in Ottawa, was
present representing the Dutch Royal Family.
I want to mention two things about that
ceremony. I cannot add anything to the
description of Senator Thompson except to
say that each school child laid five flowers1940 to 1945-one flower for each year of the
occupation. And as Mrs. Phillips and I looked
to find the grave of Lieutenant Birks of the
Lincoln and Welland Regiment, we saw the
most unusual sight of two V.C. winners
Brigadier Triquet and Colonel Tilston standing looking at the grave of yet another V.C.
winer.
On the Monday the Dutch observed the
Day of Commemoration. On this occasion, the
ceremonies were very much like those of our
own in Canada on November 11.
Senator Thompson has mentioned the
ceremony at Amsterdam. One thing I would
like to add to that is how impressed I was by
the fact that the guard of honour was provided, not with the usual pomp and ceremony,
but rather by Dutch resistance fighters wearing their uniforms of that time.
In the afternoon we attended a commemoration ceremony in the Hall of Knights, which
was built in the Twelfth Century. It makes us
realize how little history we really have in
Canada compared to that of Europe.

SENATE DEBATES

In the evening, as we moved to the town of
Wageningen-which

dates back to 838 A.D.,

has been occupied numerous times and is the
site of the surrender of the German army to
the Canadian army-all traffic stopped at 8
p.m. It was impressive to see the traffie on a
busy four-lane highway stop. Everyone got
out of their cars and stood and saluted in
silence for two minutes.
As has been mentioned, we attended the
evening performance of Mozart's Requiem.
This was the twenty-third time this work had
been performed in commemoration of the sacrifices not only of the Dutch but also of the
Canadians. I was impressed to see the members of the choir, many of them standing
there singing this difficult piece of music
without notes and at the same time feeling it
was a privilege to do so.
In the evening we attended the opening of
a museum in the Der Wereld Hotel. This is
the hotel in which the negotiations took place
between the Canadian generals and the German generals, resulting in the surrender of
the German army. It bas now been made into
a museum. We often think of our youth as
not remembering, but this work was prepared
by a Dutch youth of about 20 years of age,
who had collected many mementos and had
prepared the display entirely on a voluntary
basis, handling it over to the town to commemorate the liberation of Holland.
The next day, as we proceed into Deventer
for services, I was impressed by the fact that
we saw the runners coming into Deventer
with the torches that had been lighted by
General Simonds the night before. These
young people had run in relays all through
the night to carry the torches to one hundred
towns in Holland. This again showed that our
youth do remember and do appreciate and
understand the sacrifices made by these
people.
The commemorative air of May 4 contrasted with the joyful air of May 5, the joy at
being liberated. At Deventer, as the school
children sang O Canada and released balloons, a festive air took over.
Like Senator Thompson, I was impressed
by the respect shown for the Victoria Cross
winners. As they moved through the crowds
on this occasion, I too was amazed at how the
Dutch would come to attention and salute
these two very brave men.
In the afternoon we went to Zutphen and
watched a parade commemorating the liberation. The Dutch people were kind enough to
have interpreters explain its significance. Of
[Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince).]

May 14, 1970

the various floats participating I would like to
mention just one, and that is the one dealing
with the theme of Food, 1945 and now. The
first vehicle in the parade was a small farm
cart of sugar beets being pulled by hand. The
second was a vehicle displaying a number of
hanging parachutes with baskets attached,
signifying the air-drop of food into Holland. It
was then I realized how close to starvation
the Dutch people really had been. The third
one was a turning table from a modern Dutch
grocery with all the various items of modernday food displayed.
Now I would like to refer to the luncheon
provided for the Canadian parliamentarians
by the members of the Dutch Parliament. Mr.
De Niet, the President of the First Chamber,
which corresponds to our Senate, presided
along with other members of that chamber
and, I believe, at least three Vice-Presidents
of the Second Chamber. Before we went into
lunch they took us into their Senate chamber
and explained the murals. These murals consist of paintings of people in various parts of
the world looking in on Holland. I suggested
to them that at times we feel that our people
do not look in on this chamber enough and
that at other times we feel they look at it
a little too closely. I found the Dutch
parliamentarians felt the same way.
In reply to the remarks of the President of
the First Chamber, I referred to the long
history of association between Canada and
Holland, that 200 years ago many citizens of
Holland came to Canada and took an active
part in the settlement of this country, and
that today many of their descendants have
gone back to rest with their ancestors in the
various cemeteries throughout Holland.
Our luncheon concluded with an informal
discussion of various topics, including NATO,
the seal hunt, and pollution; and Mr. Ross
Whicher explained, in one of the best explanations I have heard, our close affiliation with
the United States. At times, perhaps Canada
may seem a little closer to the United States
than it does to Europe, but those who have
heard Mr. Whicher will readily understand
this.
The Dutch and Canadians present at that
meeting expressed the desire for a committee
very much along the lines of the CanadaUnited States Interparliamentary Committee,
which would meet once a year to discuss
mutual problems. Mr. De Niet made it very
plain that they did not wish it to be a vehicle
for a sightseeing tour, but that there should
be an agenda prepared in advance.

SENATE DEBATES

May 14, 1970

Honourable senators, I found that the members of the R.C.M.P. were just as much photographed in Holland as they are in front of the
Parliament Buildings. They seem to have
become identified with Canada. They are part
of our tradition, and I hope nothing will ever
change the recognition of that force.
It is rather unusual for a parliamentarian
to refer to the press in complimentary terms,
but I am going to do that today because on
this occasion the reporters, the photographers,
the radio and TV people were marvellous.
They worked extremely long hours and did a
wonderful job. At no time did they transgress
any of the rules. They were always in their
proper places, and I have read many of the
reports they have sent back, in which they
conveyed many of the feelings of the delegation. I should like to thank them for their
efforts.
In closing I wish to refer again to the translation of the address by Mr. De Niet at the
ceremony in the Hall of Knights, and the
reading of Elizabeth Anderson, the poet and
actress, in which they referred to the fact
that each time the dead are remembered their
vision grows a bit dim. This, of course, is a
natural reaction, but it is one that we must
not allow to occur. We must remember their
sacrifice, and Canada's long association with
the Netherlands.
SUPREME COURT ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND

READING

The Senate resumed from Thursday, May 7,
the adjourned debate on the motion of
Honourable Mr. Phillips (Rigaud) for the
second reading of Bill C-182, to amend the
Supreme Court Act.
Hon. Lionel Choquette: Honourable senators, I shall be very brief because this bill has
been so well explained by Senator Phillips
(Rigaud).
This is an important bill, designed to
broaden the access of litigants to the Supreme
Court of Canada, particularly on matters
involving disputes of law, or of mixed law
and fact, and also in disputes that may originate from federal administrative tribunals in
Canada.
While it broadens such access, the bill tends
to reduce appeals involving matters of fact
alone that would now reach the court as a
matter of right. This would give the Supreme
Court a greater opportunity to deal with matters involving the Constitution, matters of
federal and provincial statutory import, and

of matters of legal importance. Perhaps I
should not mention at this time the Canadian
Bill of Rights.
I understand that in important matters any
provincial court of appeal may still grant
leave to the Supreme Court of Canada
whether it is on a question of fact, law, or
mixed fact and law. Indeed, the Supreme
Court of Canada retains its power to grant
leave to appeal to the court of last resort on
any such matters.
Honourable senators will recall that this is
not the first time that a similar bill has been
debated in the Senate. In fact, a similar bill,
following lively debate, was passed by the
Senate on October 23, 1968, and it died on
prorogation.
There are, it appears, only two main differences between that bill and the one now
before us. The first difference is that in the
earlier bill it was proposed to amend section
36 of the Supreme Court Act so as to provide
an appeal as of right thereunder on a question of law alone. The present bill amends
section 36 to provide that an appeal lies on a
question that is not exclusively a question of
fact, thereby allowing for appeals as of right
under that section on questions of mixed law
and f act.
The earlier bill also proposed increasing the
figure of $2,000 to $10,000 in respect of
appeals which may be taken to the Supreme
Court of Canada without prior determination
by a provincial court of appeal. Honourable
senators may recall that this proposal ran into
considerable opposition when the bill was
before the Senate, on the ground that it
reduced the public's access to the Supreme
Court on a monetary basis. Senator Roebuck,
in particular, had some eloquent remarks to
make on this matter. Since leave to appeal to
the Supreme Court will have to be obtained
from the Supreme Court, it is apparently no
longer considered necessary to have any such
monetary limit. I think honourable senators
will be glad to learn that if, on an application
for leave to appeal, the Supreme Court considers that the appeal has merit, it will go
forward regardless of the amount involved.
In view of the fact that a bill in similar
form has already been passed here and that
some amendments have since been made, at
least partly in response to the debate in the
Senate, I propose to vote for the motion for
the second reading of this bill.
I might add that I see no reason for referring this bill to a committee. Although the
honourable sponsor of the bill has intimated

SENATE DEBATES

that if and when the bill receives second
reading he would refer it to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Aff airs, I would not object to the bill being
given third reading now.

May 14, 1970

again express what I am sure are the feelings
of all honourable senators in this house, that
unfortunately he is not able to be with us this
day.
I should also like to thank Senator ChoHon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I quette for his courtesy in relieving me from
should like to add a footnote to what Senator the commitment I had made on this bill, if
Phillips said earlier when he referred to the and when it was approved on second reading,
interest of the Senate in matters that concern to have it sent to the Standing Senate Comthe general public. What Senator Choquette mittee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. I
has said about Senator Roebuck gives me an am assuming, as I look at honourable senators
now, that there is unanimous concurrence in
opportunity to add to the footnote.
those observations.
As Senator Choquette reminded us, on the
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
occasion when the bill was first before us,
before it left this chamber for the other place
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senabut where it was not dealt with because of tors, when shall this bill be read the third
prorogation, Senator Roebuck spoke very time?
strongly about the limitation of access to the
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Honourable
court. I can say as a matter of record that I
showed his speech to some of my colleagues. I senators, if I have leave I will move that,
have no doubt that it was in large measure notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(b), this bill be
owing to some of his observations that now read the third time.
changes were made in this bill.
Hon. Allister Grosari: Honourable senators,
This present bill, therefore, is a tribute to it is truc that Senator Choquette on behalf of
the work of the Sonate, to its concern for, net the official Opposition suggested that it was
one group, but for all the people of Canada. not necessary for this bill to go to committee,
And I am sure all honourable senators will but I do not think it necessarily follows that
agree with me that it is a tribute to the we should have immediate third reading.
industry, the humanitarianism and the great There are reasons for the rules, and unless
qualities of Senator Roebuck.
the sponsor of the bill (Hon. Mr. Phillips,
Rigaud) can indicate some reason for urgenHon. Senators: Hear, hear.
cy-urgency that would make it necessary tc
set aside our rules-then I am not prepared to
Hon. Lazarus Phillips: Honourable senagive consent.
torsHon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Honourable
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable sena- senators,
having
tors, I must inform you that if the honourable Senator Grosart, regard to the observations of
for whose opinions I have
Senator Phillips (Rigaud) speaks now his great respect,
as I have indicated on previous
speech will have the effect of closing the occasions, I move
that this bill be placed on
debate.
the Orders of the Day for third reading at the
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Honourable next sitting of the Senate.
Motion agreed to.
senators, may I associate myself with my
leader in his reference to the yeoman service
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, May
rendered by Senator Roebuck on this bill, and 19, at 8 o'clock.

SENATE DEBATES

May 19, 1970

THE SENATE
Tuesday, May 19, 1970
The Senate met at 8 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES ACT
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST READING

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that a message had been received from the
House of Commons with Bill C-193, to amend
the Industrial Research and Development
Incentives Act.
Bill read first time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this bill be read the second
time?

1059

Copies of Agreement, dated May 14,
1970, between the Government of Canada
and the Government of the Province of
British Columbia, under the Agricultural
and Rural Development Act (ARDA),
chapter 30, Statutes of Canada, 1960-61,
as amended 1966-67.
Report of the Auditor General to the
House of Commons (Volume I), for the
fiscal year ended March 31, 1969 pursuant
to section 70(2) of the Financial Administration Act, chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of the Federal Task Force on
Agriculture entitled "Canadian Agriculture in the Seventies", dated December
1969.
CANADA-U.S.A. RECIPROCAL FISHING
AGREEMENT

Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators will
remember that on April 28 I tabled the CanaHon. Paul Martin moved that the bill be da-U.S.A. Reciprocal Fishing Agreement. I
placed on the Orders of the Day for second would like to do now what I was unable to do
then, explain briefly the terms of that
reading on Thursday next.
agreement.
Motion agreed to.
Canada and the United States concluded an
agreement concerning reciprocal fishing priviDOCUMENTS TABLED
leges between the two countries on April 24,
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
1970. The agreement was signed for Canada
Summary of representations made to by Dr. A. W. H. Needler, Deputy Minister,
the Government of Denmark with respect Department of Fisheries and Forestry, and for
to possible prohibition of Atlantic Salmon the United States
by Ambassador D. L.
Fishing. (English text).
McKernan, Special Assistant for Fisheries
Copies of the Third Canada-Sweden
and Wildlife, Department of State.
Working Paper on Direct Broadcast
The agreement will allow the fishermen of
Satellites, prepared for the United
Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses both countries to continue, on a reciprocal
of Outer Space.
basis, commercial fisheries activities up to
Copies of Statement on Textile Policy three miles off the coast of each country,
made by the Minister of Industry, Trade which they have carried out up to the present
and Commerce to the House of Commons time and prior to the establishment of excluon May 14, 1970.
sive fishing zones by either Canada, in 1964,
Copies of Interim Report of the Special or the United States, in 1966. The agreement
Advisory Committee on Oral Contracepformalizes the reciprocal fishing rights
tives to the Minister of National Health
arrangements which have existed informally
and Welfare.
Copies of Agreement, dated May 12, between Canada and the U.S.A. since the
1970, between the Government of Canada establishment of their respective fishing
and the Government of the Province of zones. Advisers from provincial, state and
Ontario, under the Agricultural and federal governments and representatives of
Rural Development Act (ARDA), chapter the fishing industry from both coasts of both
30, Statutes of Canada, 1960-61, as countries took part in the negotiations leading
amended 1966-67.
to this Agreement.
22481-17

SENATE DEBATES

May 19, 1970

The agreement is for a period of two years CRIMINAL CODE (HATE PROPAGANDA)
and applies only to commercial fisheries and
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING
to the areas referred to in the agreement.
Hon. Muriel McQ. Fergusson moved the
The agreement will have no effect on the
territorial or jurisdictional claims of either third reading of Bill C-3, to amend the
Criminail Code.
country.
Hon. Josie D. Quart: Honourable senators, I
Hon. Mr. Burchill: May I ask if there are
any specific changes in this agreement from had no intention in participating in the
debate on Bill C-3 until a few days ago, when
the one which existed previous to it?
I received a letter, in fact one of many letters.
Hon. Mr. Martin: There are no substantial This particular one came from a political
science student, and it gave me food for
changes.
thought. I shall read an excerpt from it later.
I rise not to contribute a few emotionCANADIAN BROADCASTING
packed words to the riot of rhetoric to
CORPORATION
which we have been exposed in debating this
PREPARATION AND COST OF FILM "CUSTER bill, for, unlike some senators who have
CHANNEL WING AIRCRAFT"-INQUIRY
preceded me, I do not feel that a wordy attesANSWERED
tation of why I cannot support the bill is
necessary. In saying this I wish to assure all
Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the honourable senators that I respect the opinGovernment, pursuant to notice:
ions for and against Bill C-3. Indeed, I con1. What was the cost of filming the gratulate honourable senators on both sides of
"Custer this chamber for their excellent speeches.
aircraft in the two films entitled
Channel Wing Aircraft", made by the
I am sure that all honourable senators are
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation in
the public advocacy of
the latter part of 1967, one at Quebec opposed to hatred and that all are sincere in
genocide, and I believe
City and one at Ottawa?
their beliefs. As a matter of fact, I shall go
2. Why were the sections showing the further and say that I am willing to believe
aircraft airborne cut from the original that all but an infinitesimal part of the
films?
Canadian population are sufficiently charita3. Who authorized the cutting of each ble people as not to need the threat of possifilm and for what purpose?
ble incarceration hanging over their heads
like the Sword of Damocles in order to keep
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
them from printing hate literature, making
abusive telephone calls, or delivering hatefilled speeches calculated to arouse people and
(The answer follows)
lead them to take violent action against an
1. Actual figures are no longer availa- identifiable group.
ble but costs were minimal involving
The peddlers of hate in our midst are a
transportation to Ottawa and accommodation for one C.B.C. reporter from minuscule group of social misfits, more to be
Toronto, use of approximately 1,000 feet pitied than arrested. Their minds are posiof film and a three-man crew locally and tively ill. But, it may be that on the other
other normal charges consistent with side there is a group of alarmists and sympafilming an item for television. To the best thy-seekers who seem to derive pleasure from
of the C.B.C.'s recollection only one short constantly fiailing themselves with the
thought that they are hated and that their
film was made.
lives are in danger from someone who is
2. and 3. Due to the length of time that actively seeking their annihilation.
has elapsed since the filming, exact
In my opinion, this is simply not true in
details of the assignment are not available. However, the C.B.C.'s recollection is Canada, and to pass legislation such as this
that a smal part of the film footage will merely serve to lend credence to the
showing the aircraft airborne was set delusions of those who feel a need for protecaside by production staff for possible pro- tion from a non-existent danger.
I have had it explained to me that we are
gram use and later discarded when original plans to telecast the item were going to outlaw hate literature because of the
traumatic psychological effect such literature
abandoned.
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

May 19, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

can have on the mind of the person at whom
it is directed. Can anyone recall an era in
history when religious, racial and ethnic
groups have not been targets of hate propaganda? Moreover, anybody who cannot stand
up to a barrage of verbal or written abuse
and defend himself adequately is weak, and
we are not going to strengthen him by
clamping shut the mouths of his assailants. It
is not by keeping a child away from his peers
that you teach him how to defend himself, or
how to deal with the every-day blows that
life serves up to one's ego. In the long run, he
is stronger for it.
I am concerned that if we pass this bill the
day will come, not too long hence, when we
will be called upon to debate yet another bill
seeking increased restrictions on the right of
free speech. We will be told by so-called
intellectuals that at this juncture in time,
when man is so much better educated and so
much more sophisticated, what used to be
regarded as the free exercise of one's right of
expression has now become licence and, consequently, is to be forbidden because it entails an inherent encroachment upon the
freedom of others. History records many such
rationalizations in defence of even less questionable behaviour.
A number of very well-respected authorities, editors, and others, have expressed grave
concern as to the potentially dangerous consequences of putting such anti-hate legislation
in the statute books. They are convinced that
by future amendments the Government could
without much difflculty further limit civil liberty by again restricting freedom of speech.
Were we genuine advocates of individual
freedom and staunch believers in democracy,
we would be seeking, not to restrict but rather
to encourage the free expression of ideas. Let
he who listens or reads be the judge of
whether or not the idea being expressed is
asinine, immoral or worthy of consideration.
To suggest that the Government be permitted
to prevent people from making comments of a
certain type which the Government considers
objectionable is, in my humble opinion, a
travesty of democracy. It is paternalism and
elitism of the very worst kind. It makes very
clear the fact that the Government which
advocates such over-protection of its citizens
really has no regard for the intelligence and
sense of fair play of these citizens.
A poet has said: "The curfew tolls the knell
of parting freedom". I could not live with my
conscience if I did anything to hasten or
facilitate the eradication of those freedoms
22481-17J

that were so very difficult for our ancestors to
come by, freedoms that were fought for and
won only at a very great cost in personal
suffering.
Before concluding I would like to put on
record an excerpt from the letter from the
student of political science, to whom I
referred, who claimed that she was expressing the viewpoint of the majority of the students of her class. I quote:
We were amazed and disillusioned by
the manner that the House of Commons
passed the Hate Bill. How could the bill
be passed when 130 Members of Parliament were absent?
Is one ta conclude that the present
breed of parliamentarians are spineless
chickens? Are they too scared ta stand up
and be counted? Are they so dominated
by the powerful establishment that they
dare not vote against a Governmentsponsored bill?
Our hopes now lie with the Senate to
restore our confidence in our democratic
parliamentary system. I have not seen
one editorial supporting the bill, and the
senators would do well te vote against it.
But at least let those for or against the
bill stand up and be counted.
Instead of this Hate Bill, it would have
been more logical for Parliament ta bring
about legislation to control obscenity and
pornography, and to describe and define
the evil, and to legislate appropriate
action which could cope effectively with
the problem without violating constitutional rights. The United States bas set
up such a commission called the Presidential Commission on Obscenity and
Pornography which is supposed to present a report to Congress in September.
Why wouldn't the Senate set up a similar
type of commission? Surely, legislation of
this kind would be more beneficial than
the unnecessary Hate Bill.
Consequently, I shall vote against this bill
for it constitutes what I consider to be a
significant first attack in a war of attrition
against individual freedom.
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable senators, as this bill bas been debated at some
length I think its purpose, effects, and indeed
its implications are now well known and well
understood. It was originally explained-and
if I may say s0 very well explained-by the
sponsor (Hon. Mrs. Fergusson), and the
debate bas brought out the different points of

SENATE DEBATES
view on it, and has shown the areas of agreement and disagreement with its proposals.
As has been explained, the bill will add to
our criminal law by creating three new
offences. By creating these offences, it will of
necessity infringe upon the freedom of speech
of the individual. I think this must be recognized and admitted, although I appreciate the
argument that the bill limits only the abuse
of free speech rather than the fundamental
right itself.
Honourable senators, freedom of speech is
one of our most cherished rights. It is a very
fundamental freedom. It is the great safeguard of our democratic form of government.
Consequently, any law which would infringe
upon it, which would limit it, or which would
restrict it in any way, must be given very
rigourous examination and be looked upon
with great suspicion, and those who propose
any such law must be prepared to give strong
and compelling reasons for its adoption. In
my opinion, this bill does constitute an
infringement on the right of the individual to
free speech, and I do not think the arguments
advanced for its passage are strong enough or
compelling enough to justify such infringement.
Of course, honourable senators, freedom of
speech is not and never can be an absolute
right. People live in a society, they live in
communities, and the rights of all must be
respected. The rights of all must be protected,
and this can be done only by putting some
limit on the rights of the individuals forming
such society or community. Consequently, we
do have laws which limit absolute freedoms
in order to provide for the orderly government of all. But it must always bc remembered that such laws are passed for the
as
persons
persons-of
of
protection
individuals-who make up a society or a
community or state. They are not passed for
the benefit of such community or state as an
entity which exists as something separate and
apart from the men and women who compose
it. The many laws that have been passed over
the years for protection of the person and of
his property show that the concern of the
lawmakers has been for the individual person
and not for a kind of super-state devoted to
controlling the thoughts and speech of the
individual.
Personally, I am one of those who believe a
new criminal offence should not be created
unless there is a clear and, if not a present
danger, at least a forseeable danger which
would make the new offence necessary, or
[Hon. Mr. Macdonald.]

May 19, 1970

desirable, for the protection of the individual
either in his personal capacity or in his
capacity as a member of society.
I believe that in making any new law
which adversely affects the rights of the
individual, great care should be taken to
assure that a proper balance is maintained
and a sense of proportion kept in mind.
In my opinion any right of the individual
should only be limited, restricted or infringed
upon to the extent that it is considered necessary for the protection of all those individuals
who compose the community or the state. In
other words, if a right of the individual is to
bc limited or removed, then it should be done
only if it is offset or balanced, as it were, by a
benefit which would accrue as a result of
such law, to at least some considerable proportion of the population. By keeping a sense
of proportion, I mean a new law should only
do that which is considered necessary to cure
or prevent some present or foreseeable evil or
need. I do not think it should try to prevent
something which might, under certain circumstances, occur in the remote future.
Honourable senators, it is my feeling that
this bill is not one which deals with the present or forseeable danger of evil. I do not
think there is any pressing or urgent need of
a law to prohibit the advocating or promoting
of genocide in Canada. If there is such a need,
it has not been shown and I think it is an
insult to the Canadian people for Parliament
to say that Canadians would, under any circumstances, indulge in such an abhorrent
practice.
I might say that I find it somewhat difficult
to understand the great concern being shown
about advocating genocide. Less than one
year ago Parliament passed a law permitting
the killing of unborn children by legalizing
abortion in many cases. With regard to the
section of the bill dealing with promoting
hatred, I do not think it has been shown that
this is necessary or even desirable. I would be
vastly surprised if a few hatemongers or rabble-rousers could have the slightest effect on
the thinking of Canadian people. If Canadians
should turn out to be the kind of people who
are influenced by such rabble-rousers or hatemongers, then I feel that legislation would
never prevent it. Before hate literature or
hateful speech could possibly have any effect
there must already exist a state of mind
which could only be described as either evil
or diseased.

May 19. 1970

DEBATES
May 19 1970SENATE

Honourable senators, legislation can neyer
cure an evil or a diseased mind. Personally, I
do not; believe that this kind of mind exists ini
Canada or that there is the slightest indication that it ever wrnl. I also believe that those
who advocate this measure-and I know it
will be passed-are due for a disappointment
because I f eel that they ex-pect too much.
fromn it. It is my opinion fromn listening to the
debates, that they believe it wlll prevent; discrimination, neglect, apathy and hatred. It
will do none of those things and those who
believe that it will are due for great disappointment.
Honourable senators, I would have liked to
have seen some changes made in this law and
carried,
particularly
somne
amendments
regarding the burden of proof, so that the
burden of proof of innocence would neyer
rest on an accused. I believe this to, be wholly
wrong and contrary to the best traditions of
our legal system. I believe that it is bad law
and I care not how many precedents can be
quoted in support of it or by whomn they were
set.
I would also like to see paragraph (c) of
subsection 3 of section 267B given a thorough
exammnation. As it is now worded, it does not
appear to me to make either good sense or
good law. I would also like to have seen a
time limit put i the bill, so that prosecution
for an offence could take place only within a
year or two years-or perhaps not more than
three years. Any prosecution for treason must
be brought within three years of the time
when the offence is alleged to have occurred.
Honourable senators, freedomn of speech is a
very fundamental right, it is a precious heritage, one to be guarded and protected at all
times. It is far better to tolerate some abuse
of it than to infringe upon it. Over the years,
the defence of freedomn of speech has not
been easy. It has been and it should be
defended, even when it is not popular to do
so, even when such defence is open to misinterpretation. I believe such freedom. should be
defended, even when those who seek or propose to limit it do so from the highest motives
and propose only a minimum of curtailment.
Honourable senators, I believe this bill to,
be unnecessary; I believe it would be bad law,
and I will vote against it on third reading.

Somne Hon. Senalors: Carried.
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: On division.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time
and passed, on division.
SUPREME COURT ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING

Hon. Lazarus Phillips moved the third
reading of Bill C-182, to amend the Supreme
Court Act.
Motion agreed to, and bill read third timne
and passed.
NORTHERN INLAND WATERS BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE

CONTINUED

The Senate resumed from Thursday, May
14, the adjourned debate on the motion of
Honý.Mr. Hlays, for the second reading of Bil
C-187, respecting inland water resources in
the Yukon Territory and Northwest Territories.
Hon. Arthur M. Pearson: Honourable senators, may I have permission to speak in place
of Senator Yuzyk?
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, is it agreed that Senator Pearson speak
now instead of Senator Yuzyk?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

Hon. Mr. Pearson: Honourable senators, we
have before us Bill C-187, known as the
Northern Inland Waters Bill. Its purpose is,
first, to guard the uses of ail rivers and lakes
north of the 6Oth parallel, speciflcally, the
waters of the Yukon Territory and Northwest
Territories.
Before I discuss the blll-which was well
explained by the sponsor-I would like to
draw the attention of the Senate to something
which appeared to me, as an outsider, to be
happening in Government circles.
There seemns to be some confusion, or
should I say division, in Cabinet at the
present time. I earnestly hope the rift can be
healed, because our country cannot stand any
more problems than those that now beset it.
Let me give an illustration by way of
explaining my assiunption that there is some
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, it is moved by honourable Senator Fer- division.
On May 22, 1969, the Minister of Fisheries
gusson, seconded by honourable Senator
Cook, that this bill be now read a third time. gave an address to the Hamilton Rotary Club
Is it your pleasure, senators, to adopt the in the most glowing and optimistic terms,
under the heading, "Pollution and the Fishermotion?

SENATE DEBATES

May 19, 1970

ies Act". With your permission I should like bill, Bill C-187, which is presently before this
to quote one or two excerpts from that house. But before I turn to Bill C-187, let me
speech by the Minister of Fisheries, delivered explain further my contention that there is a
at the Sheraton-Connaught Hotel in Hamil- cabinet division.
ton. Speaking of pollution and the Fisheries
The Minister of Fisheries and Forestry
Act, the Honourable Mr. Davis said:
finally brought out Bill C-204 which I preFish react to poisonous substances. sume will be before the Senate shortly. What
-They go belly up before human beings bas happened in the space of one year to take
take sick. And so strict laws protecting away the confidence of the minister who was
our fisheries can be our first line of so happy and who claimed that Canada was
defencefortunate compared to the United States, who
Further in that same speech the Minister of contended that by a simple amendment to the
Fisheries Act Canada could control all water
Fisheries had this to say:
pollution? Listen to what he had to say this
We in Canada are fortunate. We are for- year. I quote from the House of Commons
tunate in that we have a clear cut avenue Hansardat page 6089, about line 20, from the
for Federal participation in the battle minister's introduction of Bill C-204 in the
against pollution. We are fortunate in other place.
that we have an effective tool in the FishThe Fisheries Act does not solve all the
eries Act. The Fisheries Act, as it happroblems.
pens, is nearly as old as Confederation
itself. It predates most provinces and it He bas had a complete change of mind in the
certainly predates provincial legislation space of one year.
with respect to water quality and polluWe can deal with the greater part of
tion control.
industrial pollution from chemical plants,
Most provincial legislation has been
from most chemical processing industries,
framed with our Federal Fisheries Act in
and from many mines. As I say, the Fishmind. . . .But provincial laws and provineries Act can be used in large measure to
cial regulations must take second place to
deal with pollutant problems which arise
the Fisheries Act in any case for fisheries
from industry but not necessarily from
are Federal under our Constitution.
municipalities.
I said we are fortunate. We are fortuFurther in the same speech at page 6090,
nate as compared to the United States
where fishery matters are matters for the line 16, the minister had this to say:
individual States. In the U.S.A. the States
Mention was made of water quality
have authority over the fisheries and not
management areas. In a number of situathe nation. So it is much more difficult
tions, particularly where there are a
for Washington to coordinate activities in
number and a variety of industries,
the United States as its authority is limitwhere there are one or more municipalied to international treaties and the like.
ties, where there is a wide range of
activities and a multiplicity of effluents
In this country Ottawa has full authoriwe need the powers not only of one
ty over our "sea coast and inland fisherdepartment of the federal government,
ies"namely, the Department of Fisheries, but
That speech was given just over one year
also the powers of the Canada Shipping
ago, honourable senators, but in the meantime
Act, the powers under our national
the problem of pollution bas grown to such
health legislation, the powers under all
an extent that all the experts and nearthe provincial pieces of legislation and
experts on pollution are making a name for
the powers of municipal by-laws. We
themselves by rushing into print. Pollution is
need the full force of all the legislative
the thing to talk about today.
powers and administrative abilities of all
Later in the same year the Minister of
three levels of government in such situaEnergy, Mines and Resources, the honourable
tions, and this in good measure is where
J. J. Greene, brought in Bill C-144. It is his
the Canada Water Act comes in.
contention that water is a resource and
should therefore come under his department,
When the minister made that statement he
and rightly so.
was introducing Bill C-204 in the House of
Moreover, the Minister of Indian Affairs Commons, but the other two ministers I have
and Northern Development brought in this mentioned jumped the gun on him. They
[Hon. Mr. Pearson.J

May 19, 1970

DEBATES
19.
1970SENATE
May

divided the country between them, taking
over control of the waters in their respective
areas. I must say I have great sympathy for
the Minister of Fisheries. I feel he was on the
right track when he made that speech in
Hamilton last year. An amendment to the
Fisheries Act miight wefl have been ail that
was necessary to have decreed that waters
made unsafe for fish would not be in the
interests of Canada. Ail industries and
municipalities would then have been obliged
to goverfi themselves accordingly.
The second main purpose of Bill C-187 is to
set up two boards, one for the Yukon and the
other for the Northwest Territories.
In short, honourable senators, we now have
three bills dealing in the main with water
pollution-Bill C-144, Bull C-187 and Bill
C-204. Moreover, I understand there is another bill to be introduced shortly. It almost
seems that we need a type of Maxwell Henderson to direct the traffic in pollution bills.
The division of authority is going to create
probleins. It will be something Uike the welfare prograins. There are many well-intentioned programs, but they are very confusing
to the poor folk who need assistance.
Honourable senators, the whole problen of
pollution is one of poor co-ordination. I really
cannot feel much hope for Canada with ail
these bills, authorities and agencies. Why cannot this whole matter be simplified and, so
f ar as the federal Government is concerned,
be brought under one act? It is obvious that
co-ordination of departments is needed badhy
in Canada today.
The third purpose of the bill is to set out
the powers of the two Boards and the regulations dealing with the need for a licence in
order to use water in those territorial areas,
and the quality and quantity of water which
may be used under each licence. One point I
do not like in conjunction with the issuing of
licences is the proposal that they are to be
extended for a period of 25 years. I think that
those licences should provide that in the
event that either or both these territories are
formed into provinces, the federal licence
shahl lapse and shaîl be replaced by a licence
issued by the new province. Who can predict
what will happen in those northern areas
where today we find such rapid expansion
taking place?
Honourable senators, we wili now have two
boards set up in the north, each being granted
certain authority. If in hater years new regu-

1085
18

lations on pollution are enacted under the
Canada Water Act, the federal Government
will be faced with the saine problems they
have today in dealing with the provinces;
whereas, if there had been amendments made
to the Fisheries Act, I have no doubt many of
those problems couid have been avoided.
I wish also to draw your attention to clause
24 in the bill before us. Let me read part of
the clause:
(1) A licensee may apply to the appropriate board for permission from the Minister to enter upon, use, occupy, take and
acquire any lands or any interest therein,
and where the Minister, on the recommendation of the appropriate board, is
satisfied that
(a) such lands or interest are reasonably required by such licenseeWhat is the meaning of that? Are they
intending to seil these lands or just lease
them? Are we going to seli these lands in the
north to some great foreign companies? What
price are we going to get for that land? And
what will be the purpose of selling it? These
matters are referred to under the Railway
Act, sections 218 to 246 which deal with the
expropriation of land. It appears to me that
there is an intention to seli these lands. So far
as I can see, there is nothing there at the
present time to expropriate except some small
users of water who are licenced to use water
in their hunt for minerais, or some smail local
mining companies.
Clause 24 of the bill is not clear and in f act
seems to be ambiguous. I wonder if the sponsor of the bill would clear up this problem, or
would he have the bill go to committee for
study and answers?
1 would also like to know where the
authority conferred by the bill ends in the
north. Does it cover the waters on the coastline at high tide or at low tide? Why not have
it extend to the three-niile limit because of
the danger of pollutants in the northern
waters? If it does extend to the tbree-mlle
lirit, why not say so in the bill? Does it
cover the Arctic Archipelago? If flot, why
not?
Hon. Mr. Martin: It is done in another bill.
Hon. Mr. Pearson: There we have it, senators-another bill!
I would like to hear the answers to these
questions, honourable senators.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Macdonald, for Hon.
Mr. Grosart, debate adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES
CRIMINAL RECORDS BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED

Leave having been given to proceed with
Order No. 5.
Hon. Sarto Fournier moved the second
reading of Bill C-5, to provide for the relief
of persons who have been convicted of
offences and have subsequently rehabilitated
themselves.
He said: Honourable senators, I regard it as
a great honour to have the opportunity of
sponsoring second reading of Bill C-5, and if
you will permit me I would like to make a
few remarks about it.
Bill C-5, of which the short title is The
Criminal Records Act, is accurately described
by its long title, An Act to provide for the
relief of persons who have been convicted
of offences and have subsequently rehabilitated themselves. The criminal record of those
who have truly rehabilitated themselves all
too frequently entails unjust and inequitable
consequences. Difficulties that must be faced
include the reluctance of prospective employers to hire such a person, and in most
instances it involves an unduly self-righteous
and disapproving attitude on the part of other
members of the community.
This bill, if enacted, will enable the
rehabilitated ex-offender to secure a pardon
which will vacate his conviction and which
will be evidence of the reformation of the
convicted person. What is proposed is that
two years after the expiration of any sentence
imposed for a summary conviction offence, or
after five years in the case of an indictable
offence, the convicted person may apply to
the Solicitor General for a pardon. In other
words, two years after his term has expired
in the case of a summary conviction for a
minor offence, or five years after his term has
expired for a greater offence, if his behaviour
has been perfect, his conviction will beHon. Mr. Choquette: Erased.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): It will
be similar to a situation in which a case bas
been before the court and has been dismissed;
in other words, as if there had been no case.
But there are conditions attached, and it is a
serious matter. Under the condition I have
stated, the convicted person may apply to the
Solicitor General for a pardon.
The Solicitor General is required by the
bill to transmit the application to the Nation[Hon. Mr. Pearson.]

May 19, 1970

al Parole Board, who will make such inquiries as are necessary in the circumstances to
determine whether the applicant is leading a
crime-free life and is generally of good
behaviour.
When its inquiries are completed, the
Parole Board will report the result to the
Solicitor General and recommend whether a
pardon should be granted. A favourable
recommendation must be sent by the Solicitor
General to the Governor General in Coundil,
who may thereupon grant a pardon.
If the Parole Board decides that a pardon
should not be recommended, the applicant
will be so informed and will have the opportunity to make representations, either in
person or in writing. The Parole Board will
reconsider its decision in the light of those
representations.
The grant of a pardon will entail the segregation of any record of the offence that is in
the custody of the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police or any other department or agency of
the Government of Canada. Such records
must be kept apart from all other records,
and no access to them will be possible without the prior approval of the Solicitor General. He may grant authority for disclosure of
the records only if he is satisfied that the
disclosure is desirable in the interests of the
security of Canada or its allies, or in the
interests of the administration of justice.
In addition to segregation of the records of
conviction already in the hands of the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police or other governmental agency, the Solicitor General is
empowered to require all other judicial
records of the conviction to be delivered into
the custody of the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police, to be dealt with in the same fashion.
I have said that the pardon has the effect of
vacating the conviction in respect of which it
is granted. By vacating the conviction, the
legislation deprives that conviction of any
further force and effect. This includes disqualifications prescribed by the Criminal
Code in respect of those convicted of certain
offences, such as disqualification from holding
office under Her Majesty or contracting with
the Government.
The bill sets out as well that the grant of a
pardon is evidence of the resuilt of the inquiries of the National Parole Board-that is to
say, that the Board had made proper inquiries and was satisfied that the applicant was
of good behaviour and that his conviction no
longer reflects adversely on his character.

DEBATES
1970SENATE
May
19,

May 19, 1970

The consequences of the pardon are, as
well, recited in the form of pardon, which is
contained as a schedule to the bil. Because
this scbedule bas certain importance-it is the
personal act of the Governor General i
Counil-I tliink it miglit be proper for me at
this point to recite the contents of its text.
The form, of the schedule appears on page 6,
the hast page of Bill C-5, as follows:
PARDON

16
1067

science and social disapproval to which. many
of them are subject.
It is true that legisiation cannot of itself
affect advances in public attitude, but legisiation of the kind that is before tbis house can
provide a lead for Canadian society at large.
It does not and cannot cover ail aspects of the
problem, since many of these matters fal
within provincial jurisdiction. It is to be
hoped that this bill will be supplemented by
provincial legisiation covering those areas
within the jurisdiction of the provinces.
This bill is a major step forward and one
which I arn confident wrnl comrnend itself to
ail bonourable senators.

HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR
GENERAL IN COUNCIL, on the recommendation of the Parole Board, is pleased
hereby to grant to.......a pardon in
0f which
respect of the off ence of ..
Hon. Mr. Fournier <Madawaska-Restigouday of che): Honourable senators, 1 sliould like to
lie was convicted on the ....
ask a question of the honourable sponsor of
And this pardon is evidence of the fact this bill, but before doing so 1 congratulate
that the Parole Board, after making him upon bis explanation.
proper inquiries, was satisfied that the
This bill is long overdue. I do not oppose it,
said .... was of good behaviour and but it seems to me that its provisions involve
that the conviction sliould no longer re- a great deal of red tape. An application has to
fiect adversely on lis cliaracter and, be made to the Solicitor General, and then
unless subsequently revoked, this pardon the Solicitor General makes a recommendavacates the conviction in respect of whicli tion to the Parole Board. The Parole Board
it is granted and, wltliout restricting the then bas to investigate, and report the resuit
generality of the foregoing, removes any of its investigation back to the Solicitor Gendisqualification to which tlie said ..
eral, who will make a recommendation to the
is, by reason of such conviction, subject Government for the passage of an order in
by virtue of any Act of the Parliament of council. I arn wondering if there is not a
Canada or a regulation made thereunder.
shorter way of accompllshing this, and thus
eliminating ail of this red tape wltli wblch we
Given at Ottawa, this ... day of
have bad to live for so long.
19..
By Order
In passing this bll as it is, wlll we flot be
Deputy Registrar
putting into effect another long and drawn
General
out procedure? It seems to me that that is
what we are headed for. I should like sorneA furtber provision of the bill is that no one to clarify this for me during the course of
application formi relating to employrnent in this debate. I hope that this procedure can be
the federal spliere may contain any question shortened.
wbich by its terns would require the appliHan. Mr. Fournier <De Lanaudière): Honourcant to disclose a conviction for wbich lie lias
able senators, first I should like to say that
received a pardon.
In essence, then, wliat this bill does is I arn very happy that the first question on
enable reliabilitated persons to obtain a this measure cornes from the lionourable
pardon knowing that when the pardon is senator from Madawaska-Restigouche. We
granted the records of their conviction will be bave tbe sarne name, and I hope we are relatsegregated and protected from disclosure, that ed. I notice from reading the Routine Proapplication for employment forms in the fed- ceedings for today that the lionourable senaeral spliere wili not require tliem to disclose tor is looking everywhere in order to be more
tbeir conviction, and that formal recognition informed upon wbat is happening in the
bas been gîven to their rehabilitation and country.
The lionourable senator is concerned about
present good cliaracter.
It is lioped and believed that this bill wll red tape. Yes, there migbt be a certain
assist the persons wliom it concernis to secure arnount of red tape, but I would tell my
employment and relieve the burden of con- honourable colleague, in the first instance,
22481-18

SENATE DEBATES

that that is quite in order because there is
plenty of time. The behaviour of the ex-prisoner after be is out of jail and back in society
has to be checked. Who will decide on this?
We have set up proper authorities to evaluate the released prisoner's social behaviour,
and this takes time. Somebody has to make a
report, and that report has to be considered
by another body which is qualified to doublecheck, because we have to be very careful to
see that mistakes do not happen. Very often
we read in the newspapers about somebody
who has, two or three weeks after being
placed on parole, committed another crime.
We have to expect that there will be a certain
amount of error in the department.
Moreover, this bill is not to help the criminal. It is to help rehabilitate those who are
capable of rehabilitation, and that takes time.
At the end of that period of time such a
person will be complimented by the Governor
in Council in this form: "Monsieur, the Governor General is proud to tell you that after
making your mistake you have now become a
gentleman. Look at all of the reports that I
have. Please accept my compliments. You are
a citizen, and we accept you as a citizen. If
anybody comes around to ask if you have
ever been convicted you may tell them that
you have not."
Al of this takes time, and it requires a
certain amount of red tape. I am confident
that the people who will be charged with the
administration of this measure will discharge
their duties in a proper fashion.
I thank the honourable gentleman for
asking me that question because it gave me
the occasion to tell those young men who
have committed une erreur de jeunesse,
whether it be a minor one or a major one,
that after a certain length of time has elapsed
it will be the Governor in Council himself
who will say to them: "Monsieur, from now
on you are just like the honourable Senator
Fournier from Madawaska-Restigouche."
Hon. Senators: Oh, oh.
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable senators, I rise to say a few words in support of
this bill. I compliment the honourable sponsor
on his clear explanation of what it proposes,
but I cannot go as far as be went. I do not
think he believes that the Governor General
will be giving certificates to the effect that
anyone is a gentleman, even though his
behaviour can be likened to that of the
honourable senator from Madawaska-Restigouche.
[Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière).]

Hon.

May 19, 1970

Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigou-

che): I want mine tied with blue tape.
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: However, I do think
that the principle of the bill is a good one. It
is worth while. It is an attempt to deal fairly
with a convicted person. Al those who have
had anything to do with the law have come
across cases of a person who in his youthand by "youth" I mean anywhere from 18 to
21 years of age-was convicted of an offence,
and who had that conviction return to haunt
him years later. I was never able to understand why it should be that the first offence
of a person should be held against him, even
when he has been convicted of another
offence. After all, if he has paid his debt to
society-if that is possible-it should wipe the
slate clean, and his previous conviction
should not be taken into account by the court
in passing sentence for a second or third
offence, unless it was provided in the law that
a second offence required heavier punishment.
This is a worthwhile measure. I do not
think it will go as far as many of us would
like to see it go, but I can understand, after
reading the evidence given before the Justice
and Legal Affairs Committee of the House of
Commons, the difficulties that have arisen. In
fact, it has turned out to be much more difficult than anticipated to gather up records.
rhe purpose of the bill was well explained by
the Solicitor General before the committee of
the House of Commons and, if I may, I should
like to quote from what be said:
There is the problem of striking a proper
balance among the different needs. It
seems to me that our prime and paramount need, and indeed the whole purpose of seeking to legislate on this subject, is to provide some means of
removing from a person who has been
convicted and subsequently re-entered
society and rehabilitated himself, that
rather vaguely defined but nonetheless
real stigma that be seems to have to
carry with him in later life. In those circumstances it would seem to all that it is
unjust.

Later he said:
But consistent with that I suppose it is
only responsible to say that we must not,
in correcting that evil, create another by
removing the proper need relating to the
identification of criminals who are still
engaged in criminal activities.

May 19, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

I think that sums up the purpose of the bill.
It is obvious that persons convicted of certain
offences should not be placed in a position
where there would be a temptation for them
to repeat the offence. For example, a lawyer
who has been convicted of stealing his client's
money should not be hired by another law
firm, say, in another province, where he
would be handling someone else's money. A
druggist, for instance, who had been convicted on a narcotics charge should not be
employed in a position which would give him
access to drugs. Furthermore, we would not
want a doctor who was a dirty abortionist
to practice among decent people.
It turned out that the very mechanics of
gathering records and sealing them apart is
very difficult. The superintendent of the
R.C.M.P., when he was before the House of
Commons Standing Comnittee on Justice and
Legal Affairs mentioned something which was
a surprise to me. He said that the records
they held did not all belong to them, but
many are sent into them from police forces
across the country. They are only custodians
of the records for the forces which gather and
supply them. He said these records are available to all police forces and agencies, such as
courts, penal institutions, the National Parole
Board, the Penitentiaries Branch, the enforcement, investigative and security divisions of
the federal Government departments, the
C.N.R. and C.P.R. police departments, Crown
Attorneys and probation and parole officers.
He went on to say that the records are not
available to the general public, industry,
employers, bonding and insurance companies,
credit bureaus, and so on. However, an exception is made in respect of visa applicants,
where the information is made available to
the applicants directly.
This illustrates that the records are available to a great many people and it would make
it very difficult for the Solicitor General to
gather such records and to be sure that they
are all deposited with the R.C.M.P.
So, while it may be that the bill is a step in
the right direction, I personally would like to
see it go much further. I do not understand
why some provisions are in the bill. Clause 5,
the "Effect of Grant of Pardon", actually does
not erase a conviction. I do not know just
what the word "vacates" means, but the idea
is that the conviction will no longer reflect
adversely on the person's character.
Before I proceed I should read clause 4,
subclause (3):
22481-181

For the purposes of this section, in calculating the period of any sentence of
imprisonment imposed on an applicant
there shall be included, in addition to any
time spent by him in custody pursuant to
that sentence, any period of statutory
remission granted to him in respect
thereof.
I do not know why that is there. As you
know, honourable senators, as the law now
stands, statutory remission is one-fourth of
the term of sentence. The bill does not mention anything about earned remission of
approximately three days a month, which a
person can earn by good behaviour.
Again, if an application is refused, the
person has the right to appear before the
parole board and appeal his case. This seems
to me to be a fairly worthless detail, because
he is appealing to the same board which
turned him down. In addition, the board has
mentioned the fact that they will not disclose
the sources of their information. When they
make investigations they tell the applicant,
for example, that his application is rejected.
If he asks who reported adversely on him
they will not tell him.
Clause 7 provides:
A pardon may be revoked by the Governor in Council
(a) if the person to whom it is granted
is subsequently convicted of a further
offence under an Act of the Parliament
of Canada or a regulation made
thereunder.
I do not see the point of that clause. If he has
been granted a pardon, either two or five
years must have elapsed before he got it, and,
if he is convicted of a subsequent offence,
what possible difference does it make if they
revoke his pardon then? He still has another
offence marked up against him.
The sponsor mentioned some of the
disabilities of which this legislation does
relieve a person. They are mentioned in section 654 of the Criminal Code. However,
while it is useful, I suppose no government
department could ask in an application form
whether the applicant had ever been convicted of an offence. It would be interesting to
know which government departments, if any,
now have that on their application form.
However, I did notice in paragraph (c) of
clause 8:
No application form for or relating to
(c) enrolment in the Canadian Forces,

SENATE DEBATES

May 19, 1970

It would seem to me that if a person is going
consent of the justice minister, but the
offender still will have to admit it to
to be enrolled in the armed forces of Canada,
prospective employers, to immigration
for example, and he bas a conviction of treason against him, that he is a person who
authorities and, in court, even as an ordishould not be in the armed forces of our
nary witness in any judicial proceeding.
country. However, apart from that there is
In respect to giving evidence in court, I
nothing to prevent the prospective employer think that section 573 of the Criminal Code
in a personal interview asking the man if he should also be amended. That section states:
has been convicted and for what. It is nulliWhere, at a trial, the accused adduces
fied to that extent.
evidence of his good character the
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Supprosecutor may, in answer thereto, before
pose a young man has made a mistake in his
a verdict is returned, adduce evidence of
life, been sentenced to jail, and after that
the previous conviction of the accused for
joins the army and offers his life for his
any offences, including any previous concountry. What is wrong with that?
viction by reason of which a greater punishment may be imposed.
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: There is nothing
wrong with that. Indeed, it is very praiseI believe that to make this bill more effecworthy. What I was getting at was, if a man tive it would be wise to amend or repeal
had been convicted of treason and subse- section 573 of the Criminal Code.
quently wanted to get into the armed forces, I
Honourable senators, while I have pointed
do not think he would be the type of person out a few things that I think could be
we would like to have in the armed forces.
strengthened in the bill, I support the bill as
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): You it is, and believe it is at least a good step in
the right direction.
might be surprised.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): HonHon. Mr. Macdonald: I guess I would be
ourable senators, in view of the very enlightsurprised. I have been in the army.
ened remarks
just made
by Senator
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): I know Macdonaldyou have been in the army. Maybe you did
The Hon. the Speaker: I should like to
not know the background of the soldier fighting
inquire if the honourable Senator Fournier
beside you. You might be surprised to know
the number of young men who had been con- (De Lanaudière) is asking a question. If not,
victed and who later had to join the army his intervention might have the effect of closbecause they had no other place to go in ing the debate, though there may be other
honourable senators who wish to speak.
society.
Hon.
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: I am speaking only of Speaker, Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Mr.
I am trying to do what I should have
men convicted of a particularly serious done
at the very beginning, which is to move
offence. I am not talking of those given a
that the bill be referred
choice of coming out of jail and joining the Senate Committee on Legal to the Standing
and Constitutionarmed forces during World War II. I knew
al Affairs, where all the explanations the
them too.
honourable senator wants can be given.
I think the sponsor of the bill (Hon. Mr.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I think there is another
Fournier, De Lanaudière) made a good
suggestion in saying he thought the provinces honourable senator who wishes to adjourn the
should be consulted so that they would pass debate at this stage.
similar legislation, which would give the same
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): I am
protection under provincial law.
quite agreeable to that.
I was impressed with an editorial in the
On motion of Hon. Mr. Hastings, debate
Montreal Star of May 16. It gives only quali- adjourned.
fied approval of the bill on the ground that it
does not go far enough, but says in part:
ADJOURNMENT
The procedure for obtaining a pardon
Leave having been given to revert to
remains cumbersome, perhaps unworkaMotions:
ble, and in any event pardon does not
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators, I
expunge the record. Truc, conviction pardoned will not be disclosed without the move, with leave of the Senate and notwith[Hon. Mr. Macdonald.]

May 19, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

standing Rule 45(1)(g), that when the Senate
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until
Thursday, May 21, at 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
Motion agreed to.
BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
COMMITTEE
AUTHORITY TO MEET DURING SITTINGS OF
THE SENATE
Hon. Donald Smith, with leave of the
Senate, and notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(a),
moved:
That the Standing Senate Committee
on Banking, Trade and Commerce have
power to sit while the Senate is sitting on
Thursday, May 21, 1970, and that Rule
76(4) be suspended in relation thereto.
He said: Honourable senators, the purpose
of this motion is to permit the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce to continue uninterrupted on that day
as well as sitting all day tomorrow.
Motion agreed to.
LAW REFORM COMMISSION BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED

a dynamic force which fashions the lives of
men and institutions. If it is not to work
injustice, and if it is to be a creative force in
the affairs of men it must meet the exigencies
of change.
As we all know, the law can be changed in
a number of ways. Judges change the law by
the application of statutes and the principles
of the law to particular fact situations. Statute law is also changed through legislation,
much of which comes about oftentimes
through the political process.
Although both tradition law-making and
politically motivated changes in the law are
an important part of law reform they also
have some intrinsic disadvantages. Law
reform by judicial decision is necessarily an
ad hoc process. It deals only with the section
of the statute which has relevance to the case
before the courts. There is no systematic
review of the entire statute, taking into
account the broad social, economic and political facts which underlie the statute as a
whole, and which, if changed, may indicate a
need for a corresponding change in the
statute.
It is also important that there be additional
sources for reforming the law. For example, I
think of the excellent work done recently in
the Land Use Control Project and the Personal Property Security Project of the Ontario
Law Reform Commission.
In particular, many small, seemingly minor,
but again necessary changes in federal statutes will be suggested by the Law Reform
Commission provided for in this bill. They
would probably not be generated through the
normal political process.
That this new body is charged with more
than simply legal housekeeping responsibilities is apparent from the fourth of its objectives, to be found in section 11(d) of the bill.
That commission, which this bill proposes be
set up is to be responsible for the development of new concepts of the law in keeping
with, and responsive to, the changing needs of
modern Canadian society and of its individual
members.
It is hard to imagine more comprehensive
and intellectually exciting terms of reference.
Section 11(d) is a mandate for legal innovation of the most fundamental kind. As we are
dealing not only with the common law in our
own country, but with the civil law, I would
like to say this.

Hon. Paul Martin moved the second reading of Bill C-186, to establish a commission
for the reform of the laws of Canada.
He said: Honourable senators, the purposes
of this bill is to establish a Law Reform Commission for Canada. Canada, if this bill is
passed, will not be the first jurisdiction to
have a Law Reform Commission. My colleague the Minister of Justice has consulted
with those jurisdictions that already have law
Scotland,
commissions-England,
reform
Wales, the Province of Ontario, the States of
New York and California, and New South
Wales in Australia, to mention a few. It is the
Government's belief that we have taken the
best elements of these various experiences
and adapted them to Canadian conditions in
an effective way, and the result is a Law
Reform Commission embodied in the purposes
of this bill, which will help to ensure that the
law is a continually relevant factor to the
problems of the complex society in which we
live.
I am sure honourable senators would agree
that the law is not an edifice or merely a [Translation]
static set of rules. It is a living thing, a reflecNaturally, the Commission will have some
tion of past and present social standards. It is minor responsibilities but, on the other hand,

1072

SENATE DEBATES

others will be very important such as the
elimination of obsolete laws and the removal
of anachronisms and anomalies in the law.
The Commission will have the advantage of
a larger staff and will devote more time to
the systematic revision of ever more numerous federal statutes. For instance, as the Minister of Justice indicated in the other place
during his speech on second reading of the
bill, he would like the Commission to undertake from the outset a thorough revision of
the Criminal Code.
With the rapid progress in technology and
urban development, the law is becoming more
and more complex, as Senator Fournier (De
Lanaudière) pointed out a few moments ago
when discussing another bill. Besides, in
recent years but more particularly since the
end of World War II, the Government has
been playing a key role in the economy of our
society. Consequently, there has been a corresponding increase in the number of laws.
[Enghish]

Reform of this legislation through the
political process is of necessity episodic.
Moreover, the political process and the Parliamentary institutions do more than simply
reform the law. There are other demands on
their time. There is, as never before, a need
for the systematic review of much of our
legislation. The commission can take an overview of all the federal legislation and choose
a reasonable set of priorities for reform.
The commission will also be able to assess
significant criticisms that are made by the
public from time to time against particular
federal laws. There is now a gap between
public agitation and law reform. Complaints
must bo investigated. Proposals must be
refined to the point where they can be translated into law, and then submitted to the
appropriate authority. There is, at the present
time, no institution in our country to perform
this function. From time to time in an ad hoc
way groups have been set up by the Minister
of Justice to revise the Criminal Code and at
times to provide for the consolidation of statutes, but no attempt bas been made in this
country-as in the United Kingdom and other
jurisdictions I have mentioned-to provide for
an objective outside assessment of the kind of
reforms which are recommended.
It has always been understood that it will
remain for Parliament to decide what particular law shall be enacted in the light of
recommendations made by this commission.
The commission will have the further advanfHon. Mr. Martin.]

May 19, 1970

tage in that it will be a clearing bouse of
ideas by law reform. It will not be the captive
of any one department or of any single point
of view. It will of course consult with relevant departments, as well as with committees
of the Bar Associations, members of the
judiciary, the law faculties and the interested
public in the formulation of its recommendations. But, under the act it will be independent of all others.
It is proposed that the commission will consist of a chairman, a vice-chairman, and two
full-time members, all of whom are appointed
for a term not exceeding seven years, and
also two part-time members whose term of
appointment shall not exceed three years. The
commission will therefore be renewed on a
continuing basis. There is also provision
for the appointment to the commission of persons belonging to disciplines or professions
other than the law.
[Translation]

Indeed, at least four members must be
judges or advocates in good standing at the
bar of any of the provinces; furthermore, the
chairman or the vice-chairman and one of the
members must be judges of the Superior
Court of Quebec or members of the bar of
that province.
[English]

The permanent staff of the commission will
be appointed under the Public Service
Employment Act. However, the commission
will be empowered to engage temporary staff
or contract out for speciflc projects, so that
the necessary expertise will be available to it.
The commission will be empowered to receive
proposals for reform from any source. It can
also initiate and carry out such studies and
research as it deems necessary. However, in
order that the commission's undertakings be
at all times in accordance with the special
requirements of the Government as reflected
in Parliament, the commission is required to
include in its programs, with special priority
where required, any study or question
requested by the Minister of Justice. The
minister may not control how the commission
will perform its work, once its programs and
priorities are set out.
The bill provides for the tabling of the
commission's report to the minister and of its
annual report, as well as the program of studies approved by the minister.

May 19, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

The objects of the commission are stated in
broad terms, and they include:
(a) removal of anachronisms and anomalies in the law;
(b) the reflection and reconciliation of the
distinctive concepts and institutions in
federal law of both the Common Law and
Civil Law systems in Canada;
(c) the elimination of obsolete laws, and
(d) the development of new approaches
and concepts of the law to refiect the
changing needs of modern society in
Canada.
I know that honourable senators will have
a special interest in this bill because this
chamber has had a distinguished record in
bringing about law reform in Canada. I think
of the extensive revision of our divorce legislation carried out by the Senate committee on
that subject. I think of the work of the Banking, Trade and Commerce Committee in the
previous session, when it essentially rewrote
the Investment Companies Bill and, in the
opinion of all interested parties, I believe,
improved that legislation significantly.
I am sure that the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs
will co-operate closely with the commission.
That Committee will be enabled to hold hearings on documents produced by the commission and to make suggestions ta it for specific
law reform projects, the need for which came
to their attention in the course of analyzing a
particular statute or carrying out some investigation. I am sure the committees of both
houses will consult with the commission to
ensure that there is no duplication in the
investigatory tasks that both institutions take
up.
In closing, I may say that two years ago I
discussed with several senators, eminent
members of the legal profession, the desirability of the Senate itself undertaking this
particular role. I think Senator Phillips
(Rigaud) will recall the conversation I had
with him in this regard.

1073

It became clear, in the light of the practice
initiated by the Lord Chancellor in the United
Kingdom, and by the experience in other jurisdictions, that our legislative role is such
that, while there will be a role for both
Houses of Parliament, long-term work can
more efficiently be discharged in the first
instance by the kind of body that is proposed
in this bill. But in no circumstances should it
be concluded that we are setting up a body in
abdication of our legislative responsibilities. It
will remain, as it must remain, only for Parliament to enact measures that will have the
force of law. It will be open to this commission, headed by eminent judges and barristers, and others from outside the legal and
judicial professions, to make studies of their
view of the kind of changes that should be
made, changes that will be based upon studies
that they will initiate and program, with the
understanding that this will not remove from
the Minister of Justice responsibility for the
administration of justice, the establishment of
priorities, to which this commission must give
consideration, such as an examination, not
quick but soon, of the Criminal Code itself.
With those observations, honourable senators, I propose second reading of this impor-

tant bill.
Hon. J. Campbell Haig: Honourable senators, it is with great humility that I move the
adjournment of this debate. It seems to me
that the Government Leader bas been reading
much of the material which I have been reading in the past two or three weeks. That deals
mainly with the provincial law reform commissions of Ontario and Alberta, and one that
is to be proposed for Manitoba, where actions
similar to those proposed by this bill are due
in the provincial field.
'On motion of Hon. Mr. Haig, debate
adjourned.
The Senate adjourned until Thursday, May
21, at 2 p.m.

SENATE DEBATES

1074

THE SENATE
Thursday, May 21, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Copies of Ordinances, chapters 1 to 15
inclusive, passed by the Council of the
Yukon Territory at its 1970 Second Session, pursuant to section 20 of the Yukon
Act, chapter 53, Statutes of Canada, 195253, together with a copy of Order in
Council P.C. 1970-876, dated May 12,
1970, approving same. (English text).
Copies of letters, dated May 21, 1969,
addressed by the Prime Minister of
Canada to the Mayor of the City of
Montreal and the President of the International Olympie Committee with respect
to holding the 1976 Summer Olympies in
the City of Montreal.
RULES
TIME OF AFTERNOON SITTING-REPORT OF
COMMITrEE PRESENTED
Hon. Har±land de M. Molson presented the
following report of the Standing Committee
on Standing Rules and Orders:
The Standing Committee on Standing Rules
and Orders, having examined rule 7(1), pursuant to rule 67(1) (d) reports as follows:
Your committee recommends that rule
7(1) be deleted and the following substituted therefor:
"7(1)
Unless otherwise previously
ordered, the Senate shall meet for the
transaction of business at two o'clock in
the afternoon of each sitting day."

May 21, 1970

At the meeting of the Standing Committee
on Standing Rules and Orders yesterday, the
question of the hour of the afternoon sitting
was discussed at some length. There was a
general feeling that three o'clock was late.
There was considerable discussion as to
whether in fact 2.30 o'clock would not be the
appropriate hour, but in the end it was, I
think, the unanimous view of those present at
the meeting that two o'clock in the afternoon
was the most favourable hour to sit. That
hour would conform to the practice in the
other place and would help us make full use of
our day. Above all, however, it would establish a regular time for the afternoon sitting.
Honourable senators are well aware of the
difficulty in recent months of the frequent
requirement that the Leader of the Government in the Senate, or some one on his
behalf, move that the sitiing time be changed
from three o'clock to two o'clock, to meet the
purposes of the Senate. Under the proposal,
we would have the regular hour of 2 p.m. for
afternoon sittings.
I should point out that this does not affect
the time of sitting on Tuesdays, which is
always fixed by motion prior to adjournment
at the end of a week; nor does it mean that if
there is great pressure of committee work, as
often happens here, or for other reason, that
the Leader of the Government cannot by
motion change the sitting hour from two
o'clock to 2.30 or three o'clock.
The main point is that as a custom this
chamber, when it sits in the afternoon, will
sit at two o'clock. By the vote registered at
our committee meeting, I think that this
arrangement will suit the convenience of the
greatest number of senators.
Motion agreed to.
CONSTITUTION OF CANADA
SECOND REPORT OF SPECIAL JOINT COMMITTEE PRESENTED

Hon. Louis De G. Giguère, for Hon. Maurice
Lamontagne, Joint Chairman of the Special
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable sena- Joint Committee of the Senate and of the
tors, when shall this report be taken into House of Commons on the Constitution of
consideration?
Canada, presented the second report of the
Hon. Mr. Molson: Honourable senators, I committee as follows:
Your committee recommends that it be
move that this report be taken into consideraempowered to retain the services of three
tion at the next sitting of the Senate.
specialists to assist
Honourable senators, perhaps a word
should be said about this amendment in that
(a) in organizing its work, including
it affects the hours of members of this chamits meetings beyond the precincts of
ber and the staff.
Parliament,

SENATE DEBATES

May 21, 1970

(b) in analyzing the material presented
to it or already available, and
(c) in helping generally in the course
of the committee's work.
Your committee also recommends that
it be empowered to retain such other
expert staff as well as the necessary
clerical and stenographie help deemed
advisable.
On the assumption that your committee
will be reconstituted in the next and the
next ensuing sessions, and in order to
safeguard the continuity of the committee's work and research, it is further
recommended that the committee be
empowered to retain the services of the
above personnel until the committee has
concluded its work or until December 31,
1971, whichever is the earlier.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Am I correct in thinking
that this joint committee will be meeting next
week?
Hon. Mr. Giguère: That is correct.
The Hon. the Speaker: When shall this
report be taken into consideration?
Hon. Mr. Giguère, for Hon. Mr. Lamontagne, moved that the report be taken into
consideration at the next sitting of the
Senate.
Motion agreed to.
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators,
with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding
Rule 45(1)(g), I move that when the Senate
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until
Tuesday next, May 26, at 8 o'clock in the
evenmg.
Motion agreed to.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
should like to give an indication of the business which is expected to come before us next
week. Before doing that, may I say to Senator
Choquette, acting Leader of the Opposition,
that on behalf of all honourable senators I
express our regrets that Senator Flynn has
been forced because of an indisposition, to be
absent from the Senate this week, and to say
that we rejoice heartily in the knowledge that
his health is again good and that he will soon
be back with us.

1075

Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Martin: As to next week, it is
proposed that the Senate sit at 8 p.m. on
Tuesday. In setting that hour we have taken
into consideration the very heavy committee
schedule set for next week, together with the
legislation that is now before us and the
legislation which we expect to receive from
the other place.
The Special Committee on Poverty will
meet on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday to hear submissions from the Provinces of Ontario and New Brunswick, the
Canadian Medical Association, and a group of
students from McGill University.
The Standing Senate Committee on Legal
and Constitutional Affairs will meet on
Monday. The Special Joint Committee on the
Constitution of Canada, as we have just heard
from Senator Giguère, will meet in the morning and afternoon on Tuesday and Thursday.
The Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce, which is meeting
at this moment, will also meet on Wednesday
and Thursday. Senator Hayden bas asked me
to indicate the importance that he attaches to
those hearings. On Wednesday the committee
will hear Bell of Canada, the Canadian
Chemical Association, and the Canadian
Manufacturers' Association. On Thursday it
will hear submissions by Hudson's Bay Gas
and Oil, King Resources Limited, Aquitaine
Petroleum, and International Utilities.
Senator Everett advises that the Standing
Senate Committee on National Finance will
meet on Thursday morning to hear the Minister of Finance.
On Tuesday we shall continue in the Senate
with the debate on Bill C-187, respecting
inland water resources in the Yukon Territory and Northwest Territories, and Bill C-186,
to establish a commission for the reform of
the laws of Canada. I may say that a number
of senators have registered their intention to
speak next week on this last-named measure,
thereby indicating the importance that is
attached to it.
We will proceed with the debate on the
motion for the second reading of Bill C-193
today. That debate will likely continue into
next week, when the bill will be referred to a
committee. I also anticipate that next week
we will receive from the other place the
Canada Water Act and two other bills.
(De Lanaudière):
Hon. Mr. Fournier
Honourable senators, if it is possible I
should like to know from the Leader of

1076

SENATE DEBATES

May 21, 1970

the Government the time on Monday at been pointed out by the minister and others,
which the Standing Senate Committee on we have an opportunity in this part of
Legal and Constitutional Affairs will meet. Canada to prevent the kind of pollution of
I hope it will be at night.
our waters that is alarming Canadians, as the
Hon. Mr. Martin: I do not have any control evidence rolls in of the dreadful state of polover that committee, and I am afraid I am not lution of many of our waters in Canada.
Although it is a good start, it seems to me
able to satisfy Senator Fournier. I know that
he is here not five but sometimes seven days that there is a considerable amount of both
a week in the performance of his public external and internal evidence, as Senator
duties. I may be wrong, but I think that that Pearson documented so well on Tuesday
night, and of which this bill is also evidence,
committee intends to sit Monday morning.
of an alarming degree of conflict and confuHon. Mr. Asel±ine: It is a mee'ing of a sion within the Cabinet. As Senator Pearson
subcommittee, not of the whole committee.
said, it is regrettable that in so important a
matter we should have this evidence of conHon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): That
means that next week I shall have to be here flict and confusion.
eight days!
Hon. Mr. Martin: And I said there was not
Motion agreed to.
any.
NORTHERN INLAND WATERS BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE

CONTINUED

Hon. Mr. Grosari: The Leader of the Government says that he said there was not any.
I do not know whether he will go so far as to
say that there is not any.

The Senate resumed from Tuesday, May 19,
Hon. Mr. Martin: I know of no conflict.
the adjourned debate on the motion of
Honourable Mr. Hays for the second reading
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Of course, the comment
of Bill C-187, respecting inland water
resources in the Yukon Territory and North- by the Leader of the Government is interesting. One would not expect him to say more
west Territories.
than he has said, in view of the well known
Hon. Allis±er Grosari: Honourable senators, principle of cabinet solidarity and cabinet
Bill C-187 is a very important bill because it secrecy. We would not expect him to reveal
is a part of the general program announced at the kind of conflict for which we appear to
long last by the Government as a beginning have such obvious evidence. I will not go into
of the co-ordination of measures for the pre- that aspect of the bill in any great detail,
vention of pollution in our national waters. because it was well documented by Senator
We had an excellent explanation of this bill Pearson on Tuesday evening.
from Senator Hays, although I have to say
I say, however,
that he stopped short of some comments that confusion is to be that evidence of conflict and
found in any way you look
might well have been made, and some which at this bill.
Let me give one example.
have been made, about this bill. One would Throughout
the bill there are references to
not expect him to raise any doubts about the
bill he was sponsoring for the Government, "the Canada Water Act". This bill as it stands
but I am sure honourable senators are aware is largely inoperative unless the Canada
that there are some very serious doubts in the Water Act is operative. The Canada Water
minds of Canadians as to whether this bill Act is at present Bill C-144. The bill which
approaches this important problem in the best we are now considering is Bill C-187, and
possible way.
before His Honour calls me to order for referHowever, I think we are entitled to compli- ring to a bill not before us, I hasten to point
ment the Government and the minister on out that "the Canada Water Act" is referred
making a start with this bill, even though it to in four different clauses of this
bill. Theredeals with only one part of Canada, the
Yukon and Northwest Territories. Neverthe- fore, I respectfully believe that I am in order
less, it is important that the Government has in referring to the Canada Water Act.
This, of course, draws attention to the
moved in relation to a very vital part of
Canada in the matter of water resources, to amazing anomaly that the Senate is today
prevent the kind of pollution of the environ- asked, or will be in the near future, to pass a
ment, the ecological wafer pollution, that has bill that is conditioned and modified by
taken place in the rest of Canada. As has another bill that is not before us. If it were
[Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudiére).]

May 21, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1077

al. I would suggest to honourable senators
that this is an important consideration. We
will find ourselves in a ridiculous position if
we pass a bill that relies for its effectiveness
on another bill that is found to be unconstitutional, or if the cabinet decides to abandon it
once it looks at the arguments which suggest
that it is unconstitutional. Because Bill C-144
is referred to in the bill now before us I take
the liberty of reading to honourable senators
clause 11(1) from Bill C-144:
Where, in the case of any inter-jurisdictional waters,
(a) the water quality management of
those waters has become a matter of
urgent national concern, and
(b) the Governor in Council is satisfied
that all reasonable efforts have been
made by the Minister to reach an
agreement under section 9 with the one
or more provincial governments having
an interest in the water quality management thereof, and that those efforts
have failed,
the Governor in Council may, on the
recommendation of the Minister, designate such waters as a water quality management area and authorize the Minister
to procure the incorporation of a
corporation.
Hon. Mr. Martin: The Territorial Waters
Act.
Surely it is a serious question whether that is
within the jurisdiction of the federal GovernHon. Mr. Grosar±: The Territorial Waters ment under the British North America Act.
Act, the Territorial Lands Act, and others.
What that bill, which modifies this bill, says
Hon. Mr. Martin: We are going to be is that if the federal Government is unable to
engulfed with water.
reach agreement with the provinces it will
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Yes, we are going to be move in anyway. Regardless of the consituengulfed with water, and we are going to tion or jurisdiction of the provinces, it is
have a lot of ministers trying to get into not going to move in and form a corporation and,
one act but five or six acts. Senator Pearson it says, "We will now manage your waters."
made an excellent point, that it would have
Hon. Mr. Martin: Would my honourable
been much better if all the ministers had got
into one act instead of introducing so many friend permit me to observe that I do not
acts of their own. The result is this kind of know what the basis for that statement can
confusion, when we are asked to pass a bill be, because the Government has clearly
which in good conscience it is really impossi- indicated that it does not propose to invade in
ble to pass in view of the fact that we do not any way the jurisdiction of the provinces.
have the Canada Water Act before us. I Moreover, the bill itself is not an intrusion of
would hope that the Leader of the Govern- the Constitution. In any event, the bill is
ment would give very serious consideration to
intended to permit the federal Government to
holding up third reading of this bill until we
work in co-operation with the provincial
have Bill C-144 before us, because unless we
jurisdictions regarding a common problem.
have that bill before us it is utterly impossiHon. Mr. Grosart: I agree entirely with
ble to interpret this bill.
We can go beyond that because, interest- what the Leader of the Government has said
ingly enough, the Premier of Ontario has as to the intention of the Government. What I
questioned whether Bill C-144 is constitution- am concerned with is the powers that the

not referred to in this bill, under our rules I
believe I would be quite out of order in even
referring to it.
The situation in the other place is rather
different, because Bill C-144, the Canada
Water Act, is on the Order Paper there and is
now before a committee. But as I pointed out,
technically within our rules and within our
traditions in this place, we have no knowledge whatsoever of the Canada Water Act or
its provisions. Yet we are asked to pass a bill
which in four important clauses rests on the
provisions of the Canada Water Act.
I cite that, honourable senators, as one
example of the kind of confusion that was
referred to by Senator Pearson, because the
very numbering of these bills indicates clearly to us that it was the intention of one
minister to get his bill before the public earlier than another minister could get this bill
before the public. We have obviously had in
this field a race for the headlines. Water pollution has suddenly become a popular subject.
We have not only these two bills, but three or
four more are coming. There is the Arctic
Water Pollution Act, we are told, a land control act in respect of the area with which this
bill is concerned, and other bills that have
been vaguely mentioned.

1078

SENATE DEBATES

Government is seeking from the Parliament
of Canada to invade the jurisdiction of the
provinces, and it is as clear as English words
can express it in the excerpt I have just read
from a clause in the bill.
Is there any other evidence of confusion,
undue haste, ministers stumbling over each
other? May I suggest another bit of evidence.
It may surprise honourable senators that this
bill which deals entirely with water management in the Yukon and Northwest Territories
was never discussed with or referred to the
Council of the Northwest Territories or of the
Yukon prior to its introduction into Parliament. I find that hard to understand. Surely,
the minister's concept of Canadianism is not
confined to the ten provinces. Surely, his
responsibility must have made him aware
that Canadians in the Northwest Territories
and in the Yukon have a feeling that they
should be consulted about the management of
their waters, which will influence not only
their own lives but the lives of their children
and the whole development of that area. Yet
we have the clearest positive evidence that
there was no consultation whatsoever with
the people of the Yukon or the Northwest
Territories before this bill was introduced
into Parliament.
To support that, honourable senators, may I
point out that Mr. Chamberlist, who is a
member of the Yukon Council, had this to say
in his evidence:
I would like to preface my remarks by
saying that the Yukon Territorial Council
was very unhappy with the situation
whereby an Inland Water Bill bas been
presented to government without the
people of the Yukon being in any way
consulted. Not only were the elected
representatives of the Yukon not consulted but I have assurance from the Commissioner and his administrationHe is an employee of the federal Government.
-that the first information they bad of
the contents of the proposed Inland
Water Bill was when copies of it were
sent to his office after the first reading on
February 16 of this yearHonourable senators, in a Senate which has
a responsibility for the protection of minority
rights in this country, we are faced with a
situation where a member of that council had
to come before another committee of Parliament, a committee of the other house, and
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

May 21, 197&

make a plaintive plea. He asked that committee if it would please-and I quote his words:
-keep a watching brief on ail matters
relating to the Yukon Territory and to
ask each time:That is, each time the federal Government
brings in legislation respecting their territory.
-Has
the Yukon Legislative Coundil
been consulted before a particular bUll
goes to Parliament so that we can at least
have the opportunity of making comments on a particular matterThe honourable Leader of the Government
says there is no confusion. This cannot be
deliberate. I do not believe it is deliberate.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I am prepared to say now
that there is no confusion. I did not say that
before. I said before that there was no conflict
between ministers. But since you invite me to
say it, I will say that there is no confusion.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I would not expect the
Leader of the Government to say anything
else. We all have our own definitions of conflict and of confusion. I think it is normal that
in a case like this, those definitions would
differ slightly as between one side of the
house and the other.
Hon. Mr.
Thursday.

Martin:

Particularly

on

a

Hon. Mr. Grosari: I merely say that I take
note of the Leader of the Government's
denial, and that it does not appear to tally
with the facts that I have.
I will have some other evidence of conflict
and confusion as I go along, and before I am
through it is possible that for the first time
since be has been here the Leader of the
Government might be convinced that we on
this side were right.
Hon. Mr. Martin: You have been right a
number of times.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I was speaking of evidence a while ago. I would appreciate it if the
Leader of the Government were to rise in his
place on some occasion and give us that evidence, because I think it would be a valuable
addition to our record.
Speaking of confusion, this proposed legislation is called the Northern Inland Waters
Bill. It appears to have been put together in
such haste that there is no definition of "inland water". Not only is there no definition,
but there is utter confusion between the min-

May 21, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

ister and one of his senior public servants as
to what it means. I suggest that this is a very
serious matter. The definition of inland water
in a bill like this may have very important
consequences in any future discussion of our
sovereignty in the Arctic. When we say "inland water", what do we mean? Do we mean
the water within the boundaries of the Yukon
and the Northwest Territories or do we mean
the water merely on the continental land
area?
If "inland water" is to be defined as the
minister says it is, as meaning only water on
the continental part of these two territories,
then surely at some future time we are going
to hear an argument that Canada has already
said that these waters off the coast between
the islands of the Arctic archipelago are not
inland waters. That is what the minister says.
If honourable senators will excuse my
French, he used a phrase from the French
translation of inland water. These are his
words: "Les ressources en eau à l'intérieur
des territoires.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Très
bien.
Hon. Mr. Smith: Spoken like an Irishman.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: He is saying that these
are interior waters, not just inland waters. He
is taking a phrase that is often used in contrasting an area off the coast with waters in
the interior, a phrase that is very common in
British Columbia.
But the Assistant Deputy Minister made an
entirely different statement, and he made it
after the minister had made the statement I
have just quoted. In committee the Assistant
Deputy Minister said that inland waters
would apply to any waters within the boundaries of the Yukon and Northwest Territories. He went even farther, and said, "The act
as it now stands applies to both inland waters
and waters off the coast of Canada."
The honourable Leader of the Government
says there is no confusion here. How much
more confusion can you have than the contrast between the statement by the Minister
and that of the Assistant Deputy Minister
who had the responsibility of answering the
questions put by members of Parliament? I
say that the evidence of confusion in the
minds of the Government-and I don't know
for what reason-is abundant.
There is this confusion as to the degree to
which this bill may deal with the diversion of
water. All honourable senators, I am sure, are

well aware that there are a few more important problems respecting water management
in this or any other area of Canada than that
of the diversion of our waters, particularly to
our neighbours to the south. But diversion is
clearly indicated in this bill, in the interpretative section, as coming within the ambit of
the provisions. In clause 3 of the bill honourable senators will note this statement:
3. (1) Subject to any rights, powers or
privileges granted pursuant to the Dominion Water Power ActThat is an old Act dealing only with the use
of power.
-or preserved under that act and to
section 4 of this Act, the property in and
the right to the use and flow of all waters
are for all purposes vested in Her Majesty in right of Canada.
Then we come to the definition of "waters" in
the interpretation clause 2.(1) (1):
"waters" means waters in any river,
stream, lake or any other body of inland
water on the surface or underground in
the Yukon Territory and the Northwest
Territories.
And in the interpretation section we also find
that the diversion of water is within these
terms comprised in the general phrase "use of
the waters".
Now, honourable senators, the question bas
been asked: Does this bill give a board
under its terms the right to licence the diversion of these waters? Obviously it does. It is
clear in the wording of the bill that a board
set up under the act, will be able to divert
waters.
Now, what is the board? The board, honourable senators, is dominated by civil servants.
Each board may have or, indeed, will have
three representatives of the Territories, but
there will be a majority of civil servants,
each one representing a department of the
federal Government. This board may authorize the diversion of waters by licence. But,
honourable senators, how would we know
about it? How would the rest of Canada know
about it? If one looks at the bill, he will find
that the only notice required on the part of
the board is a notice of its decision in the
Canada Gazette.
So, honourable senators, it is possible that a
board sitting somewhere at the centre of
administration of the Yukon and Northwest
Territories might licence the diversion of
water, and we would-unless we read the

1080

SENATE DEBATES

Canada Gazette carefully, which very few
people do-wake up one morning and find
that a board of five civil servants and three
members of the council appointed by the
council for either of the territories had
authorized the diversion of waters to the
south. Again I say, surely this is an example
of the confusion that arose from this sudden
race for the headlines among members of the
cabinet.
Hon. Mr. Prowse: Will the
senator permit a question?

honourable

Hon. Mr. Grosari: Certainly.
Hon. Mr. Prowse: When you talk of diversion of waters to the south, presumably you
are talking about diversion to the United
States. Is that the point you are discussing?
Hon. Mr. Grosari: If that is the only question, my answer is that that is not the only
point I am discussing.
Hon. Mr. Prowse: But it is one of the points
you had in mind?
Hon. Mr. Grosart: Yes.
Hon. Mr. Prowse: In that case, would not
some of the provinces be involved, and the
moment someone started to take the water
outside the territory itself, the province
would have to become involved. Is that not
the fact? And in those circumstances it would
certainly become public knowledge.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: That is perfectly true,
and I thank the honourable senator for raising this point, because I am speaking now
merely of the authority given under the
licence. However, it is quite true that there
are other protections built in, such as they
are, including a group of acts passed in 1955.
The Import Gas Act, the Export of Power and
Fluids Act, and International Rivers Improvement Act, all of which were passed, I think in
1955, do give a measure of protection. But
what I am saying is that that should be clearly spelled out in this act-whether these
boards have the right to license this kind of
diversion. It is rather interesting, in connection with the honourable senator's question,
that there is provision, again under the
Canada Waters Act, for a situation in which
there might be waters flowing on an interjurisdictional basis between the territories
and the Province of British Columbia, or
Alberta, Saskatchewan or Manitoba. It is not
very effective in my view.
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

May 21, 1970

Hon. Mr. Bourget: But there is less confusion, because, if I understand my honourable
friend correctly, that board will not be the
only one to give permission to divert waters
from the Northwest Territories to the United
States. Am I right in that?
Hon. Mr. Martin: That is quite right.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: The honourable senator
is right in the generality of his remarks. I
disagree with him when he says that this
means there is less confusion. I think there is
more confusion.
Hon. Mr. Bourget: Let us say there is less
danger.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Yes, because this board
can issue the licence to somebody to divert
water. But then when somebody bas a licence,
he has to worry about how to implement that
licence. I am merely saying that it is an indication of the confusion, haste or bad draftsmanship, or something other than the kind of
attention that we expect to be given to a bill
here, that we have this matter of diversion
left up in the air as it is. To me, it is extraordinary that a bill like this should set up these
boards with complete power to licence any
kind of multi-use of these waters on the basis
of, say, five civil servants and three representatives of the council, or as recommended by
the council. Surely our important waters
deserve better administration. But, honourable senators, the Government must have had
a reason for saying "we will have five civil
servants." It comes back to this confusion,
because the act clearly states that each one is
to be representative of a different department
of government.
Now, honourable senators, we have other
evidence of lack of co-ordination over the
years in this whole area of water management and water pollution, and it seems to me
that we are compounding it or will be compounding it if we pass this bill.
Again, I would not be labouring this concept of confusion if the Leader of the Government had not been so insistent at the start
that I might be wrong in reaching this conclusion. Honourable senators may remember that
a year or so ago-and partly as a result of the
evidence given before the Special Committee
of the Senate on Science Policy-the Government announced that it was not going to be
accused any more of lack of co-ordination or
duplication in respect of this matter of water
resources and water pollution. The Government said that from henceforth the entire

May 21, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

responsibility of the federal jurisdiction for
water in Canada would be with the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources. There
was considerable cheering in the scientific
community of Canada and in Ottawa about
the fact that at last the Government had
made up its mind to co-ordinate this matter
in one department.
The next thing that happened was the
foundering of the Arrow off the shore of Cape
Breton. We all waited for the Department of
Energy, Mines and Resources to accept its
responsibility, and rush in there. But, what
happened? They were never heard from. The
Department of Transport went in. The Minister of Transport answered all the questions
about that accident in the bouse. The Government set up a task force and called upon the
Executive Director of the Science Council of
Canada to head it. Everybody was in the act,
except the Department of Energy, Mines and
Resources which had been given the responsibility. To me, that sounds like confusion.
When he introduced the bill I asked the
honourable sponsor a question about the
vesting of all waters in these territories in
the Crown, and he said that he was not too
sure about it but he believed it was just an
assertion of a situation that had been there
from time immemorial. The Leader of the
Government, who is a member of the cabinet
and who I am sure is fully aware of the
import of this and of other bills that he
brings to us, gave the same impression. He
said: "Oh, yes, this is perpetuating something
that has been going on."
Honourable senators, the fact of the matter
is that there is confusion here, because we
have the clearest statement in the bill that
this is a new vestment of interest in the
Crown.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Would my honourable
friend be good enough to tell me to which
clause he is referring?
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Clause 3 contains the
statement of the vesting. I merely point out to
the Leader of the Government, who is an
eminent lawyer, that hitherto riparian rights
under the common law have been the basis of
the ownership and vesting of such rights.
We have a statement by the Minister that
the rights to the use of water will no longer
be based upon riparian rights. Here we have
a bill which will, in effect, take away all
existing rights, including rights that have
been granted under existing statutes such as

the Yukon Placer Mining Act and the Yukon
Mining Act. These rights to the use of water
are now being taken away holus-bolus.
Hon. Mr. Martin: There is nothing in that
clause that would warrant that conclusion.
With Senator Grosart's permission, I would
say that that clause simply deals with the use
and flow of all waters. It does not affect
riparian rights.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I can only say to the
Leader of the Government that confusion is
now compounded by confusion. I ask him to
accept my statement that the minister has in
the clearest possible terms said: "This is a
new vesting. This washes out all existing rights.
The common law concept of ownership
through riparian rights is over and finished."
It is not in the bill, but the minister in his
statement has interpreted the bill, and bas
made it very clear that that is the effect of
clause 3. I thank the Leader of the Government for supporting as thoroughly as he has
my thesis of confusion.
Perhaps I have said enough. In closing,
I would like to make reference to a statement made by Mr. Chamberlist which sounded a rather plaintive note from the northwest.
As I have indicated, there was no prior
knowledge of this bill given to the members
of the Coundil there; they came down here to
find out what this bill was all about, and it
was natural that they should do so. They
wanted to know how it affects their existing
rights, and how it is going to affect their
future. They looked at the bill and they noted
the confusion created by the statements made
by the minister and by the assistant deputy
minister, and also the confusion created by
the statement of the minister and that of his
colleague in the cabinet who has just given us
his view. They said: "How can we operate
under this bill?" And they were told: "Just
wait; you will get it all in the regulations that
are provided for by clause 18." The representative of the Council of the Yukon Territory
then said:
Could we not in future, when a bill
like this is presented to Parliament, be
shown the regulations that are proposed
to be passed? Could they not be submitted for consideration at the same time
as the relevant bill is submitted?
Honourable senators, I agree with this
entirely, not only in respect of this bill but in
respect of any other bill. I have said before,
and I repeat, that this bill is an excellent

SENATE DEBATES

1082

example of the absurdity of Parliament
passing a bill without having the regulations
to be made under it, because more often than
not the regulations are the core of the legislation. It is the regulations that tell us how the
Government is going to interpret and administer the act.
I say once more that perhaps some day in
this Senate we will rise to the occasion and
say to the Government and to the public servants: "This Senate is not going to pass a bill
unless you produce the regulations. Let us see
what this measure means." We will be told
immediately, of course, that the regulations
are never ready to be presented to Parliament. My simple answer to that is: "If you do
not know what the regulations are, and if you
do not know what you intend to do with an
act before you ask Parliament to pass it, then
you should not have the impertinence of
coming before Parliament and saying that
you want the act passed."
If honourable senators will look at the
powers given the Governor in Council under
these regulations they will agree, I think, that
my point is well taken. I say again to the
Leader of the Government that it would be
the course of wisdom for this chamber to
refuse to pass this bill until it has before it
the Canada Water Act, Bill C-144, so that we
will have some idea of what it is all about.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Macdonald, for
Hon. Mr. Yuzyk, debate adjourned.
CRIMINAL RECORDS BILL
SECOND READING

The Senate resumed from Tuesday, May 19,
the adjourned debate on the motion of Hon.
Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière) for the second
reading of Bill C-5, to provide for the relief
of persons who have been convicted of
offences and have subsequently rehabilitated
themselves.
Hon. Earl A. Hastings: Honourable senators, I wish to take a few moments this afternoon to associate myself with the remarks of
the sponsor of this bill (Hon. Mr. Fournier,
De Lanaudière) and other speakers. In doing
so, I should like to congratulate Senator Fournier on bis capable presentation in bis usual
lucid and concise manner.
I wish to draw the attention of honourable
senators briefiy to the fact that the subject
matter of the bill was first brought to the
attention of the Parliament of Canada by the
honourable member for Welland (Mr. D. R.
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

May 21, 1970

Tolmie) in the other place in a private bill in
1966. It received the consideration of the Justice and Legal committee in that place over
subsequent sessions, and was finally brought
forward by the present Solicitor General by
way of a government bill in this session.
To me, this bill is another step forward in
society's attempt at the complete rehabilitation of those who from time to time find
themselves outside the bounds of society, an
attempt to bring them completely back and
rehabilitate them in the society they have
rejected, or left for a short period of time.
The bill is the final step forward in a policy
by which we reject the old concept that those
who violate society's laws should be banished
or segregated from society, or should be punished. It is based on the concept that when a
man arrives at our penal institutions we then
begin bis rehabilitation, and we are not interested in extracting punishment for offences. It
is based on the theory that while a man is
confined, for whatever period of time it may
be, we treat the man, we do not treat the
offence, and we judge whether our job is
complete when he is returned as quickly as
possible to society by the way he reacts to bis
treatment during confinement or during bis
period of parole.
This concept bas been manifested in all
penal reforms instituted over the last ten
years. I think particularly of the Parole
Board and its enlargement and operation,
because it bas been found that a man's
rehabilitation can be accomplished much
more quickly and under much better circumstances when he is free to serve bis sentence
within society and not segregated or banished
behind walls. Under the present Parole Board
system we are now paroling 100 per cent
more men each year to continue their sentence of rehabilitation in the freedom of society. We now have the Parole Board going to the
penitentiaries to interview the inmates and
discussing their parole with them. By this
method the inmate bas an opportunity to face
bis parole board, which he never had up until
this year. If a man's application for a parole is
rejected, be is given the reason at the time of
bis hearing and told what he must do in
order to qualify for parole. The system is
working much better, as is indicated by the
number of men on parole and the number of
repeats arriving back in our penitentiaries.
As well as the operation of the Parole
Board, we have the up-to-date operation of the
Canadian Penitentiary Service, which bas
adopted the attitude that when a man arrives

May 21, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

at their institution his rehabilitation begins.
He is interviewed by his rehabilitation officer;
he is given psychiatrie interviews and psychological interviews, and the process of rehabilitation begins; he is segregated into the type
of institution where he will best benefit
during his period of incarceration.
There has also been instituted the method
of three-day parole, which is a form of leave
from the institution, that can be granted by
the warden, giving a man an opportunity to
return to society for weekends, or even for
periods of up to two weeks with just cause.
By this method over 5,000 inmates have been
granted three-day paroles. These have included inmates sentenced to life for murder, who
have been given this opportunity and shown
that society wants them back; they have been
given the opportunity to leave the institution
for these periods of time and then return. I
am pleased to be able to tell honourable senators that, according to my information, of the
5,000 men granted such leaves, not one has
violated this trust. Al the men have returned
within the time limit, except over the Christmas period when weather conditions made
some of them a few hours late in returning to
their institutions.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: They were under the
weather.
Hon. Mr. Hastings: The new concept is that
we try to accept that a man, even though he
is confined, is still a man. We do not take
from him ail his self-respect; we do not
degrade him into a category in which he is
ostracized and treated with motives of punishment. We now say: You have committed
an offence. We want you back, and we are
willing to take whatever steps are necessary
to bring you back into society so that you do
not have to carry on the present life you are
living.
There have also been established three
half-way houses, in Toronto, Vancouver and
Winnipeg, so that inmates towards the end of
their sentence finish their term living in private homes, and are again permitted to enter
society during that last period.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I know the honourable
senator is interested in this subject, because I
know he is an active member of the John
Howard Society. However, in view of what he
has just said, would he be good enough to
mention St. Leonards House in Windsor?
Hon. Mr. Hastings: There are many such
houses. I have mentioned only the three operated by the Canadian Penitentiary service.

Over the Christmas season Mrs. Hastings
and I had occasion to spend a day at the
Drumheller federal institution in Alberta. In
the ecumenical spirit, we attended mass in
the morning with the inmates; following
lunch we shared with them their Christmas
concert, after which we had coffee with them.
During that day we could not but help be
impressed by the attitude prevailing at these
institutions.
At the particular institution under the
direction of Warden Jutras there is a complete feeling of understanding and appreciation between the guards and the guarded, and
there is interest on both sides to try to bring
these men back to society as quickly as possible. The warden bas introduced a system
whereby the community of Drumheller is
brought into the institution on any pretext to
continue the liaison and the communication
between the inmate and society outside. He is
instituting day visits, by which the inmate
does not have to visit his relatives within the
confines of the institution but can actually go
down to the City of Drumheller for the afternoon. These are all ways by which the
warden is trying to involve society in the
interests of the inmate and at the same time
develop the interests of the inmate in the
society from which he is temporarily
ostracized.
I realize we are not perfect. We have a long
way to go in Canada. We still have the highest per capita penitentiary population of any
country in the world. But we are moving
slowly in the right direction under the
Canada Penitentiary Services and under the
Parole Board. We are making these moves to
bring these men back into society and reduce
the penitentiary population.
Finally, the bill we have before us, which
was outlined very capably by the mover, is
the last act of rehabilitation of the man who
bas benefitted from his imprisonment and
from his parole and bas shown by his good
conduct and behaviour for a period of from
two to five years that he is worthy of complete rehabilitation into society. And, by the
bill, society through the federal Government
indicates to the man that in so far as possible
his record will be sealed.
As Senator MacDonald pointed out, it is not
a perfect bill. There are shortcomings in it, in
that it is simply impossible to seal completely
the record of a man. The Solicitor General
does not have control over newspaper articles; he does not have control over weekly
law reports which are circulated throughout

1084

SENATE DEBATES

the legal fraternity; lie has no control over
the provincial police forces or the local, urban
police forces who have records of inmates;
finally, he has no control over the individual;
lie cannot seal the mouths of people who are
willing to expose a man's past record.
But so far as possible we have shown by
this bill that whatever control the Solicitor
General has he will use effectively to seal
from the public all records with respect to the
conduct of a man who has shown lie has
benefitted from his imprisonment and is
ready and prepared to resume his rightful
place within society.
Finally, I share with Senator Fournier (De
Lanaudière) a concern that the provinces
should now take remedial action along the
lines of this bill. But more important I should
like to appeal to industry and to commerce to
follow the example that bas been shown in
this bill. I would suggest that as quickly as
possible, wherever appropriate, application
forms be amended so that the simple question
be asked, "Have you ever been convicted of
an offence for which a pardon has not been
granted?", to which every pardoned person
could answer truthfully without fear of losing
his job opportunities. In that way the pardoned persons could move into areas of
employment which are so important with
respect to their rehabilitation.
I am very happy to associate myself with
Senator Fournier (De Lanaudière) in the passage of this bill.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Res±igouche): Mr. Speaker, may I ask a question? I did
not get very far on Tuesday night in attempting to ask questions. Perhaps I will do better
today.
It seems to me that there are too many
small infractions being dealt with in the
Criminal Code that could be dealt with at the
provincial level. I am thinking of certain
liquor and driving offences. It seems to me
that some of those offences should not be put
into the Criminal Code of Canada because
they simply cause problems.
This bill might be the means of drawing to
the attention of the proper authorities a situation which needs correcting.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Hastings: As Senator Fournier
(De Lanaudière) pointed out, the Solicitor
General of Canada has no control over the
provincial jurisdictions. The Parliament of
[Hon. Mr. Hastings.]

May 21, 1970

Canada cannot control the provincial jurisdictions. Moreover, most driving and liquor
offences do fall within the provincial
jurisdictions.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche): Why do they fall under the jurisdiction?
Who made it that way?
Hon. Mr. Hashings: You would have to ask
the lawyers those questions.
Hon. Mr. Smith: The bill will be going to
committee. I suggest you ask your questions
there.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Honourable senators, I should like to move,
seconded by Senator Denis, P.C., that this bill
be referred to the Standing Senate Committee
on Legal and Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday, May 26, at four o'clock in the afternoon.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: You may refer it to
the committee for consideration, but you
cannot dictate when the committee will sit. I
suggest you move to refer it, and then the
committee will be called.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): I am
not dictating to the committee. I am just
making a motion, and if my honourable
friend is prepared to move an amendment I
am prepared to accept it.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: No, no. I am just
pointing out to my friend that if lie is sure
that the committee will sit at that time on
that day, then it is very well in order for him
to make that type of motion; but, if he is not
sure of that, and if the committee has not
assured him they will be sitting on that day
and at that hour for the purpose of hearing
this matter, then I suggest that his motion
should be to the effect-with the approbation
of his colleague Senator Denis-that he is
moving to refer the bill to the committee for
consideration.

Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): I
appreciate the very clever remarks of my
honourable friend, but I figure that if I have
the right to move that a bill be taken into
consideration on suich a date, I also have the
right to suggest the time of the day.
Hon. Mr. Bourgel: That is going too far to
avoid confusion!
Hon. Mr. Molson: To avoid conflict!

May 21, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): I did
not ask the opinion of the honourable the
Leader of the Government. If my suggestion
is not satisfactory, I know he will ask me to
withdraw the suggestion as to the time and
the date.

ment Leader spoke on this bill on May 19
with logic and interest and gave us a full
explanation of it.
It is proposed that the commission to be set
up be composed of six members, four of
whom will devote their full time to the work
of the commission. There is provision for the
organization of a staff, head office, expenses
and clerical and legal staff.
The objects of the commission are set forth
in clause 11 of the bill in rather formal language, as being:
(a) the removal of anachronisms and ano-

Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, I
was wondering how I could find a way-with-out appearing to take sides in this goodnatured controversy between Senator Choquette and Senator Fournier (De Lanaudière)-of showing how much I welcome an
opportunity to agree with Senator Choquette.
I do not always have that opportunity. Theremalies in the law;
fore I wonder if my friend, Senator Fournier
(b) the reflection in and by the law of the
(De Lanaudière), with whom I am always in
distinctive concepts and institutions of
full accord, would mind if on this occasion I
the common law and civil law legal sysdid not concur in his suggestion that we
tems in Canada, and the reconciliation of
should send this bill to committee with the
differences and discrepancies in the
stipulation that the committee should meet at
expression and application of the law
a particular hour.
arising out of differences in those conIf Senator Fournier (De Lanaudière) would
cepts and institutions;
agree, the suggestion made by Senator Cho(c) the elimination of obsolete laws; and
quette would be in the circumstances both
(d) the development of new approaches
prudent and practical, namely, that we simply
to and new concepts of the law in keepmove that this bill be referred to the Standing with and responsive to the changing
ing Senate Committee on Legal and Constituneeds of modern Canadian societytional Affairs. I hope that when that committee does meet, on a day and at an hour not
Law reform, honourable senators, is an
named in the motion, Senator Choquette and overall, on-going process which involves legSenator Fournier (De Lanaudière) will walk islators, judges, administrators-of which we
into that committee arm in arm.
have a great number-lawyers and other
professional people, teachers in law faculties
Hon. Mr. Fournier
(De Lanaudière): of our universities and the general public at
Honourable senators, I am very pleased large. Ontario has a Law Reform Commission
to find myself in exactly the same position which deals, of course, with provincial matas the honourable Leader of the Govern- ters. Alberta also has one, and British
ment. It is the first time I have had the Columbia is in the process of organizing one.
pleasure of agreeing with the Opposition, and There is at the present time a bill to be
I am not going to miss it. So, I move, second- introduced in the Manitoba Legislature to set
ed by Hon. Mr. Denis, that Bill C-5 be up a law reform commission.
referred to the Standing Senate Committee on
It must be clearly understood, honourable
Legal and Constitutional Affairs.
senators, that when this bill becomes law,
Motion agreed to.
there must be full co-operation and liaison
between provincial law reform commissions
and the federal law commission, because a
LAW REFORM COMMISSION BILL
provincial law reform commission deals with
provincial matters and the federal commisSECOND READING-DEBATE CONTINUED
sion will deal with federal matters, but there
The Senate resumed from Tuesday, May 19, may be an overlapping which will create a
the adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. necessity for full consultation between the
Mr. Martin, for the second reading of Bill two commissions.
C-186, to establish a commission for the
In the Canadian Bar Association, which is a
reform of the laws of Canada.
voluntary association of Canadian lawyers,
Hon. J. Campbell Haig: Honourable sena- there is an organization called the "Commistors, Bill C-186 passed the House of Commons sion for the Uniformity of Legislation" which
on May 12, 1970, and was introduced in this has among its objectives provision for a uniplace last week. The honourable the Govern- formity of legislation to apply to all prov-

SENATE DEBATES

inces, such as mechanics liens etc. The objectives of law reform include updating and
removing inconsistencies and injustices, the
correction of errors of omission and commission and, in short, improvements in the law.
It may be asked quite properly what a law
reform commission could do or can do. In the
provincial field the Province of Manitoba has
had a committee sitting and advising the provincial government, and in Ontario-which
has the first law reform commission-the
commission has reviewed personal property
problems, securities, legislation, wages, executions and evidence, basis for condemnation of
expropriation, and condominium, which is a
new concept of real property ownership. It is
intended, according to the Manitoba section of
the Canadian Bar Association in making its
report, that the cost of such a commission
should not be beholden to the government of
the day. It should receive money from
bequests, from governments, law societies and
from the profession itself. In Manitoba-and
I presume this would apply to the other provinces-I know that there is no single entity
responsible for overseeing and cultivating the
law reform process in an organized concerted
manner.
It must be understood, as the Leader of the
Government said, that law reform as presently constituted is but the result of judge-made
law in interpretation and by statute. But it is
often proven that when we produce a statute
or a judgment of a Superior Court, conditions
may change. We have seen in our country
instances in which certain laws made either
by the judges or by parliaments have not
fulfilled their aim in the changing fabric of
our society. It is proposed, and it should be,
that a commission provide research facilities
separate and apart from the demands of the
law officers of the Crown of either the provincial or federal governments in the day-today administration of our problems. The
problems to be discussed could be presented
by the government of the day, by the judiciary, by the profession itself or by its organized society.
In our province we anticipate that we will
receive the full co-operation of the research
facilities of our law school, the Faculty of
Law of the University of Manitoba. We
intend to provide professional people on a
part-time basis, as this bill does, students and
law teachers, the general public and, indeed,
the medical profession. We have a medicallegal committee in our province, and they can
present problems to this law reform
commission.
[Hon. Mr. Haig.]

May 21, 1970

This is not the end-all or be-all of perfect
law because that will be many years in
coming. Law reform is an on-going process,
and by the establishment of this commission
it is apparent that the Government has decided that research must be done on our laws in
order to update them and bring them into
accord with modern society.
The idea of a law reform commission is not
new. The law reform commissions of Ontario
and Alberta have proved that such commissions are meaningful requirements if the law
is to keep pace with our economic and social
development.
As I said earlier, this commission should
not be an agency of the Government. It
should be completely independent. Problems
respecting the updating of the law can be
referred to it by judges, by the profession, or
by the Government itself.
I should like to refer honourable senators to
the Ontario Law Reform Commission report
of 1967, which is contained in the Canadian
Bar Journal of April 1968, at page 122, and
the Ontario Law Reform Commission Act,
(1964) Statutes of Ontario, chapter 7.
This commission is to be set up with four
full-time members and two part-time members. One of the part-time members must be a
judge, and this will bring the judiciary into
the matter of law reform. I have discussed
this with the committee of the Manitoba Bar
Association, and I know that they and the
faculty of law at the University of Winnipeg
are strongly in favour of such a commission.
So, I am sure that they will approve fully of
this bill.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Smith, for Hon. Mr.
Hayden, debate adjourned.
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READINGDEBATE ADJOURNED
Hon. Hédard Robichaud moved the second

reading of Bill C-193, to amend the Industrial
Research and Development Incentives Act.
He said: Honourable senators, in introducing Bill C-193 to this chamber I should like to
take the opportunity of reviewing briefly the
importance of research and development to
Canadian industry, and of the need for this
particular measure in strengthening the
incentive to industry to invest in more
Research and Development. Following this

May 21, 1870

DEBATES
May 21 1970SENATE

brief review, I wîll attempt to explain the
four clauses which cover the four amendments contained ini the bill.
Canadian industries must continue to strive
for greater competitive advantages in international trade in goods which are in demand
around the world as well as here in Canada.
There has been considerable progress in
recent years, especiaily in the sector of manufactured goods where the share of total
exports has increased from. 12 per cent to 40
per cent in just ten years, and now comprises
about 75 per cent of merchandise exports.
That is a very good rate of growth, but it is,
unfortunately, flot evenly spread throughout
-our manufacturing industries in Canada,
which now face serious competition at home
and abroad as a resuit of reduced tariff protection under the Kennedy Round. Moreover,
manufacturing employs about 23 per cent of
the labour force, and it is very important that
this sector of our economy be seif-sufficient in
foreign as well as domestic markets. We must
accept the fact that Canada will be, in future,
*a part of the international market; that international competion will be an essential fact
of our economic livelihood.
To achieve effective competition in international trade, industry must be in a continuous
zstate of modernization
and innovation.
Research and development can play a decisive role in advancing the technological
capacity of our industries. Thus it is essential
that sufficient funds be allocated to research
and developmnent by Canadian industry to
-ensure that the technological capability of our
industries is fully developed and exploited.
The Government desires, therefore, to stimulate the growth of research and development
in Canada in every possible way.
Despite the importance of scientific R &
D in our industries, the evidence is very clear
that the amount of R & D should be higher.
According to available information, industry
is financing about 28.2 per cent of the gross
expenditures on R & D in Canada, and
performs about 36.5 per cent of the total. On
the basis of these estimates, it is apparent
that both the funding and the performance of
Canadian industry is still too low, notwithstanding
the
gains
that
have
been
experienced during the past few years. The
Government considers it necessary, therefore,
to foster a greater rate of growth in industrial
R & D, towards which object the continuation and strengthening of the existing federal
programs is a distinct necessity.

The programs now being carried out by the
federal Government have been designed to be
complementary to one another. These programs are five in number, and are funded at
different levels, according to the scope and
purpose of each program. The programs may
be summarized briefiy as follows.
1. Industrial Research and Development
Incentives Act, known as IRDIA-consists of
an Industry, Trade and Commerce program of
general incentives to encourage the growth of
R & D in industry. Its estimated expenditure
for the fiscal year 1970-71 is $30 million.
2. Industrial Research Assistance Program
is a National Research Council program to
increase research personnel in industry. It is
to spend an estimated $7.4 million during the
present fiscal year.
3. Defence Industrial Research Program is a
Defence Research Board program to encourage research in industry. Its expenditures
during the year will be $4.5 million.
4. Program for the Advancement of Industrial Technology-which is commonly known
as PAIT-is an Industry, Trade and Commerce program to encourage development of
new products and processes in industry. Its
estimnated expendliture for the present fiscal
year is $15.5 million.
5. Defence Industry Productivity Program
is an Industry, Trade and Commerce program
to encourage development and production for
the purpose of defence and civil exports. The
development portion of this program estimated at $27.3 million for the present fiscal year,
makes a total of $84.7 million for the five
programs which I have just mentioned.
Now may I say a f ew words with respect to
one of these programs, the first mentioned,
known as IRDIA, Industrial Research and
Incentives Act. The program was introduced
in March 1967, when it was found desirable
to replace existîng incentives under the
Income Tax Act which was scheduled to
expire i 1966.
This program gives a general incentive to
îndustry for the expansion of scientific research and development in Canada by providing for taxable Canadian corporations to
receive cash grants or credits against federal
income tax liabilities equal to, (a) 25 per cent
of all capital expenditures (by acquiring new
property other than land) for scientifie
research and development in Canada; and, (b)
25 per cent of the increase in current expenditures in Canada for scientific research and

SENATE DEBATES
development over the average of such expenditures in the preceding five years. The grants
are not subject to federal income tax and are
in addition to the 100 per cent deduction for
research and development expenditures in
Canada allowed under the Income Tax Act.
During the period of approximately three
years since the act was passed in March 1967,
grants have been authorized in the following
amounts. For the fiscal year 1967-1968, 111
applications were received and grants
approved for a total of $2.3 million. For the
fiscal year 1968-1969, 464 applications were
received for expenditures of $20.2 million.
During the fiscal year 1969-1970 it is estimated that 630 applications will have been
received for a total of $23.3 million. For the
present fiscal year 1970-1971, the number of
applications is not available, but $30 million
is provided in the estimates for this program.
May I also add before reviewing the four
amendments that the total amounts from all
sources earmarked for research and development in 1968-1969 in Canada amounted to
$952 million. The federal Government has
participated to the amount of $501 million, or
52 per cent of the total amount. Industry bas
participated to the amount of $267 million, or
28.2 per cent. Universities have contributed
$171 million, or 18 per cent. Other sources
amount to $13 million, or 1.3 per cent.
Now I turn to deal more specifically with
the proposals of Bill C-193.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: May I ask the honourable senator a question before he leaves those
noble figures? Did I understand him to say
that the total government expenditure of
scientific activities was $501 million?
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: Yes. According to the
federal statistics, the total federal expenditures in R & D for the fiscal year 1968-1969
amounted to $501 million, being 52 per cent
of the total ear-marked in Canada of $952
million.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: That is then on research
and development alone, not on scientific
activities.
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: That is right.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I mention that because it
is at variance with other figures we have
been given. I am not suggesting that we
honourable senator's figures are wrong but, as
he well knows, we have been receiving various figures from the Government as to what
the amount is.
[Hon. Mr. Robichaud.]

May 21, 1970'

Hon. Mr. Robichaud: I am sure honourablesenators recall the figures which were given
to us before the Special Senate Committee on
Science Policy. However, these are the statistical figures which are available from all
sources for R & D.
Hon. Mr. Burchill: Do those figures includethe cost of the National Research Council?
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: Yes, they are part of
the expenditures of the federal Government
in the total of $501 million.
The first amendment proposes to remove an
unforeseen hardship on some companies
coming under the associated-companies provision of the act. This provision was intended to
ensure that a group of associated companies
would not, by virtue of their associated
status, secure better treatment under the act
than the same group collectively would have
received if the individual companies had not
been associated with each other. However,
some companies have been unable to secure
the full benefits intended by IRDIA on
account of their associated status.
The explanations for this would involve
considerable technical detail.
I am sure that the officials who will appear
before the standing committee to which I
intend to refer this bill after it has received
second reading will be able to answer all
questions with regard to these details. In certain circumstances, as a consequence of section 4 of the act, a company which belongs to
an association of companies as defined by the
Income Tax Act can stand to lose all or part
of its grant through the actions of a separate
company over which it may have no control.
It bas happened under IRDIA that two
companies have lost grants from this cause
totalling $176,000, and 15 other companies
have suffered reductions in grants totalling
$325,000.
To remove this unforeseen anomaly in the
act it is proposed in clause 1 of Bill C-193 to
permit the minister to decide that a company
is not associated for the purposes of the act
where he is satisfied that the company is
dealing with other members of the associated
group of companies at arm's length.
The associated companies provision is being
retained in the act. This provision is required
to prevent companies not dealing with each
other at arm's length from divesting themselves of base-period expenditures by cycling
research and development from one company
to another year by year, or from engaging in

May 21, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

transactions with one another in ways that
would have the effect of circumventing other
provisions of the act.
The second clause of Bill C-193 concerns
the subject of repayments to Her Majesty of
amounts that have been advanced to a cornpany under an appropriation act for the purpose of advancing or sustaining the technological capability of Canadian manufacturing
industry, under the Defence Industry Productivity Program, known as DIP, and the Program for the Advancement of Industrial
Technology, known as PAIT. The act now
permits a company to claim a grant for the
total of such repayments. In recent years,
however, changes have been made in these
programs to include activities that are not
scientific research and development. The purpose of this amendment is to make the repayment provisions consistent with the intention
of the act, namely, to confine the grants to
research and development activities.
Clause 3 is intended to clarify the application of the act to amalgamated corporations.
It requires corporations formed by the amalgamation of two or more predecessor corporations to include in their base-period expenditures the expenditures of their predecessor
corporations. This clarification is desirable to
ensure that corporations do not circumvent
the intent of the act by divesting themselves
of their base-period expenditures through
amalgamations.
The last clause, clause 4, has to do with the
sale or transfer of research and development
property, and is intended to overcome a difficulty that has arisen on one or two occasions
in the administration of the act. Under the
present provisions of the act, companies
transferring property for which they have
received a capital grant must repay all or a
portion of the grant to the Crown upon transfer of the property to a new owner. This
provision imposes a serious obstacle on a
company wishing to establish a research and
development subsidiary and to transfer property to it.
Accordingly, it is proposed to permit a corporation to transfer property to another corporation without repayment of the grant
where the minister is satisfied that the property will continue to be used for scientific
research and development.
Honourable senators, I commend this bill
for second reading. After it has received
second reading, it is my intention to move

1089

that it be referred to the Standing Senate

Committee on Health, Welfare and Science.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Grosart, debate
adjourned.
SECURITY MEASURES
QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE
Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable sena-

tors, I am not quite sure whether this matter
should be raised as a question of privilege,
but I will use this device as a means of
making my inquiry of His Honour the
Speaker.
Last week, probably over-zealous R.C.M.P.
officers interfered with the arrival and departure of Members of Parliament-and when I
say "Members of Parliament," I include members of both houses. It is my understanding
that an investigation is now being made and
that a report will be tabled in the other place.
I would like to inquire of His Honour the
Speaker as to whether a copy of this report
will be tabled in the Senate and be made
available to members of this chamber.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators,
I must say that the honourable Senator Phillips (Prince) was kind enough to give me
notice that he intended to raise this question
of privilege.
I have already looked into the matter, and
since a complete investigation is being carried
out in the Commons I did not think it would
be in order to have a duplicate investigation
carried out by the Senate. Therefore, I have
asked my colleague, the Speaker of the Commons, to furnish me with a copy of the report
of the investigation as soon as it is received,
and I will promptly advise honourable senators of its contents. However, I would not
commit myself to agree to table the report,
without knowing whether it would be appropriate to do so.
Having said that, I assure honourable senators that as soon as the report is received by
me I will inform you as to its contents.
I would like to add that in the meantime I
have asked the law officers of the Senate to
have research carried out and to inquire into
the question of jurisdiction of our security
organization, as to whether this jurisdiction
extends over the grounds surrounding the
Parliament Buildings, in order that when I
have the report I will be in a position to let
honourable senators discuss its findings.

SENATE DEBATES
I hope that this proposed procedure is satisfactory. I do not see how it would be useful
for us to discuss this matter without having
the report before us.
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators,
perhaps I might say a word on this question
of privilege. I am rather surprised that Senator Phillips (Prince) has raised this matter.
Just by accident, I entered this building at the
Senate entrance at the very time, as I found
out later, that the distinguished visitor from
Israel was in the building. I assume that is the
time to which the honourable senator is
referring.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): I do not know
who the visitor was.
Hon.
Mr.
Smith
(Queens-Shelburne):
According to what I subsequently read in
the newspaper, there were extreme security
measures taken. However, there was no
R.C.M.P. officer anywhere near the Senate
entrance when I entered the building, and it
was not until I read the newspaper that I
realized that something was taking place on
the Hill which did not meet with the approval

May 21, 1970

of a member of the Commons-I think he was
from Prince Edward Island.
I would ask my friend Senator Phillips
whether he was stopped or whether he knows
of any member of the Senate being stopped at
the Senate entrance, because I think we
would all like to know that.
Hon. Mr. Aselline: Quite a few of us were.
I was stopped, and had a hard time getting
through.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): I am surprised
to hear the honourable Senator Smith make
such a statement. I wonder if he recognizes an
R.C.M.P. uniform when he sees one. I too was
stopped.
Hon. Mr. Smith (Queens-Shelburne): I have
related my experience in connection with the
matter, and was very surprised to hear
this complaint. Certainly the R.C.M.P. should
at least have recognized a former Leader of
the Government in the Senate, in the person
of Senator Aseltine.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, May
26, at 8 p.m.

May 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Tuesday, May 26, 1970
The Senate met at 8 p.m., Honourable Maurice Bourget, P.C., Speaker pro tem, in the
Chair.
Prayers.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Copies of the Third Interim Report of
the International Joint Commission on
the Pollution of Lake Erie, Lake Ontario
and the International Section of the St.
Lawrence River, entitled "Special Report
on Potential Oil Pollution, Eutrophication
and Pollution from Watercraft", dated
April 1970.
Report of the National Arts Centre
Corporation, including its Accounts and
Financial Statements certified by the
Auditor General, for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1969, pursuant to section 17 of
the National Arts Centre Act, chapter 48,
Statutes of Canada, 1966-67.
Copies of proposals made by the European Commission on Human Rights with
respect to Greece.
Copies of Communiqué issued following the meeting of the Ministerial Council
of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, held in
Paris, May 20, 21 and 22, 1970.
Copies of Statement on operations
under the Veterans Insurance Act for the
fiscal year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 20 of the said Act, chapter
279, R.S.C., 1952.
Copies of Statement on operations
under The Returned Soldiers' Insurance
Act for the fiscal year ended March 31,
1970, pursuant to section 17(2) of the said
Act, chapter 54, Statutes of Canada, 1920,
as amended 1951.

May 28, 1970, and that Rule 76(4) be suspended in relation thereto.
Motion agreed to.
NAVIGATION
SAFETY MEASUIRES IS DISCHARGE OF CRUDE
OIL FROM SUPERTANKERS-CANAPORTINQUIRY ANSWERED

Hon. Nelson Rat±enbury inquired of the
Government, pursuant to notice:
1. Is the Government aware that the first
facility on the North American Continent
capable of discharging crude oil from supertankers and to be known as Canaport is being
built off the mouth of the Harbour at Saint
John, New Brunswick, through the initiative
of the Irving Oil interests and that it will be
ready to discharge oil cargoes from 250,000
ton supertankers within a matter of weeks?
2. If so, has a recent survey or re-appraisal
of navigational aids been made in the Bay of
Fundy and its approaches to ensure that
every means known to science has been provided for the safe passage of these supertankers in this stretch of water which is known
for its high incidence of fog, high tides and
strong currents?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
(The answer follows)
1. Yes.
2. A recent complete reappraisal of the aids
to navigation in and leading to the Bay of
Fundy has been made by our District and
Regional offices. The system now in operation
consists of visual and audible floating and
shore-based aids, Radio Beacons, Loran and
Decca. This system is considered to be adequate for the safe navigation of any ship
proceeding to the Saint John area. Officials of
Canaport have been approached for comment and have confirmed that they are of the
opinion that no additional aids to navigation
are required in these approaches.
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS
STONE HOUSE MOTEL, TRURO-RENTAL
OTHER ARRANGEMENTS-INQUIRY
ANSWERED

BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
COMMITTEE

AND

Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Government, pursuant to notice:
1. What is the annual rent paid by the
Hon. Donald Smith, with leave of the
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(a), Canadian National Railways for the Stone
House Motel at Truro, N.S.?
moved:
2. How many rooms in the motel are reguThat the Standing Senate Committee
on Banking, Trade and Commerce have larly rented?
3. What are the terms of the lease between
power to sit while the Senate is sitting on the owners of the motel and the Canadian
Wednesday, May 27, 1970 and Thursday, National Railways?
AUTHORITY

22481-19

TO MEET DURING
THE SENATE

SITTINGS

OF

SENATE DEBATES
4. Do the Canadian National Railways pay
for taxi transportation of their employees to
and from the motel, or is this cost borne by
the employees?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
(The answer follows)
1 and 3. It is the Company's practice not to
disclose the terms of arrangements made with
other parties.
2. Over the past few years it has been
necessary to upgrade resthouses where train
and engine crews are accommodated at their
away-from-home terminals. At some locations
it was possible to upgrade the existing facilities while at others this was impossible due to
the condition and location of the resthouses.
At Truro the rest facilities were located on
the second floor of the station building and in
addition to being in a rundown condition,
they were located in a very noisy part of the
town, near the heavy automobile traffic and
adjacent to a yard. Following considerable
research, from both an economic and comfort
point of view, an arrangement was entered
into with the owner of the Stonehouse Motel
for the lease of furnished space in his residence consisting of living room, kitchen and
dining facilities, bathroom facilities and seven
bedrooms.
4. At the present time the Company pays
for the taxi transportation; however, a staff
car for this purpose is to be provided at an
early date.

May 26, 1970

tional areas is in keeping with rental fees
being charged to the general public for the
use of privately-owned recreational facilities
of a similar type in the same geographie
area?
5. Is it Defence Department policy to permit
the administrators of its Defence Establishment recreational areas to compete with private enterprise in the renting-out of its
facilities?
6. Where Defence Establishment recreational facilities are made available to the general
public, are alcoholic beverages sold?
7. If alcoholic beverages are sold to the
general public in Defence Establishment
recreational areas, is any attempt being made
to ensure that the prices charged are in keeping with those being asked in privatelyowned commercial establishments in the same
geographic area?
8. Does the Fort Osborne Curling Club in
Winnipeg rent its facilities to the public, and,
if so, at what price?
9. Are the rental fees charged to the public
by the Fort Osborne Curling Club in Winnipeg inferior to, equal to, or superior to
those charged by other curling clubs in and
around the City of Winnipeg?
10. If alcoholic beverages are sold to the
public at the Fort Osborne Curling Club, are
they sold at prices inferior to those charged
for alcoholic drinks by privately-owned curling clubs in the Winnipeg area which serve
such beverages?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.

DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL DEFENCE

(The answer follows)

RECREATIONAL FACILITIES AND SERVICESAVAILABILTTY AND COST TO PUBLICINQUIRY ANSWERED

recreational
Establishment
1. Defence
facilities fulfil a dual role-fitness training and
recreation. Prior to 1960 it was the practice to
provide major fitness facilities such as gymnasiums, swimming pools and ice arenas
when public funds were available. Since then,
however, the practice has developed to have
such projects financed in whole or in part by
Non-Public Funds. Except for a small grant
of $2.00 per year per man from public funds,
the remainder of the recreational requirement
is looked after from Non-Public Funds.
Recreational facilities such as curling clubs,
golf courses, riding clubs, etc. are entirely
built, financed and operated from Non-Public
Funds.
2. As a rule, Defence Establishment recreational facilities are for the use of Canadian
Forces' personnel, their dependants and
National Defence civilian employees. On

Hon. J. Campbell Haig inquired of the
Government, pursuant to notice:
1. Are Defence Establishment recreational
facilities partly or completely subsidized by
the Defence Department?
2. Are Defence Establishment recreational
facilities for the exclusive use of Defence
Establishment personnel and their immediate
families or are they open to the general
public?
3. If these facilities are open to the general
public, is the public charged rental fees for
their use?
4. Is any attempt made to ensure that the

rental fees charged to the general public for
the use of such Defence Establishment recrea[.Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche).]

May 26 1970SENATE
DEBATES

May 26, 1870

authority of local Commanders, civilians,
other than national defence employees may
be permitted to use these recreational facilities as sponsored guests.
3. Rentai of Department of National
Defence owned facilities to the general public
is subject to approval. by Canadian Forces
Headquarters or an officer commanding a
Command, in which case rentai fees normally
are charged. However, rentai fees may be
waived if the fadilities are to be used by such
non-profit organizations as the Red Cross or
the Royal Lif e Saving Society swimming
classes.
4. Yes. Service regulations stipulate that
rentai charges for the Departinent of National
Defence operated recreational fadilities are to
be made at the rates paid for the nearest
comparable commercial or municipal fadility.
5. No.
6. Yes, subject to applicable provincial
regulations.
7. No, there is no set policy i titis respect.
8. The Fort Osborne Curling Club in Winnipeg is a Non-Public Fund activity which
rents non-premium ice turne at $8.00 per sheet
for a 2-hour gaine.
9. It is understood that other curling clubs
within the City of Winnipeg charge between
$10.00 and $12.00 for non-premium ice time.
10. In most instances prices for alcoholic
beverages sold at the Fort Osborne Curling
Club are lower than those charged by privately owned clubs in the Winnipeg area.
However, it must be noted that the cost of
lîquor and beer is the sarne for this Club as it
is for independent bar operators. The
responsibility for setting bar prices is vested
with the local Commander. Ail expenses are
paid from Non-Public Funds. Profits are
required to pay for salaries, equipment and
stock.

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: I arn told by
the Clerk of the Senate that this instrument
is used by the interpreters who are working
in their office. I assume they have the permisslofl of the Clerk of the Senate to instaîl the
instrument, and also the permission of His
Honour the Speaker-not your present
Speaker, but the actual Speaker.

THE SENATE

The Han. the Speaker pro tem: I arn told
that the permission of His Honour the Speaker of the Senate has been obtained.

SIIMULTANEOUS INTEEPRETATION-INSTALLATION 0F CLOSED-CIRCUIT TELEVISION
CAMERA-QUESTION
OF PRIVILEGE

Hon. Har±land de M. Maison: Honourable
senators, I rise on a question of privilege. I
would like to ask what is the machine in the
gallery, what is its purpose, and is there any
explanation to be offered us for having it
placed there without notice or our permission.

Hon. Mr. MaIson: Am I to understand that
that machine is used by the interpreters?
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: It is a
closed-circuit system which is designed to
help the interpreters by allowing them to
work in their own office instead of in the
cubicles at the back of the chamber. I arn also
informed that the samne system is in use in
the House of Commons, and has been for
some tirne.
Hon. Mr. Camneron: Is it closed-circuit TV?
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: I have just
been informed of that, but 1 know nothîng
more about it.
Hon. Mr. Maison: Honourable senators, 1
suggest that we should be informed of these
innovations so that we know what is going
on.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: Honourable senators, I
move that it be taken out until we are told
what it is.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: I arn further advised that it is installed on an experimental basis. Honourable senators may do
whatever they wish. I arn taken by surprise,
as are honourable senators, having been
advised only this evening that this would be
installed.
Hon. Mr. Molson: May I ask if it has been
installed by permission of His Honour the
Speaker of the Senate?

Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, I
must say that until Senator Molson spoke I
was not aware of the existence of titis device.
I do flot know whether to cail it a news media
device, or an electronic deviceHon. Mr. Sullivan: It is a gadget.

Hon. Mr,. Martin: It looks forbidding, but it
Hon. Mr. Prowse: Honourable senators, I may be quite harmless. I arn sure His Honour
would go further, and say: I spy strangers!
the Speaker has gone into the matter. Your
22481-191

SENATE DEBATES
Honour has said that a similar instrument is
in use in the other place, although I am not
aware of that. I want to indicate that I did
not know about this but, of course, there is no
reason why His Honour the Speaker should
feel it necessary to consult me any more than
any other honourable senator. I just did not
know about it. If it is the Speaker's wish, and
also that of honourable senators, I would be
inclined to allow the experiment to proceed
tonight. I am sure the Speaker would not
have given permission without careful
consideration.

May 26, 1970

within the privacy of the interpretations
bureau, there is one picture I hope it will
take, and that is of Senator Fergusson,
because this happens ta be her birthday anniversary. We congratulate her.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Congratulations.
NORTHERN INLAND WATERS BILL
SECOND READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: I have been
The Senate resumed from Thursday, May
informed by the Clerk that the Speaker gave 21, the adjourned debate on the motion of
permission to install the instrument in the Hon. Mr. Hays for the second reading of Bill
gallery. However, I am also told that a similar C-187, respecting inland water resources in
instrument is installed in the House of Com- the Yukon Territory and Northwest Territomons on an experimental basis. Are honour- ries.
able senators in favour of this experiment?
Hon. Paul Yuzyk: Honourable senators, as
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I would suggest that we bas been so ably explained by Senator Hays,
follow the Leader's advice and allow it to a former federal Minister of Agriculture, the
operate tonight. However, at the beginning of Northern Inland Waters bill provides for the
the sitting tomorrow we should have some protection and conservation of the resources
further explanation. It is difficult to assess the and the environment of the Yukon and the
matter this evening.
Northwest Territories. This vast region north
of the 60th Parallel comprises nearly 40 per
Hon. Donald Cameron: Honourable sena- cent of the land and water resources of our
tors, I did not know anything about this country. Here is found almost one-half of
mechanism until Senator Molson drew atten- Canada's water supply, constituting about
tion to it. However, I suspect that this is a one-sixth of the total fresh water of the
device which operates in the manner of world.
-losed-circuit television.
Canada's north has usually been, and is
still, regarded by many people as a dreary,
Hon. Mr. Flynn: No.
barren wilderness of rock and snow, inhabitHon. Mr. Cameron: It would certainly be ed by the Eskimo and a few thousand brave
helpful to the interpreters in identifying and hardy whites. In reality, vegetation grows
speakers. The mistake, if any has been made, up to within 500 miles of the North Pole,
is that the installation was not cleared with supporting large herds of reindeer, muskox,
the Senate first. I am in favour of allowing caribou, bears and other animals. The norththe instrument to stay tonight and we can ern lakes, rivers, bays, straits and inlets are
have a motion on it tomorrow.
the chief breeding grounds of hundreds of
Hon. Mr. Molson: Honourable senators, I species of birds, and contain some of the best
fish, seals, walruses and even whales, which
would be the last one to stand in the path of
progress. However, I feel that if new arrange- have still survived despite their slaughter by
ments are going to be made in this chamber, man. Although most of it is unsuited to
the Senate should be fully informed. As a agriculture, the Canadian north contains vast
rule, the chairman of the Standing Committee deposits of minerals and oil. It is Canada's
on
Internal
Economy and
Contingent last frontier, which increasingly is becoming a
Accounts is consulted and the members of the great tourist attraction of this continent.
chamber are informed before these steps are
Until fairly recently, not much attention
taken. Under the circumstances and in view was paid to this vast territory. There were
of the explanations given I would withdraw
my objections to the instrument remaining many people and politicians who ridiculed
Prime Minister Diefenbaker's "vision of the
tonight.
north" in the late 1950s. It was his GovernHon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, if ment that initiated the Roads to Resources
this instrument takes pictures that are kept Program and constructed the Pine Point Rail[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

May 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

way, which made it possible to develop
mining, valued today at $30 million in annual
production.
At present, the people of the world follow
with tremendous interest the daring voyage
of the 300,000-ton tanker, the Manhattan, as it
slowly breaks through the ice of the Northwest Passage, with the assistance of a Canadian icebreaker. Now no one doubts that the
Yukon and the Northwest Territories possess
vast untapped quantities of minerals and
inestimable volumes of oil. The vision of a
decade ago is being transformed into reality,
and is no longer ridiculed. A brilliant future
is opening up for Canada's north.
Man, who is coming from the south, is
applying the latest techniques of technology
to exploit the virgin resources of the north.
He is beginning to extract the minerals and
the oil from the land, but is leaving behind
destruction and pollution, as has been the
practice in the industrialized regions in the
temperate and warmer climates. Because of a
different land surface and a different climate,
the consequences of his actions are having
disastrous effects.
What must be always borne in mind, ecologists tell us, is that the Arctic ground is permanently frozen. In some places the permafrost layer is 1,200 feet deep. Only a thin
layer melts during the brief summer, providing for a few months a variety of plants and
hundreds of different kinds of flowers. If fire
destroys the lichens, moss and grass, it takes
centuries to regrow. Likewise, decay in the
Arctic region is very slow. Observers can still
clearly see the cart tracks of the early explorers who visited the region 125 years ago, and
the wooden slabs over the graves of members
of the Franklin expedition are in the same
condition today as when they were placed
there over 120 years ago.
The giant tractors and large-wheeled
machines cause irreversible damage to the
surface and plant life. This is explained by
Fred Bruemmer in a recent article:
'Thermokarst' is a word so new only a
few experts are familiar with it. It is a
delicate plant cover that protects and
insulates the underlying soil. When this
blanket is ripped and removed by tractor
lugs, during seismic surveys, or in the
course of installing a pipeline, the ground
thaws deeply
during the sunmer,
becomes unstable and subsides as much
as three to four feet in a year. Subsequent thermal and water erosion can
alter the topography of an entire area. A

thermokarst trench, if sufficiently wide
and deep, could almost impede the migration of caribou, keeping the animals from
good grazing range.
Unlike the south where many pollutants
gradually decompose in the water and in the
air, in the north most pollutants remain in a
permanent state because of the constant cold.
If the Manhattan foundered and spilt its huge
cargo of oil, experts state that an immense
area of the Arctic could turn into a biological
desert, with disastrous consequences to plant
life, wildlife and to the native people. The
garbage, pipes, oil drums and trash around
some of the settlements remain permanently
as unsightly litter. The abandoned messy
DEW line sites remain a sore sight across the
north. The pollutants dumped into the rivers,
all of which flow into the colder and frozenover waters of the north, decompose very
slowly, if at all, bringing destruction to the
marine life and the wildlife which is dependent on it.
It is obvious that Canada must not allow
this great northern frontier to become
damaged beyond repair. Industry must be
allowed to flourish, but the environment and
wildlife must also be conserved. A balance
must be struck between man and nature to
make the north a productive and happy land
to live in. Since nature is unchanging in this
vast region, it is man that must adapt himself
without destroying nature and yet make it
yield its great riches for the benefit of man.
The Northern Inland Waters Bill is
designed to prevent the disasters and harm of
environmental mismanagement that have
occurred in the civilized and industrialized
areas of other regions of Canada. Recognizing
that water is a precious national asset, the
bill, first of all, establishes that the fresh
water of the northern territories will be
vested in the Crown and will be managed by
the Government through the Department of
Indian Affairs and Northern Development and
the minister. Next, the bill provides that the
minister may dispense rights to use water to
all applicants who will be licensed on a priority basis, the top priority being given to
domestic use of water. The licensing system
provides for the control of water quality, thus
preventing or at least minimizing pollution.
The responsibility for the issuing of water
licences falls on the water boards, composed
of senior federal water conservation officials
in each territory and officials from the territorial governments, who jointly set water
standards.

SENATE DEBATES
As a whole, the bill puts water planning
and management in the context of overall
basic development. Prior to this time, this had
been done on a compartmentalized basis, one
dealing with water power, another being for
industrialized purposes, another for domestic
requirements, another for recreation, etc. This
total and multi-purpose approach to environmental management and protection means
that much more efficient use will be made of
our natural resources in the north for the
benefit of the citizens of those territories as
well as of Canada as a whole.
Since our north has an entirely different
environment and topography with an entirely
different climate than most Canadians have
experienced, it is essential that the management of this environment and resources be in
the hands of officials who will apply the
scientific approach. Provision will have to be
made to conduct intensive research on a
much larger scale than has been done up to
now, thus helping to prevent mistakes that
could prove to be very harmful. Such
research should be broad and careful, involving the best scientists, sociologists and other
experts. The consequences of every action in
the north must be thoroughly studied before
the speeding-up of exploration and development is allowed.
There are some shortcomings in this bill, as
pointed out by Senator Pearson and Senator
Grosart in the debate last week. Consequently, the bill will have to be considered in
committee.
What is more important is that Bill C-187and I would refer honourable senators to sections 5 and 6-is tied in with Bill C-144, the
proposed Canada Water Act, which is still
being considered by a committee of the other
house and which we hope will be coming to
us in the near future. Regardless of how
expeditious the Government wants to be, I
believe it would not be wise for the Senate to
pass this bill until it has studied Bill C-144.
I have no objection to referring Bill C-187
to committee, but I do object to its being
passed before consideration is given to Bill
C-144. I hope that the sponsor, Senator Hays,
and the Leader of the Government and
honourable members of the Senate will agree
that the bill before us should go to committee
and remain there to be studied together with
Bill C-144 after it comes to this chamber, and
that third reading be given to both bills at
the same time.
[Hon. Mr. Yuzyk.]

May 26, 1970

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
should like to make a few remarks on this
bill. I am sure we all agree that Senator Hays
has presented it in an admirable manner.
There was no equivocation in the statements
he made in introducing the bill, nor was there
any basis for the criticisms implied in the
speeches of Senator Pearson who spoke on
Tuesday last, Senator Grosart on Thursday,
and Senator Yuzyk, who has just spoken.
However, honourable senators, the points
raised in these speeches were of such a character that I think they call for some comment by the Government in this chamber.
Senator Grosart said that Bill C-187 would
be inoperative unless the Canada Water Bill
became law and was itself operative. Senator
Yuzyk has said that while the bill should be
sent to committee, it should not be passed
until the act upon which he alleges this bill
depends becomes law.
It is true that in Bill C-187, which we are
now discussing, there are five references to
the Canada Water Bill, C-144, but the explanation for that is not difficult to give. The
references in Bill C-187 provide that any conditions or regulations imposed under this bill
must be consistent with conditions and regulations imposed under the Canada Water Bill
now being discussed, as has been mentioned,
in the other place. But this is not to say that
the implementation of this legislation now
before us would be prevented frorn being
operative if the Canada Water Bill itself were
not to become law.
For example, under the bill we are now
discussing, either the Yukon Territories
Water Board or the Northwest Territories
Water Board may attach to any licence granted to use water, the conditions necessary to
protect the quality of the water. If the water
use occurs within a water quality area, within
the meaning of the act established under the
Canada Water Bill, these conditions attached
to a licence issued by either board must conform to the conditions or regulations established for that area by the proposed Canada
Water Act. This is admitted. However, in the
absence of a water quality management
authorized under the Canada Water Bill,
either because one had not been proclaimed
or because the Canada Water Bill itself had
not yet become law, the board could establish
under Bill C-187 certain conditions without
any reference whatsoever to the Canada
Water Bill.

May 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

I refer honourable senators to clause 10(2),
page 7 of Bill C-187. First, clause 10(1) on
page 6 of the bill says:
Where an applicant for a licence satisfies
the appropriate board that,Then subclause 2 on page 7, provides:
(2) A board may attach to any licence
issued by it any conditions that it considincluding conditions
ers appropriate
relating to the manner of use of waters
authorized to be used under the licence
and conditions based upon water quality
standards prescribed pursuant to paragraph (e) of section 26 relating to the
quantity and types of waste that may be
deposited in any waters by the licensee
and the conditions under which any such
waste may be so deposited.
In addition to this, honourable senator,
there are, as I have said, other references in
this bill to the Canada Water Bill. There are
five references which incorporate standards of
definitions, and these are also incorporated in
Bill C-187 now before us. For instance, clause
2.(1)(j) of this bill provides the definition of
"waste". It is not necessary for me to read out
that particular paragraph because it is there
for all honourable senators to read for themselves. But I suggest with much confidence
that the reference to the Canada Water Bill
here clearly does not mean that the definition
of "waste" in Bill C-187 depends upon the
Canada Water Bill being operative.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Would the honourable
Leader of the Government permit a question?
In referring to clause 2.(1)(j), would he not
agree that the definition would be deficient in
its totality if the Canada Water Bill were not
proclaimed, in view of the words in this bill:
-and without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, includes anything that, for
the purposes of the Canada Water Act, is
deemed to be waste;

Senator Grosart also suggested that the
numbering of the two bills-this one, which is
BiH C-187, and the Canada Water Bill C-144
-reflected a race for the headlines by competing ministers, ministers who were engaged in a
pattern of confusion, in a competition for
paramountcy. I think that is the kind of
expression he used, or words even more powerful and more picturesque. But the explanation of the situation is not very difficult to
elicit.
The reason we have this bill now before us
while the Canada Water Bill C-144 is still
before a committee of the other place, is that
that bill is a much more complex piece of
legislation than this one. Bill C-144 has had
25 committee hearings in the other place,
compared with three committee hearings on
this particular piece of legislation. Furthermore, Bill C-144, which is still before the
committee of the other place, has many federal-provincial aspects. And my honourable
friend Senator Grosart underlined the other
day the importance of federal-provincial cooperation. He said it was important that the
federal Government make sure that it did not
transgress the jurisdiction of the provinces,
and with that argument we are, of course, in
full accord.
There are many more federal-provincial
aspects to Bill C-144 than to the bill we are
now debating. Consequently, because there
are more federal-provincial aspects *to Bill
C-144, there is inevitably need for greater
consultation with the provinces. That too has
added to the protracted study being given in
the committee in the other place. However, it
must not be forgotten that where the water
act has general application over the whole
country, limited only by the constitutional
limitation on the Parliament of Canada, Bill
C-187 applies only to the Yukon Territory
and the Northwest Territories, where the
federal Government has exclusive, unlimited
jurisdiction.

Hon. Mr. Grosari: Would the honourable
Would he not agree that in the event that this Leader of the Government dilate a little on
bill becomes law before the Canada Water the expression "exclusive, unlimited jurisdicBill, the intent of Parliament to define tion," in view of the fact there are councils
with a degree of self-government in those
"waste" would be deficient?
territories?
Hon. Mr. Martin: I would not agree. The
Hon. Mr. Martin: Having said that "the
very language which Senator Grosart quotes, federal Government has exclusive jurisdic"and without limiting the generality of the tion," I agree that the word "unlimited" is
foregoing, includes anything that, for the pur- surplus. By saying "unlimited jurisdiction", I
poses of the Canada Water Act, is deemed to meant that there was no limit to its powers.
be waste", is, I think, the correct answer to
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Colonial powers.
what he has implied in his observation.

1098

SENATE DEBATES

May 26, 1970

Hon. Mr. Martin: I share Senator Grosart's
Senator Grosart later in his argument sugdislike for the word "colonial", but I do not gested that there was no definition of "inland
know how this has any application to the bill waters" in Bill C-187. It is true there is no
before us.
definition of the word "inland" in Bill C-187,
Senator Grosart also suggested that Bill but clause 2(l)(1) defines "waters" in the folC-187 was not discussed with the local lowing words:
authorities in the Yukon Territory or the
"waters" means waters in any river,
Northwest Territories. It is clear that the
stream, lake or other body of inland
Yukon Territory and the Northwest Territowater on the surface or underground in
ries do not have provincial jurisdiction.
the Yukon Territory and the Northwest
Territories.
Hon. Mr. Yuzyk: May I ask a question of
the honourable Leader of the Government? Is
So, clearly, it is difficult to conclude that
it not true also that the citizens of the Yukon "other body of inland water" means waters
and the Northwest Territories are aspiring to off the coast of either the mainland or islands.
provincial status, and therefore consideration
Then Senator Grosart asked whether the
should be given to the fact that they should bill gave the boards jurisdiction over the
be dealt with more or less in the same way as waters within the boundaries of the Yukon
the citizens of other provinces?
and the Northwest Territories, or the water
Hon. Mr. Martin: The fact is that they are merely on the continental land area. I think it
not provinces, although I am aware that some is clear from section 2(D)(1) that the water on
citizens understandably have that ambition. or under the islands off the coast is also
Of course, what the federal Government does included in the act, as those islands are part
in that regard is a matter of policy, which we of either the Yukon or the Northwest
Territories.
are not now discussing.
Then Senator Grosart, clearly enjoying his
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Why not?
exposition on what he called the Government's confusion and weaknessesHon. Mr. Martin: Because the Government
bas not declared its policy. First of all, that
Hon. Mr. Grosari: "Conflict and confusion".
matter is not before us. This bill does not
Hon. Mr. Martin: Well, the senator used a
seek to create a new province out of the
Yukon Territory or the Northwest Territories. series of adjectives to describe something that
As I was saying, Senator Grosart has com- clearly did not have much merit.
plained about the lack of consultation. The
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Nouns.
fact is that there was no basis for that arguHon. Mr. Martin: He said that the assistant
ment. It was a good argument to make, a
good debating point for an able debater to try deputy minister, during his testimony before
to throw across the chamber on a leisurely the Committee on Indian Affairs and NorthThursday afternoon, but that does not give it ern Development in the other place, stated
that the act applied to waters off the coast of
any justification or sanction.
either
the
Yukon or
the Northwest
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I am sure the Leader of Territories.
the Government wants to be fair, and would
I have looked at the statement of Mr. Digby
answer the question as to whether the basis Hunt, the then Acting
for my saying that was not a statement I ister, who said on page Assistant Deputy Min21 of Volume 8 of that
quoted from a member of the Yukon Council committee's proceedings:
by the name of Mr. Chamberlist.
However, I would agree that there are
Hon. Mr. Martin: The honourable senator's
these situations where there could be
onshore pollution of the Arctic Ocean
argument was not absolutely weak, but the
right adjacent to the shore. This bill was
fact is that the Government did consult
extensively with representatives of the Yukon
not specifically intended to apply in those
Territory and the Northwest Territories in
cases. That really is the reason why I
the preparation of this bill. Both the Deputy
would understand that the word "inland"
Commissioner of the Yukon Territory and the
is used. It is to make it quite clear that
Deputy Commissioner of the Northwest Terthis bill applies to inland waters. It is my
ritories were members of the group which
understanding that it would be the Arctic
prepared the legislation now before the
waters pollution bill that would cover
Senate.
this situation.
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

May 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

I have gone over the statement by Mr.
Hunt with the officials, and I am told that it is
a correct statement. When we come to another bill, C-202, we will find that it deals with
the prevention of pollution in offshore waters.
However, Senator Grosart was not through
with his argument. He further argued that a
board consisting only of civil servants could,
under Bill C-187, authorize diversionsHon. Mr. Grosart: Again, I am sure the
Leader of the Government does not want to
misinterpret what I said. I assure him that I
did not say it was a board composed entirely
of civil servants.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I stand corrected. Senator
Grosart is right. He did say that it is a board
composed very largely of civil servants who
could authorize the diversion of waters to the
south from the Northwest Territories or from
the Yukon Territory.
Let us examine that and see how much
validity there is to that argument. The terrn
"diversion" in the bill refers to the displacement of a quantity of water from a natural
water-course by pipe or ditch, for use in the
local watershed. It does not imply diversion
from one major drainage basin region to
another.
Honourable senators, even in the unlikely
event that the minister put on the word
"diversion" the interpretation suggested by
Senator Grosart, which I admit is a possible
interpretation, he would still be prevented
from exporting water by two other pieces of
legislation, namely, the Export of Power and
Fluids Act, and the International Rivers Improvement Act, both of which involve action
by the Governor in Council.
Furthermore, the minister, and not only the
board, would have to authorize a diversion.
Section 3(2) of the bill provides that diversions
are permitted only by licence in a water
management area, and a licence can only be
issued under section 10(1) with the approval
of the minister. Civil servants alone cannot
authorize these diversions; they are subject to
ministerial approval, and this ministerial approval in turn is governed by other existing
legislation. In addition, water management
areas are established under section 26(d) by
order in council. Therefore, the minister is
directly involved at two points in the control
process.
Senator Grosart went on to suggest that this
bill, initiated by the Department of Indian
Affairs and Northern Development, is not consistent with the overall responsibility of the
22481-20

1099

Departrnent of Energy, Mines and Resources
for federal jurisdiction over Canadian water,
and is evidence of a confusion among ministers. I do not see how Senator Grosart could
with justification draw that conclusion, any
more than he could argue, because the Ontario government or any other provincial government has jurisdiction under section 92 of
the British North America Act, that that
divided jurisdiction, creates confusion on the
part of the federal Government because it too
has jurisdiction in certain aspects of water
control.
It is made clear that the co-ordinating department for the federal Government is the
Department of Energy, Mines and Resources.
It has national responsibility for water
management which will be discharged by it
through the proposed Canada Water Act. The
Department of Indian Aff airs and Northern
Development has responsibility for water
management in the Yukon Territory and the
Northwest Territories. The proposed Canada
Water Act, which we wUll have before us one
of these days, provides a national framework
for water management, but it must be complemented by strong regional administrations,
just as is the case with the ten provinces in
relation to this matter alongside the federal
Government. This regional administration will
be provided in the Yukon Territory and the
Northwest Territories by the Northern Inland
Waters Act itself.
Finally, Senator Grosart suggested that
existing rights to the use of water will be
removed. I was too hasty in my interjection
on Thursday last when I said that the application of section 3 did not affect riparian
rights. I wish to modify what I said then to
this extent: It is true that the vesting of all
northern water in the Crown, which is provided for in section 3(l), effectively removes
existing rights, be they riparian or rights
under the Yukon Quartz Mining Act or the
Yukon Placer Mining Act. However, the comprehensive management approach to northern
waters, which is at the heart of this bill,
involves the granting of rights to the use of
water in a specified quantity and manner
only after the whole range of present and
anticipated alternative uses have been considered. This approach, I believe, is incompatible with the Yukon Quartz Mining Act and
the Yukon Placer Mining Act, which deal
with water for mining use only, and which
do not provide for water quality control at
all.

SENATE DEBATES

May 26, 1970

Honourable senators, this bill, as Senator
Hays pointed out when he presented it, provides for the conservation, development and
utilization of the water resources of the Yukon
Territory and the Northwest Territories in a
manner that will provide optimum benefit for
all Canadians, and for the residents of these
two areas, the Yukon Territory and the
Northwest Territories, in particular.
I believe that this bill does not in any way
portray confusion. It does not show any lack
of authority on the part of the federal Government. On the other hand, it represents,
perhaps, a strong indication that the Government through this measure and other measures in co-operation with the provinces, and
in co-operation with the Yukon Territory
and the Northwest Territories, is taking
measures which can lead to a solution to one
of the burning problems facing the people of
the country today.
I believe that when the bill gets to a committee-and we shall certainly propose that it
be sent to a committee-Senator Grosart and
other honourable senators may project their
analytical minds further into this measure
to make sure that it has the soundness which
we on this side contend it possesses. I think
that they will find, after careful consideration,
that this bill stands on its own feet, and that
we need not wait for the passage in the other
place of the Canada Water bill before rendering this bill operative.
In any event, that is the argument I submit.
I am sure that Senator Grosart and others
will pursue their views in the committee.

This bill goes a short step along the way
towards taking control of the environment and
bringing it within the rational control of
logical, intelligent and informed men, as far
as their logic and technical knowledge makes
it possible for them to control the environment.
It was not so long ago that this country
was covered by an icecap. Someone has estimated it as being as recent as 4,000 years.
The more acceptable level is 7,000 to 8,000
years. Some think it is beyond that, but the
more that is discovered regarding the last
ice age particularly in North America, the
loser it comes to us. There have been a
great many theories as to why we have these
successive ice ages in mankind's history. I do
not propose to bore you with them, because
I am not sure we understand them.

of whether the quasi-provincial rights, which
ought to belong to the Councils of the Northwest Territories and the Yukon Territory,
have been observed, because those rights can
also always be transferred to them. It seems
to me that we must be interested in the fact
that the unrestricted greed of man may be
creating the destruction of our environment
to the point where man himself will not live
to see the twenty-second century, although
he may live into the twenty-first century.

Hon. Mr. Prowse: The trouble is that my
honourable friend is too impatient. I was
about to tell him what I was discussing,
which I thought he knew. It is the Northern
Inland Waters Act with regard to the Northwest Territories. The water of the Northwest
Territories is not something that can be taken
by itself. So, if my honourable friend will
bear with me, anything that is involved in
the amount of water in the Northwest Territories is part of what we are discussing now.

Hon. Mr. Choquette: We do.
Hon. Mr. Prowse: However, I will tell you
something of interest as far as northern
waters are concerned. It is a fact that because
of our use of carbohydrates as a means of
power and heat we have been expelling increasing amounts of carbon dioxide into the
atmosphere which, by virtue of the greenhouse effect, admits the heat frorn radiation
and absorbs it. There has been a slowly developing increase in the mean temperature of
the earth. If this seems at the moment to be
a matter of no great concern to anyone who
is interested in northern waters, perhaps this
figure will help you to bring it into focus.

Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): I am
Hon. Harry Hays: Honourable senators, I sorry te interrupt my honourable friend, but
moveI would like the honourable gentleman to
Hon. J. Harper Prowse: Honourable sena- state the topic we are discussing.
tors, I apologize to my honourable colleague
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Anything.
for taking him by surprise, but this is too
important a bill to be allowed to go quietly
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): No,
through this house, even on second reading, not anything! The honourable gentleman is
without consideration being given to some of discussing something, but I would like to
the things that are involved, and which I
submit are more important than the question know what that something is.

[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

May 26, 1970

May 26 1970SENATE
DEBATES

If carbon dioxide seems to hinm a littie rernate
from that, let me read the following:
It is scarceiy necessary ta remind
people of what a few feet rise in the
sea 1evei (let alone the ultimate 200 feet
which xvould follow the complete liquidation of the Iand-held icecaps), wouid do
ta aur geography.
Then I have ta relate that fact ta the fact
that slowiy the line is receding and as it
recedes the permafrost is meiting. This then
relates ta other legisiation we have, but
this is as good a time as any ta discuss it.
As the permafrost meits it maises the level
of the acean, which increases the generai
warming. If a three-degree warrning accurs
the icecaps wili campietely disappear and the
water level of the aceans will rise abaut
200 feet. I do flot think that would put Ottawa
carnpletely under water, but it would cause
a problem in Montreai and New York. We
cannot do anything about that. The point is
that we rnust take charge of aur environmient.
Within 50 years aur unrestrained practice
af pauring aur carbohydrates inta the atmasphere, with the development af the supersonic
planes flying at very high leveis with their
contrails whîch will refleet these, could set
us into the beginning af a fourth ice age. I
ar n ot exaggerating, nor arn I saying anything that has flot been said by a great
many people who are aware of the scientific
effects of the great carelessness and indifferenceHon. Mr. Sullivan: Would the hanourable
senatar please quote one authority who has
made that statement?
Hon. Mr. Prowse: Yes sir-Ritchie Caider,
author of Man and the Cosmos. You as weii
as I may abtain it from the iibrary. He is a
famaus authar on scientiflc matters. I do
not think hie knows much about appendixes,
or how ta fix eye giasses, but he knows about
what needs ta be dane with the earth.

into claud caver, water and everything. The
water in the Northwest Territories, which we
are discussing, realiy is a very srnail arnaunt
of the worid's water. In spite ai ail the rivers
that flow and everything else, ail the fresh
water in the world in ail the lakes and rivers
is just about 62/100 ai one per cent af the
warld's water. The water that is available is
important in the return af the carbon dioxide.
Hawever, it wauld take about a thousand
years before the oceans could absarb the
amaunt of carbon diaxide we are discharging
today.
It is true that this act would not do anything with it, but it is tied in with anather
net which relates ta the general contrai of
the surface of the Northwest Territories. It is
imperative that we should flot interiere with
the naturaily developed dispositions ai the
water there. We should wherever possible endeavour ta prevent anything happening that
wouid increase the rate at which the water
iocked up by ice and frozen in the permafrost
would meit and drain inta the aceans. This
again would change and raise them quickiy.
Therefore, instead of discussing samething
in the very dirn and distant future, I arn
speaking af a passibility that cauld affect the
lives of people living today. Involved in this
piece af legisiation, is the contrai and management of aur environment and an understanding af aur respansibilties ta the people
living today and those who corne after us.
This bill shauld go ta committee, where we
shauld question witnesses, and then try ta
relate it ta the pattern of bis, and if the
pattern does not complete itself ta give mankind the protection ta which he is entitied, it
is surely aur respansibility ta see that the
circie is cornpleted and protection is provided.

Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): I rise
ta congratulate the honourable senator an the
conclusion of his remarks, which in my
opinion do not; accord with sarne af the eariier
parts ai his speech, during which I rase to
rnake sorne objection. Hawever, an the bonHon. Mr. Fournier <De Lanaudière): Is that ourable senator's last passages I think hie deevidence corning from experience or fram a serves ta be congratulated.
theory?
Motion agreed ta and bill read secand time.
Han. Mr. Prowse: Weil, they had a theory
as ta what effect af heat would be on the
1REFERRED TO COMVMI¶TEE
development or change in the carbon dioxide.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Hanourable
When they carried out checks after a number
af years they found that the increase in the senators, when shail this bill be read the third
mean temperature of the earth caincided pre- time?
cisely with projections that had been made,
Han. Mr. Hays: Honourable senators, with
based an what the effects wauld be. It goes leave ai the Senate and natwithstanding Rule
22481-20à

1102

SENATE DEBATES

May 26, 1970

67(1) (j) I move that Bill C-187 be referred the commission is created it will not be selfto the Standing Senate Committee on Health, starting; there is no automatic starting equipment within the commission itself. The authorWelfare and Science.
ity to the commission depends upon its forMotion agreed to.
mulation of proposals, which proposals may
come from almost anywhere. They may come
from any organization or person in Canada.
LAW REFORM COMMISSION BILL
The commission, in initiating proposals itself,
SECOND READING-DEBATE CONTINUED
which is as far as it can go, may conduct
studies and research, and make sure of faciliThe Senate resumed from Thursday, May ties for that purpose. Before the proposals can
21, the adjourned debate on the motion of be acted upon, they must be submitted to the
Hon. Mr. Martin, for the second reading of Minister of Justice, and they cannot be proBill C-186, to establish a commission for the ceeded with without his approval. In addition
reform of the laws of Canada.
to that, the Minister of Justice himself may
sena- refer particular matters to the commission,
Hon. Salter A. Hayden: Honourable
tors, it may seem far removed from the in- and in the event that he does and indicates a
teresting discussion we have just had to talk need for early consideration; he can claim a
about such a subject as the creation of a Law priority, in which event the commission must
Reform Commission, although truthfully it is give prior consideration to what the minister
the first time in my experience that I have has referred, as against any other study being
seen so much enthusiasm and repartee gen- carried on.
erated on a subject as uninteresting as water
In the course of carrying out its inquiry
in its ordinary identification. As a supplement into proposals, which are either put forward
to other fluids, which might even make me by itself or sent to it by the minister, the
say thank God for the ice-age, about which commission may, in the course of arriving at
the honourable Senator Prowse spoke, I would recommendations, conduct hearings. So, there
not expect that there could be so much stimu- is the widest scope once it is in operation.
lation. So tonight, except for the water I have
My concern when I first read the bill was as
in my glass, I have to generate whatever to how we were going to harmonize what apinspiration there is in the bill about which I peared to be the function of the commission
will speak.
with the right of the Government to formulate
This is an interesting and important bill, policy. After carefully reading the powers and
although the title does not necessarily suggest duties of the commission, it occurred to me
that. "Law Reform Commission" seems a trite that the stipulation that the proposals initiated
sort of title. Certainly the title does not fol- by the commission must be approved by the
low the prevailing style used nowadays by minister before they were proceeded with proadvertisers, who put everything that is in- vided the necessary check rein, so that the
teresting in the title. Whether the thing that commission will not enter the field of making
bears the title is read afterwards or has any pronouncements on policy. I have in this
relationship to it, becomes unimportant; the chamber stated many times my view in that
purpose has been accomplished by attracting respect. I think policy should emanate from
attention by the title.
the Government, and that is where responsiMay I start by telling honourable senators bility lies for whatever policy may be desomething of what is known about this bill. cided upon. This is taken care of in the form
There have been two very interesting and in- of this bill.
formative speeches on it already. The purpose
I may say, too, that this bill agrees suband justification of the bill is to set up a com- stantially in form with the law reform bill
mission, which will be charged with the duty which came into force in the United Kingdom
and function of keeping under review the in 1965. There are law reform acts and comstatutes and other laws of Canada. This, I take missions in many other jurisdictions, such as
it, would include rules and departmental regu- Ontario, and I believe Saskatchewan and
lations, and of necessity would also involve Alberta, as well as in Scotland, Wales, New
the study of decisions by the courts and mat- Zealand and many states in the United States.
ters of interpretation.
According to paragraph (b) of section 11
This bill is proposed with a view to recom- of the bill, the commission is to make recommending improvements, modernization and re- mendations in connection with the removal
form. However, I should point out that when of anachronisms and anomalies in the Cana[Hon. Mr. Hays.]

May 26, 1970

DEBATES
May 26 1970SENATE

dian law. In my view, that i itself might
not be enough justification to set up a commission and give it ail the authority that
is given under this bill, and incur the expenditures necessary to keep it operating.
Paragraph (b) is very important. The comnmission is to refiect in and by the law, as
it says, "without limiting the generality of
the f oregoing."
The commission has the power to study
and keep under continuous review the laws
o! Canada and make recommendations based
on a refiection in and by the law of the distinctive concepts and institutions o! the common law and civil law legal systems in Canada, and then recommend with respect to
the elimination of obsolete laws. I would
say that that in itself, even coupled with
the provisions as to anachronismns and anomalies, would not be enough. I would say that
the concept of studying and seeking some
correlation between the common law and the
civil law is a very important duty and function in a country such as ours. You find this
same provision incorporated in law reform
acts in other countries where they have this
duality in legal systemns.
I consider paragraph (d) of section il to
be very important. It deals with:
the development of new approaches to
and new concepts of the law in keepîng
with and responsive to the changing
needs o! modemn Canadian society and
o! individual members o! that society.

a useful function in our society, and it fits
very well under paragraph (d) of section il
which I read just a few moments ago.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Would Senator Hayden
give us the reference, so that we might look
it up?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: It is an address entitled,
"Law Reform-The Ontario Odyssey", and it
was made some time ago by Professor Leal.
Perhaps Senator Haig is familiar with it. I
believe that Professor Leal was formerly attached to the Faculty of Law at the University of Manitoba.
Hon. Mr. Haig: No. He was organizer of the
Law Reform Commission of Ontario. I have
the reference in my file, which I have loaned
to another member of this Chamber.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I have a copy of what
he said, but I was just identifying it.
Hon. Mr. Haig: He made many reports to
the Canadian Bar Association and the Manitoba Bar Association. Saskatchewan does not
have a Law Reform Commission yet, but
Ontario and Alberta have. Manitoba is in the
process of establlshing one.
Han. Mr. Hayden: 1 quoted from an address
he made to the Faculty of Law at the University of Manitoba on November 27, 1967.
Han. Mr. Haig: That was when the Manitoba Bar, in co-operation with the Manitoba
section of the Canadian Bar Association was
attempting to establish a law reform. commission for Manitoba.

This is the real function and purpose of
this cormmission. The only way i which you
can deal with this particular object is by
Hon. Mr. Martin: Thank you.
having a permanent body or institution that
is working continuously and is assured of a
Han. Mr. Hayden: Further on in his speech
permanency i its operations s0 that it may he spoke about the permanency feature of
have these situations constantly under review. the law reform institution and why it is so,
Professor H. Allan Leal, the well-known necessary. He said:
It has been said that law reform is not
Osgoode Hall professor, in a speech he made
something to be indulged in on an ocon law reform, in Ontario, succinctly stated
casional free afternoon. It requires conthe purpose of such a body as follows:
stant and singular care. As a general proWhat is new in our generation is that
position it requires a permanent fuil-time
the tempo of social and economic change
body of experienced personnel for initiais such that only full-tinie agencies are
tion and execution of its program. This,
competent for the task of keeping our
then, is the origin of permanent law relaws and legal institutions under conform commissions that are growing Up
tinuous review and of making recomaround the world in jurisdictions both of
mendations for remedial legisiation where
the civil and the common law.
they are 'no longer adequate for our
needs and purposes.
1 mentioned, as he does, a number of jurisThat states very concisely the concept of a dictions in which there are law reform comlaw reform commission which is to perform missions, some of which have been in exist-

1104

SENATE DEBATES

ence for a very long time. They have existed
in the United Kingdom since 1965: He says:
I do not mean to convey that law reform
either is or ever will be a prerogative of
the permanent law reform commission.

May 26, 1970

parliamentary committee and it was very
revealing. It was well conducted and it did
a good job.
I remember a special committee of this
house which, at the instigation of the late
Senator Campbell, was set up in 1946 to study
I would expect this qualification. He con- income tax law. Out of
that study, which
tinues:
lasted for a couple of years, emerged the new
Experience has shown that much has Income Tax Act of 1949.
been done in the past and remains to be
Hon. Mr. Aseliine: And the revision of the
done in the future by interdepartmental
personnel, by royal commissions, by se- Criminal Code as well, I believe.
lect committees of the legislature and by
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I was going to mention
individuals.
the Criminal Code, yes. That took a slightly
It is on that point that I want to say a few different course. In 1952 there was a royal
words. The philosophy of law reform is the commission appointed by the government of
power that is set up for the initiation of pro- the day to study the Criminal Code. It had
heard evidence from the various institutions
grams in relation to the laws of a countryand here it is the laws of Canada-for the and organizations across Canada and it had
purpose of improving or modernizing or prepared a draft bill, following which a
reforming those laws in well defined areas. report was tabled.
But, under this bill the fundamental authority
Hon. Mr. Martin: That was under the dirrests, as in my view it must rest, in the
ection of Mr. Sedgwick, was it not?
Government. You cannot argue that because
a law reform commission is set up that this
Hon. Mr. Hayden: No. The chairman of the
makes unnecessary royal commissions and royal commission was Chief Justice Martin,
joint committees of both Houses of Parlia- who was chief of the Supreme Court in
ment, or committees of either house studying Saskatchewan. Mr. Sedgwick, who is still
particular measures which fit into the con- practising law in Toronto, was one of the
cept of the duties ascribed to this commission. members of the commission.
I can recall a committee of the House of
After the report was tabled in the Senate
Commons which was set up in 1940. That may a bill was introduced in the Senate for a new
be taking some of you back a long time, but Criminal Code. That was referred to comI was actually here then. The Unemployment mittee, and by remarkable coincidence the
Insurance Bill was introduced in 1940 and study of the new Criminal Code went to the
the Prime Minister felt it was urgent that the Senate's Standing Committee on Banking and
bill be studied and the public be heard and Commerce. We completed and filed our rethat it should pass into law in 1940. As it port, but it was not proceeded with further
turned out, it was a very good viewpoint, that year because it was late in the session.
because the fund got built up to a tremendous
The following year a new bill was prepared,
amount during a period when there was a incorporating most of the amendments our
lot of money on the go. A committee of the committee had suggested. It was introduced
House of Commons conducted many sittings in the Commons in 1953-1954. The bill came
and heard evidence from businesses from all back to the Senate and again went to the
over Canada. The Senate, wanting to co- Standing Committee on Banking and Comoperate with the wishes of the Prime Minister, merce, and again many more changes were
designated one senator who at the invitation made. The final outcome was that the House
of the committee, attended the hearings and of Commons accepted all the amendments
behaved in every way as though he were a made by the Senate and the bill was passed
member of the committee except he could not into law.
vote.
What I have said illustrates a different type
I do not know whether I was the one who of approach, where you have the combination
was considered to have free time, or what of the functions of a royal commission with
the real reason was, because I certainly did the very responsible functions of committees
not have free time, but at any rate I was of both Houses of Parliament.
designated and I sat through that entire
So the most you can say about a law reform
hearing. It was my first experience with a commission is that it has a definite place be[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

May 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

cause of its permanency and because of its
non-political aspect; but it is not a substitute
for a royal commission procedure, nor is it a
substitute for committees of the Houses of
Parliament, sitting separately or jointly.
Speaking of joint committees, where wellneeded law reforms develop, there was, for
instance, the joint committee that sat a few
years ago on the question of divorce. There
have been many other joint committees as
well. But the difference in approach appears
to me to be that law reform in the areas
covered by this bill-on improving, modernizing and reforming existing law-may get
started more quickly because in many instances it is only when a problem occurs or a
situation develops that the public suddenly
realizes that we have that kind of provision
in our law and it has been nestling there for
many years. At that time it is brought into
the open and then there are committees of
Parliament to deal with it and to introduce
changes.
Hon. Mr. Martin: To wit, section 4 of the
Statute of Frauds.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: But the purpose of the
law reform commission is to coordinate and
to study the existing laws, and then to make
proposals to the Government for their approval.
Today we have a vast complexity of laws;
we have a multiplication of laws. Every time
a person is hurt by something that happens,
he immediately says there ought to be a law
against it. You would be surprised at the
number of laws that spring from that kind
of beginning. All you have to do is study the
history of the provincial legislatures to see
the number of laws dealing with special
aspects of business relationships and personal
relationships and to see how such relationships get reflected into law.
The next step is that the administrators
gather most of the authority unto themselves,
and you find them really legislating. But that
is a subject matter about which I have spoken
before and I will not repeat myself.
There is such complexity in the business
world today that society is far more sophisticated at one end--or maybe down to the middle. But there is a large section of our population that is naïve in the sense that the
people are not educated on the wiles and
powers of advertising and the pictured and
spoken word. The result is that there is a
great deal of deception practised. That is

what brought about all the disclosure provisions in our security laws, for instance.
It could well be, and often happens, that
when you have laws inspired by reason of
circumstances of that kind, the laws become
extreme.
Now, the function of this commission when
it is set up will be to deal with existing laws
which have reached the stage of being too
extreme, too unfair. It may be that in the
climate in which we live we need to update and to modernize our provisions governing business and personal relationships.
For instance, you find the federal authority
creating new crimes in much of the legislation of preceding years, and I hardly need
to call your attention to examples. A practice that for generations has not been a
criminal offence can by enactment become
a criminal offence. In fact, that does happen.
For instance, when we were arguing the
Oleomargarine case in the Supreme Court of
Canada we were dealing with a law passed
in 1885. One of the arguments put forward
by the Department of Justice was that this
was an area of criminal law because it dealt
with the health of the subject. It was not
very difficult to demolish that argument
when one was able to point out that from
1918 to 1924, notwithstanding the federal
statute that had existed since 1885, the
Parliament of Canada had passed a new
statute each year in those six years by
which the Parliament had suspended the
operation of that statute of 1885. It was very
simple to point out to the court that one had
to make one of two conclusions: either that
there had been this change and it was no
longer a deleterious product, or that the assumption had to be made that the Parliament
of Canada was deliberately foisting on the
people of Canada a deleterious article of
food. In the Privy Council, when the representative of the Crown made that argument,
the answer of the Lord Chancellor presiding was simply that, "That cock won't fight
for you." Parliament had permitted the
public of Canada to use the product and had
suspended the law and unless the Crown had
something new to add, then what the recital
of 1885 had to say had no application at
that time.
So there is still an area to be served by the
royal commission just as, in my opinion,
there is an area that must be served by committees of Parliament, including in some instances joint committees. Frankly, however,

1106

SENATE DEBATES

I do not lean very much towards joint committees, although many people seem to, because I believe they have their limitations.
Conflicts may develop either between houses
or between parties. Moreover, sometimes the
members of the committees become more
concerned with developing the things that
are good for the view they have than they
do about developing things that are good for
the problem they are considering.
All this adds up to the conclusion which I
would like to place before you. I think the
public should be made to realize that this is
really a worthwhile and positive step in the
direction of trying to give some assurances
that whatever is obsolete in the law and
wherever there are anomalies and unfairnesses, these are going to be studied, and members of the public and organizations can start
studying them and submit proposals in writing through the commission. But of course the
Minister has to approve them.
What I am really pointing out, honourable
senators, is that the commission is not selfstarting and therefore the public will have to
participate. I suppose in this sense it may be
considered participatory democracy.
I commend the bill most highly, and I am
sure all honourable senators approve of it as
a forward step.
Hon. Mr. Haig: Honourable senators, in
congratulating Senator Hayden on his approach to this problem, may I address a question to him? Would he agree that if and when
this commission is established, it should be
entirely independent of government, whether
provincial or federal?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Yes, with the limitation
only that I have already made, that in order
to avoid confiict between the concept of a
policy which the Government has, I would
not give the commission authority to take
steps which would constitute the generation
of policy.
Hon. Mr. Haig: I accept that answer, but
what I am trying to say is this. If this commission is established, there must be some
money provided by the Government, whether
provincial or federal, by the law societies or
by the profession itself. Now, this should be
independent and not directed by the federal
or provincial governments.

May 26, 1970

lose much of its usefulness, because there
would be bound to be conflict between a body
set up so completely independent of government that it could fly in the face of government policy. I think you would be building a
monster in the political and public life of
Canada if you were to create that kind of
commission.
Hon. M. Aseltine: You would not establish
it along the lines suggested by Senator Haig.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Honourable senators, I should like to know exactly what the honourable gentleman who just
put the question to honourable Senator Hayden means by "completely independent of
Government". In my humble opinion, the
Government is on the one hand the political
party ruling the nation, and on the other
hand the Opposition. Both of them belong to
the Government, and the honourable gentleman sitting in the Opposition belongs to the
Government of the nation just as I do. So,
when be says "completely independent of
Government", I would like to know who be
includes in that?
Hon. Mr. Carter: Honourable senators, I
move the adjournment of the debate.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Before
the adjournment, I would point out that I
have put a question to honourable Senator
Haig.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: I am quite
sure the honourable Senator Fournier (De
Lanaudière) knows very well that a member
of the Senate is free to answer or not to
answer when a question is put to him. So, if
honourable Senator Haig does not answer the
question, it is because be does not wish to
answer it. If be should choose to answer it,
be is completely free to do so now, and he
is equally free to choose not to answer.
Hon. Mr. Holleti: Could I ask the honourable Senator Hayden if in his opinion that
commission will have the power or authority
to recommend the abolition of redundant
laws?

Hon. Mr. Hayden: My friend has raised a
question which I intended to deal with when
making my remarks. Therefore, honourable
senators, may I conclude saying what I had
Hon. Mr. Hayden: My friend has asked me intended to say while dealing with this queswhat I think about this. I would not agree with tion? I think one of the great means we have
his concept. I think the commission might in Canada today for dealing with human
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

May 26, 1970

DEBATES
May 29 1970SENATE

rights and fundamental freedoms is the Bull
of Rights, and it has only corne to be recognized for the force and power that is inherent in it in the last f ew years as a resuit of
some pronouncements from the Supreme
Court of Canada. The public have a great
source of protection in the area of human
riglits and fundamental freedoms under the
provisions of that Bill.
Now the question of what is redundant does
not enter into that. "Redundant", as my friend
is twitting me, is a word I used in relation
to the hate literature bill which was before
us some time ago. I said then that there were
provisions in the law at the present time
which could be applied to the situations covered by that bill, and therefore it was redundant to repeat them. But if the hate literature
bill should become law and if this commission is established, then my friend as a person and as a member of the public could
write ta the commission and raise this question in relation to the hate literature bill.
For that matter, lie could even formulate a
proposai in its regard, subi ect, of course, to
getting the approval of the minister to submit it to the commission.
Han. Mr. Faurnier (De Lanaudière): Honourable senators, I rise on a question of priv-

ilege. A moment ago the honourable Senator Hollett put a question to honourable
Senator Hayden and received an answer. But
before that I put a question ta honourable
Senator Haig and I amn stiil waiting for the
answer. I would like to know the answer
today, and then someone will adjourn the
debate on the answer.
Han. Mr. Hayden: Mr. Speaker, may I point
out that the only person who can be asked
questions at this time is the person who has
been speaking. As Senator Haig was not
speaking, ail questions wouid have ta be
addressed to me.
Han. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): I arn
sorry, but I stiil did not get the answer.

The

Hon.

the Speaker

pro

tem: That,

honourable senators, is my view.

On motion of Hon. Mr. Carter debate adjourned.

RULES
TIME 0F AFTERNOON SITTING-REPORT
0F COMMITTEE ADOPTED
The Senate proceeded to consideration of

the report of the Standing Committee on
Standing Rules and Orders which was presented on Thursday, May 21.
Han. Hartiand de M. Maison moved that the
report be adopted.
Motion agreed ta.
CONSTITUTION 0F CANADA
SECOND REPORT 0F SPECIAL JOINT
COMMITTEE ADOPTED
The Senate proceeded ta consideration of

the second report of the Special Joint Committee of the Senate and the House of Cammons on the Constitution of Canada, which
was presented Thursday, May 21.
Hon. Maurice Lamnnagne moved that the

report be adopted.
Han. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, bef ore this report is adopted, may I ask Senator
Lamontagne when the next meeting of this
joint committee is ta be?
Han. Mr. Lamontagne: On Thursday next.
I understand it will be the first public meeting of the joint committee.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Thank you.
Motion agreed ta.
HON. LÉOPOLD LANGLOIS
FELICITATIONS

ON RETURN TO CHAMBER,

Han. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
The Han. the Speaker pro tem: That is before I move the adjournment of the house
exactiy what I have said. Senator Haig is I shauld like ta say what I meant ta say at
completely free ta, answer or not to answer the beginning of aur sitting, that we are
happy ta see Senator Langlois amang us
as lie chooses.
again.
Han. Mr. Aseltine: I do not think lie can
Hon. Senalars: Hear, hear.
answer because he is flot the speaker. The
only person who can answer any questions is
Han. Mr. Martin: in saying that, I should
honourable Senator Hayden because lie was like ta warn honourable senatars wha are
mudli yaunger than Senatar Langlois thnt it
on his feet.

SENATE DEBATES
Is flot wise for men of a certain age to use
the Ski-Doo.

May 26, 1970

However, allow me to point out to Senator
Martin that the accident was not in my case a

[Translation]
Hon. Léopold Langlois: Honourable sena- [English]
tors, I would like to thank the Leader of
Hon. Mr'. Martin: With those rather forthe Government for his words of welcome as bidding words, I move the adjournment of
well as ail the honourable senators who were the Senate.
kind enough to send me their wishes for an
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at
early recovery. I would also like to say how
2 p.m.
pleasçd I arn to be back.

SENATE DEBATES

May 27, 1970

THE SENATE
Wednesday, May 27, 1970

1109

from the House of Commons with Bill C-62,
respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.
Bill read first time.

Hon. Donald Smith, for Hon. Mr. Grosart,
The Senate met at 2 p.m., Honourable
Maurice Bourget, P.C., Speaker pro tem, in moved that the bill be placed on the Orders
the Chair.
of the Day for second reading on Tuesday
next.
Prayers.
Motion agreed to.
THE SENATE
SIMULTANEOUS INTERPRErATON-INSTALLATION OF CLOSED-CIRCUIT TELEVISION
CAMERA-STATEMENT

BILL C-75 (SARNIA)-FIRST

READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
Senate that a message had been received
from the House of Commons with Bill C-75,
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustsenators, before proceeding with the agenda ment Act.
this afternoon, I wish to report briefly on the
Bill read first time.
incident that occurred last evening.
Hon. Mr. Smith moved that the bill be
First, I should like to thank the honourable
Senator Molson for having raised a matter placed on the Orders of the Day for second
that has to do with the very important ques- reading on Tuesday next.
Motion agreed to.
tion of privilege of the Senate.
This morning I discussed the question with
His Honour the Speaker and officials of the
BILL C-130 (BURNABY-RICHMOND)-FIRST
Senate, and I was told that the television
READING
camera was installed in the gallery last evenThe Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed
ing on an experimental basis. It was supposed
to have been removed from the gallery before the Senate that a message had been received
the evening sitting commenced, but unfortu- from the House of Commons with Bill C-130,
nately those responsible for it did not do so. respecting the Electoral Boundaries ReadjustThat is the reason the instrument was still ment Act.
Bill read first time.
there at sitting time.
I must add also that no permission was
Hon. Mr. Smith moved that the bill be
given for the specific purpose of installing placed on the Orders of the Day for second
that instrument last evening, but instructions reading on Tuesday next.
had been given that a study or experiment be
Motion agreed to.
made to discover a way of improving our
interpretations system. This incident is most
BILL C-153 (GLENGARRY-PRESCOTT)-FIRST
regrettable, and I am quite sure it will not
READING
recur in the future.
Before concluding my statement I should
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
like to suggest that this whole question of Senate that a Message had been received
interpretations which is now under study be from the House of Commons with Bill C-153,
referred to the Committee on Internal Econo- respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustmy and Contingent Accounts, which could ment Act.
study the matter and in due course make a
Bill read first time.
report to the Senate.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT ACT

Hon. Mr. Smith, for Hon. Mr. Denis, moved
that the bill be placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading on Tuesday next.
Motion agreed to.

BILL C-62 (PERTH)-FIRST READING

BILL C-162 (MISSISQUOI)-FIRST READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
Senate that a message had been received

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
Senate that a message had been received

1110

SENATE DEBATES

from the House of Commons with Bill C-162,
respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.
Bill read first time.

May 27, 1970

from the House of Commons with Bill C-213,
respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.
Bill read first time.

Hon. Mr. Smith, for Hon. Mr. Stanbury,
Hon. Mr. Smith, for Hon. Mr. Denis, moved
that the bill be placed on the Orders of the moved that the bill be placed on the Orders
of the Day for second reading on Tuesday
Day for second reading on Tuesday next.
next.
Motion agreed to.
Motion agreed to.
BILL C-168 (WELLINGTON-GREY)-FIRST
READING

LAW REFORM COMMISSION BILL
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
SECOND READING-DEBATE CONTINUED
Senate that a message had been received
The Senate resumed from yesterday the
from the House of Commons with Bill C-168,
respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjust- adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mr.
Martin, for the second reading of Bill C-186,
ment Act.
to establish a commission for the reform of
Bill read first time.
the laws of Canada.
Hon. Mr. Smith, for Hon. Mr. Grosart,
Hon. Chesley W. Carter: Honourable senamoved that the bill be placed on the Orders
tors, Bill C-186, which has been ably introof the Day for second reading on Tuesday
duced by the Government Leader, is relativenext.
ly simple. It merely seeks to set up a
Motion agreed to.
commission for a specific purpose. That purpose is described in section 11, and for the

benefit of Hansard readers I quote as follows:
The objects of the commission are to
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
study and keep under review on a conSenate that a message had been received
tinuing and systematie basis the Statutes
BILL C-177

(MAISONNEUVE) -FIRST

READING

from the House of Commons with Bill C-177,
respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.

Bill read first time.
Hon. J. Eugène Lefrançois moved that the
bill be placed on the Orders of the Day for
second reading on Tuesday next.
Motion agreed to.
BILL C-178 (ARGENTEUIL) -FIRST

READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
Senate that a message had been received from
the House of Commons with Bill C-178,
respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.
Bill read first time.

Hon. Mr. Smith moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for second
reading on Tuesday next.
Motion agreed to.
BILL C-213 (LANARK AND RENFREW)-FIRST
READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
Senate that a message had been received
[The Hon. the Speaker.]

and other laws comprising the laws of

Canada with a view to making recommendations for their improvement, mod-

ernization and reform including without
limiting the generality of the foregoing,
(a) the removal of anachronisms and
anomalies in the law;

(b) the reflection in and by the law of
distinctive concepts and institutions of
the Common Law and Civil Law legal
systems in Canada, and the reconciliation
of differences and discrepancies in the
expression and application of the law
arising out of differences in those concepts and institutions;
(c)

the elimination of obsolete laws;

and
(d) the development of new approaches
to and new concepts of the law in keeping with and responsive to the changing

needs of modern Canadian society and of
individual members of that society.
Because this is a very special job, the commissioners must have special qualifications,
and these are set forth in section 3.
Since the commission is to be a permanent
body, sections 3 and 4 provide for full-time

May 27, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

and part-time members who are to be
changed periodically.
Sections 12 to 18 outline the duties and
powers of the commission and set forth some
guidelines as to the manner in which they are
to approach their task, and defines the relationships between the commission, on the one
hand, and the Attorney-General of Canada,
the Cabinet, Parliament and other bodies, on
the other.
The remainder of the bill deals mainly with
housekeeping.
In his excellent presentation, Senator
Martin pointed out that this was not an innovation. Similar commissions already exist in
Canada, in the provinces of Ontario, Alberta
and British Columbia; in England, Scotland
and Wales; in the states of New York and
California in the United States; and in the
State of New South Wales, Australia.
However, when the minister introduced this
bill in the Commons on February 23 last, he
pointed out that this is the first time that
there will exist in the legal world a law commission relating to federal laws of a federal
state.
Later on, referring to the two legal systems
we have in Canada-that is, the Common
Law and the Civil Code-he stated that one
of the tasks with which the commission
would be charged would be to incorporate
both these legal systems into a federal legisiative system so that Canada's federal legislative system would be not only bilingual, as it
is now, but bi-jural as well. Therefore, in
those two respects it seems that Bill C-186 is
actually breaking new ground. However,
when we consider that New York State set up
a law reform commission as early as 1934 and
New Zealand in 1937, the slowness with
which we have moved in this field is seen in
its true perspective.
The responsibility for this lies largely on
the doorstep of Government itself. Every year
more than one hundred bills are introduced
in the Commons by private members drawing
attention to defects in the law and suggesting
remedies, but what bas happened? Ninetynine per cent of these private members' bills
are talked out at Government direction. I am
speaking from experience, because while a
member of the other place I introduced several private members' bills that proposed genuine reforms of existing laws, but they all met
the usual fate.
If we take the trouble to go back over
former Tbrone Speeches and government
legislation based on them, we will see that

many of the reforms which Government has
adopted and brought forward as their own
have been identical to reforms introduced by
private members some five or ten years
earlier.
Not so long ago Senator Argue introduced
in this chamber a bill to lower the voting age
to eighteen. And what happened? We now
have the Government bringing in that very
same legislation.
'Twas ever thus! Wilberforce, whom an
Italian diplomat once described as the Washington of humanity, was elected in 1870 and a
few years later began his fight for the abolition of the slave trade, something which
Burke had refused to do and Pitt dared not
do. Though he put down his first motion on
the slave trade in 1787, it was not until 20
years later, on March 27, 1807, that be succeeded in getting Parliament to enact the
necessary legislation. He then turned his
attention to the abolition of slavery itself, and
it took another 26 years to accomplish that.
He lived to see the Abolition Bill passed in
July 1833, although at the time he was on his
death-bed.
Lord Ashley, born Anthony Ashley-Cooper
and later Earl of Shaftsbury, sometimes
referred to as "the Lincoln of the industrial
worker and his family", had a similar experience. He introduced his ten-hour bill in 1833
to protect children who, though only five to
seven years old, were forced to work in the
cotton mills and factories from 14 to 16 hours
a day, sometimes 24 hours a day at rush
periods. His efforts resulted in the Factory
Acts of 1833, 1844, 1847 and 1850, three of
them being government measures forced on
them by Shaftsbury's campaign.
The four Factory Acts down to 1850 freed
all children under nine, restricted youngsters
under 13 years to a six-and-a-half hour workday, and young persons and women to 60
hours a week, with no night work. Saturday
half-holidays were assured for all, efficient
inspection was instituted and education was
recognized as a universal necessity and was
to some extent enforced.
The men benefitted similarly because without women and children factories could not
function.
Other reforms resulting from Shaftsbury's
efforts were the Mines and Colleries Bill,
1842; the acts dealing with near slavery in
calico mills, 1845; the brickworks, 1871; and
chininey sweeping, 1875. In 1867 he succeeded
in revolutionizing the treatment of farm

1112

SENATE DEBATES

labourers, and set women and children free
from the tyranny of the agricultural gangs.
The Extension Acts of 1864 and 1867 extended the victories won for cotton mill workers
to all industries, but it was not until
1874-forty years after his first bill-that the
ten-hour provision was finally won.
One could cite many more examples, but I
have mentioned these two reformers and
listed their achievements in some detail for
several reasons. In the first place, these examples illustrate the slowness of law reform,
even when the causes are so obviously right
and good. In matters of law reform governments are notoriously lethargic and apathetic.
They lag behind the people and act only
when public opinion forces them to.
Secondly, they illustrate that even without
the law reform commission ordinary parliamentarians can bring about law reform if
they are sufficiently dedicated and persistent.
Thirdly, I want to emphasize the point that
neither Wilberforce nor Shaftbury initiated
any reforms until after their lives had been
completely changed by a deep religious and
spiritual experience by which they became
committed to absolute moral standards in
their personal lives, and undertook personal
responsibility for the morality and integrity
not only of Parliament but of the whole
nation.
Finally, the achievements of Wilberforce
and Shaftsbury are examples of what I regard
as genuine reforms. In this connection I would
draw your attention to the fact that section 11
of Bill C-186 classifies the task of the commission under three headings, namely, improvement, modernization, and reform. While the
bulk of their work, in terms of volume, will
be comprised under the first two headings, it
is their third task of reform, as distinct from
the other two, which in my opinion is the
most important as well as the most difficult.
As for eliminating obsolete laws, removing
anachronisms and anomalies, up-dating and
modernization, enactment of new laws or
changing old ones to meet new situations such
as pollution, that is what Parliament is doing
now almost every day. In this respect I presume that the result of the commission's
efforts will be to enable the Government to
better determine its priorities and draw up its
legislative program in a more systematie
manner.
As for genuine reform, however, apart from
the haphazard and spasmodic efforts of private members and possibly some law societies, very little is being done to call attention
[Hon. Mr. Carter.]

May 27, 1970

to this need. Possibly this is because we are
not too clear in our minds as to what constitutes genuine reform.
If we change laws merely to achieve consistency and conformity, is that genuine
reform or merely improvement? Is it genuine
reform to change laws simply Lecause they
are being ignored and not being enforced, or
to enact laws merely to legalize practices that
have grown up among the people?
Recently we amended sections of the Criminal Code dealing with gambling, homosexuality and abortion. Were these genuine
reforms? There seem to be considerable differences of opinion among sections of the
public and even in this chamber about that
question. I supported those bills because I
regarded them as permissive only. Nobody was
being compelled to gamble or to have an
abortion. The law left these matters for each
individual to decide for himself according to
his own conscience. My rights as a legislator
are no greater than those of any other
Canadian. I could not see why my views or
my conscience should be embodied in law and
imposed on other Canadians who with equal
sincerity hold different views. And yet it
made me unhappy. Personally, I think abortion is wrong and I believe that widespread
gambling is bad for the nation, and that once
the door is opened a crack it very soon is
pushed wide open.
This is the kind of dilemma that the law
reform commission will have to come to grips
with if it is to make Canadian law a creative
force in our nation, as suggested by the sponsor of this bill.
I do not know how it can be done, but in
legislation of this type I feel there should be
some means-possibly by way of preamble,
appendix, schedule or some other waywhereby we as legislators can function as a
sort of conscience of the nation. There should
be some device whereby we as legislators on
a non-partisan basis can show where we
stand on laws that have moral content, and
through guidelines or in some other way give
moral leadership to our nation.
Wilberforce and Shaftsbury stood for what
they believed to be right and good. They
stood for a way of life based on morality and
integrity, both personal and national. In time
their nation came to stand for the same
things. And as long as Britain continued to
stand for what was right, she was great
among the nations of the world. She
accumulated a great deal of moral capital

May 27, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

built up by people like Wilberforce, Shaftsbury, Sir Henry Lawrence, Keir Hardie,
Albert the Prince Consort, Cardinal Manning
and many others, but when she compromised
her moral principles she dissipated this moral
capital and became a second-class power.
I ask myself: What does Canada stand for
as indicated by what we do rather than by
what we say? Like Wilberforce, Shaftsbury
and the others I have mentioned, I think that
we in this chamber and in the other place
have a responsibility to see that Canada
stands for absolute morality and integrity,
and these elements should be reflected in our
laws and our legislative system. It should constitute the framework within which our laws
are developed. This, in my opinion, is where
the law reform commission by being creative
can make a tremendous contribution to our
national life.
As it is now, there is no distinct framework
that I can see. Our laws seem to be made
more or less in a vacuum on an ad hoc basis
in response to situations as they occur. Very
often the principles involved are vague and
ill-defined and, worse still, in some instances
the motives are open to question.
A good example of this is the tax reform
proposals now being studied by the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce. Granted, they are only proposals,
but one must assume that they are based on
certain principles which will eventually be
translated into a reformed tax law even
though the application of the principles May
be modified as a result of study and representation. With respect to these proposals, I ask
myself: What principle is there, moral, social,
economic or otherwise, that can justify the
taxing of gains that have not been realized or
that can justify retroactive taxation? As for
motives, we know that all across Canada
people are questioning whether equalization
of the tax burden is the true motive, or
whether the motive is to raise excess revenue
regardless of the growing needs of other
jurisdictions, or whether it is to usher in
socialism through the back door by making
public funds rather than private funds the
source of investment capital. These questions
would not arise if our laws were developed
within a framework that sets forth welldefined goals accepted as the norms of our
society along with clear concepts of justice
and equity and the moral values and principles on which they are based.
Disputes about the "nature of law", about
its definition and about the relationship

1113

between law and morality, have existed since
the days of Socrates, Plato and Aristotle, and
will doubtless continue. Some there are who
hold that the distinction between law and
morality is neither possible nor desirable. Be
that as it may, it is obvious that law in society is concerned not only with how people
have been behaving, but even more with how
they should behave, because it is with reference to the latter that the former can be
judged.
It is within this area of human behaviour
that the accumulation of knowledge and
study brings about changes in our concepts of
justice, equity, human rights, individual rights
and collective rights, which require continuous
change in our laws because a legal system is,
in fact, a continuous and open-ended process
of enactment, interpretation and application.
At no point in this process can any healthy
severance be made between law and generally shared human convictions about right and
wrong.
For example, in recent years science has
proved that many types of abnormal human
behaviour and anti-social behaviour are due
to pathological defects, and we are then faced
with the question, "Is it right to make criminals out of people who are sick?"
Saturday's issue of the Ottawa Journal carried a press report of a statement by Reverend J. T. L. (Tom) James of Winnipeg.
Addressing the Canadian Managing Editors
Conference, he accused the newspapers of
printing a grossly distorted picture of crime
and criminals, and went on to say this:
I wish you could redress this imbalance
by accurately portraying the facts that
lull your reporters to sleep daily in any
magistrate's court-the dreary parade of
pathetic inadequates, the thoughtless, the
foolish, the greedy and occasionally the
needy who are the actual persons we
label as criminals.
Many, many of them are not criminal
inasmuch as their value systems are no
more anti-social than yours and mine.
Saturday's Ottawa Citizen reported Claude
Ryan, editor and publisher of Le Devoir, as
saying that it is not surprising that law is
being criticized "since law and its representatives are in large part responsible for the
forming of our society, which is now being
challenged". Mr. Ryan then went on to say:
We now are faced with two divergent
fundamental ideas. Some continue to
believe that personal freedom still has

SENATE DEBATES

1114

absolute priority and consider collective
freedom but a follow-up to them. Others
hold that, on the contrary, in many areas
collective freedoms have a priority over
personal freedom if the interests of a
group, whether the union or the nation,
demand it.
These are questions that the law reform commission will have to take into consideration.
Lord Coake once observed that in order to
interpret a new statute, we must ask "what
mischief and defect" it was designed to correct and "what remedy the Parliament hath
resolved to cure the disease of the Commonwealth?" Before we can understand and
apply the rules of a given legal system, we
must know what the society to which it
applies considers as mischief, defect or disease. This moral background of law is a part
of the meaning of the law itself, and the test
is as valid today as it was in 1585.
The essential elements of law are: (1)
regularity in the sense that law is a social
norm; (2) official authority; and (3) the potential application of force, even a physical
force, as a privileged sanction. In the laws of
every society, even in the laws of primitive
society, these three elements are to be found,
and in developing new approaches and concepts the commission will have to give consideration to each of these elements in every
law that they study.
Those of us who have served in the other
place are aware that in most cases a new law
or an amendment originates in some government department, and too often it is considered only within the confines of a department
before it reaches the floor of the house. Then,
when it does reach the floor of the house, it is
considered by a body, the majority of whom
are government supporters who consider it
their obligation to the Government to get the
bill through as quickly as possible and with
the least modification.
As for the minority in the bouse, they have
little opportunity to understand what actually
lies behind the legislation, and even though
the present procedure of having bills considered in committee bas helped to correct this
deficiency to some extent, yet without special
study and research facilities very often members of the committee do not have the necessary expertise, background and experience to
get at the real intention behind the bill and to
evaluate its relationship to other legislation.
As a result, while in theory it is Parliament
that is legislating, in actual fact it is the
[Hon. Mr. Carter.]

May 27, 1970

department which stands behind and advises
the minister in control of a particular measure. The inherent danger in this is that it is
the bureaucratic or departmental civil service
mind which is giving the minister the
detailed and technical advice upon which he
is acting. This civil service mind could very
well be out of touch not only with Parliament
but with the community and the society for
which Parliament is supposed to legislate.
For this reason it is important that laws be
not reformed in such a manner as to diminish
the role of the judge as an equal and
independent partner in the development of
law. Parliament drafts and enacts legislation;
the judge interprets and applies, and in interpreting and applying he looks at the problem
as a whole, not only as it appears in the eyes
of a particular government department. In his
interpretation and application of a single law
to a specific situation be takes into consideration the relationship of that particular law to
the whole body of jurisprudence. A shift from
case law to legislation would make the judiciary a minor partner in the development of
law. This in my opinion would greatly impair
the common law system because it would lead
to departmentalization of the law.
Enacted law must, of necessity, have many
defects. In the first place, it is very difficult to
dovetail a law originating in a particular government department into the whole body of
legislation related to that particular problem.
Officials drafting a law seldom give much
thought to, and may not even know about,
similar existing laws administered by other
departments. Overlapping and anomalies are
bound to occur.
Enacted laws also have other weaknesses.
Ambiguity is very difficult to avoid. Harold
MacMillan, former British Prime Minister,
once said: "You cannot get an unambiguous
English sentence. It is beyond the capacity of
the English language." If you avoid ambiguity, then you make the law inflexible, because
if the language is clear the judge bas no
option but to follow what the statute requires.
Also, enacted law must be full of omissions
simply because it is beyond hurnian capacity
to envisage every possible situation. It is
bound also to have applications which, when
the instant case arises, clearly lead to injustice. Furthermore, statute law cannot deal
successfully with such things as deliberate
avoidance of taxing provisions, simply
because human foresight is not capable of
foreseeing everything that is going to arise.

May 27, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

There is no doubt, therefore, that law
reform is needed and the best way to accomplish it in a systematic manner is by means of
a commission. The value of a law reform
commission is that it can look at the law
unembarrassed by the particular case or by
the exigent demands of a litigant, but equally
unembarrassed by the sort of pressures that
exert themselves on a legislative body.
The law commission can approach its task
in two ways. It can concentrate on small
reforms to take care of specific rules. This
would amount to well-intentioned tinkering
and would result in a confused patchwork of
amendments without guiding principles or
over-all direction.
What, in my opinion, is required is the root
and branch type of reform. This would
require broad studies of particular areas of
law.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Would my honourable
friend permit me to make the simple observation that that is exactly what is contemplated:
the commission will engage vigorously and
directly in research projects.
Hon. Mr. Carter: It may be contemplated,
but, if so, that is not clear from the bill. It
may do so but it does not have to, except as
directed by the minister.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: May I ask the honourable senator a question?
I have the impression from listening to
your speech that your theme is that the
reform commission will be a driving force in
connection with changing laws. With respect
to this, government has been charged over
the years with being slow to change the laws.
Therefore, I wonder if you agree with the
commission being married to a government.
As we know, the minister, fortunately, is a
very able and driving man, but he will select
the research and the personnel. I want to
know if you agree with that, or would you
prefer to have a commission independent of
the minister?
Hon. Mr. Carter: That is one of the problems. I can see that the only way to prevent
the commission getting mixed up in matters
of policy is to have the subject matter
referred to the minister and to the Government for approval. On the other hand, to the
extent that it does this, the commission is
limited in its independence to pursue its own
programs in its own way. Whichever method
is adopted, I personally feel that the law com-

1115

mission would be wise to steer clear of policy
issues and to avoid involvement in controversial issues as much as possible.
Honourable senators, the law must be continually evolving to keep pace with evolving
concepts of justice, on the one hand, and
changing attitudes on the other. The law as a
whole and our legal institutions must, therefore, be kept under continuous review so that
our laws may be kept up-to-date and be readily accessible to and easily understood by ail
affected by them.
In view of the ever-increasing tempo of
social and economic change only a full-time
agency is capable of doing this and of making
the necessary recommendations to meet
changing needs and circumstances. I therefore
give my support to the bill.
Hon. Paul Desruisseaux: Honourable senators, I wish to congratulate the Leader of the
Government in the Senate (Mr. Martin) for
his presentation of the bill, Senator Hayden
for his fine presentation yesterday and Senator Carter for his able explanation today. In
fact, in all the debate concerning this bill so
far, little bas been said by way of opposition
to the bill. In my attempt to be brief, I will
try not to repeat any of the remarks that
have gone before.
I believe this bill to be one of the most
worthwhile pieces of legislation that has been
placed before the Senate for study and consideration during this session. As we know,
Bill C-186 was sponsored in the other house
by the Minister of Justice, fulfilling, as he
explained, the commitment made in the convocation speech at Osgoode Hall in October
1968. It is new in Canadian legislation, establishing a law reform commission, but there
are already precedents for it. In England
there are the Welsh and Scottish Law Reform
Commissions, each for its own system of law,
and they have indeed served England well.
In England, however, there is no ministry
of justice, and although, as in ail other places,
the law needs to be brought and kept up to
date, there is no one body that has been
entrusted with the job of looking after the
law, especially in those important branches of
law which were brought into existence during
the last century to meet the needs of industry
and commerce and to set up the social services which are required in modern countries
such as ours.
In England the Lord Chancellor's department acted as the ministry of justice on
essentials and as the keeper of the Queen's

1116

SENATE DEBATES

conscience. Here in Canada the department of
the Minister of Justice was never quite able
to keep pace with what was to be done with
our existing laws to upgrade them to the
needs of the day. This bill will fill a gap. It
will provide for a single permanent commission which will embrace our two existing systems of law, the system of jurisprudence in
all the provinces except Quebec and the
Napoleonic system of civil law in practice and
in use in Quebec.
The minister stated in the other place that
prior to presenting to the house this proposed
law there had been discussions with the government of Ontario and New York State and
the law reform commissions they created.
In his recent book, Politics of Purpose, the
Minister of Justice remarked on law reform
at page 68. He said:
Nowhere is the time gap between our
past and present more evident than in
the state of our laws. Some of our laws
and legal procedures reflect conditions of
the nineteenth century.
Later the minister pursued the point:
Nowhere is inequality more apparent
than in our laws-

May 27, 1970

without arousing public emotions, the numerous overlapping, superimposed and overimposed laws of the federal Government on
much of the legislation of the provincial governments which, with the federal Government, are often embarrassed and sometimes
provoked by these duplications.
[Translation]
Bill C-186 passed by the House of Commons
and now before us provides a good and fair
measure of independence for the Commission.
Anyone may suggest law reforms to that
Commission. It will be in position to initiate
and carry out any study it may deem necessary. It will nevertheless have to submit
its program to the Attorney General who
with the Minister of Justice will have the
authority to undertake or include any reform
program in that of the Commission, if it is
deemed necessary in the interest of Canada.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: The minister can object.
Hon. Mr. Desruisseaux: Yes.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Are you in favour of that
veto granted the minister?

Hon. Mr. Desruisseaux: I presume that it
is not in the interest of the minister to use
And he added:
his veto, unless he has reasons which will
-the
body of laws has become volu- be known in due time.
minous-more complex and more unHon. Mr. Flynn: I disagree and if there
certain. We are using procedures and
methods of research not too different from is no reason for such a veto, I wonder why
is it given to him?
those we used a hundred years ago.
Hon. Mr. Desruisseaux: If something goes
I agree with the minister when he states against the policies of the country, I wonder
that:
if it should not be used in some way. I
-the
technology of law reform in suppose that the broadmindedness of the MinCanada is presently rusty and obsoles- ister of Justice will be acceptable to all
cent; that efforts to keep the law respon- and will do justice to the programs that
sive to the hope and dreams of society will be submitted.
are lagging behind, because of small
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Succeeding ministers are
vision, limited resources, lack of desire
for reform, overworked public officials not necessarily alike.
and-above all and most dangerous of
Hon. Mr. Desruisseaux: That is true, at
all-complacency.
all times, but you know that perfection does
He was reflecting my thoughts, and I am not exist on earth although we must keep
sure the opinion of a great many Canadians. looking for it.
If adopted, Bill C-186 will go a long and
Hon. Mr. Mar±in: I hope the honourable
tested way towards installing as was said, "a
Leader of the Opposition who seems to be
new dynamic Canadian legal system that much interested in the matter will reply to
could vitally assist the newly emerging the honourable senator's speech.
nations which are seeking guideposts in their
Hon. Mr. Flynn: If I did, it would be to
search for law and order."
It would seem too that through the machin- praise him.
ery, function and operation of a law reform
Hon. Mr. Desruisseaux: The Senate is
commission it will be possible to untangle, often accused of paying too many compli[Hon. Mr. Desruisseaux.]

May 27, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

ments, but it is not so as far as I am concerned, I do not pay compliments.
[English]
The commission, without interference,
direction or suggestion from anyone, including the Minister of Justice, will have the
responsibility of establishing its methods and
programs of work, and of making its conclusions and recommendations.
The objects of such a law commission were
set forth by Senator Carter earlier, and I shall
not repeat them at this time, since we are
well acquainted with what they are.
With these objectives as set out in the bill, I
am of the opinion that such a reform commission will rapidly become one of the busiest
agencies of Parliament. It will thereby perform a most necessary service for the clarification of our more nebulous laws, concerning
which we still witness considerable difficulties
of interpretation. Wherever law reform commissions have been instituted by legislation,
there has been general and unreserved
approval of the work performed and little or
no adverse criticism of their accomplishments.
In Canada the streamlining of our legislation would greatly assist the dispensation of
justice. It would provide a clearer understanding of the laws and, surely, invite its greater
respect.
In the other place fear was expressed by a
member that too much power was being
given to the commission to carry out its
objects. Well, the powers and duties of the
Canadian commission are to be somewhat
similar to those of the commissions formed in
the State of New York, in England, and in
Ontario. They seem to have worked quite
well. There is yet no knowledge of criticism
of their power.
The proposed Canadian commission would
receive and consider proposals for reforms,
initiate, direct and carry out such studies and
research of a legal nature as it deems necessary, importantly including those relating to
the laws, legal systems and institutions of
other jurisdictions in Canada or elsewhere.
It would prepare and submit to the minister
detailed programs for the study of particular
laws, with the view of making recommendations for improvement, modernization and
reform, including in any such programs prepared by it an estimate of the resources and
time required to carry them to completion.
It would, with the minister's approval of
the programs for study, undertake or direct
studies of particular laws and make recom-

mendations for their improvement, modernization and reform. It would, with the concurrence of the minister, provide information,
research material and study results and make
recommendations, through the minister and
Parliament, to departments, branches and
agencies concerned.
There will be no secrecy in respect of those
reports. The commission's recommendations
will be available to the public. The commission must submit an annual report to the
Minister of Justice, and the minister is bound
to table that report in the other place, hopefully with his observations. Any report on
any particular study made to the minister
must be tabled by the minister in the House
of Commons where it will become available
to Parliament and its committees. The commission will have the responsibility of programming the elimination of obsolete laws.
The commission will be able-and this in
our dual judicial system is important-to
undertake joint projects with all other law
reform commissions, provincial or foreign.
Bill C-186 stresses the importance of not
limiting the work of the commission strictly
to the federal statutes. It keeps in mind the
general purview of the administration of justice that might involve the joint responsibility
of the provinces.
The bill was referred to and considered by
the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal
Aifairs in the other place. Minor amendments
were made to the bill. It is a good and an
important bill. It is overdue in Canada. It has
constructive and positive aims. It has made an
abstraction of any possible secrecy in its programs or recommendations for reforms to
provides
commission
This
Parliament.
Canada, in my view, with one of the best and
most important agencies of Parliament. It
should assure the constant elimination of
injustices in Canadian laws. It will fit in well
with a society in which rapid technological,
economic and social changes are taking place.
It will respond well to the evolution created
by a continuous shift in our way of life, and
to situations that result from major scientific
developments.
I should like to quote from an article that
was mentioned in the other place, and written
recently by Mr. Allen M. Linden, entitled
"The Laggard Law: Machinery for Law
Reform", as follows:
The present machinery of law reform
in Canada is rusty and obsolescent;
horse-and-buggy methods are being used
in a jet age. Efforts to keep the law

1118e

SENATE DEBATES

May 27, 1970

responsive to societal aspirations are lag- duce translations, but to ensure that each
ging because of limited resources, non- Canadian is the reflection of our two cultures
existent vehicles for reform, overworked and our two law concepts.
public officials and self-satisfaction.
The new Law Reform Commission will
guarantee not only that our legislative system
Mr. Linden continues later:
is bilingual but also bi-judicial in embodying
Unless new institutions are established to our two legal systems.
transform our laws, to embody the aspirations of the majority of the Canadian [English]
The Honourable Leslie Scarman, Chairman
people, our legal system will be in
danger. Therefore, the time has come to of the Law Commission for England and
create the machinery to expedite the Wales, in his book Law Reforn-the New
intelligent growth and steady modifica- Pattern, advises as follows:
tion of law and legal procedure.
To meet and overcome the challenges
of law reform, we must call not only for
In the light of actual observations, it can be
technical learning of the lawyer, but for
affirmed that this bill is far from being prea full understanding of, and sympathy
mature, and that such commissions have been
with, the habits, feelings and values of
well tested. The State of New York passed
ordinary men. Unless this challenge is
a law reform commission bill in 1934; New
met, law reform will be, in very truth, a
Zealand in 1937; California in 1953; Ontario
barren exercise.
in 1964; and England in 1965. The Parliament
of Canada received a law reform commission
If, therefore, law reform, in any worthbill in 1965, sponsored by Mr. Richard Bell, while sense, is to have a future in Canada, as
who later became a member of the Ontario it should, the problem would seem to be, as it
Law Reform Commission. Unfortunately, that was in England and elsewhere, one of machinebill did not go beyond first reading. In 1966 ry of government. There is where our chalthe Canadian Bar Association recommended lenge will rest. The choice of its personnel
such a bill to the federal Government.
becomes basically important for its smooth
The general smooth functioning of these operation and success.
law reform commissions, wherever they were
I congratulate the initiator of this bill, Mr.
created in different countries of the world, Bell, on his foresight and wisdom in bringing
some of which were tested for a number of it before Parliament first in 1965. I congratuyears, in my judgment, point to the wisdom late and thank the honourable the Minister of
and foresight of their sponsors and of the Justice for sponsoring it in the House of Commons in 1970, and the honourable Leader of
initiator of this present bill.
the Government in the Senate for his good
[Translation]
presentation here of this major and farsighted
Moreover, it must be noted that the bill piece of legislation. I am privileged to endorse
guarantees the representation of the province fully Bill C-186, to establish a law reform
of Quebec on the Commission and the proper commnission.
consideration of our two legal systems. Within
On motion of Hon. Mrs. Fergusson, debate
the Commission, the federal legal system had adjourned.
also to properly reflect our two essentially
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2
different legal systems, not to make it pro-

SENATE DEBATES

May 28, 1970

THE SENATE
Thursday, May 28, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., Honourable
Maurice Bourget, P.C., Speaker pro tem, in
the Chair.
Prayers.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Copies of a contract between the Government of Canada and the municipality
of Athabasca, Alberta, for the use or
employment of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, pursuant to section 20(3)
of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police
Act, chapter 54, Statutes of Canada, 1959.
(English text).
Report of the Department of External
Affairs for the year ended December 31,
1969, pursuant to section 6 of the Department of External Affairs Act, chapter 68,
R.S.C., 1952.
Capital Budget of the National Harbours Board for the year ending December 31, 1970, pursuant to section 80(2) of
the Financial Administration Act, chapter
116, R.S.C, 1952, together with copy of
Order in Council P.C. 1970-824, dated
May 7, 1970, approving same.
Capital Budget of The St. Lawrence
Seaway Authority for the year ending
December 31, 1970, pursuant to section
80(2) of the Financial Administration Act,
chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952, together with
copy of Order in Coundil P.C. 1970-825,
dated May 7, 1970, approving same.
CRIMINAL RECORDS BILL
REPORT OF COMMITTEE

Hon. Lazarus Phillips, Acting Chairman of
the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs, reported that the committee had considered Bill C-5, to provide for
the relief of persons who have been convicted
of offences and have subsequently rehabilitated themselves, and had directed that the bill
be reported without amendment.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, when shall this bill be read the third
time?

1119

Hon. Sarto Fournier moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators,
with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding
Rule 45(l)(g), I move that when the Senate
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until
Tuesday next, June 2, at 8 o'clock in the
evening.
Motion agreed to.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
should like to outline the business for next
week.
When the Senate meets on Tuesday we will
resume the debate on Bill C-186, to establish
a commission for the reform of laws of
Canada. A number of senators have indicated
their intention to speak. I should not be surprised if among them, although not officially
designated yet, would be the Leader of the
Opposition (Hon. Mr. Flynn). When the
debate is concluded I shall move that the bill
be referred to the Standing Senate Committee
on Legal and Constitutional Affairs.
We have for second reading on Tuesday
nine private members' public bills to change
the names of a number of electoral districts
in various parts of Canada.
Still on the Order Paper is the adjourned
debate on the inquiry of Senator Phillips
(Rigaud) calling the attention of the Senate to
the Thirteenth Meeting of the Canada-United
States Interparliamentary Group. There will
be at least three more speakers before this
debate is concluded, which I anticipate will
be next week.
The present information is that before we
meet next week we will receive from the
other place Bill C-214, to amend the Canada
Labour (Standards) Code, and Bill C-218,
respecting regulations made pursuant to section 4 of the Aeronautics Act. We had hoped
to have Bill C-144, the Canada Water Act,
this week, but it is now expected that this bill
will reach us some time next week.
The committee scheduled for next week is
very heavy. The Special Committee on Poverty will meet on Tuesday and Thursday. The
Banking, Trade and Commerce Committee
will be meeting all day both Wednesday and

1120

SENATE DEBATES

Thursday on the White Paper on Tax Reform.
Senator Hayden has asked me to indicate that
on Wednesday, the committee will hear briefs
presented by the National Foreign Trade
Council, the Canadian Export Association, the
Association of International Business Corporations, Alcan Aluminum Company and the
Investment Dealers Association. On Thursday
the committee will hear from the Canadian
Pulp and Paper Association, British Newfoundland Corporation, Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation, the Canadian Welfare Council and the
Electronic Industries Association.
The Standing Committee on National
Finance will meet Thursday morning to continue their study of the Main Estimates for
1970-71, and I am informed by Senator Everett that the Governor of the Bank of Canada
will appear before the comimittee at that time.
Bill
C-187,
respecting
inland water
resources in the Yukon Territory and Northwest Territories, has been referred to the
Standing Senate Committee on Health, Welfare and Science, and that committee will
meet next week to consider the bill.
Senator Phillips (Rigaud) has advised me
that he had hoped that the Standing Sonate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs could commence their consideration o:
procedures for the review by the Senate of
statutory instruments next week but, in view
of the number of committee meetings already
set down for the week, this may not be possible. He expects the Minister of Justice and Dr.
MacGuigan will be among the first witnesses.
Honourable senators, as I have said, the
committee schedule for next week is heavy.
LAW REFORM COMMISSION BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE

CONTINUED

The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mr.
Martin, for the second reading of Bill C-186,
to establish a commission for the reform of
the laws of Canada.
Hon. Muriel McQ. Fergusson: Honourable
senators, Bill C-186 involves legal reforms
which will bring our laws, many of which are
obsolete and fashioned for an early day, up to
date so that they will be in accord with the
age in which we are living and the philosophy of our times.
The bill was clearly and ably introduced by
the Government Leader, the Honourable Paul
Martin, who pointed out, among other things,
that similar commissions have been set up
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

May .28, 1970

elsewhere, that the Minister of Justice, before
introducing this bill, had discussed the functioning of these commissions with those
charged with operating them in some other
jurisdictions and has taken from their experience the elements that are most adaptable to
Canada.
Honourable senators have been told in earlier speeches in this debate that such legislation was passed in New York State in 1934, in
New Zealand in 1937, in California in 1953, in
Ontario in 1964 and in the United Kingdom in
1965. There are such acts in other states of
the United States of America and other provinces of Canada.
As Senator Carter said, the Minister of Justice, when introducing this bill in the house,
stated that this is the first time to his knowledge that there will exist in the legal world a
law reform commission relating to federal
laws of a federal state. However, Senator
Desruisseaux told us yesterday that a private
bill to set up a law reform commission was
introduced in the House of Commons in 1965
by the Honourable Richard Bell, and did not
go beyond first reading, and that in 1966 the
Canadian Bar Association recommended the
setting up of a law reform commission in
Canada.
Honourable senators, the Canadian Bar
Association also passed resolutions at its
annual meetings in 1968 and 1969 recommending the creation of a national law
reform commission, and authorized a delegation from the association to discuss the matter
with the Minister of Justice.
Members of all parties who participated in
the debate on this bill in the House of Commons welcomed the bill, and I am sure it will
receive from all the members of this chamber
the same warm reception it has already
received from the honourable Senators Haig,
Hayden, Carter and Desruisseaux in their
knowledgeable and informative speeches.
The objects of the commission, as stated in
clause 11, are:
(a) the removal of anachronisms and
anomalies in the law;
(b) the reflection in and by the law of the
distinctive concepts and institutions of
the common law and civil law legal systems in Canada, and the reconciliation of
differences and discrepancies in the
expression and application of the law
arising out of differences in those concepts and institutions;
(c) the elimination of obsolete laws; and

May 28, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

(d) the development of new approaches to
and new concepts of the law in keeping
with and responsive to the changing
needs of modern Canadian society and of
individual members of that society.
Honourable senators, the research which
the commission will be empowered and
equipped to do will bring to light cases of
unnecessary and obsolete laws on our statute
books, and of anomalies in the laws that
cause injustices. The commission will keep
the Canadian statutes under continuous
review so that in the future Canadians will
not find themselves subject to such laws.
Lord Gardiner, the Lord Chancellor of England, in an address to the American Law
Institute in Philadelphia on May 20, 1966,
said:
That so much of my time bas been devoted to law reform is not a matter on
which I have any regrets. My motive has
not been that of a lawyer interested in
the law as such, although I am. My
motive bas been a hatred of injustice. I
can't bear seeing anomalies in our law
cause injustice.
I am sure we all feel the same way about
anomalies that exist in the Canadian laws.
The legal housekeeping covered by paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of section 11 of the
bill are important and necessary, and no doubt
considerable time of the commission, or a section of the commission, will be occupied in
carrying out those responsibilities.
The New Zealand committee considered a
large number of matters. Many of them, no
doubt, were matters of legal housekeeping to
which I have referred. Mr. J. Hanan, with
whom I had conversations when I visited New
Zealand in 1965 at the time I attended the
meeting of the Commonwealth Bar Association in Australia, in his book The Law in a
Changing Society-a Policy and Program for
Law Reform, published in 1965, stated:
The committee considered about 250
suggestions of which some 160 were the
subject of recommendations. The "great
majority" of recommendations resulted in
legislation.

Senator Hayden, in his valuable contribution to this debate, quoted from a speech by
Professor H. Allan Leal, Q.C., of Osgoode
Hall, and because the best reasons I have
heard or read for the establishment of a law
reform commission were given by Professor
Leal in the same address, which he gave the
Faculty of Law of the University of Manitoba
on November 17, 1967, I should like also to
quote from his speech. Professor Leal said
this:
Laws and legal institutions must be
adjusted from time to time to accommodate an evolving concept of justice. What
may have seemed fair and just to our
forebears is frequently unacceptable in
our day. It cannot be denied, I think, that
we are experiencing a gradual though
unmistakable assertion of a higher standard of social moral principles.
This evolving sense of justice touches
and concerns almost every area of our
laws governing human relations. It is
manifest in the criminal law, the law of
contract with respect to such areas as
securities regulation, consumer credit and
corporation law, in matters of status
affecting adopted and illegitimate children and in the citizen's relations with
those myriad agencies of government
which impinge upon almost every aspect
of his daily life.
Laws also must be changed to meet the
social and economic needs of society that
is subject to continuous change. The history of mankind from earliest times reflects this experience and in that sense
law reform is neither novel nor recent.

Although there are many areas that require
the attention of such a commission, the Minister of Justice, in introducing this bill, suggested that immediate priority for the commission
should be a complete rewriting of the criminal
law, and this is certainly an area that
requires such study.
Many provisions in our criminal law that
should receive attention by the commission
come to mind, and it is hoped that such study
will result in recommendations to eliminate
or change existing laws which certainly need
But, as both the honourable Leader of the modernization and reform.
Among the laws that I feel very strongly
Government and the honourable Senator
Hayden have said, section 11(d) will be even fall into this category are those concerning
more important. It will make it possible for the provisions regarding bail. The Special
the commission to develop new concepts of Senate Committee on Poverty has received
law which will be in accord with the changes evidence that our present laws on this subject
discriminate severely against the poor citizens
taking place in Canadian society.

SENATE DEBATES
of this country. Unless there is reason to
believe that an accused person will not
appear at his trial, or that he should be
imprisoned to protect the public pending his
trial, every such person awaiting trial should
be released on bail. At present those who can
provide bail are released, but those who
cannot are detained, not because they are
liable to disappear before their trial, or
because they are a danger to the public, but
only because, as a result of their poverty,
they cannot raise the money for bail. The
result of this may be and often is that an
accused person loses his job, thus throwing
his dependents on welfare. This not only adds
to the large number now dependent upon
welfare, but may permanently damage the
future of the accused and of his family, and
also his own self-respect.
Detention before trial for lack of bail may
have other deleterious effects on an accused
person, particularly on one who is innocent.
The associations into which he may be forced
in many of our jails today may also permanently damage him, particularly if he is a
first offender.
The report of the Canadian Committee on
Corrections, known as the Ouimet Report, at
page 101 says that "the detention of the
accused while awaiting trial may unfairly
damage a person who is subsequently acquitted and may unnecessarily damage a person
who is subsequently convicted". That a person
who lacks money should for that reason be
subject to such detention while another
person in the same circumstances who can
provide bail would not be detained, violates
the basic human rights of citizens.
The more money an accused person has,
the greater is the discrimination in his
favour. A wealthy accused person might,
through his own resources or that of his
friends, be able to provide bail even in a very
large amount, and then leave the country,
thus abandoning his bail to the Crown. In this
respect I cite the case of Hal Banks.
A second area in the field of criminal law
which requires study by a law reform commission is in the matter of appeals from decisions of lower courts. Such appeals, besides
requiring the provision for bail to permit the
appellant to be free to carry on his occupation pending the hearing of the appeal,
involve the appellant in the expenditure of
money, sometimes large sums of money, and
the result in many cases is that there is actually no appeal available to persons without
money, although there might be provision for
appeals set out in the law.
[Hon. Mrs. Fergusson.]

May 28, 1970

We are all aware that lack of money often
makes appeal to higher courts difficult for
poor people. Recent studies brought this very
forcibly to the attention of the members of
the Special Senate Committee on Poverty,
and I feel the unfairness of this situation
should be brought to the attention of the
Senate and the public.
In the area of criminal law, corporal punishment is a third matter which I believe
should receive early attention from the commission. The Ouimet Committee on Corrections stated at page 324 of its report:
We are of the opinion that corporal punishment is contrary to modern prison
philosophy and practice and we recommend its abolition.
Surely we should not retain in our laws
provisions that are contrary to modern prison
philosophy and practice. This matter, as many
senators will remember, was studied by the
Committee on Capital and Corporal Punishment and Lotteries, a joint committee of the
other place and the Senate, which sat in 1954,
1955 and 1956. I was fortunate enough to be a
member of that committee. Their report on
corporal punishment stated:
-the
committee considers that the
recommendations of the Archambault
Report prescribe reasonable limits in the
application of corporal punishment in
penitentiaries and that its use should be
limited to mutiny, incitement to mutiny
and to serious assaults on penitentiary
officers.
I did not entirely agree with the report of
this committee, because I do not think there
should be provision for corporal punishment
at all. I came to this conclusion after I had
attended the meetings of that committee for
three years. This is only my own opinion, but
in view of what was said in the report of the
Ouimet Committee, surely we would not want
to retain in our laws provisions that are contrary to "modern prison philosophy and practice." I trust that study of this matter will be
given priority by the commission and by the
Minister of Justice.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Would my honourable
friend permit me to say that the Minister of
Justice is currently giving great attention to
the Ouinet Report, as we shall see before
long.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I am very pleased
to know that.

May 28, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

A fourth section of the Criminal Code
which should receive attention from the commission is that which makes an attempt to
commit suicide an offence punishable on summary conviction. Anyone who reaches the
point of attempting to commit suicide is a
social case and is not a criminal. An attempted suicide is a manifestation of serious mental
or emotional disturbance, and is a matter that
should be dealt with by, and is the responsibility of, the health authorities. Jail punishment is a most inappropriate way to deal
with this situation and appears to have very
little deterrent effect. The victim is the
person, himself or herself, and in accordance
with modern thinking this offence should be
deleted from the Code, although the counselling or aiding to commit suicide should continue to be an offence.
Another area for study by the commission
is our vagrancy laws under which homeless
and transient persons found wandering about
are liable to be charged with an offence. This
law is a hold-over from the Poor Laws of
England of the nineteenth century, and surely
in this day we can find some less harsh
method of dealing with homeless people wandering about without visible means of support. This applies to men and women, but it
bears most harshly on women, because we al]
know there are very many more hostels and
similar places available to wandering men
than there are to women without homes.
The whole of section 164 regarding vagrancy should be studied in view of present-day
philosophy. However, I take great exception
to subsection (c), which says:
Everyone commits vagrancy who(c) being a common prostitute or night
walker is found in a public place and
does not, when required, give a good
account of herself.
This is the section usually used to charge
prostitutes who ply their trade on the streets.
There is no similar section covering male
prostitutes.
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: Perhaps there is no
need for it.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: It assumes that women
are the only ones who solicit on the streets
and are unable to give a good account of
themselves in these circumstances. Despite
what Senator Lamontagne has said, this is
certainly untrue, for everyone knows many
male prostitutes also do this in our streets.
22481-21

I do not say that I advocate eliminating this
section from the Code, but I do feel that there
should not be one kind of justice for males
and another for females. This seems to me to
be as much a violation of the Bill of Rights
on the grounds of sex as the Drybones case,
about which we heard so much recently in
connection with Bill C-5, was considered a
violation against a man on the grounds of
race.
There are many other provisions in the
Criminal Code that should be studied to bring
them in line with the age in which we are
living and the philosophy of our times. These
are only a few sections of the Code in which
I would like to see changes made.
In reading the speeches made on this bill I
was interested to notice the references to persons who might be appointed as members of
this commission. It was plain that most speakers-I am referring mostly to speeches made
in the other place, all of which I read-took
for granted that the members should be of
the male sex, and I was pleased that the minister, in referring to this, said he wanted as
members "men and women of legal competence".
Hon. Mr. Martin: A ladies man!
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I trust the minister
will keep in mind that there are many women
of legal competence in Canada.
Hon. Mr. Martin: You are one of them.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: Thank you. You are
too flattering.
Hon. Mr. Martin: It is true.
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: Some suggestions
were made that persons who had retired from
the bench or other positions where they had
acquired high competence in legal matters
might be suitable appointments, and some
names were given as examples. As an example of a woman who might fill these requirements, I would like to mention Miss Edith
Lorensten, who for 26 years was with the
Department of Labour, and for the last 14
years of that period was the Legislation
Director of that department, and retired only
last summer. I am sure Miss Lorensten's wide
experience with labour legislation would
make her "a woman of legal competence",
and I believe there are many others.
Honourable senators I give this bill my
unqualified support and congratulate the minister on bringing it before Parliament.

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Lazarus Phillips: Honourable senators,
my first pleasure today is to congratulate
Senator Fergusson on her very able and discerning speech, and I would join with her in
thanking all the other honourable senators
who have contributed very deeply in terms of
contribution to the worthwhileness of the
study of this bill now before us.
It is my personal impression that this bill as
time goes on will take on a greater significance than appears on the surface. It comes to
us as a bill from the other place. There are
many bills that come before us that have a
transient value, although important at the
moment; there are others that have an element, not of perpetuity, because that is not
the nature of life in human terms; and there
are some bills that have in them a quality of
perpetuity in terns of centuries. I have the
feeling that this is one of those bills. For the
moment we see only the tip of the iceberg, but
the advantages that will flow therefrom will
depend upon the statutory foundation that
will be laid for the commission that will be
formed; but in the final analysis, the benefits
resulting therefrom will depend upon the
quality of the people who will be appointed
to the commission, at least in the early stages.
Most honourable senators listening to me
here today are ladies and gentlemen of the
legal profession, and we need no reminder of
the importance of law in the fashioning of
human endeavour, and in the efforts made by
the legal profession in bringing about a type
of civilization which enables humans to live
one with the other. Indeed when we speak of
civilizations that have gone by, we identify
the civilizations sometimes, though not
always, by some of the contributions that
they have made in the field of the law. Certainly in terms of my own race and background, nobody would think of me other than
as the descendant of a group of people that
gave the law of God to mankind fron Mount
Sinai in terms of the Ten Commandments.
We also have the laws of Solon which symbolize the glories of the Athenian civilization
and those other contributions that come to us
from the Greek genius. In thinking of Roman
law, we think of the 12 Tables and the law
which enabled Rome to extend its dominion
over the then known civilized world, and we
also think of the laws of the Hammurabi
which had something to do with the stabilization of life and civilization in the near East.
So, honourable senators, generally speaking, law constitutes a very important factor
[Hon. Mrs. Fergusson.]

May 28, 1970

and a major problem in the fashioning of
the life of man on earth. The elder Pitt, the
Earl of Chatham, said it simply and succinctly when he emphasized the contribution made
by law to mankind in saying "when law ends,
tyranny begins." This is an expression we
have heard from time to time. On the other
hand, although that may be so, and although
the contribution of human minds in terms of
formulation of the law may be important,
nevertheless it is appreciated that there is
nothing new under the sun. There is the old
saying that when the second is born, it is in
the throes of death, and the same applies to
life and to civilization generally.
So, honourable senators, those of us who
are lawyers always try to think in terms of
contributing to the evolution of humane laws
and humane thoughts. I have been trying to
think of a phrase to summarize what is
behind this bill, and the only sentence I have
been able to put down on paper is the following: that the law should be the handmaiden
of intrinsic justice rather than the symbol of
atrophy. Basically speaking, if we consider all
law in that way, I think our legal institutions
and legal systems will be performing their
duties towards the citizens. As honourable
Senator Fergusson has said, it is not new to
think in terms of the desirability of getting
rid of laws that have lost their value, that
have lost their importance and that have
become dead letters.
I want to quote exactly what Aristotle said
in Politics long ago. He said:
"Even when laws have been written
down, they ought not always to remain
unaltered."
Those words, honourable senators, came from
one of the greatest brains that the human
race has ever produced. So we have sufficient
background and authority and, indeed, sufficient justification for the approach to this
problem. We in this Parliament should be
thinking in terms of a kinetic or maybe the
evolution of the law of the land in order to
reflect the thinking of the needs of the institutions that are conditioning and fashioning
our life.
I find this bill very interesting because it
has a dual personality. It is ambivalent in its
approach in that it deals not only with the
law of the land and the necessity of dealing
with a codification thereof and of elements of
the laws that have ceased to be effective or
that ought to be eliminated because they have

May 28, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

become inoperative as any kind of parliamentary statute may do, but it also deals with a
much more important and interesting point,
and that is what should be done by way of
modernization of a system of law in order to
conform to the changing conditions in which
we live, as I said a moment ago, from moment
to moment.
We find this concept in section 11 of the
bill, and particularly subsection (d), where
the object of the commission is stated as:
-the development of new approaches to
and new concepts of the law in keeping
with and responsive to the changing
needs of modern Canadian society and of
individual members of that society.
Now although drafted in prosaic terms, to
those of us who are lawyers this is a rather
thrilling paragraph, and it constitutes a challenge. I for one would wish that I was at the
beginning of my professional career rather
than at the twilight thereof, because I think
the attempt to contribute to the development
of the new approaches to and new concepts of
law, in keeping with and responsive to the
changing needs of modern Canadian society
and the individual members of that society,
should create a flutter in the minds and
hearts of young lawyers who should rise to
the challenge that is envisaged by this bill.
I must say very frankly, honourable senators, that the remarks that I am making this
afternoon, while intended for the ears of my
listeners here, are also meant for the young
members of the profession from coast to
coast. They should read the debates that took
place in the other place and the remarks that
were made in committee, and the important
speeches that have been delivered thus far in
this house, and indeed those that will follow.
With regard to the general conception that
we are contemplating in this bill, surely there
can be no differences of opinion with respect
to the "just society". There is room for differences of opinion in respect of other governmental policies, but on this point I think we
can all be on common ground, that the legislation that has come into this house in the
last two years, in the short period I have been
here, reflects a rather interesting, humane,
modern and sensitive approach to the requirements of individuals. Speaking of the
omnibus bill, and leaving aside the contentious issues of homosexuality and abortion, I
think we are all on common ground that we
have had some very important and humane
amendments to the law.
22481-211

1125

Speaking of the bill in respect of which I
had the honour to report from the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs, on the expunging or vacating of
convictions, we have a sample of the trend of
the type of legislation that is being introduced. There have been many other
instances-even in the economic sphere, such
as the labelling of commodities in order that
purchasers be not led astray-of the necessity
of protecting the citizen.
So, I find this bill in line with the general
philosophy which has been reflected in many
bills that have come before us, but it is one of
the most important of all because it does not
deal specifically with an ad hoc program, but
creates the machinery for the continuing
development of the law.
Civilizations that have been too satisfied
with their laws have gone down to extinction.
Honourable senators know I have an inveterate tendency to quote the Bible, and I hope
that I continue to do so to the end of my
days. Those familiar with the Bible will
remember the Book of Daniel where reference is made to "according to the law of the
Medes and Persians", and then there is the
significant phrase, "which altereth not",
Emphasis is placed on the expression "which
altereth not", as a result of which today in
the United Nations we do not have Medes as
an organic state, nor do we have Persians,
in terms of the concept of the Book of Daniel.
We therefore have sufficient accumulated
proof of the fact that it is necessary to create
machinery pursuant to which we wll be able
to bring about an ever-developing change in
the laws of our country.
What should be behind the philosophy
involving change of laws? Is it a mere problem that laws become obsolescent? Is it a
mere question that they fall into desuetude?
Is it a mere question that they become inoperative because they are difficult of enforcement? Or should we go into a study of what
laws should be eliminated, what laws should
be modified, and what laws should be
introduced?
I know of no more wonderful statement of
what laws should be, in the true sense of the
term and as reflected in the attempts of formulation in this bill, than that coming from
the Gospel according to St. Matthew. All of
you know this expression:
Therefore all things whatsoever ye
would that men should do to you, do you
even so to them:

SENATE DEBATES
And then follows the significant phrase:
for this is the Law and the Prophets.
What is the meaning of that? The law
should not be law unless it contains within it
the message of the Prophets-that is to say,
the fundamental, ethical concept-so that law
is not really law, nor should it be accepted as
law by those who submit themselves to it,
unless "this is the Law and the Prophets," the
ethical concept of loving thy neighbour as
thyself and creating a type of civilization in
which we are happy to conform to the law
that the sovereign authority of this Parliament calls upon fellow Canadians to follow.
So we have the history of mankind, with
the rise and fall of civilizations, emphasizing
the necessity for such a commission as this.
We have Biblical authority in Daniel and St.
Matthew for the necessity of establishing
laws with ethical concepts. Therefore, I am
very happy indeed and, as a lawyer, I regard
this bill-and I do not want to be too excessive in my remarks-as a piece of inspirational legislation which, properly used, can be a
milestone in the history and development of
our country, if honourable senators really
believe with me that law is the strongest
instrument for the development of a strong
and healthy civilization.
Coming more specifically to the act itselfthat is to say, getting away from the philosophical approach to the problem-let us look
a little more closely at the objects of the
legislation which, in my opinion, conform to
what I have just said.
Senator Fergusson referred to the extraordinarily able legal mind, Professor Leal. I
have before me a copy of a speech he delivered at the Annual Meeting of the Association
of Canadian Law Teachers in Vancouver,
British Columbia, in 1965, and therein I find a
reference to observations that were made by
one who is commonly accepted, I think by all
lawyers on this continent, as one of the greatest legal minds of the twentieth century, Justice Cardozo, who needs no introduction to
those of the legal profession. He was the
chairman of a committee in 1923 which
recommended the establishment of a permanent commission which would review the
entire law of the State of New York. This is
what Judge Cordozo said:
We find a widespread agreement that
there should be established a permanent
agency, continuously functioning to consider the changes essential to the proper
administration of justice and to report its
[Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud).]

May 28, 1970

recommendations yearly. One of the anomalies of our legal institutions is that no
such agency exists. The courts and the
legislature work aloof and with isolation
responsible
intermediaries
with
no
through which the needs of the one may
be communicated to the other. Hardships
are not corrected by the law makers
because it is not the business of anyone
to give notice that they exist or to frame
measures of correction.
After making other observations, he went
on to say:
Your Committee therefore advises that
the Commission recommend to the legislature the formulation of a permanent
agency or commission for the amendment
and correction of the law as it is administered in the courts. The members should
not be more than five in number. We
are strongly persuaded that at least two
of the five should be members of the
law faculties of some university of the
State or of some institute of like standing
and authority. Scattered amendments of
the law are likely to prove a snare and
an evil unless effected with scientific
understanding of the law as a whole.
That is the expression that I would like to
emphasize in Mr. Justice Cardoza's remarks.
Honourable senators who have been in this
house much longer than I have are familiar
with the scattered amendments with which
we are overwhelmed from time to time.
Important as they are, they may cause us to
lose track of our constitutional responsibilities
as law-makers. Therefore, I think considerable emphasis should be placed upon the fact
that scattered amendments of the law are
likely to prove a snare and an evil unless
effected with scientific understanding of the
law as a whole.
Now, how should this new system evolve as
the law of life? The honourable Leader of the
Government referred to the fact that one of
the ways in which we could bring about
change in the law, or in which we had
brought about change in the law, is by allowing the judges to make lawHon. Mr. Martin: Would the honourable
senator permit me to ask a question before he
proceeds with this point?
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Of course.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Would the honourable
senator care to say something about a propos-

May 28, 1970

May 28 1970SENATE
DEBATES

ai that I neglected to mention, and that is that
some consideration ought to be given by the
law reform commission or some other agency
to a more functional and efficient way of
making amendments to acts more readily
available? Senator Phillips (Rigaud) referred
to the number of amendments that are scattered ail over. There ought to be some more
orderly way of bringing these within easy
reach, and of keeping them. up to date.

weekend in anticipation of speaking here this
afternoon-that will appeal to my fellow lawyers who corne from the Province of Quebec.
It was compiled in 1841-1843, and is entitled:
Fundamental Principles of the Laws of
Canada, as they existed under the
natives, as they were changed under the
French kings, and as they were modified
and altered under the domination of
England.
The general principles of the Custom of
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): I was about to
Paris, as laid down by the most eminent
develop that, although not directiy. As I proauthors, with the Text, and a literai transceed I may answer the question put by the
lation of the Text.
honourable Leader of the Government, if not
directly then inferentiaily.
The Imperial and other Statutes, changing the Jurisprudence in either of the
What will be the functions of the commisProvinces of Canada at large.
sion? The Leader of the Government referred
to the fact that changes in the law are
I commend this book to law students, law
brought about by judges; that we have iaw
brought about by judicial decision. That is so, professors, and honourable senators, because
but I remember many years ago when I was a it would be a point of departure functîonaily
student and studied my law, I was impressed to the observations that were made by the
by a remark made by Mr. Justice Holmes of Minister of Justice in the committee of the
the Supreme Court of the United States. I other place where he deait with what he
checked the reference, and for the lawyer thought was an intriguing aspect of this bill,
who may be reading my remarks it is the in that it contained two constituent factors
case of Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 that were interesting and novel. One was that
U.S. (1917). This puts a date on the time we were to have a commission to deal with a
when I really tried to know my law. This is federal system of laws. That is what the Minister of Justice referred to, and he stated that
what Mr. Justice Holmes said:
this is the only bull that he is aware of, preI recognize without hesitation that judges suinably in the civilized world, whîch deals
do and must legisiate, but they can do so with the subject matter o! renovating and
only interstitiaily; they are conflned frorn adjusting the laws in a federal system. As a
molarcoroilary thereto, he referred to the fact that
we have in Canada, with ail our problemsHe was referring to the mouth.
this is my description of it-a compensating
-to molecular motion.
factor to the tricky situations that we have
In other words, the changes that are made ti between the two great races in this country,
the law by judges are minuscule in terms of and that is the great cultural and intellectual
their interpretation of the law, but their con- contribution that is made by the two legal
tribution in terms of a fundamental change in systems-the Civil Law system that emanates
the law as distinct from interpretation is from Rome via France to this country, and
pretty small.
the Common Law systemn that emanates via
How then can we bring about a change in England to this country.
the body of law? That brings me inferentiaily
Ail our problems do not produce negative
to Senator Martin's question, and the experi- resuits, and one of the enriching resuits of the
ence we have had from time to time in the contributions that have been made by these
compilation of the laws by means of consoli- two streams of thinking is that we have two
dation of the statutes in order to provide easy great legal systems that have contributed to
reference, and the process of getting rid of the development of our law, going back to the
statutes which have been disposed of by way days of Rome, and via Rome to the Code
of desuetude.
Napoleon and the 120 coutumes en France-I
In looking into this matter I came across an believe there were about 120-and then, of
interesting book on the history of Canada. We course, there is the English Common Law
think that we are pretty progressive and system which bas been ti thîs country since
creative in our approach to this problem, as is before and after 1763, depending on the
reflected i this bill, but I remember many circumstances. Here is an attractive opporyears ago a book-and I picked it up over the tunity to bring about through a commission

SENATE DEBATES

an evolution of a composite system of law,
or a resultant synthesis rather than a composite system, which will reflect the thinking
of 2,000 years of Civil Law and at least 1,000
years of Common Law, if not more. That is
why when we think it out, we have reason
to be pleased with the opportunity that will
be given to us through this commission to do
that which is contemplated by the bill.
In the final analysis, the work of a commission of this sort will sooner or later depend
on public opinion. Whether public opinion is
expressed in constitutional form, in pressure
forms, or in any other form, cumulative
public opinion fashions the conclusions of
government, the instruments of government
and the organs created by it.
In my recent reading I came across a book
by Galsworthy, the well-known English author
at the turn of the century, I think in a
play called Windows, in which he said, "Publie opinion is always in advance of the law." I
think that is how it should be. Public opinion
should always be in advance of the law; the
law should not be in a hurry, because if the
law were in a hurry it would lead to disaster.
The Romans, who had an experience of law
longer probably than any other nation as a
polity, gave us that wonderful expression festina lente-hasten slowly. Therefore, this
commission should not be regarded as one
that will be a revolutionary instrument to
bring about all the panaceas that impatient
young minds, or even men in the academic
sphere or in the ivory towers, may think
absolutely essential in order to bring about
salvation in Canada. I think it would be a
mistake if we assigned such a responsibility
to such a commisssion. Nor should we expect
anything of that kind therefrom. In anticipation possibly of such impatience, I am glad to
see that we have the corrective force of members of the judiciary and members of the
legal profession as members of the commission, but at the same time two persons from
outside the legal profession. Always wanting
to be chivalrous, and remembering Senator
Fergusson, I certainly plump for the concept
that one of the two, if not of the lawyers or
judges, should be a lady, having regard to the
requirements of modern times.
Honourable senators, there is not much
more that I wish to say, other than, for the
purposes of the record and for those who read
my few remarks, in order that they may be
supplemented-although I do not want to
burden Hansard with it-to refer to one of
the most wonderful summaries dealing with
the codification of laws, which possibly
[Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud).]

May 28, 1970

directs itself a little more directly to what
Senator Martin referred, so that at least if
there is a codification of existing laws it
becomes much easier to bring about amendments thereto.
I have always been impressed by the introduction to the first edition of Halsbury's Laws
of England, where he briefly discusses the
evolution of laws in his erudite manner,
which in my opinion would be very helpful to
honourable senators here and to students and
professors who wish to correlate the thinking
of this house with the view of that great legal
mind.
Coming from the Province of Quebec, in
line with the thinking of the contributions of
the two great streams of leading thinkers, I
should like to put on record the wonderful
work on the Civil Code by the late Mr. Justice T. J. J. Loranger, in 1873, in which he
discussed the need for the codification of the
laws of Lower Canada caused by the multiplicity of various laws and the necessity of
reforms. More particularly, on page 13 of
that study he quotes the effective value of
customs and morals in the evolution of law.
Honourable senators, as you will see, I have
made no attempt to deal with the statutory
provisions of the act itself. They have been
dealt with ably and exhaustively by all the
other speakers, commencing with the Leader
of the Government (Hon. Mr. Martin) and
ending this afternoon with the very fruitful
remarks of Senator Fergusson. I have
attempted merely to introduce some component factors which, read with the observations heretofore, may give us an all round
view of the problem, of the necessity of
having such a commission, and for the justification we entertain that it will produce the
results that were held out for it.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: May I ask the honourable senator a question?
I have been interested in his remarks about
the two vacant places on the commission to
be filled by those other than lawyers. I wondered also whether he had any concern about
the qualification of the lawyers who will be
on the commission. As I understand it, they
have to have been members of the Bar for 10
years. From the little knowledge I have of
some of those who have been espousing
reform-thinking particularly in my own
Province of Ontario, Professor Friedman,
with respect to bail, Professor Linden and
others-I am not sure that they have been
members of the Bar for 10 years. Sometimes
with perhaps less service one does not become

May 28, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

engrained with the worship of the tablets of
the law.
Does the honourable senator feel that 10
years is a necessary qualification in each
case?
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): I have been
trying to say that 10 years is a desirable
qualification, because I think that during that
period you do not necessarily learn law but
you at least learn the pitfalls of the law. I
think it is probably more helpful to appreciate the pitfalls of the law than the law itself.
I am therefore in favour of at least that reasonable background. A qualification of more
than 10 years would be a bit troublesome,
because those members would probably have
to unlearn bad law.
Hon. J. Harper Prowse: Honourable senators, perhaps by way of congratulation to
those who have preceded me in this debate I
need say only that I rise to inject myself into
it with a great deal of hesitation because of
the large amount of work that has obviously
been put into the speeches already made. As
so much of the ground has been covered, I
shall try to limit what I have to say to some
aspects that I do not think have been covered,
but which should be kept in mind when we
consider the bill, and which certainly should
be pointed out to the public before we lead
them astray by too high expectations.
In explanation of what I mean by that last
phrase, let me say that when it was my privilege to be at the United Nations as an observer last October, one of the questions concerning the delegates was: Has the United Nations
failed? The general consensus of those who
are aware of what the United Nations as an
organization and through its sub-organizations has accomplished since 1945 is that it
has not deserved to be described as a failure.
It has had tremendous successes. But the idea
got abroad that the United Nations Organization had failed, not because of any shortcomings in the effectiveness of the organization
itself, but because of the expectations which
were raised in people's mind when it was first
set up which led them to believe and to
expect from this organization impossible
achievements.
So, honourable senators, by way of warning, let me say to you that while I think this
bill is a most useful instrument for making
the law more acceptable and more helpful to
our people, let us not betray ourselves or
those who listen to us into expecting that this
is going to produce overnight a perfect
system of justice.

1129

You heard the honourable Senator Phillips
(Rigaud) state that reform of the law is not a
modern concept. You have the codification of
the law by Hammurabi, by Solon, by Rome,
by Henry II, and by the Napoleonic Code. We
have today in Quebec their own derivation of
that Napoleonic Code. And yet, honourable
senators, there is across the country generally
as great if not greater discontent with the law
as such, as people feel its effects and as it
serves their purposes, than there is with any
other institution, including Parliament-and
God knows we come in for our full share of
criticism. Perhaps it is not without significance that very often the most telling argument made against politicians is that so many
of them are lawyers. And so when we find
ourselves in a position where these two things
are so universally condemned and so lightly
held, let us not blind ourselves to the weaknesses nor convince ourselves that there is
not a need for improvement. This bill intends
to provide a means, or a road, if you like, to
the improvement and greater acceptability of
the law.
Honourable senators, I do not think the
laws we have are as bad as they are sometimes branded, and I think in fairness you
must understand that always there are two
people who go into court, and both of them
felt they are aggrieved, and the only reason
they are both in court is because they both
think they are right. The court is asked to
decide by the application of the law which of
the two conflicting claims shall be vindicated.
So, of every two people who go into court, the
very best that can happen is that only one of
them will walk out contented. And if the
court should, as it often will, try to balance
the interests so that they give something to
one party and something to the other, neither
gets quite what he wanted. Then both people
walk out of court dissatisfied.
It follows therefore that the majority of
people who seek the assistance of our courts,
by virtue of the institution and the way it
operates must come out thinking that they
have not had what they thought they should
have when they went in. And because men
are no better than judges, my thinking is not
to blame myself for having expected too
much, but to blame the court for not having
given me what I unreasonably expected. That
is the situation so far as the courts of justice
are concerned.
People say they want justice. But what,
pray, is justice? When I was in law school,
a senior member of the Bar came down to
talk to us and he spoke to this effect:

1130

SENATE DEBATES

When you get out of here and start to practice law, you are going to hear a lot about a
"fair trial". Let me tell you right now that
you will soon learn that the last thing any
client of yours is ever going to want is a "fair
trial". He does not want an honest lawyer; he
wants the sharpest, smartest so-and-so around
to be his lawyer, and he wants the other
fellow to have the honest lawyer.
Now, if that advice was cynical-and I deliberately did not use the subjunctive there
because it obviously was a cynical statement-then it was at least realistic.
The cause of law reform in recent times
began, as has been pointed out, and was given
its greatest impetus by Mr. Justice Cardozo in
his paper on the subject in 1921. In 1934
Britain set up its law reform commission, and
in the same year the State of New York set
up its law reform commission. They functioned along the general lines proposed here.
One could argue in different ways as to how
the commission might or might not be set up,
but as far as the honourable Senator Fergusson's worry about discrimination against
women is concerned, I see nothing in this bill
which says that a woman cannot be appointed
to the commission. It seems to me that it
would be far more discriminatory to single
out women for special consideration or attention than to leave it open and not have such a
distinction mentioned at all, and thereby not
discriminate against anyone. This is something to which some consideration should perhaps be given.
Honourable senators, I do not know just
what this commission is going to be able to
accomplish in terms of the very broad objects
that have been given to it, and I do not think
that we ought to believe or allow anybody
else to believe that these objects are the
immediate objects of the commission; they
are really the goals towards which over a
long period of time the commission will continually strive. I say this because we will
never have a perfect system of justice, and I
submit to you that it is impossible as long as
we have imperfect men who must administer
and interpret our laws to meet all the conflicting requirements of all the people in a
society as diverse and numerous as our own.
Laws, after all, are no more than a codification and a spelling out of what in an ordinary
primitive community would be considered
good manners. And good manners are merely
codes of conduct which have been generally
accepted because it has been learned that by
following these, life for each individual
becomes more tolerable and more pleasant.
[Hon. Mr. Prowse.]

May 28, 1970

So when we set up laws we have two
demands. One is the demand of the public or
the individual citizen that the law shall be
understandable, and that it shall be flexible
so as to meet his changing needs from day to
day. On the other hand, you have the
demands of the lawyer that the law shall be
certain so that be can advise with certainty
and with confidence those who come to seek
his advice and guidance. Certainty and flexibility are the two ends of the pole. I think it
is a tribute to the systems we have that they
have been able to bring this about over a
period of time.
These are some of the problems with which
this commission will have to deal. The business of picking out and getting rid of the
obsolete laws will be no problem. The business of finding anomalies in the law will
probably be simplified for the commissioners
because they will probably be brought to their
attention by the courts themselves. But when
it comes to reconciling the interests of one
citizen with those of another, of one system of
law with that of another, then we shall need,
not six ordinary people but six Solomons. So,
let us keep in mind that they have a big job
to do, and that it is going to be done one step
at a time.
This commission could be set up in various
ways. As the honourable Senator Thompson
suggested, it could be composed of bright
young men from the universities, and they
could undoubtedly bring in reforms, but
whether they would be workable is a risk I
think we dare not take. The possibility of two
or three really bright and able young people
being on the commission is not excluded; neither is the right of the commission to hire
their services. However, I think it is absolutely vital, when we start to tinker with something as important as the law, whatever part
of the law we may be dealing with, that
before we start to change it, it should be
subjected to the hard-eyed scrutiny of coldblooded people who can appreciate what the
practical effect of the changes will be and
will not be blinded by some roseate and
theoretical dream.
It would be good if the law could be simple,
because every individual cannot be a lawyer.
On the other hand, the law must be clear
enough so that the certainty is there that it
can be interpreted. The trouble with simple
language is that too often it can be interpreted as meaning precisely what the person who
listens to it wants to believe. That is why you
must have technical language in the law, in
order to reduce it to a clearly understandable

May 28, 1970

DEBATES
May 28 1970SENATE

rule which will mean the saine thing to al achieving something close to the desire of the
people, that from aur legal system they flot
who read it.
One of the tbings I hope the commission only have the right to expect but will obtain,
wiil not do is suddenly ta decide that a codifi- as of right, coxnmon, simple justice.
cation of any part of the law wil salve al
Hon. Lionel Choquetie: Honourable senaaur prabiems. It wouid simplify things for a tors, on behaif of Senator Grosart, I move the
lawyer, but I am not sure it wouid make adjournment of this debate.
things better for anyone else.
Before this motion is put ta the house, may
At this stage of the game let me say this, I say that in this debate on the motion for the
that certainly in the Common Law provinces second reading of Bull C-186 we have heard
we awe a debt not ta the law but ta the jury since yesterday Senator Carter, Senatar Dessystem, because always present as a common- ruisseaux, Senator Fergusson, Senator Philsense, cammon denominator, levelling out dif- lips (Rigaud), and just now Senator Prowse. I
ferences, was the fact that at any tirne in any do not have ta point out that thase honaurakmnd of trial you could have a jury and you ble senators do not sit an this side of the
did not need ta depend on a judge. Depending chamber--except Senator Desruisseaux, who
on which province you were in, or the time or is always welcome.
the kind of trial you had, you could take six
During the twelve years I have been a
or twelve, but generally twelve, ordinary, 1ev- member of this house it has been a weliel-headed taxpayers and businessmen, bring known custom ta allot the time for debate
them into court, sit them dawn, put the facts f airly. We an this side were ready ta move
ta them and say, "Ail right, what do you the adjouTnment of this debate, but we were
think?" They told yau, and they were very nat given the opportunity. I know that there
seldom wrong.
is probably a valid reason why the usual twa
One morning soon after I had started ta Whips on the opposite side are not present,
practice law, I was driving an aider lawyer but thîs could have been arranged.
downtown who was one of the mast highly
Senator Gros art, who wanted ta, speak on
regarded men in the province. He asked me, Item No. 2 on the Order Paper, had ta leave
"How are you getting along, Harper?" I ta attend a meeting af the Special Joint Camreplied, "Not bad." I said I was warking hard, mittee an the Constitution of Canada at 3.30
but no matter haw hard I worked on a case I o'clack, as he did yesterday, and that is why
had the fear that maybe lurking somewhere hie is nat present. Before he left he told me
there is a case I have missed, and that the that it had been agreed that he would be
other fellow will clobber me with it the given an opportunity ta speak on the second
moment I go into court. He laughed, and then item an the Order Paper. If such an underhie cautioned me in this way. The day you do taking cannat be carried out, then it ought
not wake up with that fear, you will no not ta have been given.
longer have any right ta practise iaw, because
I do not want ta use language that is
every goad lawyer must live with that fear unduly harsh, but same honourable senators
every day of his if e. Let me give you a word an this side of the house, considering aur
of comfort. When you have a prablem, get al smali number, regard this as almost a
the facts. Then get away, sit dawn, sort them discourtesy.
out and ask yourself, "Is this the factual
Han. Mr. Prowse: Honourable senatars, 1
situation I ought ta have?" Then, when you
you have the clear, factual situation rise on a question of privilege because I arn
are sure
in front of you, ask yourself the question, the senator who spoke iast and who presuma"What does my common sense tell me the bly put out Senator Grosart. I shouid like ta
answer ta this aught ta be?" Then, do not say that I have been prepared ta speak in this
worry about it, because ninety-nine times out debate since Tuesday night, but have stood
of a hundred, and probably ninety-nine and aside. I was prepared to stand aside and wait
nine-tenths times out of a hundred, you wWl until next week, and I rose only after I had
find precedents in the law ta back up what been informed that Senator Grosart had
should
your instincts have told you. That was his chosen not ta speak this afternoon. I in this
like the record completely straight
advice ta me.
regard.
That is what aur iaws have accompiished ta
Hon. Mr. Choquetie: Senator Grosart chose
date, let us not forget it, and let us not sel
the existîng laws short. Let us nat apalogize ta speak an Order No. 2, but he did not want
for samething that needs no apology. Let us ten senators ta go ahead of him before hie had
recognize this as an enlightened step towards that opportunity.
22481-22

1132

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Smith: Honourable senators, I do
not think we should quarrel over this matter.
As one who has temporary responsibility for
the orderly despatch of our business I want to
say that there must have been some major
misunderstandings. We were quite conscious
of the fact that Senator Grosart was anxious
to speak on Bill C-193 after Senator Fergusson, who adjourned this debate last night, had
completed her speech.
While we were listening to the very fine
speech of Senator Phillips (Rigaud), and at
Senator Martin's suggestion, I passed a note
to Senator Prowse who had previously
indicated he would like to speak in the
debate. As he said, he had been prepared to
speak earlier, but he told me that it was
perfectly all right and that he would be glad
to go on next week. I had not had time to
resume my seat before I got another message
from my leader saying that Senator Grosart
had indicated he would not speak today in
any case, so I went back to Senator Prowse
and asked him to go ahead.
So that there will be no misunderstanding,
let me say that I had no intimation, as Acting
Whip on this side, that anyone other than
Senator Aseltine was prepared to speak on
this particular motion. Perhaps that was the
source of this trouble. I crossed the floor of
the bouse a while ago and asked Senator
Aseltine when he would like to speak. He
informed me that he would be prepared to do
so on Tuesday, and I undertook that, if he
were not in his seat, I would move on his
behalf that the debate be adjourned.

May 28, 1970

I am surprised that there has been so much
misunderstanding and I certainly regret if
there is any accusation directed at me or at
anyone on this side of being unfair. Certainly,
it was not deliberate.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Aseltine, debate
adjourned.
CANADA-UNITED STATES INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP
THIRTEENTH

ANNUAL MEETING-DEBATE
CONTINUED

The Senate resumed from Wednesday, May
6, the adjourned debate on the inquiry of
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud) calling the attention of the Senate to the Thirteenth Meeting
of the Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group held at Washington, Cape Kennedy, Houston and San Antonio, 10th to 15th
March, 1970.
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators,
this motion has been standing in my name for
some time, on behalf of one or two senators
who had indicated they would like to speak
to it. Perhaps you would be good enough to
consider these remarks of mine now as being
my speech. I would ask that the debate be
adjourned in the name of Senator Nichol,
who will be prepared to speak early next
week.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Smith for Hon. Mr.
Nichol, debate adjourned.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, June
2, at 8 p.m.

13
1133

DEBATES
2,1970SENATE
June

June 2, 1970

CANADA SHIPPING ACT (PILOTAGE)

THE SENATE
Tuesday, Juno 2. 1970

BILL TO AMEND AN ACT TO AMENDFIRST READING

Hon. Paul Martin presented Bill S-23, to
The Senate met at 8 p.m., the Speaker in postpone the expiration of certain provisions
the Chair.
of an Act to Amend the Canada Shipping Act.
Prayers.
Bill read first time.
EXPROPRIATION BILL
CONCURRENCE

BY COMMONS
AMENDMENT

IN

SENATE

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that a message had been received from the
House of Commons to acquaint the Senate
that they have agreed to the amendment
made by the Senate to Bill C-136, respecting
the expropriation of land, without any
amendinent.
DOCUMENTS TABLED

Hon. Mr. Martin moved that the bull be
placed on the Orders of the Day for second
reading on Thursday next.
Motion agreed to.
DIVORCE
PETITION FOR BILL TO ANNUL RESOLUTIONREPORT 0F COMMITTEE

Han. Earl W. Urquhart, Acting Chairman of
the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs to which was referred
Resolution No. 2 adopted by the Senate on
November 26, 1969, presented the report of
the committee.

Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Statutory Orders and Regulations published in the Canada Gazette, Part II, of
The report was read by the ClerJc Assistant
Wednesday, May 27, 1970, pursuant to as follous:
section 7 of the Regulations Act, chapter
The Senate Standing Committee on
235, R.S.C., 1952.
Legal and Constitutional Aiffairs, to
Report on the Operations of the
which was referred the petition of Laura
Exchange Fund Account, together with
Eileen Margaret Bamford Hashim, prayStatement certified by the
the Financial
ing for the passing of an Act to annul
Auditor General, for the year ended
Resolution numbered 2 adopted by the
December 31, 1969, pursuant to sections
Senate November 26, 1969, dissolving the
26 and 27(2) of the Currency, Mint and
marriage between Laura Elleen Margaret
Exchange Fund Act, chapter 315, R.S.C.,
Bamford Hashim and Robert Hashim,
1952.
which petition and a draft bill based
Capital Budget of the Northern Canada
thereon were filed with the Clerk of the
Power Commission for the fiscal year
Parliaments on December 22, 1969, in
ending March 31, 1971, pursuant to secaccordance with subsection (2) of section
tion 80(2) of the Financial Administration
2 of the Dissolution and Annulment of
together
Act, chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952,
Marriages Act, chapter 10 of the statutes
with copy of Order in Coundil P.C 1970of 1963, has, pursuant to the order of
878, dated May 14, 1970, approving saie.
reference of Apnil 22, 1970, examined the
Summary of the main amendments to
said petition and draft bill and now
the Canada Elections Act included in Bill
C-215, An Act respecting the franchise of
reports as follows:
electors and the election of members to
1. The committee has caused to be
the House of Commons.
examined the proceedings and the tranon Proceedings under the
Report
script of evidence in the matter of the
Industrial Relations and Disputes Investipetition of Robert Hashiin praying for a
gation Act for the fiscal year ended
Resolution of the Senate dissolving bis
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 68 of
marriage to Laura Eileen Margaret Barnthe said Act, chapter 152, R.S.C., 1952.
ford Hashim, and has afforded a full
relating to the Administration
Report
opportunity to the counsel of record to be
of the Farmers' Creditors Arrangement
heard and to make submissions with
Act for the fiscal year ended March 31,
respect to the present petition and the
1970, pursuant to section 41(2) of the said
draft bill based thereon. Both counsel
Act, chapter 111, R.S.C., 1952.
22481-22J

SENATE DEBATES

concede that the marriage in question has
completely broken down beyond any
hope of reconciliation.
2. After careful consideration, the committee is of the opinion that there exists
no meritorious basis or justification for
the passage of an Act of Parliament for
the annulment of the Resolution of the
Senate dissolving the marriage between
Laura Eileen Margaret Bamford Hashim
and Robert Hashim.
3. It is therefore recommended that the
present petition and the draft bill based
thereon be not further proceeded with
and that the matter be disposed of
accordingly.

June 2, 1970

CRIMINAL RECORDS BILL
THIRD READING
Hon. Sarto Fournier moved the third reading of Bill C-5 to provide for the relief of
persons who have been convicted of offences
and have subsequently rehabilitated themselves.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time
and passed.
LAW REFORM COMMISSION BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE CONTINUED
The Senate resumed from Thursday, May
28, the adjourned debate on the motion of

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable sena- Hon. Mr. Martin, for the second reading of
tors, when shall this report be taken into Bill C-186, to establish a commission for the
consideration?
reform of the laws of Canada.
Hon. Mr. Urquhart: Honourable senators, I
Hon. Waller M. Asel±ine: Honourable senamove that this report be taken into considera- tors, I am afraid that my remarks with
tion at the next sitting of the Senate, and I respect to this bill will be more or less of a
ask leave that its consideration be Item No. 1 controversial nature.
on the Order Paper.
Hon. Edgar Fournier: For my benefit as a
layman, would the honourable senator who
presented this motion explain, in French or
English, the purpose of the report?
Hon. Mr. Smith: It is being proceeded with
tomorrow, not tonight.
The Hon. the Speaker: I understand that
this report will be taken under consideration
tomorrow. At that time it will be open to all
honourable senators to discuss it or ask for
further information.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche): I am satisfied, Mr. Speaker.
Motion agreed to.
BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
COMMITTEE
AUTHORITY TO MEET DURING SITTINGS OF
THE SENATE

Hon. Donald Smith with leave of the
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(l)(a),
moved:
That the Standing Senate Committee
on Banking, Trade and Commerce have
power to sit while the Senate is sitting on
Wednesday, June 3, and Thursday, June
4, 1970, and that Rule 76(4) be suspended
in relation thereto.
Motion agreed to.
[Hon. Mr. Urquhart.]

I have not consulted anyone, and what I
have to say will be absolutely my own views.
I have read all the speeches on this
measure delivered in the other place, as well
as the printed proceedings of their Standing
Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs. Also,
I have been able to listen to several of the
speeches delivered in the Senate on this
measure, and have read carefully the other
speeches which I was unable to hear by
reason of being absent while attending to
committee work outside the Senate chamber.
As a result I had to come to the conclusion,
much to my concern, that among those who
have spoken up to the present time there is
almost unanimous approval for the setting up

of such a commission, similar to the law
reform commissions that have been established in Great Britain, New Zealand and

other countries, as well as in some of the
Canadian provinces. I will have more to say
on that feature later in my remarks.
I have also read the bill carefully and wish
to refer to the following provisions.
1. The membership of the commission shall
consist of a chairman and vice-chairman and
two other full-time members appointed for a
term not exceeding seven years. Also there
would be two part-time members appointed
for a term not exceeding three years. All such
members are eligible for reappointment in the
same or another capacity. It is also provided,
as has already been said by the other speak-

June 2. 1970

June 2 1970SENATE
DEBATES

ers, that the chairman, vice-chairman and the
fuli-time members must devote their full trne
ta the performance of their duties.
2. There will be a secretary and a full staff
of such other secretaries,
officers and
ernployees as are necessary to properly conduct the work of the commission, and proper
quarters will be provided in which to carry
on that work.
3. The commission will be empowered ta
engage the services of persons having technical or specialized knowledge to assist them i
the work.
4. Superannuation is provided for ail the
fuli-time members of the commission as well
as for the secretaries and staff generaliy.
5. 1 shall not go into the objects of the
commission or its powers and duties except ta
say that these matters are quite fuily developed in sections il and 12 of the bill, and are
very extensive and will cost a great deal of
money.
6. By section 19 of the bill ail amounts
required for the purposes of the act, including
salaries of members, travelling expenses and
ail other expenses of the administration shahl
be paid out of the rnoneys appropriated by
Parliament theref or. This means that the full
cost of everything in connection with the
commission wbich is ta be set up will be
borne by the Canadian taxpayer.
Honourable senators, if this bil is passed
and pro claimed and the commission is established, it must be borne in mind that the
duration of the commission is not fully established. As I read the bill, the commission
carnies on and on indefinitely and a fabulous
amount of money will be required ta caver
the cost of its operations.
Strange as it may seem, no speaker in
either bouse bas referred i any manner
whatsoever ta what this law reforrn commission is likely ta cost the Canadian Government. Tbat is the real reason why I arn
speaking this evening. I have f elt it my duty
ta try ta find out the appraximate cost, knowing as I do that royal commissions and other
commissions such as the one in question frequently cost double or more than double the
original estimate. Before we vote on this bill,
we sbould have ail the available information
possible as ta what it wull cost the ratepayers
of this country.

expense of operating the law reformn commission,' at tbe beginning, as follows:
(1) Salaries of commissioners, $180,000;
(2) Secretary ta the commission, $20,000;
(3) Secretaries ta commissioners and ta the
secretary ta tbe commission-five at $7,O00
each-$35,OO;
(4) Support staff of three persans, at $6,00O
each, $18,000;
(5) Research, $25,000.
Tbis hast item covers tbe work ta be done
by the experts on specific prajects and the
research ta be done by the part-time commissianers. Tbe total of the items which I have
given is $278,000.
I understand that the department has
included $250,000 in the Estimates for the
current financial year ta be applied on
expenses of this commission.
From tbe above figures we can readlly see
tbat $250,000 will not be enough, and that
tbey have already oversbot their budget. Not
anly are tbey over their estimate, but i my
opinion even $278,000 is nat a realistic figure.
Thaugh I sbould like to believe that the
support staff will remain as small as the
department bas indicated, I arn too familiar
witb Parkinsan's law ta believe that thîs will
long remain the case. Also, the $25,00O set
aside far research seems somewhat inadequate. Therefore, I foresee a major increase
in that area, about whicb I wiIl say more
later.
Furthermore, the department does not seem
ta take inta cansideration a few other items
which are likely ta cost a significant amount
of money, namely, office space, office supplies
and travel and living expenses. In respect of
office space, even if the commissian is boused
in departmental offices and no extra cost is
incurred, in my opinion rent for office space
must stili be cansidered in the total cost.
Office supplies would include furnishings,
clerical supplies, printing and mailing and so
on. The travel and living expenses would be
for the part-time cammissioners and anyone
else brought i for consultation.
To summarize, I think I bave estabhished
that the figure of $250,000 is too low. Even
the figure of $278,0O0 is obviously an underestimate, because it does flot take into consideration certain necessary expenditures. The
department also takes it for granted that cerHon. Mr. Choquette: Hear, bear.
tain other conditions are permanent. That
Han. Mr. Aselline: Honourable senators, seems ta me ta be unwise. As everyone
fromn the information I have received the knows, government projects have the nasty
Government department estimates the annual habit of growing almost uncontrollably.

SENATE DEBATES
I understand that the Government plans to
ask for an extra $100,000 to operate the commission in the next fiscal year. Incidentally,
that is what I was referring to a moment ago
when I said I would be dealing with that
point at a later stage in my address.
In my opinion, honourable senators, a conservative estimate of the real cost of this
commission would be in the neighbourhood of
half a million dollars per annum; and over
the years the total cost would run to many
millions of dollars, because, as I stated a
moment ago, there is no lime limit. The commission may go on indefinitely.
I should like now to give some other reasons why we should not pass this bill. As I
have already stated, a great amount of money
will be required to put this commission into
operation and to maintain it. I suggest, therefore, that it would be a serious mistake for
Parliament to pass and implement such a
measure while we are desperately trying to
carry on and win the battle against inflation.
When the federal Government, the provincial
governments and the municipal governments,
as well as other spending bodies and institutions, are curtailing and cutting expenditures
to the bone, for the federal Government to set
a bad example by going ahead with this law
reform legislation at this time is beyond my
comprehension.
Moreover, in my opinion we have the best
laws of any country in the world. Of course
no one believes that our laws are perfect. But
I have practised the profession of law for
more than fifty years and have found our
laws, both provincial and federal, generally
satisfactory.
I am all for law reform when it is deemed
to be necessary and urgent; however, I am
not in favour of spending the vast sums of
money that will be required to implement the
provisions of Bill C-186. I firmly believe that
any urgent reforms can be dealt with by Parliament-including the revision of the Criminal Code mentioned by several speakers as
being very important and more or less urgent.
We revised the Criminal Code once before, and
we can do it again. Not long ago Parliament
dealt fully with the revision and redrafting of
our divorce laws-something that no law
reform commission or royal commission could
have accomplished. A few years ago, Parliament also revised the shipping laws, and it is
quite capable of dealing with any law reforms
that require immediate attention.
Over the weekend I had the opportunity to
do some travelling around this part of the
[Hon. Mr. Aseltine.]

June 2, 1970

Province of Ontario, and on several occasions
I discussed matters relating to and the reasons
for Bill C-186. These discussions took place
with people who wanted to know what the
bill was all about. I told them as much as I
could remember about it. In reply I learned
that the man in the street does not want
Parliament to spend all the money that will
be necessary if this bill is passed. I was told
quite plainly that Canada has 265 Members of
Parliament, many of them distinguished lawyers, and 102 senators, when all vacancies are
filled, many of whom are skilled in the law. I
was told that senators and members of the
Commons were summoned and elected
respectively to pass laws, to alter laws or to
revise laws and were quite capable of doing
so, and that they certainly did not need a law
reform commission to tell them what to do
and how to do it.
Honourable senators, I agree with that conclusion. Personally, I am against the passing
of any measure of this kind without further
and thorough investigation.
Great Britain and New Zealand have been
mentioned in the course of this debate, but
I would point out that those countries have
no provinces to deal with as we have in
Canada. Therefore, what they have done and
are now doing does not of necessity apply to
Canada.
So, honourable senators, for the reasons I
have mentioned, I feel that we should not in
any event commit ourselves to the spending
of so much money at the present time.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Langlois, debate
adjourned.
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES ACT
BILL

TO

READINGAMEND-SECOND
DEBATE ADJOURNED

Leave having been given to proceed to
Order No. 14.
The Senate resumed from Thursday, May
21, the adjourned debate on the motion of
honourable Senator Robichaud, for the second
reading of Bill C-193, to amend the Industrial
Research and Development Incentives Act.
Hon. Allister Grosart: Honourable senators,
the bill before us consists of some more or
less straightforward amendments to the
Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act, as changes have become necessary
in the three or four years during which this
act has been in operation.

June 2, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Robichaud has given the chamber a
thorough explanation of the amendments as
they relate to the purposes of the act, and
also as this act relates to some other incentive
programs presently in operation under the
federal spending power.
As I say, the amendments are mostly of a
housekeeping nature. First, clause 1 deals
with the question of associated companies,
which has come up during the operation of
the act, and permits the benefits of the act to
be extended to companies that have become
associated where they are dealing at arm's
length.
Clause 2 confines eligible expenditures
under PAIT and DIPP-which I will mention
in a moment, although the bill does not mention them specifically-to actual expenditures
on any particular firm's upgrading of its
scientific technological capability.
Clause 3 deals with another situation that
bas arisen, that of amalgamated companies,
and clarifies the definition of the basic fiveyear period from which current incremental
expenditures may be claimed.
Clause 4, the last amending clause of the
bill, deals with a situation where a new
owner has taken over a firm which already
bas an incentive grant. It provides that the
grant will be continued if used for the purpose specified in the original grant.
Those of us who have been members of the
Senate Special Committee on Science Policy
have some familiarity with these various federal Government incentive programs, all of
which at the moment are either under the
Department of Industry, Trade and Commerce
or the Department of National Defence.
For a moment I would like to mention the
programs because I will be referring to them
in my remarks. There are five main programs, all of which were mentioned by
Senator Robichaud in his introduction. There
is IRDIA, which is what the set of amendments before us is concerned with, the Industrial Research and Development Incentives
Act. There is one known in the jargon of the
trade as IRAP, the Industrial Research Assistance Program. There is PAIT, the Program
for the Advancement of Industrial Technology; DIRP, the Defence Industrial Research
Program; and DIPP, the Defence Industry
Productivity Program.
By and large, these programs are operated
by the Department of Industry, Trade and
Commerce, in one case for the department by
NRC and in the final case by the Department
of National Defence.

1137

There are some other programs perhaps
worth mentioning which, although not
directly concerned with research and developments incentive in industry, are nevertheless more or less in the same category.
There is one known as GAAP, the General
Adjustment Assistance Program, whose purpose is to assist firms which have found
themselves with problems as a result of the
Kennedy Round revision. There is AAAP,
which has much the same purpose in respect
to the automotive agreement. There is IDAP,
which is a new program providing funding
for industrial design activities on the part of
corporations in Canada; and a final one, again
recently instituted, generally known as
BEAMP, dealing with Building Equipment
and Accessories and Material Program.
I refer to these programs generally because
when we look at them together we find some
rather serious problems arising in connection
with the distribution of these funds, particularly in relationship to regional disparities.
As Senator Robichaud has pointed out,
however, all the programs have been
increased this year in spite of the general
curtailment of federal Government expenditures. The three main programs have
increased this year from $76.8 million to $87.8
million. This gives us a total of just under
$100 million-$99.7 million-for all five main
industrial research incentive programs of the
Government.
Those of us who are active on the Science
Policy Committee are naturally concerned
with the main question as to whether, by
comparison with what is being done in other
countries, this is enough to keep Canada in its
rightful place in the international science and
technology race.
We all know the tendency today is that a
substantial increase in any national share of
world markets is likely to be in industries
which are technologically innovative. Of
course, there is some doubt at the moment as
to whether Canadian industry could absorb
much more than this $100 million of the total
funding from the federal Treasury. On the
other hand, I say to honourable senators,
again as a result of evidence some of us have
heard, that there is serious doubt as to
whether we are doing enough in Canada in
this whole field of innovative technology to
keep our place in world markets.
A recent report of the OECD in Paris
placed Canada at the bottom of the list in
technological innovation of the ten major
countries who are competitors with us in

1138

1138
~SENATE DEBATES

world markets. I suggest this has very serious
possible consequences for the future of Canada
in world markets and, indeed, in the domestic
market.
It is rather an oddity that the second from
the bottom of that list is Japan, which, over
the last few years has made greater advances
by far in G.N.P. increment than any other
country in the world. The answer to that
seems to be that Japan up to now, although it
is rapidly changing its policy, has depended
largely on imported technology. This raises
the very serious question of whether we in
Canada should not be concentrating more on
imnporting and using the technological development of other countries rather than trying
too hard to develop new technological innovations at home.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Will the honourable senator permit a question?
Hon. Mr. Grosar±: Yes, certainly.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): I think the
information hie has given us is very important, but I should like to know whether it
relates to actual dollars spent, or per capita
expenditure, or G.N.P.
Hon. Mr. Grosar±: The CECD report is a
very comprehensive report and sets out a
whole series of judgment values, but the conclusion is not based on any one particular
component of innovation. It is net based
entirely on federal Government funding. It is
not based even on criteria of performance. It
is a general assessment of the on-going
innovative technological capacity that the
OECD examiners found in any particular
country.
Hon. Mr. Lamonlagne: They relate this to
about ten factors.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Senator Lamontagne,
who of course follows the OECD reports very
closely, says that it uses ten factors. I am
quite sure that that is correct. I said that
there were a number of factors, and I will
take Senator Lamontagne's statement that
there were ten.
We are examining an amendment to one
particular act, IRDIA, which is the flagship
program of the federal Government. If we
relate the federal Government's incentive
spending in this area to the other programs,
honourable senators, I suggest that we find
some rather disturbing consequences. For
example, in the last year of record of applications, which is 1967, 42.3 per cent of the
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

June
1970
Jn 2,,17

applicants were subsidiaries of United States
companies. Another 3.5 per cent were other
foreign-owned subsidiaries, and another 10
per cent were wholly-owned foreign companies. This gives us a total of over 55 per cent
of the total Canadian fecleral Government
funding going to, foreign-owned companies. I
am not for one moment saying that there is
anything intrinsically wrong with this,
because the evidence we have is that subsidiaries of foreign-owned companies in the
research and development area are behaving
every bit as well as Canadian companies, but
it is a bit of a paradox that this large percentage of the Canadian Government's incentive funding should be going to non-Canadian
companies.

Most of the money is going to very large
companies. Companies with 5,000 employees
or more, which are those companies in the
large class in Canada, obtained more than 61
per cent of the total funding. I am still using
1967 figures. Companies in the small business
category-that is companies with less than
250 employees-received only 10 per cent.
I suggest, honourable senators, that this is
something that the Government should bo
looking at rather more carefully than it
appears te be doing at the moment. The large
companies, of course, are able to benefit in
many ways under this program becausre they
have in many cases a fairly large roesearch
and development activity. The tendency of
the Government, of course, is te put the
money where the action is, but, on the other
hand, if we are going to develop the kind of
economy it would seem we must develop in
relation to other countries, then I suggest that
very serious consideration be given to lessening this great disparity that exists between
the weight of federal funding that is given to
very large companies and that which is given
to the new, small and developing companies.
As the members of the Special Committee
on Science Policy found out in its examination of this question in Europe, a very important part of the answer to national innovative
capacity is the development of a small company into a big company. This bas happened
over and over again in Europe, in Japan, and
in a restricted way in Canada. We have at
least two outstanding examples of small comnpanies that have developed into large companies, and in each case with not very much
help from the federal Government.
Another disturbing aspect of the totality of
the distribution of this amount of roughly
$100 million is that most of it is going to

June 2, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Ontario and Quebec. The latest figures I
have-and I am sorry that they are not
entirely up to date-show that 92.2 per cent
of the total went to Ontario and Quebec, with
Quebec receiving 47.4 per cent, and Ontario
44.8 per cent. Comparing that with the rest of
the country, we find that British Columbia
received 4.8 per cent, Alberta 1.8 per cent,
and the rest of the provinces less than one
per cent each. The situation is particularly
disturbing in relation to the Atlantic provinces. All of the Atlantic provinces received
in the last year of record a mere 1.1 per cent
of the main federal Government incentive
programs for industry in Canada.
The answer that would be given immediately, of course, is that these are incentive
programs for established industry, and therefore the money bas to go where there are
established industries. This raises the question of whether this kind of concept of funding is increasing the already existing disparity. I suggest to honourable senators that the
departments concerned-Industry, Trade and
Commerce and National Defence-should
inject into their planning much more of the
concept of regional equalization, because it
has been shown in other countries that it is
not merely enough for the federal Government, or the state, to fund those industries
which are already successful. In a federal
country such as Canada, where we have a
problem of regional disparities, it would seem
to be a major responsibility for those planning these programs to consider changes in
the conceptual values of these programs to
make sure that we are not perpetuating existing disparities between various regions of
Canada.
If there is any doubt as to the importance
of the funding of technological innovation, I
need only quote Senator Robichaud who, in
his excellent speech on the subject, said:
Thus it is essential that sufficient funds
be allocated to research and development
by Canadian industry to ensure that the
technological capability of our industries
is fully developed and exploited.
Senator Robichaud, of course, was speaking
of the overall picture from his very wide
general knowledge of the subject, but I suggest that that statement applies equally to the
situation in the so-called "have-not" provinces.
Again the Minister of Industry, Trade and
Commerce, Mr. Pepin, in speaking of the total

concept in industrial research and development incentives from his department had this
to say:
We have a basic creed with respect to
these industrial programs, Mr. Chairman.
The first article of that creed, pretty
obvious to everybody, is that an innovative industry is essential to sustain economic growth.
Again I say, honourable senators, that
applies not only to Canada as a whole, but to
every region of Canada. We do not have evidence in the figures that we have in the operation of these programs that the relationship
of this creed, the essential creed of the
department, has been applied equally in al
parts of Canada.
Honourable senators, these are a few
aspects of the program that I feel should be
examined very carefully by a Senate committee. Senator Robichaud told us that this bill
would be sent to the Standing Senate Conmittee on Health, Welfare and Science, a
committee with a hodge-podge name which I
personally deplore.
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: I did say it was my
intention after second reading to move that
this bill be referred to the Standing Senate
Committee on Health, Welfare and Science.
However, after further consultation and
advice I must change that statement.
My intention is to move that the bill be
referred to the Standing Senate Committee on
Banking, Trade and Commerce, which I
believe to be the appropriate committee to
scrutinize such a bill.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I thank the honourable
Senator Robichaud for the correction. I was
taking the statement on his introduction of
the bill for second reading at its face value. I
understand that under strict interpretation of
our rules it is possible to refer this bill to
either one of those committees. My own
suggestion would be that Senator Robichaud
was right before he had second thoughts
because, as I have indicated, this bill deals
entirely with national science policy, the federal funding of science, and I am at a loss to
understand why it should not go to the
Standing Senate Committee on Health, Welfare and Science, under the chairmanship of
the distinguished chairman of the Senate Special Committee on Science Policy, Senator
Lamontagne.
With respect to Senator Robichaud, I would
think this is a mistaken second thought. The

1140

SENATE DEBATES

Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce is an excellent committee and I am sure that if it is the decision to
send the bill to that committee it will get
careful consideration. However, I would be
inclined to think it will not get the scientific
consideration it would get in the other
committee.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Smith, debate
adjourned.
ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT ACT
BILL C-62

(PERTH)-SECOND

READING

Hon. Allister Grosari moved the second
reading of Bill C-62, respecting the Electoral
Boundaries Readjustment Act.
He said: Honourable senators, you may
wonder-as indeed may members of the other
place-why this matter, which deals entirely
with the name of a House of Commons constituency, should be before the Senate at this
time, particularly in view of the fact that
under the bill to which this motion relates the
House of Commons originally exercised its
own privileges and exclusive prerogative in
the matter with which this bill deals.
Honourable senators will recall the rather
complicated procedure by which redistribution of seats was made. Commissioners were
appointed. They reported and their recommendations were put before the Speaker of
the House of Commons and by him laid
before that house. There was then a period of
30 days in which objections such as the one
we have Lefore us might be made.
Perhaps by an omission of draftsmanship,
no provision was then made by which further
objections to the recommendations of the
commissioners in respect to naming of boundaries could be determined by the House of
Commons. Some honourable senators may
feel that this is an anomaly, that a bill dealing so exclusively with the matter of the
privileges of the House of Commons should at
this time be before the Senate. Indeed, I
would suggest to the honourable Leader of
the Government that he might wish to recommend to his colleagues that an amendment be
made to section 20 of the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, whereby provision
might be made for the handling of such
changes as this by the House of Commons
itself, without necessarily putting it before
the Senate.
Hon.

Mr.

Martin:

B.N.A. Act?
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.1

Notwithstanding

June 2, 1970

Hon. Mr. Grosart: With due respect to the
comment by the Leader of the Government, I
doubt if the B.N.A. Act is involved here. This
deals at the moment only with the naming of
a constituency. The bill before us, the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, gave the
full authority to the House of Commons
within the 30-day limit that I have mentioned, to put before the representation commissioner, and the commissioners as then
appointed, any objections they might have.
As honourable senators will recall, the
actual draft recommendations by the commissioners were not then referred to this house.
The matter was completely finalized in the
House of Commons, and I presume at that
time the question of any conflict with the
British North America Act was resolved. The
reason, of course, is that this was before the
expiration of the 30-day limit. We are not
now dealing with the act itself, because this is
not an amendment to the act. It is an amendment to a part of the schedule of the proclamation under the act. The right to proclaim
the electoral divisions and the names of the
divisions was reserved for the Governor in
Council. That is why we are now dealing with
a proclamation under the act-in effect, I suppose, an amendment to the act.
This amendment in Bill C-62 is a case in
point. It deals with the constituency that the
representation commissioners in their wisdom
named "Perth". It is now desired to change
that name to "Perth-Wilmot", Perth being a
well-known county in Ontario and Wilmot
being a township in the neighbouring county
of Waterloo. It is an important part of the
new constituency, the member being the very
distinguished the Honourable Waldo Monteith, P.C.
There are a number of amendments before
us which, I think, all fall into the same general category. Again I would suggest for consideration of the Leader of the Government that
he might wish to discuss with his colleagues
whether there might be a better way of handling this than bringing it before the Senate.
Hon. Mr. Bourget: In asking the Leader of

the Senate to consult with his colleagues, does
the honourable senator mean that any amendment respecting electoral boundaries and the
Electoral
Boundaries
Readjustment
Act
should be introduced in the other place, and
only in the other place, and that the Senate
the should have nothing to do with the amendments introduced in the other place?

June 2, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Croll: For the record, I recall ten
years ago sponsoring a bill for Mr. Nielsen of
the north country to change the name of his
Hon. Mr. Bourget: That is the reason for constituency. It came here from the other
my question.
place even before the present act was passed,
so nothing has really changed, except a very
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I again point out that nice speech yesterday.
this is not an amendment to the Electoral
Boundaries Readjustment Act. This is merely
Hon. Mr. Grosart: If the honourable senator
an amendment to part of a schedule of the is addressing a question to me, I would say
proclamation under the act. My point was that that a great deal has changed. We have an
in the 30-day period before the new constitu- entirely new system. Under the old act the
encies came into force by proclamation, the procedure he mentions was quite proper,
other place had the privilege of deciding the because, as the Leader of the Government
boundaries and the names of its own constitu- suggested, under the old act we were dealing
encies. I am limiting my remarks to that with the restrictions of the British North
particular situation. I see some honourable America Act. I merely suggest that at this
senators shake their heads. May I give my time as a senator I would be very happy to
own view of the matter, which I have studied see the other place have the right and privirather briefly?
lege to decide the boundaries and names of
The act with which we are dealing appoint- their own constituencies.
ed commissioners following the 1961 census. It
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
gave these commissioners authority, with cerThe Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senatain qualifications-information from D.B.S.,
the Secretary of State, and so on, and within tors, when shall this bill be read the third
the numbers of members assigned to each time?
province-to come back to the other place
Hon. Mr. Grosart moved that the bill be
and recommend the constituencies, the boundfor third
aries and the names in future. That recom- placed on the Orders of the Day
mendation was made to the Speaker, who was reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.
required by the act to lay it on the Table of
the other place. The members of the other
place were given 30 days to object. If they did
BILL C-75 (SARNIA)-SECOND READING
not object, the representation order was
Hon. David A. Croll moved the second
automatically proclaimed under section 23 of
the act. If there was an objection, it could be reading of Bill C-75, respecting the Electoral
raised only if 10 members of the other place Boundaries Readjustment Act.
He said: Honourable senators, I should just
supported it, and the matter then went back
to the representation commissioner, and like to give a short explanation of the purpose of this bill. The very active and compethrough him to the commissioners.
member
Jack
It has always surprised me that the other tent asked me from the district,bill to Cullen,
change
to sponsor this
has
place completely abdicated its authority,
the name of the constituency from "Sarnia"
because if the commissioner did not agree
with the decision of the other place, they had to "Sarnia-Lambton".
I rise to speak only because this has some
no recourse. That is one of the strange things
right to final historic significance. The main association has
about this act. It left the entire
decision on the name and boundaries of the been with the name of Sarnia. The city has
constituencies in the provinces to the by far the largest number of people in the
representation commissioner and the commis- riding, but the suburbs have grown up.
sioners. I do not think that at the time the Sarnia is adjacent to the Townships of Bosanmembers of the other place realized they quet, Plympton and Moore and the Village of
were going that far. I believe they thought a Point Edward. There is a desire to restore,
resolution of the other place would have more associate and preserve the old historic name
effect. As I read the act-and I think I am of Lambton, but retaining at the same time
correct-if the representation commissioner the name of Sarnia. That is the real reason I
and the commissioners paid no attention to ask that the name of the riding be "Sarniathe recommendations of the other place, that Lambton".
The main reason I rose was to indicate to
was the end of it, and within five days the
boundaries originally recommended were pro- you that the first Liberal Prime Minister of
Canadaclaimed by the Governor in Council.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: The honourable senator
is going further than I am.

1142

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Flynn: Sentiment.
Hon. Mr. Croll: The Honourable Alexander Mackenzie represented the Lambton
riding. He was born there, represented it,
died in that riding and is buried there. Since
everybody always remembers who was
the first Prime Minister, the great Sir John
A., I thought it significant to remind you
that this was the second Prime Minister of
Canada and that he was a Liberal.
When I looked through the record of the
riding something else struck me which I think
you will find interesting. I remember when
Pardee, before and during the First World
War, represented that riding and Archie
McCoig represented the riding in the next
county. Pardee was elected in 1905 as a Liberal. He ran in 1908 and was elected by 89
votes, and he ran in 1911 and was elected by
89 votes. That is a result of having your
constituency well organized. In 1917 he left
the Liberal Party and went to the Union
Party and was re-elected with a majority of
249. I do not know what the significance of
that was, because next door to him in the
Kent riding was Archie McCoig who stayed
with the Liberal Party and his majority was
3,500.
Honourable senators, I ask you to support
this bill so it can be called "Sarnia-Lambton".
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this bill be read the third
time?
Hon. Mr. Croll: I move it be read a third
time now.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Why not all at the same
time, at the next sitting?
Hon. Mr. Croll: The next sitting.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I would have agreed to it
if the honourable member had not spoken.
Hon. Mr. Croll moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.

June 2, 1971)

I just wish to say that I was asked some
time ago if I would arrange with Senator
Nichol to take this bill, which was sponsored
in the other place by Mr. Tom Goode, the
present Member of Parliament. He came to
me I think only on the grounds that I was a
very close friend to another Tom Goode, who
was his father and the previous member of
the House of Commons from Burnaby-Richmond. This arrangement I made with Senator
Nichol, but unfortunately the telephone message I got today indicated that he was sick at
home and it would be impossible for him to
be here tonight. Therefore, I am taking the
responsibility of asking you to give second
reading to this bill.

I think it would be useful, however, for me
to point out one paragraph or so for the
record. I can vouch for the information I have
here only because I vouch for the Tom Goode
family. Mr. Goode tells me that since the last
redistribution, population trends have shifted
greatly in his riding. The population of Burnaby bas remained relatively static while
Richmond has grown to approximately 60,000.
Likewise, the Delta part of his riding, which
is a very heavily populated municipality but
which was not named in the riding before,
has literally been the scene of a population
explosion, having jumped to over 40,000
people, and is still growing at a phenomenal
rate. As a result of the growth and shift of
population, there presently exists a situation
in which a population centre of some 42,000
people is not recognized by name and this bill

would correct this anomaly.

Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
Hon. Mr. Smith moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.

[Translation]
BILL

C-153

(GLENGARRY-PRESCOTT)-

SECOND READING

Hon. Azellus Denis moved the second reading of Bill C-153, respecting the Electoral
Boundaries Readjustment Act.
He said: Honourable senators, the purpose
BILL C-130 (BURNABY-RICHMOND)of this bill is the sane as that stressed by
SECOND READING
the previous speakers. It is to change the
Hon. Donald Smith moved the second read- name of the electoral district of "Glengarryto
"Glengarry-Prescott-Russell"
ing of Bill C-130, respecting the Electoral Prescott"
Boundaries Readjustment Act.
because that is the wish of the important
He said: Honourable senators, I ask leave to population of that new county. The whole
speak one-quarter as long as the two previous provincial riding of Russell is included in the
speakers.
new federal riding.
[Hon. Mr. Croll.]

June 2 1970SENATE
DEBATES

June 2, 1970

I therefore move second reading of the
bill.
Motion agreed to and bill read second
time.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shail this bill be read the third
tirne?

[Translation]
BILL

C-177

(MAVLISOJNNEUVE)-

SECOND READING
Hon. J. E. Lefrançois moved the second
reading of bill C-177, respecting the Electoral
Boundaries Readjustment Act.

He said: Honourable senators, the purpose
of the amendment is to correct an omission
that was probably made when the Commission met at the time of the redistribution of
electoral districts.
For 35 or 40 years, the riding now known
BILL C-162- (MISSISQUOI) -SECOND
READING as "Maisonneuve-Rosemont" and the people
Hon. Azellus Denis moved the second from Rosemont who belong to this riding
reading of Bill C-1 62, respecting the Elec- were astounded when they found out that
the name of Rosemont had disappeared. That
torah Boundaries Readjustment Act.
is why they asked their member to have the
He said: Honourable senators, for the same
reason as the one put forward by the previ- name of Rosemont added to thaýt of "Maious speakers, this amendment is to add the sonneuve" riding.
Besides, the riding has also been represented
name of "Brome" to the name of "Missisquoi",
since the provincial riding of Brome is now in the past by two of our distinguished senacompletely included in the new federal con- tors: His Honour the Speaker and the honourable senator Fournier (de Lanaudière).
stituency of Missisquoi.
I therefore move that the name of "MaiI therefore move the second reading of
sonneuve" be changed to that of "Maisonthis bill.
neuve-Rosýemont".
Motion agreed to and bill read second
[English]
trne.
Hon. Sarto Fournier: Honourable senators,
The Han. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this bill be read the third I was very happy to hear the few remarks
made by Senator Lefrançois to the effect
time?
that this bill will restore the name of RoseHon. Mr. Denis moved that the bull be mont to the County of Maisonneuve. As was
placed on the Orders of the Day for third mentioned by the distinguished senator, you,
reading at the next sitting.
Mr. Speaker and I have been honoured in
the past by the confidence of the people there
Motion agreed to.
when the officiai electoral name was Maison[English]
neuve-Rosemont. I arn very glad to see that
BILL C-168
(WELLINGTON-GREY)that naine will continue to be used.
Hon. Mr. Denis moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.

SECOND READING

Han. Allister Grosart moved second reading
of Bill C-168, respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.

[Translation]
Motion agreed to and
time.

He said: Honourable senators, the purpose
of this bil is to change the name of the
electoral district of "Wellington-Grey", so ably
represented by Mr. Marvin Howe, to that of
"Wellington-Grey-Duflerin-Waterloo".
Motion agreed to and bill read second tirne.

The Han. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shail this bill be read the third
tirne?

The. Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators,
when shahl this bill be read the third time?

bill read second

Hon. Mr. Lefrançois moved that the bill
be placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.
BILL C-178

(ARGENTEUIL) -SECOND

READING
Hon. Mr. Grosart moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third
Hon. Maurice Bourget moved the second
reading at the next sitting.
reading of Bill C-178, respecting the ElecMotion agreed to.
torah Boundaries Readjustment Act.

SENATE DEBATES

June 2, 1970

senators, the purpose golden opportunity now to do so. However,
the name of the rid- this constituency is immediately west of
that of "Argenteuil- Ottawa and I think it is familiar to most
honourable senators. Therefore, I shall merebill read second time. ly say that the purpose of this bill is to
change the name of the electoral district of
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable sena- "Lanark and Renfrew" to that of "Lanarktors, when shall this bill be read the third Renfrew-Carleton", in order to reflect more
time?
accurately the fact that a sizeable portion
of each of these three counties is contained
Hon. Mr. Bourget moved that the bill be in the electoral district presently known as
placed on the Orders of the Day for third "Lanark and Renfrew".
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
Motion agreed to.
He said: Honourable
of this bill is to change
ing of "Argenteuil" to
Deux-Montagnes".
Motion agreed to and

[English]
BILL C-213 (LANARK AND RENFREW)SECOND READING

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this bill be read the third
time?

Hon. Mary E. Kinnear moved second reading of Bill C-213, respecting the Electoral
Boundaries Readjustment Act.

Hon. Mrs. Kinnear moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.

She said: Honourable senators, as this is
the last of the changes in constituency names,
I should make a long speech and I have a

The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at
2 p.m.

June 3 1970SENATE
DEBATES

June 3, 1970

THE SENATE
Wednesday. June 3, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
NORTHERN INLAND WATERS BILL
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE PRESENTED

Hon. Hédard Robichaud, Acting Chairman
of the Standing Senate Committee on Health,
Welfare and Science, reported that the committee had considered Bill C-187, respecting
inland water resources in the Yukon Territory and Northwest Territories, and had directed that the bill be reported with the following
amendment:
Page 8, line 11: Strike out the word
"waste" and substitute theref or the words
"deleterious substances".
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shahl this report be taken into
consideration?
Hon. Mr. Robichaud moved that the report
be taken into consideration at the next sitting
of the Senate.
Motion agreed to.
CANADIAN

NATIONAL RAILWAYS

TOLL-GATE AT MONCTON ROAD-INQUIRY
ANS WERED

Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Government, pursuant to notice:
(1) Who authorized the installation of a
toîl-gate on the road leading to the
Canadian National Railways station at
Moncton, N.B.?
(2) Who benefits fromn the revenue collected at this toil-gate?
(3) Do the Canadian National Railways
own the station at Moncton, N.B., and if
flot, who are the owners and under what
arrangement is the station rented to the
Canadian National Railways?

its real estate holdings across the system.
Under an arrangement entered into with
Terminal Centre (Moncton) Limited for
the development of about thirteen acres
of railway land in Moncton, Terminal
Centre operates the parking lot adjacent
to the station. The automatic barrier was
installed last December by Terminal
Centre in an effort to control unauthorized parking on their parking lot. It is
within the authorîty of Terminal Centre
to instahi such a gate under the terms of
their ground lease of these premises.
There is no requirement in the lease for
Terminal Centre to obtain prior approval
of CN for the installation of a gate. However, Canadian National objected to the
installation when it became aware that it
was to be made, on the ground that it
would interfere with public access to the
station and cause congestion and annoyance to railway patrons. Negotiations
between CN and Terminal Centre are in
the process of being concluded for the
movement of this gate to a position
which will allow unrestricted access to
and from the station premises without
going through the gate.
2. The revenue collected from this toilgate is retained solely by Terminal
Centre (Moncton) Limited.
3. The rallway station at Moncton,
N.B., is owned by Terminal Centre
(Moncton) Limîted and is leased to CN
under the termas of a lease dated October
1, 1963, for an initial term of 31 years
with option to renew for two additional
terms of 33 years each.
RULES
TIME 0F APTERNOON SITTING-RESTAURANT
SERVICE

Hon. Hartland Molson: Honourable senators, I would like to ask a question of the
Leader of the Government.
In view of the fact that the Senate decided
that it should change its hours; of sitting to
commence at two o'clock in the afternoon,
and as the committees are very fully engaged,
is there any way, through our Restaurant
Committee or by other means, whereby we
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
could arrange to have luncheon in the restauThe Canadian National Railways advise as rant in the interim between the committee
meetings in the morning and afternoon sitting
follows:
of the Senate? Lately it has been practically
1. In the early 1960s the railway impossible on a Wednesday to get lunch in
launched an active campaign to redevelop

SENATE DEBATES

1146

the limited time. Is there some means by
which we might be able to do our duty and
also have lunch?
Hon. Paul Martin: I can very well understand Senator Molson's concern. I myself have
been agitated by the problem for the last two
years.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: You have no luncheon,
so it does not matter.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Perhaps I might consult
Senator Molson, who is more ingenious in
these matters than I, and see if we can make
a report to the Sonate at an appropriate time.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Would the leader not consider my suggestion, that to sit at 2.30 o'clock
would be the solution?
DIVORCE
PETITION FOR BILL TO ANNUL RESOLUTIONREPORT OF COMMITTEE ADOPTED
The Sonate proceeded to consideration of
the report of the Standing Senate Committee
on Legal and Constitutional Affairs, to which
was referred Resolution No. 2, adopted by the
Sonate on November 26, 1969, which was presented yesterday.
Hon. Lazarus Phillips, Chairman of the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs, moved the adoption of
the report.
He said: Honourable senators will realize in
a moment why I have risen to speak in support of this report.
Some time ago the petitioner, Mrs. Hashim,
filed a petition, the last paragraph of which
reads as follows:
Wherefor your petitioner humbly prays
that this honourable House may be
pleased to pass an act annulling Resolution No. 2 adopted by the Senate of
Canada on November 26, 1969, dissolving
the marriage between Robert Hashim and
your petitioner.
This petition was accompanied by a bill,
and when it reached this house consideration
of the subject matter of the petition was
referred to the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs. When that
committee met, the honourable senators present at the meeting decided that it would be
appropriate to nominate a subcommittee consisting of five senators to deal with the subject
[Hon. Mr. Molson.]

June 3, 1970

matter. The five senators so appointed were
Senators Aseltine, Haig, Cook, Prowse and
Phillips (Rigaud). When the subcommittee
met, the honourable senators did me the
honour of appointing me chairman.
At the first meeting we decided to call for
formal hearing the counsel for Mrs. Hashim
and for Mr. Hashim in order that we might
give due consideration to the substance of
the petition.
The background can be summarized succinctly. Mr. Hashim, the then husband of the
petitioner Mrs. Hashim, applied for a divorce
and in due course the hearings were held.
After hearing the evidence, the Commissionor, Mr. Justice Cameron, decided to grant the
petition for divorce. At the hearing on the
husband's petition Mrs. Hashim was the
respondent, with the usual allegations of
adultery alleged against her, and the corespondent was named. After a hearing
before Mr. Justice Cameron, Mrs. Hashim, the
present petitioner, and the co-respondent
decided not to give evidence.
The background of disagreement between
husband and wife goes back many years. The
record of the evidence discloses that as early
as 1963 and 1964 proceedings on what we in
Quebec call separation as to bed and board
were taken. In those proceedings the husband
was granted separation from his wife, and the
children were given into the custody of the
husband rather than of the wife.
The present petition of Mrs. Hashim is in a
sense not for the reinstatement of the marriage, because it is by way of an appeal from
the resolution of the Sonate based upon Mr.
Justice Cameron's findings. Her counsel
advised her not to give evidence and the corespondent was also advised not to give
evidence.
Upon a study of the entire subject matter,
your subcommittee found that the evidence
was fairly exhaustive before Mr. Justice
Cameron. The latter, after a careful study of
such evidence and after giving the petitioner
and the named co-respondent an opportunity
to give evidence, which they refused to do,
found in favour of the husband and recommended that a divorce be granted.
Notwithstanding what appeared to be a
very reasonable conclusion on the part of Mr.
Justice Cameron, your subcommittee nevertheless felt that, in the interests of justice and
out of extreme caution, it would be desirable
to hear counsel both for Mrs. Hashim and for
her husband. They appeared before us, and
both counsel stated their case.

June 3, 1970

DEBATES
June
3,1970SENATE

To the surprise, certainly of myseif and I
think of honourable senators on the subcommittee, we were informed that the relationship hetween Mr. and Mrs. Hashim was such
that it would flot be possible to reconstitute
the marriage tie in the true conjugal sense
and that there was simply no hope whatsoever that Mr. and Mrs. Hashim would live
as husband and wife in the normal sense of
the termi and pursuant to one's understanding
thereof.
Honourable senators on the subcommittee
came to the conclusion that if the petition
were to be allowed, it would bring about
a resuit whereby the parliamentary process
would be used to insist on the continuance
of the marriage relationship between the two
parties when, in effect, as counsel for both
sides stated, even if this petition were granted
and the bill passed, proceedings would be
taken by either Mr. or Mrs. Hashim, or both,
to see that they do not live together as
husband and wife. In other words, proceedings wouid be taken in the Province of
Quebec to dissolve the marriage which we
in this Parliament would have insisted upon
retaining by allowing a bill to corne before
this house and in due course go before the
other housýe.
Mfter careful consideration, therefore, the
subcommittee came to the conclusion that
there exists no meritorious basis or justification for the passage of an Act of Parliament
for the annulment of the Resolution of the
Senate dissolving the marriage between
Laura Eileen Margaret Bamford Hashim and
Robert Hashim, in view of the fact that both
counsel stated that the marriage i question
has completely broken down beyond any hope
of reconciliation.
The members of the subcommnittee, therefore, reported to the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Aiffairs
that this petition, and the draft bull based
thereon, be flot further proceeded with, and
that the matter be disposed of accordingly.
That report concluded with a recapitulation
that our findings were such that if we were to
allow this petition and the bill to be proceeded with in Parliament it would-and this is
my own expression-be tantamount to an
abuse of the parliamentary process.
This report of the subcommittee was submitted to the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Aif airs with Senator
Urquhart in the chair. The report of the subcommittee was adopted, and it is reflected in
the report that was presented yesterday by
Senator Urquhart.

1147
14

Honourable senators, this, I hope, concisely
and clearly states the reasoning behind the
report.
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable senators, if I may, I should like to ask Senator
Phillips (Rigaud) a question. Did the members
of the subcommittee satisfy themselves that
Mrs. Hashim did not wish to give evidence?
Hon. Mr. Phllips (Rigaud): The answer is
yes, Senator Macdonald. Counsel for both
sides were on common ground in making the
statement that after the evidence of the then
petitioner, the husband, was cornpleted, Mr.
Justice Cameron requested counsel for Mrs.
Hashim and the co-respondent to state whether they wished to give evidence before hie
took the case under advisement. Counsel for
Mrs. Hashim and the co-respondent then
stated that they would like to consider the
matter. The hearing was suspended by Mr.
Justice Cameron, and after a conference
between counsel, Mrs. Hashim and the named
co-respondent, they returned before Mr. Justice Cameron and stated that it was not the
intention or desire of Mrs. Hashim or the
named co-respondent to give evidence.
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: That is not precisely
what I asked. Did Mrs. Hashim indicate to the
subcommittee that she did flot wish to give
evidence before it?
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Yes. There was
an indication that she intended to give evidence, and the assumption would be that
she naturally would have given evidence
in support of her petition, but in the light of
the facts as they were disclosed by a study
of the transcript of the proceedings before
Mr. Justice Cameron, and in the light of the
fact that we were assured by both sides that
the marriage tie between the parties had
completely broken down, it was feit it would
be inconsistent to support a petition which
would, in effect, call for the continuance of
the marriage relationship between a so-called
husband and wif e when in fact there was not
such a relationship, and where it was admitted by both sides that if we were to provide
parliamentary facilities to continue the marniage relationship between husband and wife,
and if a bill were passed, it would be immediately followed by proceedings in the Quebec
courts asking for a divorce.
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: I wish to ask one
further question. Perhaps as a preface I
should say that it seems to me that the subcommittee was taking into account the break-

SENATE DEBATES
down of the marriage as one of the reasons
for not granting this petition. Is the breakdown of marriage a ground for divorce at the
present time?
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): Senator Macdonald, I do not know whether we are dealing
with the law of the Province of Quebec, but
we are not dealing with any other law except
that in the old act. It is true that one of the
reasons is, as I have mentioned, the breakdown of the marital relationship between the
parties. The other factor-possibly what we
might call the causa causans, the determining
factor-was the analysis of the evidence and
the conclusions arrived at, from the historia
background of the relationship between the
husband and wife over practically a decade,
and the failure of the wife and the co-respondent to give evidence when asked and
given the opportunity of doing so, plus the
circumstances to which I referred. These
cumulatively led to the conclusion that the
parliamentary process should not be used for
the purpose of facilitating a conclusion by way
of a legislative act that there is and there
exists a marriage relationship between husband and wife, where such relationship has
broken down, where counsel stated there will
be no conjugal relationship between the parties, and where upon the first opportunity
after the passage of the bill proceedings will
be taken to annul the effect of what would be
an Act of Parliament.
Report adopted, on division.
ELECTORAL BOUNDARIES
READJUSTMENT ACT
BILL C-62 (PERTH)-THIRD READING
Hon. Allister Grosart moved the third reading of Bill C-62, respecting the Electoral
Boundaries Readjustment Act.
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
had intended to comment on the observations
of Senator Grosart last evening. In the early
portion of his remarks he said that this was a
matter involving the privileges of the other
place in respect of elections. Senator Grosart
wondered why it was necessary for the
Senate to deal with this matter. He went on
to speak as though in the other place they
had forgotten or had overlooked section 20 of
the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.
At the bottom of page 1140 of Hansard
Senator Grosart said this:
Indeed, I would suggest to the honourable
Leader of the Government that he might
[Hon. Mr. Macdonald.]

June 3, 1970

wish to recommend to his colleagues that
an amendment be made to section 20 of
the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment
Act, whereby provision might be made
for the handling of such changes as this
by the House of Commons itself, without
necessarily putting it before the Senate.
I interjected at that point the question:
Notwithstanding the B.N.A. Act?
Then Senator Grosart went on to say:
With due respect to the comment by
the Leader of the Government, I doubt if
the B.N.A. Act is involved here.
I still think that the argument that I had in
mind when I made my interjection was valid.
It may be that because of the ambivalency of
Senator Grosart's observation which I have
just quoted, my own interpretation is wrong
as to what he really meant. I had wished to
make it clear that in respect of the legislative
function of Parliament, neither house has the
right under the B.N.A. Act to abrogate any of
its legislative functions. It may be that that
was not what Senator Grosart was arguing,
because he is right in saying that section 20
of the act does now provide for a unilateral
act by the other place. However, it is clear
that in so far as the legislative function is
concerned, section 17 of the B.N.A. Act
provides:
17. There shall be One Parliament for
Canada, consisting of the Queen, an
Upper House styled the Senate, and the
House of Commons.
No act can become law unless it is dealt
with by both houses. I also argued in my
interjection that no house should or could
give to the other the right to proceed without
the legislative act of the other.
That was the point that I had in mind when
I made my interjection.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: What about the Senate
prerogative in the matters of divorce?
Hon. Mr. Martin: Parliament as a whole in
that instance did not lose its authority. The
House of Commons delegated the function by
act, concurred in by the Senate, to this
chamber.
Han. Allister Grosart: I am not altogether
sure what the honourable Leader of the Government meant by using the noun "ambivalence" in connection with my remarks. I
thought they were very clear. However, it is
apparent that he did not understand.

June 3, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Flynn: Do not feel shy about that;
you have a master across the aisle.

BILL C-75 (SARNIA)-THIRD READING
Hon. David A. Croil moved the third read-

Hon. Mr. Grosart: He has made it quite
obvious that my remarks were not clear to
him, because in the first place I did not question in any way that this particular bill was
necessary. I made it quite clear that I thought
it was necessary because it was an amendment to part of a schedule to a proclamation under the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act. There is no question that under the
act as it stands the procedure that we were
engaged in was necessary.
To the question of whether it could be
possible for an amendment to this act to give
the House of Commons the authority to deal

ing of Bil 0-75, respecting the Eleetoral
Botndaries Readjustment Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read third dine
and passed.
BILL C
(BURNABYRICHMOND»

with this matter without reference to the
Senate, the answer, of course, is obvious. We

Hon. Donald Smith moved the third reading of Bil C-130, respecting the Electoral
Boundaries Readjustment Act.
Motion agreed to and bil read third time
and passed.
[Translation]
BILL 0-153

(GLENGARRY-PRESCOTT)THIRD READING

have already done that. The act itself clearly
Hon. Azellus Denis moved the third reading
gave the House of Commons responsibility of Bill 0-153, respecting the Electoral Bounwithout reference to the Senate for a period
of 30 days after the draft recommendations of
Motion agreed W and bil read third time
the commissioners were laid on the Table of
the House of Commons. Therefore, for a and passed.
period of 30 days it was clear that the House
BILL C-162 (MISSISQUOI)-THIRD READING
of Commons had been given this authority
Hon. Azellus Denis moved the thîrd reading
and exercised it.
of Bill C-162, respecting the Electoral BounHon. Mr. Martin: Certainly, by an act of daries Readjustment Act.
Motion agreed to and bil read third tire
Parliament, which included the vote of this
chamber.
and passed.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: Of course. I would suggest to the honourable senator that he read
my speech again, because-

[English]
BILL C-168 (WELLINGTON-GREY)THIRD READING

Hon. Mr. Flynn: I am not sure that it would
be useful.

Hon. Allister Grosari moved the third reading of Bill 0-168, respecting the Electoral
Hon. Mr. Grosart: Maybe if he would read Boundaries Readjustment Act.
Motion agreed to and bil read third time
it three times it would occur to him that
very clearly I was suggesting to him that and
he discuss with his colleagues an amendment to the very act to which this bill relates. [Translation]
This is exactly the point he is making. I was BILL C-177 (MAISONNEUVE)-THIRD READING
merely saying that I suggested that the ElecHon. J. E. Lefrançois moved the third readtoral Boundaries Readjustment Act be
ing of Bih 0-177, respecting the Electoral
amended to give this authority.
I again suggest to him that before he Boundaries Readjustment Act.
Motion agreed W and bil rend third time
accuses me of ambivalence he read my speech
and passed.
at least three turnes.
Hon. Mr. Merlin: I read it four Urnes!
Hon. Mr. Flynn: He could rend his own
speeches oniy twice and it would be sufficient
to know what ambivalence means.
Motion agreed to and bull rend third Urne
and passed.

BILL

C-178(ARGENTEUIL)-THIRD READING

Hon. Maurice Bourget moved the third
reading of Bill C-178, respecting the Electoral
Boundaries Readjustment Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time
and passed.

1150

SENATE DEBATES

[English]
BILL C-213

(LANARK AND RENFREW)THIRI READING

Hon. Mary E. Kinnear moved the third
reading of Bill C-213, respecting the Electoral
Boundaries Readjustment Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time
and passed.
HON. JAMES GLADSTONE
FELICITATIONS ON RETURN TO CHAMBER

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
before Senator Langlois rises to speak on Bill
C-186, may I say to Senator Gladstone how
pleased we are that he is back in the house. I
know that he had a serious indisposition and
all his colleagues on both sides of the chamber
are happy to see him back looking so well.
[Translation]
LAW REFORM COMMISSION BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE CONTINUED

The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of Honourable Mr. Martin, for the second reading of Bill
C-186, to establish a commission for the
reform of the Laws of Canada.
Hon. Leopold Langlois: Honourable senators, I am pleased to join with the Leader of
the Government in welcoming Senator Gladstone back to our midst and to see that he is
in good health.
Honourable senators, like many of my colleagues, I wish to make a few comments on
Bill C-186 providing for the establishment
of a commission for the reform of the laws
of Canada.
However, I would have liked to spend more
time on my speech, having been forced to
read hastily, at the last minute the many
speeches that were made on the subject, as
well as the report of the Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs of the House of Commons which studied the said bill. Indeed,
because of my prolonged absence, while I was
convalescing, I could not hear all the speeches
made on the bill that was introduced last
February.
In his speech to introduce the bill in the
House of Commons, the Minister of Justice
noted that although similar commissions exist
in other countries such as England, Australia,
the United States and even in two Canadian
provinces, the commission will be the first
[Hon. Mr. Bourget.]

June 3, 1970

one of its kind for the reform of federal laws
in a federal state.
The Canadian Parliament is therefore pioneering in this field and I dare hope that the
commission will adopt as a priority objective
the task of eliminating in several cases the
existing conflict between some federal and
provincial statutes in areas of jurisdiction
shared by the federal and the provincial
legislative powers. Far too often in the past
we have simply incorporated into our Canadian statutes legislation passed by the British
Parliament without taking into account the
fact that the United Kingdom has a unitary
system of government, having sole jurisdiction in all fields throughout the country,
while the Canadian Parliament shares some
jurisdictions with provincial governments.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: And doubtful jurisdictions
at that.
Hon. Mr. Langlois: Doubtful in several
cases.
The most striking example of Britishinspired legislation that has been incorporated
into our statutes in this manner is the Canada
Shipping Act which is a mere copy of the
United Kingdom Shipping Acts.
I am not against incorporating into our
statutes sound bills regardless of their origin
provided our particular legislative system of
Canada is taken into account.
English statutes have even been partly
incorporated in the Civil Code of the province
of Quebec which includes several provisions
literally taken out of the United Kingdom
Shipping Acts, but they have never been
updated in spite of many amendments made
to those acts both in Canada and in the
United Kingdom.
Since, under sections 91 and 92 of the
Canadian Constitution, the federal Parliament
shares with provincial legislatures the jurisdiction in the field of shipping, Canadian
citizens too often have to bear the legal cost
of jurisdictional conflicts that arise therefrom.
As honourable senators are aware, I am
now referring to the jurisdiction devolved to
provincial legislatures under section 92(10) of
the Constitution with regard to shipping lines
of a local or intraprovincial character, whereas the Canadian Parliament has a similar
jurisdiction on shipping in general.
From among the discrepancies between the
federal and the Quebec jurisdiction on maritime law, I should like to quote only a few as
illustrations: first of all, the huge difference

June 3, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

between the limitations of liability that can
be claimed by the shipowners, the masters and
crews, and so forth, in some circumstances.
The federal legislation was amended a few
years ago so as to extend considerably the
basis of those limitations of liability, whereas
the Quebec Civil Code has kept the former,
much more restricted basis, which was literally copied from old British texts. There are
also considerable differences between the
provisions of the federal legislation on water
carriers of goods, which should not apply to
intraprovincial shipping-I repeat, "which
should not apply", for it has been applied on
occasion-and the province of Quebec Civil
Code concerning transportation contracts and
public carriers' responsibilities. Anyone who
has studied both pieces of legislation can
appreciate the importance of those differences.
At this point, I should like to stress that
such jurisdictional conflict and discrepancies
between federal and provincial legislations
have resulted into litigations, not only in
strict maritime law matters, but also in the
exercise of the shared jurisdiction, with similar consequences in several other areas.
To give this House only one example of
that other category of jurisdictional conflicts;
I add that similar conflicts have often arisen
as a result of the application of federal labour
legislation to exclusively provincial shipping firms or undertakings.
Recently in my legal practice, I have been
involved in two similar litigations which
brought citizens from the province of Quebec
before the Supreme Court of Canada.
In one case-that was a particularly patent
case, and I say this while pointing out that
the lawyer who takes a case is always sure to
win itHon. Mr. Flynn: Until he loses it.
Hon. Mr. Langlois: Until he loses it, or
withdraws.
In short, the case involved a small water
transportation passenger service operating
within the limits of a harbour located entirely
in Quebec territory. The firm used a few
motor boats which are small vessels used to
bring passengers to ships in transit or
anchored in the harbour of Trois-Rivières.
Thus, the firm operated exclusively within
the limits not only of the harbour, but also
exclusively within the limits of the province
of Quebec. Its clients were mostly pilots,
customs officers or ship agents. A labour
union had secured from the Quebec Labour

Relations Board its certification to act as the
bargaining agent for the crews of the said
motor boats. A little later on, another labour
union filed a similar application with the
Canada Labour Relations Board and, in spite
of opposition to its jurisdiction in this case,
the Labour Relations Board ruled nevertheless that the matter came under its jurisdiction and issued a decree ordering the holding
of a ballot among the motor boat crews to
determine which of the labour unions should
be certified as bargaining agent.
Honourable senators will readily realize,
I am sure, the untenable position of this
employer who was an innocent victim in a
jurisdictional conflict between two legislative
powers of his country. The employer in question had to file a petition in the Superior
Court of the Quebec district with a view to
obtaining a writ of evocation against the
Canada Labour Relations Board, its officials
and the other labour union to prevent the
implementation of the Canada Labour Relations Board decree. The Chief Justice of the
Quebec Superior Court granted the petition
and issued the writ of evocation. The Canada
Labour Relations Board and the labour union
immediately took this decision to the Quebec
Court of Appeal. The Appeal Court reversed
the judgment of the Superior Court without
solving the jurisdictional conflict that had
arisen, the basis for the decision being solely
that according to these learned judges, with
one strong dissidence, the Superior Court
of Quebec had no jurisdiction over the federal courts or administrative boards. The
employer took the Quebec Appeal Court decision to the Supreme Court of Canada which,
in a unanimous judgment, upheld the decision
of the Superior Court of Quebec, in this case,
and the jurisdiction of the Quebec Labour
Relations Board, thus maintaining the writ of
evocation issued by the Superior Court of
Quebec.
A series of identical judgments were
obtained in another similar case affecting a
company engaged in coastal shipping between
Quebec ports exclusively. There is no need to
add that despite the success obtained by these
two employers before the Supreme Court of
Canada these conflicts of jurisdiction cost
them quite a lot of money.
I think that it is absolutely urgent to eliminate these conflicts of jurisdiction which
cause useless and expensive vexations to
many Canadian citizens and which are not of
a nature to make people appreciate our federal system.

1152

SENATE DEBATES

Such useless conflicts of jurisdiction could
easily be eliminated through more clarity and
precision in the drafting of our federal acts if,
as it is my hope, there is a sincere desire on
the part of the federal authorities to remain
within the limits of their jurisdiction.
Clause 11 of the present bill does not seem
to contain, among the objects of the commission, the expression of any such intention on
the part of the federal authority.
I would therefore consider it desirable that
clause 11 be amended to include, among the
objects of the commission, the elimination of
conflicts of jurisdiction and discrepancies
between the texts of federal and provincial
laws in fields where there is joint jurisdiction.
It is my hope that the Minister of Justice
would have no objection to such an amendment, since he himself has expressed the need
for co-operation between the two levels of
government in these fields.
Indeed, the Minister of Justice bas already
expressed himself about this bill, as follows:

June 3, 1970

last year when we had to pass a bill temporarily amending the Canada Shipping
Act in order to give legal status to orders in
council that were ultra vires because they
exceeded the authority granted by Parliament
under the Canada Shipping Act to enact regulations as regards pilotage.
The legislation, temporarily amending these
unused by-laws, was presented to Parliament only once these orders in council had
been declared ultra vires by the Supreme
Court of Canada. Even then, those who had to
pay for the costly suits before our courts
were those who had suffered from this abuse
of jurisdiction. In my opinion, it is essential to
take all the necessary action in order to avoid
this too frequent abuse of jurisdiction and I
would suggest that the Law Reform Commission, provided for in the present bill, make
it one of its top priority objectives.
I would have liked to find in the objects of
the Commission, in clause 11, an object dealing specifically with the continuing review of
orders in council, but if I interpret clause 11
correctly, I believe the Minister of Justice
[English]
The commission will be competent, in must have had that object in mind when he
co-operation with provincial law reform approved the wording of clause 11, which
reads as follows:
commissionsThe objects of the Commission are to
[Translation]
study and keep under review on a continuing and systematic basis the statutes
Unfortunately, I must add that there is no
and other laws comprising the laws of
such commission in the province of Quebec.
Canada with a view to making recom[English]
mendations for their improvement, mod-to review these joint areas of the law. I
ernization and reform, including without
hope that in this way the commission
limiting the generality of the foregoing,
may be able to provide some measure of
co-ordination in the general area of law and I stop at this point.
reform in Canada. Such co-ordination
I interpret the words "and other laws" as
appears to be desirable since there is still including orders in councilin Canada a relatively small pool of
qualified persons in the form of legal
Hon. Mr. Flynn: For clarification purposes
of the argument brought forward earlier by
experts upon which to drawthe hon. senator, did I understand him to say
[Translation]
that he interprets the words "droit du CanaI should have liked also to find among the da" or the words in the English version "the
objects of the Commission the continuing laws of Canada", as including both the proreview of orders in council especially to vincial laws and the laws of Canada, and that
insure that they are intra vires of the laws we could, through this text, give the commisauthorizing their adoption.
sion the jurisdiction to criticize, analyse and
Indeed, I have had the opportunity, during suggest reforms of provincial laws? I think
my legal practice, to be the witness of serious the honourable senator suggested this possiprejudice-and I emphasize the adjective bility, and that he said with regard to that
"serious"-caused to Canadians under certain clause, that this concern is being felt.
jurisdictions by illegal orders in council since
Hon. Mr. Langlois: My honourable friend
they exceeded the authority granted by Parliament to the Governor in Council in some did not understand, or else I did not express
federal laws. We have had several similar myself clearly-it is rather the second explacases in this House, and more particularly nation which is correct, because I expressed
[Hon. Mr. Langlois.]

June 3, 1970

DEBATES
June 3 1970SENATE

the hope there would be some ca-ordination
between the two orders of government, and 1
pointed out that no such commission existed
in Quebec. It is clearly understood that noa
federal commission can amend, or even suggest ta amend, provincial laws. That goes
without saying.

ta alternate speakers fram one side of
house ta the other, and Senatar O'Leary
indicated his intention ta participate in
debate. I hope that Senatar Stanbury
recognize the menit of my suggestion
yield ta Senator O'Leary.

the
has
this
will
and

Hon. M. Graitan O'Leary: Honourable
senators, after what has happened ta Senatar
Stanbury I feel samewhat like the lady who
invited some guests ta a champagne party
and who, after a due wait, told them that i
view of the fact that the champagne had not
arrîved she would have ta serve prune juice.
First of ail, I must join with ail honourable
senators in weicoming back ta this hause
Hon. Mr. Langlois: I do not think that the Senator Gladstone and also my distinguished
recommendations of the commission can have feilow-Gaspésian, Senatar Langlois. He has
any seriaus implications in this respect.
suffered a physical accident. I do not know
the extent of his recovery fram that accident,
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Well, this is a federal but quite clearly there has been fia impaircanmission.
ment of his mental muscle.
Honourable senatars, I would be much hapHan. Mr. Langlois: However, if the commission points out ta a provincial legisiature pier discussing this bill if it concerned not
thase variances in the statutes, this may be of refarmn of the law but reform of lawyers.
na consequence, since the commission cannot
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You are very ambitiaus.
farce even the federal Minister of Justice ta
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: We have heard a great
implement its recornmendations. The commission would simply make recommendations, deal in recent months about journalists. They
whereupan provincial authorities-and this have been analyzed and psychoanalyzed, and
does flot apply only ta Quebec-if they so perhaps it would nat be inapprapriate if I, as
wish, may lend an ear, and I think they a journalist, turn an those who have been
psychaanalyzing us, many of whom are memwould be free ta do whatever they want.
bers of the legal profession, and tell them
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I simply wanted ta make what 1 think about lawyers. When I say this I
sure that the hanourable senatar agrees with do not imply that I in any way have a
me. 1 see that he does, but flot entirely, cantempt for the legal profession. In fact, it
because I go further.
is quite the cantrary. I have always believed
that the two great professions in the warld
Hon. Mr. Langlois: I arn very anxious ta are the law and medicine. One is concerned
hear your speech.
with healing and mercy, and the other is
concerned with liberty. It is not without
Hlon. Mr. Flynn: 1 can tell you that I faund significance that of the fifteen Prime Minisyour comments quite interesting.
ters of Canada since Confederation, nine have
been lawyers, and of course many distinHon. Mr. Langlois: I thank you.
guished lawyers sit on bath sides of this
If the honourable senators do not agree house. I could mention a number of them, but
with my interpretation of the words "others
laws" in clause il of the bill, I would hope I would like ta mention particularly a recent
that clause il may be clarifled in cammittee acquisition of this house, Senator Lazarus
so as ta include, among the abjects listed in Phillips.
the said clause il of this bill, the revision of
Han. Senators: Hear, hear.
thase orders in council.
Han. Mr. O'Leary: Whenever 1 hear hlm
Hon. Richard J. Stanbury: Hanourable
speak there cames ta my mind what Mr.
senators, first I wish ta congratulateGladstone once said about Cardinal Newman.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Hanourable senatars, I He said that Cardinal Newman had a mind as
wonder if Senatar Stanbury would permit me clear as crystal, and as sharp as the diamond
ta intervene. As far as passible we should try that could cut the crystal.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: But if the commission is
competent ta criticize provincial laws, to suggest refarms ta provincial laws, does the
honourable senatar flot agree a canflict
arises? However, that is what we want ta
avoid, that is what it is recommended ta
avoid.

SENATE DEBATES
There have been other great lawyers in
politics, of course, apart from those who
became Prime Ministers of Canada. I think,
for example, of Edward Blake. I go about this
country a great deal and I speak often to
lawyers. I spoke not long ago to the barristers
of Nova Scotia. I have spoken to the Junior
Bar Association of Montreal, and to other
gatherings of lawyers, including the Canadian
Bar Association.
In talking to these gatherings, I am often
struck by the fact that many young lawyers
of the new generation seem to know little,
and perhaps care less, about the immense
stature of Edward Blake, a man who at the
age of 43 was offered, and refused, the Chief
Justiceship of Canada. Laurier, I often think,
was a glory of the Liberal party and indeed a
glory of Canada. However, the man who gave
the Liberal party its intellectual content was
Edward Blake. He was the prophet; he was
the father of what we know as Liberalism in Canada. God knows, many of his precepts and much of his example have been
forgotten but, nevertheless, Edward Blake
stands out in my mind not only as a great
lawyer but as one of the very great and wise
statesmen of Canada.
He left Canada and went to Ireland. He
always spoke on St. Patrick's day. Once he
said that the blood of the Blakes had dyed
red the soil of Galway in defence of Ireland's
freedom. So he went to Ireland and fought
for home rule.
When Parnell fell and Justin McCarthy
became temporary leader of the Irish party,
the author of The History of Our Own Times
wrote to his literary collaborator, Mrs. Campbell Praed, and said, "I am ashamed to be the
leader of a party which contains a man like
Edward Blake, whose only peer in this House
of Commons is Mr. Gladstone himself."
It was very significant too, that when they
brought Dr. Jamieson back to London and
made him the subject of an inquiry into the
Jamieson Raid, the man they selected to
cross-examine him was not a member of the
Liberal party or a member of the Conservative party, but a member of this Irish minority party, Edward Blake.
There is little better reading, if you are
interested in law, than the cross-examination
of Jamieson by Blake.
There have been other great lawyers in our
parliamentary history and other great lawyers in Canada. I think of Christopher Robinson, W. N. Tilley, Aime Geoffrion, Eugene
[Hon. Mr. O'Leary.]

June 3, 1970

Lafleur. These men had no superiors anywhere in the English-speaking world.
A man for whom I had great admiration
and once heard speak in this city was Maitre
Labori, the man who defended Dreyfus. I
remember going to the Canadian Club and
listening to Labori, a magnificent man and a
great orator. One of the gentlemen at my
table said to another, "Who is this man anyway?" The other replied, "Oh, he is some
damn French Canadian from Quebec."
One of the wistful regrets I have in the
evening of my life is that I never had an
opportunity to take law which, as I say, is a
profession for which I have the utmost reverence, a reverence born of the high traditions
of law, the sort of traditions that Macaulay
described when he said, "Law sustained by
liberty, and liberty sustained by law."
I remember as a boy in my native Gaspé,
reading those magnificent lines of Macaulay
when he described an Australian sitting out
under the Southern Cross and reading by its
light those glorious words of Magna Carta:
To no man shall we sell, to man delay, to
no man deny justice and right.
That has been the great tradition of British
lawyers. When you read a man like Erskine,
for example, you realize what a glory the
English profession of law was. We sometimes
think now that lawyers make the fee the first
priority. That was not true of the great men
of British law.
When the editor of an Irish newspaper,
Archibald Hamilton Rowan, was arrested and
charged with sedition in his newspaper, that
fierce Irish peasant, John Philpot Curran,
took that case without a fee. He spoke for
two hours in defence of Rowan, and Erskine
said that this was the greatest speech ever
pronounced in a court of justice in any
country, anywhere at any time.
After Curran's death, his papers revealed
that he had merely four headings for that
speech which, as I have said, Erskine pronounced the greatest ever spoken in a court
of law.
I have a book here which came from the
library of John A. Macdonald. I was interested to find the other day that one of the things
that Macdonald underlined in this book was a
court address by John Philpot Curran. Curran
was defending a man called Mr. Justin Johnson. This was a very complicated case and
Curran faced a man who he knew was his
enemy, Lord Avonmore, one of the great justices of his time. Avonmore and Curran had
been close boyhood friends. They had gone to

June 3, 1970

June 3 1970SENATE
DEBATES

school together and been brought up together.
However, Avonmore became one of the Lord
Justices of Ireland, and of course was on the
side of the establishment, as we cail it, and
Curran had taken the side of the underdog
and defended rebels and Irish Nationalists.
In the course of his address-and this is
what Macdonald underllned-Curran referred
to, this friendship. This is one of the most
stirring passages that I k4low i English literature. He spoke of a hope that Avonmore
would not honour a precedent that had
occurred in English law which Curran said
was wrong. Then he said:
-this soothing hope I draw from the
dearest and tenderest recollections of my
life, from the remembrance of those Attic
nights, and those reflections of the gods
which we have spent with those admired
and respected and beloved companions
who have gone before us;--over whose
ashes the most preclous tears of Ireland
have been shed: yes, my good lord, I see
you do flot forget them; I see their sacred
forms passing in sad review before your
memory; I see your pained and softened
fancy recailing those happy meetings,
when the innocent enjoyment of social
mirth expanded into the nobler warmth
of social virtue; and the horizon of the
board became enlarged into the horizon
of man;-when the swelling heart conceived and communicated the pure and
generous purpose-when my slenderer
and younger taper imbibed its borrowed
light from the more matured and redundant fountain of yours. Yes, my lord, we
can remember those nights without any
other regret than that they can neyer
more return, for
"We spent themn fot i toys, or lust, or
wine;
But search of deep philosophy,
Wit, eloquence and poesy,
Arts which I lov'd; for they, my friend,
were thine."

some of our most distinguished lawyers. They
do flot seem to understand or recollect these
things. Very few of them. have read John
Philpot Curran-and there are others as well.
How many young lawyers coming out of law
school today have read Sir, Edward Carson's
cross-examination of Oscar Wilde? How many
of them have read Matthew's cross-examination of Dilke? How many of them know, as I
mentioned before, that the fee was not always
the first priority?
I arn sure ail of you would remember Sir
Edward Carson, that tremendous Ulster Protestant who was the greatest of ail opponents
of home rule. Sitting opposite him in the
house was a man of equal renown, T. P.
O'Connor, an Irish nationalist and proponent
of home rule. T. P. O'Connor was also editor
and proprietor of the London Star, and one
day he had levelled against hiin a libel suit
for £50,000, threatening his ruin and the ruin
of his paper. On the day that the libel action
was announced, Sir Edward Carson crossed
the floor of the house and took a seat beside
O'Connor. He said, "O'Connor, I see you have
a lîbel suit against you, and I have corne over
here to ask for the honour and the privilege
of taking that case for you." O'Connor replied
to, Carson, "I arn almost overcome by the fact
that you should come and offer me your services, but 1 regret to, have to tell you that I
just cannot afford your fees." Carson said,
"O'Connor! Who spoke about fees? I will take
the case. I wîll take it for nothing and I will
be proud and honoured to defend you because
we are both fellow-Irishmen, after ail, and I
will be defending the freedom of the press
and the right of fair comment." O'Connor
accepted, and when it was announced that
Edward Carson was to take the case for T. P.
O'Connor, the suit for libel was withdrawn,
because no jury ini England would ever give a
verdict against T. P. O'Connor with Edward
Carson on his side.
Now there is the glory of the law. They had
other people in England who were great men.
When Curran concluded those wonderful Russell of Kilowen-read his cross-examinawords, Avonmore burst into tears, suspended tion of Piggett or read his speeches li the
the court, retired to his chambers and asked various courts. Coming down nearer to our
if Curran would come to see hlm. Curran did time, there was a procession of legal giants:
Rufus Isaacs, Edward Carson, Sir, Edward
so and their old friendshîp was renewed.
These are the things, these are the great Clark, Patrick Hastings, Birkenhead, Wilfrid
events in the history of law and lawyers i GreenBritain and Ireland which should make every
Hon. Mr. Martin: Sir John Simon.
young lawyer proud of his profession.:
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: Sir, John Simon, as the
As I said, I have gone to many meetings of
lawyers; 1 have addressed the Coundil of the Leader of the Government reminds me. These
men have disappeared and seemingly have
Canadian Bar Association; I have talloed to had no successors.
22481-23

1156

SENATE DEBATES

This is true also of Canada. We have some
distinguished lawyers. I have had the privilege of knowing a great many of them. I had
the honour and privilege of being the only
layman invited to be honorary pallbearer at
the funeral of Sir Lyman Duff. I was a close
personal friend, I am not afraid to say, of Mr.
Justice Rand. These were great lawyers, but
they were concerned with the traditions and
philosophy of the law. They were not concerned with being clerks for business tycoons,
which is what has happened to a great many
of the legal profession in Canada. In effect,
they have become chartered accountants,
doing the work of businessmen, yielding, like
so many of the rest of us, to that national
obsession with the gross national product.
It is a pity! It is a pity that this should
happen to the greatest of professions, the
profession among whom are numbered the
architects of our constitution and the defenders and sentinals of human liberty.
But there are only a few of them left. Who
now can take the place of a Christopher Robinson? Who can take the place of an Alan
Aylesworth, who sat for many years in this
house? Who can take the place of, as I said
before, Aime Geofirion or of Eugene Lafleur?
I could name many another.
You can rechange or reform the laws as
much as you like, but the administration of
law in Canada will depend upon men just as
any institution must depend upon men. If you
have not the lawyers, if you have not the
people who understand the law, the spirit of
the law, the philosophy of the law, then you
are not going to have law administered as it
should be. That is why I thought I should rise
today as a journalist, who has been analysed.
I know that jests are made about lawyers. I
know the line, "Why does the hearse horse
snicker when a lawyer is being carried
away?" I remember that when the Czar of
Russia came to Paris many years ago he was
asked how many lawyers there were in
Russia. He replied that there were only three
and that he was going back home to have two
of them shot. I know that lawyers can join in
such jests, just as I join in the jest of lines of
Humber Wolfe:
They say you cannot bribe or twist, Thank
God the modern journalist; But seeing
what the man will do Unbrided, there's
no occasion to.

June 3, 1970

all the professions, because it is concerned
with the most precious thing we have, liberty and should be concerned with being on
the side of the underdog, not of the fat rich
men of Bay Street or St. James Street. We
can all regret that the noble, learned lawyer
is disappearing. Where now are the men in
the United States such as Daniel Webster,
"Black Daniel", men such as Marshall, or
Rufus Choats and, yes, such as Clarence
Darrow? These are the names which give
glory to the legal profession, and to me it is a
matter of regret that we seemingly are not
producing men of that stamp any more. Yet
we are turning out more lawyers in Canada
now than ever before. We have more law
schools in Canada than ever before. But, alas,
and I regret to say it, we have not the giants
of the legal profession we used to have in
days gone by. This is true of journalism, and
I regret it, but is is also true of law.

Hon. Richard J. Stanbury: Honourable
senators, I am beginning to believe that, in
spite of the discourtesy, I should have insisted
on going on before because of the utter
impossibility of following the wonderful
speech we have just heard from Senator
O'Leary. Honestly, I was not aware that there
was a speaker available on the other side of
the house, and that is why I rose earlier.
I should first like to congratulate the
honourable Leader of the Government on his
presentation of this bill, and to congratulate
in turn each of the other senators who spoke.
I should like to reserve my highest commendation for my seatmate, honourable Senator
Lazarus Phillips. I find that be approaches
every question with the greatest touch of
humanity, and he articulates his position with
such beautiful language that it is difficult to
find anything worthy to say after he has
finished.
I have read with pleasure and enlightenment a number of excellent speeches in the
other place as well as in this bouse, but I felt
that it might be helpful to draw the attention
of honourable senators to the great tradition
of reform in Canada which makes it possible
for us to be the first federated nation in the
world to implement such legislation, and the
first nation to bring two systems of civil law
under the consideration of a single commission. I appreciate that Senator O'Leary has
We can all laugh at such lines; yet there done a great deal to give us the framework of
must be regret at what is happening to the tradition in Canada which allows us to prolegal profession, the noblest and greatest of ceed with this kind of legislation.
[Hon. Mr. O'Leary.]

June 3, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

In 1877, Wilfrid Laurier, in a famous
Quebec speech, expressed a view that is
worthy of repetition as we consider this bill:
Experience has established that insensibly, imperceptibly, abuses will creep into
the body social and end by seriously
obstructing its upward march, if not
endangering its existence. Experience has
further established that
institutions
which, at the outset, were useful because
they were adapted to the state of society
at the time of their introduction, often
end by becoming intolerable abuses
owing to the simple fact that everything
around them has changed.
The philosophy on which Sir Wilfrid based
these remarks is not uniquely Canadian, but I
think it is fair to say that Canadians have
shown a greater acceptance of it than have
most other peoples.
In Germany last fall I was approached by
representatives of the Scandinavian countries
who wanted to know what characteristic of
the Canadian people made it possible for our
Government to do complete reviews of institutions and initiate new directions. They said
that while their countries had achieved some
exciting new legislation, they had only succeeded in adding it on top of old programs,
never in replacing them.
We have, indeed, a remarkable record of
reviewing and reforming our institutions, but
until now the efforts have been sporadic and
casual by comparison with the approach that
is proposed in the legislation before us.
Our review of our divorce laws, in which
honourable senators played such an important
part, the review of our Criminal Code, our
tax laws, our laws of citizenship, our foreign
policy, our defence policy, our social legislation, and so on-all of these demonstrate that
the Canadian people understand the philosophy of reform.
In a democracy, men are not flotsam drifting along in the stream of events; they are
regulators directing the flow. A free man is
the creator, not the creature of his institutions. In politics there are no necessities.
Nothing is predetermined for us beyond the
human power to change it. Nothing that we
have inherited or are now doing is exempt
from our capacity to keep or alter.
All social conduct, social organization and
social institutions are the product of human
activity, past and present. Being wholly manmade, they are not imposed on us by exter22481-23j

nal and, therefore, uncontrollable forces;
rather they are moulded through causes
which originate in man himself. Thus they do
not contain anything that is conceivably
unchangeable by human will. Whatever blessings we enjoy in civilization are the fruits of
man's own work, but by the same token so
too are many of the ills-poverty, ignorance.
unemployment and others. However, where
the causes spring there also resides the cure.
On this, no one should have any doubts: men
can change what men have made.
Yet men are not angels. There are many
who fear the disturbances that accompany the
process of innovation and doubt their ability
to control its courses. Frequently, therefore,
they resign themselves to know evils rather
than risk the unpredictable chances of
change. We are the creatures of habit and
captives of the past to a much larger extent
than we realize; and though it is to the past
that we also owe the freedoms we enjoy, the
sanctity of age has often the effect of prolonging many a practice that restricts the opportunity to invent and improve.
The surrounding social order has resulted
from the slow accumulation of labours which
occupied many centuries and deposited their
legacy in the institutions, procedures, laws:
and ideas that we inherit, and it is difficult
for us who have been shaped into what we
are by all our yesterdays to refashion speedily the social framework where it is required.
There are other obstacles to progress. Most
of us, before we act, want to be reasonably
sure about what we are doing and where we
intend to move. But we can progress with
deliberate speed, and this legislation will help
us to move in the right direction.
In our country we have established order
based on law. But to establish order is not
enough. After all, probably the most orderly
place on earth is a cemetery. Order must
conform to what men consider just. The kind
of order that men prize is one wherein they
feel that they are receiving justice. A system
that is organized to ensure protection, but
where people are not persuaded that they are
justly treated, can gain obedience but not
allegiance.
Justice consists both in a method and in a
certain kind of result. The method is one of
fair dealing. The result is the recognition of
the interests of all individuals and groups and
the promotion of harmony between them.
People will feel that they have justice when

SENATE DEBATES
the community within which they live
accords them an equal chance and safeguards
their interests in a manner proportionate to
the interests of others.
No legal system can operate with automatic, impersonal, machine-like precision. Laws
are not self-made. Still less are they selfenforcing. It is men who must draft, enact,
interpret and apply the law. A humanindeed, a humane-discretion must scale
down the broad classification to the narrow
particulars.
The mass of the people are most directly
interested in the practical results which the
framework of Government brings to them in
their daily lives and their lifetime dreams.
They can understand the need for overhauling institutions and laws when there are substantial goals to be attained for which established methods are unsuitable.
The role of Government in guiding the evolution of society is profoundly affected by the
timing of the changes that occur as well as by
their content. Few social orders are ever completely static for any length of time. Most
societies generally undergo continuous change
that is imperceptibly absorbed. But there are
occasions in the history of a community when
the rate of change is accelerated, and adjustments are attempted or accomplished with
rapidity or a sense of urgency. Any kind of
change, of course, imposes a strain, since it
involves people in a departure from settled
practices and a dislocation of established
institutions. The acid test of a mature people
is their ability to absorb major changes without loss of liberty.
For the most part we habitually accept and
take for granted the prevailing ideas, the
dominant institutions of our environment
and, if on the whole these serve our needs,
we judge them to be good. If it is bad to
restrict our scrutiny for solutions to our own
century, so would we be at fault in failing to
look beyond our own country. Insight into the
significance of each choice and into the relative merits of alternative solutions requires
that laws be studied by a comparative as well
as an historical method. We can learn from
other countries and jurisdictions, and this bill
anticipates that we will.
The quality of our laws is what counts. The
improvement of laws is a step forward in the
process of civilization. Let us never forget
what Sir William Abbott said, "Old laws are
not like old wines-they seldom improve with
age."
(Hon. Mr. Stanbury.]

June 3, 1970

Al this implies that society can be made
more just and that politics is a sphere of
purposeful behaviour through which we hope
to live better than we do now. We must apply
our reason to Government. When the results
of understanding enlarge our powers, the use
of reason brings self-liberation. Before there
can be action, however, there must be decision; before decision, choice; before choice,
deliberation; before deliberation, knowledge.
The mind must analyze before the will
decides. The establishment of a federal law
reform commission will assure that we begin
at the beginning, using all the resources
available to us.
Much of this philosophy has found its way
into the operation of the Ontario Law
Reform commission, of which my friend and
classmate, H. Allen Leal, Q.C., is the chairman. I should like to quote from the 1967
annual report of that commission. I know that
Senator Fergusson has quoted several paragraphs, and perhaps other honourable senators have done likewise, but I do not think
the part I am about to read has yet been
quoted, namely:
The means by which we intend to
pursue our objectives include consultation, comparative analysis and codification. Sound law reform can be based only
on research that is as concerned with
sociological fact as it is with doctrinal
fact. Time and cost are relative factors
and are meaningful only in terms of the
quality of the product. The closest consultation with those in and out of the
legal profession is necessary to avoid any
attempt at problem-solving in a vacuum.
The constant reference to materials and
the experience in other jurisdictions frequently result in economy of effort and a
product of higher quality. Socio-legal
problems have the nasty attribute of
being repetitive and the experience of
others, whether in the civil or common
law systems, may provide helpful guideposts towards better solutions of our own
problems.
The principle of codification is used not
in any narrow or restrictive sense but
rather to describe the process by which
the body of rules in any given area of the
law is brought into harmony with itself
and with the total fabric, locally and nationally. All this must be achieved without denuding the law of the ability to

June 3, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

grow and adapt to changing conditions.
This is the heritage and the hallmark of
the common law. Preoccupation with the
present may yield an encompassing rigidity as restraining as the shackles of the
past. In his inspirational monograph on
"The Growth of the Law," Benjamin
Cardozo expressed the thought in the following terms:
"Existing rules and principles can
give us our present location, our bearings, our latitude and longitude. The
inn that shelters for the night is not
the journey's end. The law, like the
traveler, must be ready for the
morrow. It must have a principle of
growth."
Let us consider the Ontario Law Reform
Commission. The commission is comprised of
a chairman and four members plus a fulltime counsel, research assistant, secretary,
and their supporting staff. Suggested topics
for its program are brought before a meeting
of the full commission for consideration and
if accepted are allotted to a member of the
commission or its staff for the purpose of
having the necessary research done, or are
allotted to specialists retained by the commission. For large projects the practice is to
appoint a director, who then recruits his
research and administrative staff, subject to
commission approval. The federal bill is
necessarily a little longer than the Ontario
Act passed in May 1964, because Canada contains two civil law systems-the Quebec Civil
Code and the common law for the rest of
Canada.
The commission relies heavily, by choice,
on the full-time staff of the Ontario law
schools for research personnel. Professional
law teachers are and always have been of the
stuff that is required for law reform. The
availability of specialists in the law schools is
one reason why the Ontario commission has
relied so heavily on law school personnel. It
would have been wasteful to duplicate this
staff of research personnel in the central
office of the commission. The law schools are
being strengthened by this process, law teaching will inevitably gain and the Government
is not faced with an increasing establishment
within the public service. The existence of
adequate legal research libraries in the law
schools and a familiarity with their use are
compelling factors for the employment of law
school personnel wherever available.
The role of the legal practitioner in law
reform is less direct but equally indispensa-

1159

ble. Lawyers have a heavy obligation to serve
the direct needs of the public which leaves
little or no time for contemplative and painstaking research. However, some of the
younger members of the Bar have a penchant
for law reform, and their number is increasing. The participation of the lawyer at all
levels in a consultative and advisory capacity
is vital, and the response has been most
generous.
Perhaps I might depart from my notes at
this point to assure Senator O'Leary that
there are great lawyers now, and I am satisfied that the youngest group will produce the
best we have ever had. This is a matter in
which I have utmost confidence from my
observation of the new people coming along
as students, and as young lawyers in both the
practice of law and the academic world.
Once the research study in any given project is completed, the matter is placed on the
agenda for discussion by the commission sitting as a committee of the whole. The authors
of the report on the particular study under
review, and other resource personnel as are
available and necessary, are invited to these
discussions. The decisions are then embodied
in a report to the attorney general, and frequently, but not invariably, there is a draft
bill annexed suggesting the form of legislation which will implement the recommendations of the report.
Although the primary concern of the commission is with laws in relation to matters
coming within provincial legislative competence, it is not precluded from studying and
reporting on matters of federal jurisdiction
upon which provincial submissions to the federal administration are offered or invited,
and, of course, the same would be true in
reverse of the federal commission.
The provisions of section 2(3) of the
Ontario Act of 1964 require the commission to
report from time to time to the attorney general, and the Ontario commission since its
inception has followed the practice of reporting to the attorney general on individual projects in its program as and when the research
work on those projects is completed, and
recommendations for remedial legislation formulated. No formal annual reports were submitted until 1967, although the attorney general had received annual statements for the
purpose of departmental estimates. The federal bill requires a report to be tabled each
year.
The Ontario commission may embark upon
projects, either on its own motion or as a

SENATE DEBATES
result of a reference by the attorney general.
The program does not require prior legislative approval, but the commission recognizes
that its relations with the administration and
the legislature should be such as to ensure a
serious concern for its work and a reasonable
expectation that the product of its work will
be accepted.
In the area of so-called lawyers' law, a
body of material which is not devoid of social
significance but is frequently of a highly technical nature, and which tends to be regarded
as the preserve of the more specialized members of the practising legal profession and
others administering the law, the Ontario
commission plays an important role. Improvements and amendments in these rules, systems and institutions are normally regarded
as requiring nothing more than imparting a
further gloss to the existing fabric. But what
is sometimes needed is a substantial change
in the basic structure.
It is generally admitted that there is little
time and inclination in the busy legislative
processes for this type of reform, and for
many reasons little attempt on the part of the
legal profession is made to initiate it. It is
essential, therefore, that an independent law
reform agency should adopt it as a matter of
its legitimate and continuing concern. I will
list some of the matters dealt with by the
Ontario Law Reform Commission in its short
but productive existence. There have been
eight acts developed by the commission, and
they are personal property security legislation, the Wages Act, the Execution Act, the
Evidence Act, the Expropriation Procedures
Act, 1962-63, the Perpetuities Act, 1966, the
Condominium Act, and the Mechanies' Lien
Act.
There have been seven projects. A major
research project in family law began in 1965,
and numerous reports on various aspects of
family life have been submitted. There has
been a research project on the limitation of
actions, and many other projects. In addition
there have been some twelve reports, one of
them on the status of adopted children, one
on the Model Wills Act, one on the Mechanics' Lien Act, and one on landlord and tenant
law.
I agree with Senator Aseltine's figures concerning the cost of operation. The Ontario
commission's budget for this year is $271,000,
but in the light of the benefit conferred upon
society I do not consider the cost exorbitant.
[Hon. Mr. Stanbury.]

June 3, 1970

The commission bas established and maintained liaison and working relations with a
number of law reform agencies around the
world. It owes much to these other agencies,
and often draws heavily on their work. It has
not extended a formal invitation for suggestions on topics for law reform, but still has
enjoyed a steady flow of helpful suggestions
from the Bench, the Bar, and the lay public.
The policy is to welcome and value most
highly suggestions for law reform projects
from all sources. The commission endeavours
by its warm reception of suggestions to
encourage donors to maintain a lively interest
in its work. Because the tasks are complex,
diversified and of great number, helpful
suggestions from the Bench, the Bar and
members of the public assist materially in
establishing priorities for tasks to be
undertaken.
A typical example of the way the Ontario
commission functions is the Report on Family
Law, Part I-Torts 1969. The report is
addressed to the attorney general. The commission initiated a research project in 1965 on
family law under the direction of Professor
Ian Baxter. The research team submitted an
extensive series of working papers dealing
with every aspect of family law in the Province of Ontario. As the volumes of this study
became available, the commission released
them to the legal profession, the press and the
general public to obtain constructive comments and criticism.
The function of the project was to analyse
the existing law affecting all areas of family
relations within the legislative competence of
the provincial legislature and evaluate the
adequacy of those laws in view of the
changed economic and social conditions pertaining to the family, to state the basic principles required for a modern code of family law
and to suggest remedial legislation to establish such a code.
The sixth volume of the study dealt with
tort liability with respect to family relations.
After carefully considering the working
papers, the helpful comments received from
interested persons, and after further research
with respect to third party liability insurance,
the commission submitted its report. The
introductory note outlines the format of the
report, which is divided into four parts. The
present law of Ontario relative to intra-family tort immunity is briefly stated, and illustrations of its effect are given. The historical
development of the present law is then

June 3, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

outlined from its source in the common law.
Then subsequent statutory developments are
considered which have modified the common
law position, and relevant sections of acts are
reproduced. Then briefly the constitutional
position is considered.
In chapter 2 various types of actions
between the spouses are considered, first from
the wife's viewpoint, then from the husband's,
and then the effect on third parties. Various
solutions are considered which outline how
the present law can be improved, and these
solutions are considered in their turn. Reasons for accepting or rejecting them are
given, with the last solution being the one
favoured by the commission. I might add that
many of these proposed solutions have been
considered and even adopted in other
jurisdictions.
Finally, the commission makes its recommendations and directs attention to any act of
the legislature which would be affected if
their proposed recommendations were adopted. At the end of their report there is a
general summary of all their recommendations, and the report concludes with the statement that the legislation in the family law
area urgently requires remedial action to
bring it up-to-date and eliminate the anomalies and anachronisms which impede the doing
of justice in an important sector of our society. Parliament, of course, still has the
responsibility for decision but a report of this
kind would be a boon to the legislator in any
event.
To me the approach as exemplified by the
foregoing report is admirable in every
respect. I heartily urge all honourable senators to give their whole-hearted support to
the establishing of a federal law reform commission. If we can, in the federal sphere,
carry on a formal program of law reform
with the same enthusiasm as the commissions
in some of the provinces in this great country
of ours have shown, al the people of Canada
will benefit to an incalculable degree. If we
pass this bill now, in days to come it will be

looked upon as a landmark in the field o
socio-legal legislation. If we pass this bill, the
impatient youth in our country will see that
adults too believe in constructive change and
that there is hope for us yet.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Smith, for Hon. Mr.
Thompson, debate adjourned.
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES ACT
BILL TO

AMEND-SECOND

READING

The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of honourable Senator Robichaud, for the second reading
of Bill C-193, to amend the Industrial
Research and Development Incentives Act.
Hon. Hédard Robichaud: Honourable senatorsThe Hon. the Speaker: If the honourable
Senator Robichaud speaks now, his speech
will have the effect of closing the debate.
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: Honourable senators,
after listening to the strong plea and convincing arguments presented yesterday by Senator Grosart, may I be permitted to forget that
I had a second thought regarding the standing committee to which this bill should be
referred, particularly having in mind the
heavy burden of work which is now before
the Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce.
It is my intention after this bill has
received second reading to move that it be
referred to the Standing Senate Committee on
Health, Welfare and Science.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

On motion of Hon. Mr. Robichaud, bill
referred to the Standing Senate Committee on
Health, Welfare and Science.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2
p.m.

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Thursday, June 4, 1970

The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
SECURITY MEASURES
REPLY TO QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE

The Hon.

the

Speaker: Honourable sena-

tors, J would like to comment on the question
of privilege raised by the honourable Senator
Phillips (Prince) on May 21 about certain
inconveniences caused to members of both
Houses of Parliament as a result of security
measures taken by the R.C.M.P. on Thursday,
May 14. I informed honourable senators at
that time that a complete investigation was
being carried out in the House of Commons,
and the same was being done by the officers
of the Senate.
There seem to be two aspects that arose on
May 21, one rela'ing to free traffic on the
Hill. This was the point raised by the honourable S2nator Phillips (Prince) during the discussion on bis question of privilege. It
appeared that the honourable Senator Aseltine, was one of those who met with some
difficulty at the Senate entrance.
Dealing with the access of parliamentarians
to the precincts of Parliament, I must say that
by virtue of section 4 of the Senate and
House of Commons Act, R.S.C. chapter 147 as
amended, the privileges of the members of
the Senate and of the House of Commons are
the same. These privileges are stated by that
statute to be identical with those enjoyed by
the members of the House of Commons of the
United Kingdom at the time of the passing of
the British North America Act in 1867. I
might add that at page 42 of Erskine May,
17th Edition, this is made perfectly clear.
By custom and usage, responsibility for the
maintenance of order in those areas in the
Parliament Buildings occupied by the Senate
is vested in the Protective Staff of the Senate,
under the direction of the Gentleman Usher
of the Black Rod. The Senate Protective Staff
bas a joint responsibility with the Protective
Staff of the House of Commons for the
maintenance of order in areas which are the
joint responsibility of both the Senate and the
House of Commons-for example, the Parliamen'ary Restaurant and the Library of
Parliament.

June 4, 1970

I must say that through the years the cooperation between the Senate Protective Staff
and the R.C.M.P. bas always been excellent,
and I do not think there is any precedent that
we can recall where this right of free access
to Parliament has been impeded, except in
the particular case raised here on May 21.
Inspector Trefry of the R.C.M.P., who was
in charge of the security arrangements on
May 14, bas already expressed his regrets
that any inconvenience has been caused to
some honourable senators on that occasion.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, I take the
opportunity on this question of privilege to
reiterate that the right of free and unimpeded
access of parliamentarians to the Parliament
Buildings is a continuing and necessary right,
and that any interference therewith constitutes a breach of parliamentary privilege. I
would hope that when security measures are
found to be necessary, we could be informed
in advance so that we may make sure that an
officer of the Senate Protective Staff is on
duty at the Senate door in order to prevent
any honourable senator having to identify
himself or having any problem whatsoever
with his free access to the Senate.
With respect to the incident of May 14, I
was not informed of this, nor do I understand that any officer of the Senate was so
informed. In the future, if information were
given to us under similar circurnstances, I
would in turn very gladly inform honourable senators. This would prevent a recurrence
of some of the inconvenience caused on that
day.
Honourable senators, I come now to the
question of privilege raised by honourable
Senator Phillips (Prince) concerning vehicular
traffic on Parliament Hill, which I hope I
understood clearly. I must say that the
grounds of Parliament pose a different problem in that the responsibility for maintenance
of order thereon is vested in the R.C.M.P. by
virtue of regulations made under section 4 of
the R.C.M.P. Act, R.S.C., chapter 241 as
amended. The provision reads in part as
follows:
The Commissioner of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police shall be responsible for
the protection and security of Departmental Buildings and property of the
Government of Canada and shall determine the kind and amount of protection
which shall be afforded.
The R.C.M.P., therefore, have complete control of traffic on the Hill, and when they feel
that on certain occasions special security

June 4, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

measures should be taken, they have the right
to restrain the flow of traffic or to prevent it
in front of the Senate entrance.
If any honourable senator feels that the
matter should be pursued further, then the
only possible way of doing it would be
through a committee of the house, but I
would respectfully suggest that the matter be
allowed to rest at this point.
To follow up the comments I have just
made I think it would be in order for me to
get in touch with the authorities and the
R.C.M.P. to ask them that if in the future they
feel that security measures should be taken
then I should be informed in advance so that
I will have an opportunity of informing
honourable senators. If that is done I think it
would avoid some of the inconveniences
which have been caused recently to some
honourable senators.
If any honourable senator wishes to say a
few words following this report, I will gladly
hear him.
Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable senators, as the one who raised the question of
privilege I should like first to thank His
Honour the Speaker for the report he has
given us.
Freedom of entry to and exit from the Parliament Buildings may not seem important,
but I would remind honourable senators that
in Czechoslovakia last year parliamentarians
attempted to meet and pass a resolution supporting Mr. Dubcek, but they were prevented
from doing so by the security measures that
were taken. For this very reason it is important that we maintain our tradition-a tradition that may not be fully written into the
law, but one that we have accepted as a right.
The security measures taken around the
Parliament of Canada are probably known to
most people. The number of R.C.M.P. officers
present on this occasion was outrageous, and
entirely unnecessary. We have had no problems in Parliament. We do not need fifty
policemen in front of the buildings on any
occasion. Anyone can leave without an escort.
The Prime Minister does it every day. In my
view, anyone visiting this building should be
prepared to do so under our system; if not,
then he should go to the East Block, to the
office of the Secretary of State for External
Aff airs.
I appreciate the remarks of His Honour the
Speaker, but I regret that the report of the
Law Officer was not tabled, because I would
have liked to see it. However, I find a certain
satisfaction and, shall I say, a rightness on my
22481-24

side, in the fact that the R.C.M.P. have
expressed their regrets.
With respect to your suggestion, Mr. Speaker, that the matter be referred to a committee
such as the Committee on Internal Economy
and Contingent Accounts, I would say that I
can think of no more lingering death for any
matter that is before the Senate than to send
it to that committee. I would hope that Your
Honour will reconsider that suggestion.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Report on the Administration of the
Canada Pension Plan for the fiscal year
ended March 31, 1969, pursuant to section
118, chapter 51, Statutes of Canada,
1964-65.
Report on Operations under Part II
of the Export Credits Insurance Act for
the fiscal year ended March 31, 1969,
pursuant to section 27 of the said act,
chapter 105, R.C.S., 1952.
Report, dated May 11, 1970, of the
Restrictive Trade Practices Commission
under the Combines Investigation Act respecting Business Forms.
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators,
with leave of the Senate, and notwithstanding
Rule 45(l)(g), I move that when the Senate
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until
Tuesday next, June 9, at 8 o'clock in the
evening.
Motion agreed to.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
should like to outline the business of the
Senate, as I see it, for next week.
The Special Committee on Poverty will
meet on Tuesday and again on Thursday. The
Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce will meet all day
Wednesday and Thursday. The chairman,
Senator Hayden, has asked me to indicate
that the committee will hear briefs presented
by the Canadian Mutual Fund Association,
the Investors' Group Trust, the Pension Fund
of the Bank of Montreal, the Canadian International Power Company Limited, and
Texaco Canada. On Thursday the committee
will hear the Bank of Montreal, the Canadian
Institute of Chartered Accountants, and the
Vancouver Board of Trade.

SENATE DEBATES
The Special Joint Committee on the Constitution of Canada will meet on Tuesday afternoon when it will be discussing federalism for
the future and the constitutional review generally. The witness on Wednesday will be the
Clerk of the Privy Council and Secretary to
the Cabinet, Mr. R. G. Robertson. This committee will meet again on Thursday afternoon
when it will consider the Canadian Charter of
Human Rights, that part of the Constitution
dealing with fundamental rights. The witnesses will be Mr. B. L. Strayer, and the
Under Secretary of State, Mr. Jules Léger.
The Standing Senate Committee on Foreign
Affairs will meet on Tuesday. The Chairman,
Senator Aird, has asked me to mention to
honourable senators that last October the
committee was authorized by the Senate to
examine and report on any matter relating to
foreign and Commonwealth affairs generally,
and in particular, on any matter concerning
the Caribbean area. He advises that the committee has now completed its hearings on
these matters and the meeting on Tuesday
next will be for the purpose of considering
the draft report.
The Standing Senate Committee on Health,
Welfare and Science, to which was referred
Bill C-193 to amend the Industrial Research
and Development Incentives Act, will meet on
Wednesday to consider this bill. I anticipate
that the Standing Senate Committee on Legal
and Constitutional Affairs will be able to
begin their consideration of procedures for
the review by the Senate of Statutory Instruments, when the Minister of Justice will
appear as the first witness.
Senator Fergusson has given notice that on
Tuesday she will call the attention of the
Senate to the facilities provided by the federal Government for women prisoners.
The indications are that on Tuesday or
Wednesday we will probably finish the debate
on second reading of Bill C-186 to establish a
commission for the reform of the laws of
Canada. This bill will be referred to the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs.
On the Order Paper for second reading is
Bill S-23, to postpone the expiration of certain provisions of an act to amend the Canada
Shipping Act. Senator Petten will move
second reading of this bill today. After second
reading it is the intention to refer the bill to
the Standing Senate Committee on Transport
and Communications, but I assume that the
debate will not be concluded before Tuesday.
My latest advice is that Bill C-144, the
Canada Water Act, will likely get third read[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 4, 1970

ing in the other place today. We will have

this bill for Tuesday evening, and it is hoped
that we can proceed with it on Wednesday.
Also by Tuesday we should have Bill C-202,
the Aretie

W aters

Pollution Prevention Act. It

is expected that Bill C-203 to amend the Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones Act, Bill C-218
to amend the Aeronautics Act, and Bill C-214
to amend the Canada Labour
Code will reach us next week.

(Standards)

INDIAN AFFAIRS
PRESENTATION OF RED PAPER TO GOVERNMENT-NOTICE OF MEETING
Hon. James Gladstone: Honourable senators, I should like to announce that this afternoon a delegation from the Indian Association of Alberta will present what they call
the Red Paper, being the counterproposals
from the Indians of Alberta, and supported
by delegates from each province. They will
present this paper to the Minister of Indian
Affairs and Northern Development in the
Railway Committee Room this afternoon at 4
o'clock.
I make this announcement so that anyone
interested, who has the time to do so, can be
present.

Hon. Mr. Martin: I should like to confirm
what the honourable Senator Gladstone has
said. A presentation will be made to the Minister for Indian Affairs and Northern Development today. The Prime Minister and the
members of the Cabinet will be there to listen
to the delegation at 4.30 o'clock in the Railway
Committee Room.

PRIVILEGE
TRANSLATION OF SPEECH IN DEBATE ON LAW
REFORM COMMISSION BILL
Hon. Leopold Langlois: Honourable senators, before the Orders of the Day are called,
I should like to rise on a question of privilege.
It has to do with the translation of the speech
I made in French in this house yesterday,
which is quite unacceptable. I readily understand that we cannot expect all translators of
speeches made in this chamber to be well
versed in legal matters, but one could expect
that at least they would know the legal terms
normally used in this house and contained in
our statutes.
The first of the many errors I have noted in
the translation of my speech has to do with
my reference to the provisions of the Canada
Shipping Act as to limitation of liability,

June 4, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

which was translated as "limited responsibilities".
When I referred to the application of our
labour legislaiion the words "agent négociateur" were translated as "negotiating agent".
The expression used in the labour laws of
Canada and of the Province of Quebec is, of
course, "bargaining agent".
When I referred to the Chief Justice of the
Superior Court of the District of Quebec, it
was translated as "head justice of the Superior Court of Quebec". I am sure I was not the
first to refer in this house to the Chief Justice
of any court.
I also referred to an appeal before the
Appeal Court of Quebec, and in particular to
the judgment which was in favour of the
appellant in the opinion of the learned
judges, with the exception of one strong dissidence. This was translated as "some of whom
were dissident". If it was heard before three
judges, some of whom were dissident, I would
have won the case, when in fact I lost it.
Hon. Mr. Bourget: You should have
appealed.
Hon. Mr. Langlois: For the benefit of
honourable Senator Bourget, I won it before
the Supreme Court of Canada.
I will refrain from mentioning the other
errors. I have drawn these many errors to the
attention of the Chief of the English Debates,
who has assured me that he will look into the
matter. I think this is important enough to
bring it to the attention of this house. When
members of this house speak on any matter,
especially with respect to statute law, they
should expect the translators at least to know
the legal terms used in the context of the
legislation.
The Hon. the Speaker: Would it be satisfactory to the honourable Senator Langlois if I
took this matter up with my advisors to see
what can be done about it?
Hon. Mr. Langlois: Very good, Mr. Speaker.
Thank you for your kind attention to the
question I have raised.
LAW REFORM COMMISSION BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE CONTINUED
The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mr.
Martin, for the second reading of Bill C-186,
to establish a commission for the reform of
the laws of Canada.
Hon. Andrew Thompson: Honourable senators, to begin may I say how much I have
22481-241

1165

enjoyed and learned from the contributions
of the other speakers in this debate. I wish in
particular to thank Senator Haig who lent me
his personal file on law reform. He has obviously maintained an intense interest in this
subject over the years.
Senator Aseltine, with his wide experience
and knowledge of the law, raised probing
questions about the need for a law reform
commission at this time. His speech sent me
back to do some homework on the bill.
I am not a lawyer, and therefore to substantiate my argument for the need of a law
reform commission, I shall rely heavily on
quoting from distinguished members of the
legal fraternity. As far back as 1859, there
was a call and a challenge for such a body to
be formed in England. In that year the Lord
Chancellor, Lord Westbury, published a paper
in which he wrote:
Why is there not a body of men in this
country whose duty it is to collect a body
of judicial statistics or, in common
phrase, make the necessary experiments
to see how f ar the law is fitted to the
exigences of society, the necessities of the
times, the growth of wealth, and the progress of mankind?
And that succinct question echoed down
through the years, only to be answered in
England when Lord Gardiner introduced his
Law Commission Bill in 1965. At a panel
discussion at the Canadian Bar Association
meeting in 1966, the Honourable Sir Edmund
Davies remarked, "We wondered how we
ever managed without such a body for the
past 700 years or so."
Other speakers have pointed out the vast
proliferation of new law. There are the
myriad court decisions as sources of law in
Canada, added to which are the statutes,
regulations, orders in council and by-laws
being enacted by legislatures and by
municipalities across the land.
As I have said, honourable senators, I am
not versed in the law, but perhaps I could
digress a little to say that I am foolish enough
to think that I know something about
horses-not perhaps as much as Mr. Speaker-but I do know that if the animal becomes
excessively plump it becomes sluggish, cannot
step out at a brisk pace and even its heartbeat slows down.
Now, honourable senators, it might appear
presumptuous of me to assess the law in those
terms. Charles Dickens was able to call it
names. Mr. Justice Fitzjames Stephen of England stated that:

1166

SENATE DEBATES

June 4, 1970

expensive lawyers, who could be contributing more usefully to society, waste
lifetimes searching titles in dusty tomes
of registry offices and grappling with
hoary concepts like fee simple, tenure,
dower and curtesy. The feather-bedding
experts of some labor unions could learn
something from these practices of the
legal profession.

. . although the law is often superb in
quality, it has become studiously repulsive in form. With some 3,000 statutes
and 350,000 decided cases, its obesity has
indeed become hideous.
Other speakers have pointed out that this
same condition does apply in Canada. Alan
Mewett, Professor of Law at the University of
Toronto, pointed out in a paper to the Alberta
Law Review in February, 1969 that:
The criminal law is in need of revision
in this country. There bas been no systematic revisions since 1892 when the Code
was first enacted and yet clearly there is
need to consider whether the values and
premises of the nineteenth century are
still valid for the second half of the twentieth. Most of the existing criminal law
bas been legislated without the benefit of
criminological and sociological studies,
and it may well be that we are working
on totally misconceived hypotheses.
Isolated tinkering is probably worse
than useless. One cannot deny the value
of the Reports of Commissions and Committees that have already been produced.
All of them, however, have had narrow
specific terms of reference as such bodies
must have. However valuable as isolated
studies they may be, none of them has
had the breadth and coverage which is
required.

The Minister of Justice stated in the other
place when he introduced the bill that he
would suggest that immediate priority should
be given to a complete rewriting of the
Criminal Code. The Minister is very much
aware of the problems in a changing modern
society. His speeches reflect his concern over
subjects ranging from the abuse of drugs to
computers, privacy and the law. Technology
advances at such a fast pace that it is difficult
to bring the law abreast of the innovations in
our lives. Let me give an example of that.
Professor Arthur Miller of the University of
Michigan recently pointed out:
The computer with its insatiable appetite
for information, its image of infallibility,
and its inability to forget anything that
has been stored in it, may become the
heart of a surveillance system that will
turn society into a transparent world in
which our homes, our finances, and our
associates are bared to a wide range of
observers.

Allen Linden, Professor of Law at Osgoode
Hall, has kept up a persistent clarion call
over the years for the establishment of law
reform commissions, at both the provincial
and federal levels. I remember when I was a
provincial Member of Parliament how he
would come to my office to expound his
cause, and be, more than anyone, was responsible for having the project of law reform
commissions included in the Liberal platform.
He pointed out that most of the common law
was crystallized in the rural society of the
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, while
today the law must accommodate to jet and
rocket travel, mass production, computers,
and the widespread authority of the modern
state.
At Harrison Hot Springs be gave a paper
on the law reform commission, pointing out a
number of what be referred to as "legal relies" which still persist. Perhaps I can quote
one example from his paper. He stated:
One could linger over our outmoded
system of land law which bas remained
relatively unaltered since the days of
English feudal manors. Highly skilled and

This brings up the question of the need for
an examination of the laws of privacy. And
of course there are many other technological
invasions of privacy. There is the microphone
which can be no larger than the head of a pin
and which can transmit by wire a conversation for a distance of 25 miles.
Now how do we reform the laws to meet
these challenges of our modern society? Certainly, there have been a number of publicspirited lawyers of the highest calibre who
have tackled the problems of law reform, but
they have not been able to sit in constant
session. And as Mr. Leal, chairman of the
Ontario Law Reform Commission stated, the
complexity of reforming the law is not a
matter for a casual afternoon.
Honourable senators who are lawyers may
recall that in 1956 a committee of the Canadian Bar Association, under the chairmanship
of Professor Frank Scott, reported on the
necessity of legal research in Canada. They
found it to be in a sorry state. Legal research
had never attracted funds as had medical
research.

[Hon. Mr. Thompson.]

June 4, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Another reason pointed out for the lack
of legal research in Canada was that law
teachers until recently have had heavy
teaching and administrative workloads. After
all, in 1945 there were only about 25 full-time
law teachers in Canada. Today there are over
200, and the law schools have become more
active in legal research.
The minister in his remarks on the bill
pointed out:
The Deans of Canadian Law Schools and
the Association of Law Professors are
somewhat concerned that the impetus
towards law reform may well put tremendous pressures on the pool of legal
resources and research in this country.

authority to insert any program for reform
into the commission's program for study.
Indeed, he will give his sanction to the program for study. As the minister stated:
-this provision of ministerial approval
of the program of research is to ensure
that it is related to the priorities in law
reform as they appear relevant from time
to time, having regard to the priorities of
the people as reflected by the debates in
Parliament. It is essential to the credibility of the commission that its programs be
directed towards reforms, the need for
which is felt by the Government and reflected in Parliament.

Of course, Parliament is where the law
must be reformed. The purpose of the commission is going to be that of studying the
law and of communicating the need for
reforms to Parliament. I should like to repeat
that: It is to study the law and to communicate the need for reforms to Parliament.
These are two vital ideas which have been
expressed previously, and have been far more
ably expressed by such eminent jurists as
Westbury, Haldane and Judge Cardozo.
Judge Cardozo, addressing the New York
City Bar Association in 1921, said:
Some agency must be found to mediate
between the legislature and the courts.
Somebody must be found to act as messenger from courts to legislature, and
from legislature to courts.

Hon. Mr. Martin: Would Senator Thompson
permit me to point out that the bill provides
that the Minister of Justice may appoint two
members of the commission who are not
members of the legal profession?

I would have liked to have seen the comAs a non-lawyer, I have always assumed that mission be somewhat similar to the Auditor
the law could be reshaped by decisions of the General. I would suggest that the Auditor
judges. Mr. Leslie Scarman, speaking to the General would not be as effective as he is if a
Annual Lecture of the Manitoba Law School, minister had to approve the areas of government he examined.
said:
I have no qualms that the present minister
You cannot expect judges to do your law
reform work for you. They have the will provide a healthy leadership to the comknowledge, but they have not the time to mission, but future ministers and governdo the research, and it is not their pri- ments might not be as forward looking. Personally, I would like to see an independence
mary function.
for the commission to select its priorities of
Senator Martin last week was kind enough research.
to refer me to the Cambridge Studies in EngOn another point, despite the explanation
lish Legal History by Roscoe Pound, from by such a distinguished lawyer as Senator
which I will quote:
Phillips (Rigaud), concerning the requirement
Attempt to reshape the law by judicial of ten years at the Bar in order to qualify for
overruling of leading cases is no substi- consideration as a member of the commission,
tute for well-drawn
comprehensive I still hold reservations concerning that
requirement.
legislation.

This commission will
Although I endorse
several reservations.
pointed out that the

Hon. Mr. Thompson: I appreciate that,
Senator Martin. I am talking of the ones who
are members of the legal profession, and the
requirement of ten years at the Bar.
I am of the opinion that such a provision
needlessly reduces the pool of available legal
talent. There could be some young lawyers
with from five to nine years experience who
could make a valuable contribution as members of the commission. This provision might
also rule out certain academic lawyers of considerable experience and seniority who have
not yet qualified themselves for admission to
any Bar, or who have done so at a later time
do just that.
this bill, I do so with in life than is commonly the case. What about
Other speakers have some outstanding jurists who may have come
minister will have the from England or another Commonwealth

1168

SENATE DEBATES

country to reside in Canada? We have recently seen in Toronto an instance where narrow
parochial qualifications appeared to eliminate
a distinguished educator from taking up an
important posting there.
It may also be interesting to note that the
great initiator of reform in the United States,
Ralph Nader, has been a member of the Bar
for less than ten years.
Two members of the commission, as Senator Martin has pointed out, may be persons
other than lawyers or judges. Someone said
that war is too important a matter to be left
in the hands of generals. I would suggest
that this would also apply to law reform and
to lawyers.
In case some lawyers think I am being
somewhat presumptuous, I come back again
to the remarks of the distinguished jurist, Mr.
Justice Scarman, who heads the English Law
Commissions, and who said:
The lawyer must accept that the development of the law is too serious a business
to be left wholly to lawyers.

June 4, 1970

Hon. Mr. Martin: Hear, hear.

Hon. Mr. Thompson: I enjoyed reading his
speeches. I refer to one he delivered to the
Annual Meeting of the Law Society of Alberta in 1966, when lie talked of law enforcement and the citizen's liberty. His remarks
were backed up by data provided by Professor P. J. Giffen of the Department of Sociology of the University of Toronto, and Professor Thorsten Sellin, sociologist from the
University of Pennsylvania.
For several years after graduating from
university, I worked as a probation officer
with the magistrates courts in British
Columbia. The individual magistrates had a
variety of approaches in dealing with juvenile
delinquents. Some seemed to be so much
more perceptive in understanding the underlying problems of a young offender, and knew
when to be stern or to be kind. It always
seemed to me that there should be far more
systematic research about the methods to deal
with juveniles. Personally, in far too many
cases I considered that it should have been the
parents who should have been charged with
Roscoe Pound, to whom Senator Martin being delinquent. Our high rate of recidivism
was kind enough to refer me for reading last certainly suggests that we have not all the
week, said:
answers.
TodayDean Manning, in his introduction to Law
in a changing America, wrote about the need
This was in the 1920s.
- we seek to unify all the social sciences to learn what really happens in juvenile
and to treat jurisprudence merely as one courts. He asked a number of other questions
of the group, holding that none is self- about finding what juries actually do and
sufficient. Next to its functional attitude, with what consequences; who in fact receives
the rejection of the conception of a what kinds of criminal penalties for what
wholly independent science of law, drawn kinds of offences etc. It is in order to provide
exclusively from the law itself and ignor- answers for these and many other such quesing every other department of knowledge tions that I would hope that the other two
as irrelevant to its problems and of no members of the commission would be qualivalue for its ends, is the most significant fied in those other disciplines, which are also
trained to assess objectively the role of
feature of recent juristic thought.
individuals in their society.
other disciplines must be used to
Of course,
Let me add that it is particularly vital
search out the facts, and I think most distintoday, when so many people are looking critiguished lawyers would agree with that.
Dean Griswold of the Harvard Law School cally at all our institutions, that we should be
establishing a permanent body to ensure that
argued:
Law in any field to be adequate and our laws do indeed reflect the needs of a
sound must rest on facts. It must grow modern society. People who feel forgotten or
out of experience. Thus research designed ignored or abused are becoming more organto make systematic investigations into ized and more militant concerning their
human experience becomes indispensable demands. Certainly demonstrations in public
to the healthy growth of the law.
places have become a major means through
But enlightened lawyers, I suggest, have which protest can be expressed.
Professor Etzioni, Director of the Centre for
always laced their arguments for reform with
such systematic investigation.
Policy Research at Columbia University, sent
I hold Arthur Maloney in the top ranks of me recently a policy paper which he had
prepared for the President's National Comreform-minded lawyers in Canada.
[Hon. Mr. Thompson.]

June 4, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

mission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence. Since he sent it, I am presuming that
he will not mind if I quote from it.
To check on the frequency of demonstrations, he had selected one month at random,
September 1968, and every incident of protest
reported in either the New York Times or the
Washington Post was tabulated. He notes that
demonstrations have become a part of the
political process of America-and I suggest
also of Canada. He found there were 216 incidents during that month reported as occurring in the United States. That amounts to
about seven demonstrations a day. The
majority of these were carried out peacefully.
But the American public are apprehensive
and critical of demonstrations. A Harris Poll
in 1965 reported that 68 per cent of Americans found anti-Vietnam pickets "more harmful than helpful."
Etzioni suggests that television has played
a key role in the evolution of this particular
forum of political expression. He pointed out
that the media's coverage of demonstrations
used to focus primarily on the "colourful"
aspects, such as the demonstrators' appearance, slogans or clashes with counter-demonstrators or the police. Recently, the media
seems to rely more and more on interviews
with the leaders, and I would suggest that
such interviews put greater value on levelheaded articulate leaders and peaceful demonstrations.
He argues for greater institutionalization of
peaceful demonstrations, but he emphasizes
that they should be set apart from violent
demonstrations that undermine democratic
politics. He pointed out that peaceful demonstrations democratize, in that they increase
the equality of political opportunity by providing a tool with a built-in advantage for
those for whom the other tools of democracy
are somewhat unwieldly and, not infrequently, relatively inaccessible. He argued that
demonstrations serve those whose needs are
the most neglected and who cannot use other
political means nearly as effectively as the
and politically
more affluent, educated
experienced groups. Letter writing, petitions,
advertising in newspapers, campaign contributions and lobbying, and almost all political
tools other than demonstrations, are particularly suited to the privileged rather than to
the under-privileged groups. To use them
effectively requires money, education and
organizational experience.
He pointed out that even voting is less used
by those citizens who demonstrate most-the

1169

poor, the Negroes and youth in the United
States. In the 1964 presidential election, only
53 per cent of those with an income of less
than $3,000 voted, compared with the 62 per
cent over-all turnout and with 85 per cent of
those earning $10,000 or more.
One of his principal conclusions to avoid
violence is that the government must appear
to be, and must indeed be, receptive to intelligent reappraisal and reform of its laws.
I suggest that this law reform commission,
acting as a fact-finding body, will be vitally
important in assisting Parliament to make
just such intelligent reappraisal and reform
of our laws.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Flynn, debate
adjourned.
CANADA SHIPPING ACT (PILOTAGE)
BILL TO AMEND AN ACT TO AMENDSECOND READING

Hon. William J. Pe±±en moved the second
reading of Bill S-23, to postpone the expiration of certain provisions to an Act to Amend
the Canada Shipping Act.
He said: Honourable senators, the report of
the Royal Commission on Pilotage placed in
doubt the validity of the pilotage by-laws and
orders respecting pilotage and pilot's licence
made and issued under authority of the pilotage provisions of the Canada Shipping Act,
and in order to validate all such by-laws
orders and licences pending corrective legislation in respect of the pilotage provisions of
the act, Parliament enacted legislation in section 7 of chapter 53 of the Statutes of 1969,
which provides that every by-law made pursuant to the Canada Shipping Act and every
order made by the Governor in Council
before the coming into force of said section 7
shall be deemed to have the same force and
effect as if such by-law or order had been
made pursuant to an Act of Parliament that
authorized the making of such by-law or
order.
The said provisions of section 7 of chapter
53 provide that they shall cease to have any
force or effect after December 31, 1969, or
such day not later than 12 months after
December 31, 1969, as may be fixed by a
proclamation of the Governor in Council
issued before that date.
A proclamation was issued on December 10,
1969, fixing June 30, 1970, as the day on
which section 7 of chapter 53 shall cease to
have force and effect.

1170

SENATE DEBATES

Subsequent to the proclamation being
issued, the department thought it worthwhile
to consult with pilots and the users of the
pilotage service on the possibility of a new
approach to the pilotage problem. They were
asked to consider a system under which the
Government would only regulate respecting
such safety matters as the qualifications of
pilots and the areas where pilotage would be
compulsory. Other matters, such as the fees to
be paid for the service, the arrangements for
pilots to be available, the provision of pilot
boats and so on, would be left to be worked
out by the pilots and the users of their
services.
This was not put forward as a firm proposal, but simply as a possible solution about
which the department would like to have
their reaction. The department had hoped to
receive their views some time ago but the
reply from one of the two main pilot organizations has only come in within the past few
weeks, and they have not yet had replies
from two of the principal user organizations.
As a result, the legislation arising out of
the report of the Royal Commission on Pilotage will not be ready for submission to Parliament until later in 1970 or early in 1971
and, therefore, unless the provisions of section
7 of chapter 53 are permitted to continue in
force after June 20, the administration of the
pilotage provisions of the Canada Shipping
Act will no longer be possible.
Bill S-23 provides that the said provisions
of chapter 53 will continue in force until June
30, 1971.
Honourable senators, if this bill should
receive second reading, it is my intention to
move that it be referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Transport and Communications.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
this problem was discussed last year when we
passed an Act to amend the Canada Shipping
Act. As has been indicated by the sponsor,
this is a rather complex problem and is related to the publication of the report of the
Royal Commission on Pilotage.
Although I am not sure that it is absolutely
necessary for the Department of Transport to
have this report to take a stand and to draw
some conclusions as to what should be done
about the problem raised by either the first or
second volume of the report of the Royal
Commission as to the validity of certain bylaws or Orders in Council concerning pilotage, nevertheless, this is a very technical
[Hon. Mr. Petten.]

June 4, 1970

problem that can be examined in committee
more easily than here. The sponsor has
indicated that if this bill receives second
reading, as it appears it will this afternoon,
he will refer it to the Standing Senate Committee on Transport and Communications, I
think that is the proper place to study it so
that we can hear from the officials and satisfy
ourselves that this legislation is really needed.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

On motion of Hon. Mr. Petten, bill referred
to Standing Senate Committee on Transport
and Communications.
NORTHERN INLAND WATERS BILL
REPORT OF

COMMITTEE

ADOPTED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of
the report of the Standing Senate Committee
on Health, Welfare and Science on Bill C-187,
respecting inland water resources in the
Yukon Territory and Northwest Territories,
which was presented yesterday.
Hon. Hédard Robichaud moved that the
report be adopted.
He said: Honourable senators, may I be
permitted to offer a brief explanation concerning the amendment included in the report
now under consideration.
Bill C-187, clause 10, subclause (3)(b),
which honourable senators will find on page 8
of the bill, reads as follows:
(b) in any licence issued in respect of any
other water or waters, to which any
regulations made by the Governor in
Council for the purposes of subsection (4)
of section 33 of the Fisheries Act are
applicable, conditions relating to the
quantity and types of waste that may be
deposited in any such water or waters or
under which any such waste may be so
deposited, that vary from any restrictions
relating to the deposit of waste prescribed with respect to such water or
waters by those regulations.
As honourable senators will notice, this
clause refers to section 33 of the Fisheries
Act. The Fisheries Act is presently under
revision in the other place by virtue of Bill
C-204, and when that bill was reported to the
other place, it was reported with amendments. One of the main amendments had to
do with the replacing or substitution of the

June 4, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

word "waste" by the words "deleterious sub- can refer to the dictionary, as has been sugstances". So, in order to bring Bill C-187 into gested, but do the words "deleterious subaccord with Bill C-204, the committee is stances" represent the same thing that is
recommending that on page 8, line Il we described in the definition of "waste" in this
strike out the word "waste" and substitute bill?
therefor the words "deleterious substances".
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: Honourable senators,
Honourable senators, I commend this
in order to answer the question of the
amendment to your support.
honourable Leader of the Opposition, may I
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators, give the definition of "deleterious substance"
may I ask a question of Senator Robichaud? I as it appears in Bill C-204. The definition is
was unable to attend the meeting of the com- as follows:
mittee yesterday, and I am a little confused.
(a) "deleterious substance" means
Can Senator Robichaud tell me, in the first
(i) any substance, solid, liquid or gaseplace, where the suggestion for this change
ous, that, if added to any water, would
came from? I am wondering whether it came
degrade or lead to the degradation or
from the department of government conalteration of the quality of that water
cerned.
such that it is rendered deleterious to
I should like also to ask him to explain
fish or other aquatic organisms or to
why the word "waste", being defined in the
man's use of fish or other aquatic
way it is in this bill, and being used from
organisms, or
place to place in the bill, particularly on
(ii) any water that contains a substance
page 7 and in a number of places on page 8,
in such quantity or concentration, or
should not be changed to "deleterious subthat has been so treated, processed or
stances" wherever it occurs.
changed, by heat or other means, from
a natural state that it would, if added
Hon. Jacques Flynn: And without definto any water, degrade or alter or lead
ing it.
to the degradation or alteration of the
quality of that water such that it is
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: I think the amendrendered deleterious to fish or other
ment is quite clear. The suggestion for this
aquatic organisms or to man's use of
change came from the legal branch of the
fish or other aquatic organisms, and
Department of Indian Affairs and Northern
Development. The reason why the word
without limiting the generality of the
"waste" has to be changed in this particular
definition of the term "deleterious subinstance is, as I have just said, because this
stance" in this Actclause refers to a section of another act. It
refers to section 33 of the Fisheries Act,
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Where in section 10 is
which applies directly to this clause.
there a reference to Bill C-204 that would
On page 2 of the bill there is a complete
definition of the word "waste", but it is a make the definition contained in that bill
different definition from that of "deleterious applicable to this bill?
substances", which is a phrase used in Bill
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: Section 10(3)(b) on
C-204 and which, as was mentioned by the page 8 refers to subsection (4) of section 33 of
honourable Leader of the Government, might
the Fisheries Act.
be before us next week.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Yes.
Hon. Mr. Smith: I thank my honourable
friend for his explanation. May I now, as a
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: In the Fisheries Act,
non-lawyer, ask where I should look for a instead of using the word "waste", the words
definition of the words that are being used in "deleterious substance" are used. Section 10
place of the word "waste".
(3) (b) of this bill refers directly to section 33
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: I believe, honourable of the Fisheries Act. This is why the term
senators, that when Bill C-204 is before us we "deleterious substances" is being substituted
will have a definition of "deleterious for "waste".
substance".
Hon. Mr. Fournier (de Lanaudière):
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I do not think that is
satisfactory. We do not know what we are
substituting for "waste" here. I know that we

Honourable senators, perhaps it would be
very simple if the question were put in
French. If the honourable Leader of the Op-

SENATE DEBATES

June 4, 1970

position heard the difference between the tion of the Senate to the Thirteenth Meeting
English and French versions he would be of the Canada-United States Interparliamensatisfied.
tary Group held at Washington, Cape Kennedy, Houston and San Antonio, 10th to 15th
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: Honourable senators, I March, 1970.
do not happen to have a French translation in
front of me, but if my recollection is correct,
Hon. Jean-Paul Deschatelets: Honourable
the translation of "deleterious substances" in senators, I have to ask for your permission
French is "substances nocives".
twice, first, to speak in place of the honourable Senator Nichol, and second, to point out
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I would agree with that. that I have already spoken in this debate and
The point I am trying to make is that Bill my purpose in speaking briefly this afternoon
C-204, which apparently contains a definition is to make some comments on the questions
of "deleterious substance", is not yet before raised by the honourable Senator Grosart folus, and that definition would not apply to this lowing the tabling of the report
of the last
bill unless this bill provides that the defini- meeting of the Canada-United States Intertion in the bill that is going to be introduced parliamentary Group.
here will apply. When Senator Robichaud
refers to the Fisheries Act he does not refer
Hon. Mr. Flynn: May I ask if His Honour
to Bill C-204, which will be coming to us the Speaker considers he is the one who
within the next week or two.
should reply to Senator Grosart? Does he suggest he is the one who is personally responsiHon. Mr. Robichaud: Honourable senators,
as I have said, this bill may not refer directly ble for answering?
to Bill C-204, which is a bill to amend the
Hon. Mr. Deschatelets: The honourable
Fisheries Act, but it does refer to section 33 senator will see that in reply to the honouraof the Fisheries Act.
ble Senator Grosart I will be sufficiently pruHon. Mr. Flynn: Which will be amended by dent to stay away from all political matters
involved in some of the questions asked by
Bill C-204?
Senator Grosart. As I acted as a co-chairman
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: Yes, which will be of the delegation, I thought that some of the
amended by Bill C-204. Section 33 is already suggestions made by the honourable Senator
existing, and the amendment in Bill C-204 Grosart should not be allowed to pass because
will substitute the words "deleterious sub- they were important enough at least to have
stance" for the word "waste".
some comment made upon them.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: This is a very interesting
The Hon. the Acting Speaker: Is it agreed
new process of legislating.
that the honourable Senator Deschatelets has
Report adopted.
leave to speak a second time in this debate?
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senaSome Hon. Senators: On division.
tors, when shall this bill, as amended, be read
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Under reserve.
the third time?
Hon. Mr. Robichaud moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting of the Senate.
Motion agreed to.

The Hon. the Acting Speaker: It is under
the rules, not under reserve.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Under reserve of seeking the same permission for someone else!

The Hon. the Speaker left the Chair.

The Hon.

Hon. Maurice Bourget in the Chair.

Hon. Senators: Agreed.

CANADA-UNITED STATES INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP

THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING-DEBATE
CONTINUED
The Senate resumed from Thursday, May
28, the adjourned debate on the inquiry of
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud) calling the atten[Hon. Mr. Fournier (de Lanaudière).]

the Acting Speaker: Is it agreed?

Hon. Mr. Deschatelets: I heard the words
"on division". I am going to divide my speech
into the first and second parts.
Honourable senators, first of all I wish to
thank you for your kindness in permitting me
to speak for a second time in this debate. My
purpose today is to make brief comments on
the remarks of the honourable Senator Gro-

June 4, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1173

sart following the tabling of the Report of the
Thirteenth Meeting of the Canada-U.S. Interparliamentary Group.
I think we should be grateful to the honourable Senator Grosart for his detailed analysis
of this report and the very interesting suggestions he bas made. Since he has raised
important questions on this report, I thought
they deserved some comment on my part,
as I acted as a co-chairman on this delegation.
I must remind honourable senators that
following these meetings with our American
friends two different reports are prepared,
one by the staff of each delegation, American
and Canadian. In these reports an attempt is
made to summarize the main points discussed.
The honourable Senator Grosart seems to be
under the impression that the report is an
official report of the entire group of 29 United
States congressmen and senators and 24
Canadian parliamentarians. In fact, such
reports are issued-

ing questions asked by the honourable Senator Grosart in his speech. Moreover, I did not
take part in the discussions, having acted as
co-chairman of the committee dealing with
trade and economic affairs, and I do not in
fact know anything about the discussions that
took place in the other committee, dealing
with defence and foreign affairs.

I must add that none of the delegates spoke
for the Government. In other words, none of
the participants are bound by this report, and
they are free to make any observations they
wish. As a result of this, on certain issues,
and certainly on the most important one that
was discussed, there was far from unanimity
of opinion among the Canadian delegates or
among the American delegates.
These discussions, as honourable senators
know, are held in camera and, as we will see
when I refer later on to the ground rules that
were laid down at the first meeting, in 1959,
it is not possible for me or any other delegate
to identify any statement from any one delegate. It is therefore impossible for me in this
context to answer most of the very penetrat-

Rule No. 3:
Delegates will be free to say what matters were discussed in the business meetings but shall not attribute any statement
to any delegate.

Hon. Mr. Martin: May I ask the honourable
Senator Deschatelets if he would again give
the date of Senator Grosart's speech. I
thought it was later.

Hon. Mr. Deschateleis: April 16, 1970.
I think it might be useful at this point to
take the opportunity to remind honourable
senators that at the first meeting of the Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group,
on January 9 and 10, 1959, some ground rules
were adopted and have been adhered to very
strictly since that time. I wish to refer especially to rules 2, 3, 4 and 5. Rule 2 says:
Business sessions are to be held in
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Would the honourable
camera, that is, without the press or
senator permit me to ask if he would be good
experts or any staff except one or two
enough to tell me when I made this speech? I
secretaries from each side present for the
want to look it up, because I am afraid I have
purpose of preparing summaries of the
forgotten what I said.
discussion and drafting press releases for
approval.
Hon. Mr. Deschatelets: I regarded this as
an important speech. I have before me a copy
I might add that at the last meeting an
of Hansard for April 16, 1970.
exception was made to rule No. 2, because in
The report is issued in the names of the fact for the first time it was agreed that when
co-chairmen and is an attempt to summarize we were discussing the important topic of the
only the main points of the discussion. As the reduction of the importation of oil from
honourable Senator O'Leary pointed out at Canada to the United States, an expert in the
American Government should be called. It
page 872 of Hansard:
We merely discuss the fringes of policy, was agreed that he could answer some of the
and that is all we are supposed to do. technical points raised by Canadian delegates.

Rule No. 4:
Press releases will be issued at the
close of the business meetings or conference outlining in a general way the
course of the discussions.
The four co-chairmen have the responsibility for these press releases. Before we agreed
to issue them we went over the terms very
carefully, but I must say that we had nothing
to do with the preparation of the report that
bas been tabled in the Senate.

SENATE DEBATES
Rule No. 5:
Each group will be free to report on
the conference to its authorizing committee or legislature, as well as to its state
department and government.
Five honourable senators who were delegates at the last meeting have already reported to the Senate on the topie they themselves
introduced. In fact, we have already had
about ten honourable senators speak in this
debate, but I am now referring to the five
honourable senators who were delegates.
They were perfectly free, of course, to report
on the general discussions that had taken
place, within the framework of the rules I
have mentioned which do not leave enough
liberty to answer specifically the different
points raised by the honourable Senator
Grosart.
On page 868 of the Senate Hansard, the
honourable Senator Grosart said, and I quote:
It seems to me that the role of the Senate
is becoming more and more one of concern in international relations. I think it
would be very helpful to us if our
representatives, who go abroad, report to
the Senate in writing, and I would hope
that this would raise an opportunity for
debates on policy aspects of foreign
affairs.

June 4, 1970

shall endeavour to take steps to have this
matter examined as well, and possibly put on
the agenda for discussion at the next meeting.
Furthermore, honourable Senator Grosart
has referred to certain specifie matters of
government policy, such as "the need for U.S.
conventional forces in Europe, NORAD and
NATO, European Security Conference, China
and OAS." Since we are dealing with government policy, it is not desirable for me to
comment on these points, but I do hope that
some honourable senators and perhaps the
Government Leader, who has not yet taken
part in this debate, would add a few words on
these matters.
Honourable senators, I thank once again on
behalf of the delegation all those who have
taken an interest in these Canada-U.S. meetings, and if there is a possibility of improving
our system of reporting-and no doubt such
is possible-this is something we should
examine very carefully. One improvement
which is within our control and which could
be considered for the future, is that we
should not report on such meetings before the
tabling of the report, and we should allow a
few days at least so that honourable senators
may study the report before we deal with it.
Honourable senators, I should have liked to
go a little deeper into the matter, and I
regret that I am not in a position to do
so. But I do hope that this report will be
found satisfactory. I think that the analysis
by Senator Grosart, in fact his entire speech,
should be referred to the Interparliamentary
Group so that some of the suggestions he has
made could be implemented for the next
meeting.

I do not know if this is feasible, but this is
surely an interesting suggestion and I will see
to it that when the agenda is prepared for the
next meeting of the Canada-U.S. Interparliamentary Group, to be held here next year,
this suggestion is brought forward. The
Senate delegates could then examine the
possibility of this suggestion being carried out
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
within the framework of the present rules.
May I also say that I would hope that the
On motion of Hon. Mr. Martin, debate
honourable Senator Grosart would be one of adjourned.
the participants.
The Speaker resumed the Chair.
The honourable Senator Grosart made
another suggestion about the changing of the
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday, June
name of this Interparliamentary Group, and I 9, at 8 p.m.

DEBATES
Juri 9, 970SENATE

June 9, 1970

THE SENATE

Tuesday, June 9, 1970
The Senate met at 8 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
TERRITORIAL SEA AND FISHING ZONES
ACT
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST

READING

that the bill be placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.
HON. DAVID WALKER
FELICITATIONS ON RETURN TO CHAMBER

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
wonder if I could express to Senator Walker
our great pleasure in seeing him back in the
Senate in good health. This place has not
been the samne without himi and we are very
glad that hie is back.

Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
missed the presence
that a message had been received from the of course we very much
of Senator Walker, especially on this side of
House of Commons with Bill C-203, to amend
the house. 1 arn happy to join the Leader of
the Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones Act.
the Government in welcoming him back and
in seeing that hie looks so well.
Bill read first time.
Hon. David Walker: Honourable senators, it
Hon. Paul Martin moved, with leave of the
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 44(l)(f), that is very seldom that I have received any
the bibl be placed on the Orders of the Day encomiums from the Government, and this is
really a rare occasion. It is because I was a
for second reading at the next sitting.
college friend of the Leader of the GovernMotion agreed to.
ment that hie has made these remarks tonight.
ARCTIC WATERS POLLUTION
I arn delighted to be here-you have no
idea how nice it is to be back. At one stage I
PREVENTION BILL
did flot think I would make it! Thank you for
FIRST READING
ail your letters, messages and flowers. I must
The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate tell you that when I arrived in a wheelchair
that a message had been received fromn the at the ranch in Arizona there was a marvelHouse of Commons with Bill C-202, to pre- lous funeral wreath awaîting me from one of
vent pollution of areas of the arctic waters the members of the Senate. You know the
adjacent to the mainland and isbands of the way these things get mixed Up when they are
sent by telegraph. Attached to it was a mesCanadian arctic.
sage that rend: "Warmi wishes for your
Bill read first time.
future"!
Hon. Paul Martin moved, with leave of the
Hon. Senatars: Oh, oh.
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 44(l)(f), that
the bill be placed on the Orders of the Day
DOCUMENTS TABLED
for second reading at the next sitting.
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Motion agreed to.
Report of the Public Service CommisCANADA WATER BILL
sion of Canada for the year ended
December 31, 1969, pursuant to section 45
FIRST READING
of the Public Service Employment Act
The Han. the Speaker informed the Senate
Chapter 71, Statutes of Canada, 1966-67.
that a message bad been received from the
Report of the Public Service CommisHouse of Commons with Bill C-144, to, prosion on Delegation of Staffing Authority
vide for the management of the water
for the year ended December 31, 1969,
resources of Canada including research and
pursuant to, section 45 of the Public Serthe planning and implementation of programs
vice Employment Act, chapter 71, Statrelating to the conservation, development and
utes of Canada, 1966-67.
utilization of water resources.
Report of the Public Service CommisBill rend first time.
sion on Positions or Persons excluded
from the operation of the Public Service
Hon. Mr. Martin moved, with leave of the
Employment Act for the year ended
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 44(l) (f),

SENATE DEBATES
December 31, 1969, pursuant to section 45
of the said Act, chapter 71, Statutes of
Canada, 1966-67.
Reports of the Canadian Government
Printing Bureau for the period January
1, 1968 to March 31, 1969, and of the
Department of Public Printing and Stationery for the period April 1, 1968 to
March 31, 1969, together with financial
statements for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1969.
Report entitled "A Projection of Manpower Requirements by Occupation in
1975-Canada and its Regions", prepared
by the Research Branch of the Department of Manpower and Immigration in
1969.
Copies of Final Communiqué issued
following the Ministerial Session of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization held
in Rome, May 26 and 27, 1970.
Copies of Joint Press Communiqué,
dated June 1, 1970, issued following the
visit of the Secretary of State for External Affairs to Yugoslavia.
Copies of Joint Press Communiqué,
dated June 3, 1970, issued following the
visit of the Secretary of State for External Affairs to Romania.
Copies of Agreement, dated June 8,
1970, between the Government of Canada
and the Government of the Province of
Quebec with respect to the Special Areas
of Quebec City, Trois-Rivières and SeptIles-Port Cartier, pursuant to sections 24
and 26 of the Covernment Organization
Act, 1969.
Report of the Master of the Royal
Canadian Mint for the year ended
December
31,
1969,
together with
Accounts and Financial Statements certified by the Auditor General for the nine
months ended December 31, 1969, pursuant to section 85(3) of the Financial
Administration Act, chapter 116, R.S.C.,
1952.

June 9, 1970

Hon. Mrs. Quart: As all honourable senators know, May 27 was Canada Day at Expo
'70 at Osaka, Japan. In Canada the same day
was proclaimed unofficially by the Canada
Committee as the beginning of Canada Week,
and the theme this year was "National
Unity".
Across thousands of miles, Canadians in
Japan joined with Canadians throughout this
vast country of ours in a gesture of national
pride.
The highlight of Canada Week at home was
the television satellite program beamed
directly from Festival Plaza at Expo '70 featuring the address of Prime Minister Trudeau
and partially covering the magnificent
Canadian entertainment program for that
occasion.
The Canadian Pavilion at Expo '70 bas
been described by numerous independent
observers as the best, and in fact a panel of
experts rate it as the most successful of international pavilions. It bas been compared to an
excellent portrait of Canada inhabited by a
wonderful people. All in all, it bas been
classed as a masterpiece
of national
presentation.

As a Quebecer, it is with pardonable pride
that I mention the Quebec Pavilion, which
enjoys a tremendous popularity of young and
old. Its discotheque seems to be the fun spot
of Expo '70, and is alive with youthful
vitality.

Honourable senators, my enthusiasm for
Expo '70 has caused me to drift from what I
want to say about Canada Week and the
Canada Committee, and how it came about.
The Canada Committee, which sponsored
Canada Week, was an idea, born six years
ago by the Chairman, Mr. Anthony Malcolm,
a very prominent Montreal lawyer. He was
joined as co-chairman by Lieutenant-Colonel
Paul L'Anglais, C.D., who, among many o'her
business ventures, founded and is the present Chairman of Tele-Metropole, the largest
French language television station in Canada.
Incidentally, in 1946 Lieutenant-Colonel l'Anglais produced the first bilingual film in
CANADA WEEK
Canada: "The Whispering City"-"La ForACTIVITIES OF CANADA COMMITTEE
teresse". Both these gentlemen are well known
Hon. Josie D. Quart: Mr. Speaker, may I and responsible citizens.
ask leave of honourable senators to draw the
The present membership of the Canada
attention of the Senate to Canada Week?
Committee is over 37,000, spread through 27
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed that the chapters. There are several thousand members in Ontario, with chapters beginning in
honourable Senator Quart shall have leave?
Newfoundland, Nova Scotia and New BrunsHon. Senators: Agreed.
wick, and now western Canada is showing
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 9, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

great interest in forming chapters. For their
initiative in promoting Canada Week, the promoters received telegrams of congratulations
from Prime Minister Trudeau and the Premier of Quebec, M. Robert Bourassa, and many
other tributes in the mass media.
The policy of the Canada Committee is to
combat separatism, particularly in the Province of Quebec, but also wherever it exists in
Canada, and to keep Canada united and to
make Confederation work.
There are 28 dedicated members of the
Canada Committee who speak on an average
of twice a month to service clubs in Quebec
and across Canada to promote national unity
through understanding. According to my
information, there is only one paid employee
in the organization.
The Canada Committee is young but, as the
spark plug which originated Canada Week, it
merits the enthusiastic support of all true
Canadians. I trust that in a short time literature will be available to prospective members
which will make it possible for all Canadians
to join.
The Canada Committee is positively nonpolitical. Its membership includes white and
blue-collar workers, young and old people,
business executives, and many others; but
whereas they welcome members of the federal and provincial legislatures, these members
cannot sit on the executive of any of the
chapters. With a strong Canada Committeetheir target this year is 100,000 members-it
is hoped that the separatists will dwindle and
disappear gradually, as the political basis of
Canada adjusts to the needs of the citizens of
today. This will come about by an atmosphere
that excludes bigotry, passion and demagogy.
A country which brings together many languages and cultures gives us every incentive
to persevere in building a more united
Canada of tomorrow.
Canada Week is over, yet not only during
Canada Week but during every week of the
year, each citizen should demonstrate by
word and act his or her approval of national
unity.
Canada has been good to you and it has
been good to me. And it is a precious corner
of the world. Therefore, it is up to us to
decide whether we want to win or lose this
Canada we love. This, then, is the challenge
we must face. Let us make our individual and
combined efforts work. Let us not be content
to sit by, but to help stamp out the deadly

1177

foe, separatism, wherever it is found. Be a
booster for the Canada Committee, its aims
and objectives!
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
should like to join briefly with Senator Quart
in expressing our appreciation to the committee responsible for Canada Week. A movement designed to bring home to Canadians
the importance of the unity of this country
deserves the recognition which we give it
here this evening.
[Translation]
National unity is very important. I believe I
am expressing the feelings of all those present in saying that we owe much to those
members of the population who have contributed to this national week.
[English]
Honourable senators, I wish to congratulate
Senator Quart on the work which she does in
connection with this movement, and for the
speeches she bas made throughout the country emphasizing the richness and the value of
Confederation.
[Translation]
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, I
gladly join the Government Leader in congratulating the committee for Canada Week,
and particularly Senator Josie Quart, for the
good work they are doing.
We in this Chamber undoubtedly believe in
Canada but since doubts are being expressed
in certain quarters it is important that a very
great majority of those who do believe in the
country's future, in its raison d'être, should
unite their efforts to make those who entertain doubts realize that they should dispel
and forget them and join all Canadians in a
course of action which will ensure that our
country will continue to be one of the places
of the world where life is most enjoyable. It
is certainly so today.
[English]
BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
COMMITTEE
AUTHORITY TO MEET DURING SITTINGS
OF THE SENATE

Hon. Donald Smith, with leave of the
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(l)(a),
moved:
That the Standing Senate Committee
on Banking, Trade and Commerce have

SENATE DEBATES

power to sit while the Senate is sitting on
Wednesday, June 10, and Thursday, June
11, 1970, and that Rule 76(4) be suspended in relation thereto.
Motion agreed to.
MASS MEDIA
CHANGE

Hon.

IN COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP

Donald

Smith,

with leave

of

the

Senate, and notwithstanding Rule 45(l)(h)
moved:
That the name of the honourable Senator
Yuzyk be substituted for that of the
honourable Senator Phillips (Prince) on
the list of senators serving on the Special
Committee of the Senate on Mass Media.
Motion agreed to.
FEDERAL PENITENTIARIES
FACILITIES FOR WOMEN PRISONERS

Hon. Muriel McQ. Fergusson rose pursuant to notice:
That she will call the attention of the
Senate to the facilities provided by the
federal Government for women prisoners.
She said: Honourable senators, there are a
number of reasons why I decided to draw the
attention of the Senate to the facilities provided by the federal Government for women
prisoners. One reason was my interest in the
references to the Drumheller Prison by the
honourable Senator Hastings during the
recent debate on Bill C-5, when he told us
of some of the developmen's in the treatment
of prisoners in federal penitentiaries. Senator Hastings was most interesting and
knowledgeable and showed great understanding. In speaking of prisons and prisoners
however, he appeared to refer only to men. I
feel attention should be drawn to the fact
that there are women as well as men in federal prisons in Canada.
Al too often in Canada the existence of
women seems to be completely overlooked.
For instance, although there have been
women members of the Senate continuously
since 1930, there still persists a tendency to
address senators as "gentlemen". Although I
hasten to say I certainly believe all male
senators are gentlemen, I think a more appropriate form of address would be simply
"senators".
Another glaring example of this oversight
is in the statement of the Government of
Canada on the Indian policy, which was
[Hon. Mr. Smith.]

June 9, 1970

issued about a year ago and is receiving wide
attention at the present time. That document
opens with these words:
To be an Indian is to be a man, with all a
man's needs and abilities.
I would point out that in Canada, according
to the latest census figures, there are 105,758
male Indians-but there are also 102,528
Indian women.
Although the Interpretation Act provides
that in a Statute of Canada, words importing
male persons include female persons, I do not
think people generally interpret the words
"men" or "males" when used other than in a
statute as being so inclusive.
Another reason for my speaking on this
subject is that currently public attention is
being focused by the press on federal
prisons for men, a number of which have
been visited this year by the Justice and
Legal Affairs Committee of the House of
Commons. I do not know if this committee
plans to visit the women's prison. I sincerely
hope it does.
A third reason is the shock that I and many
other Canadian women received when we
read in the press on March 19 this year that
during a tour of some federal prisons by the
Justice and Lecal Affairs Committee of the
Commons, the Superintendent of Penitentiaries stated that "the women's prison is the
worst now".
And a fourth reason is because women's
organizations throughout Canada are becoming aware that Canada's methods of housing
and, in some cases, of dealing with women
prisoners in federal prisons are outdated and
need to be reviewed and revised.
One result of this awareness is that the
National Council of women, made up of federated societies from all across Canada and
dedicated to the betterment of the family and
the state, at its annual meeting held in Winnipeg from June 1 to 3 of this year, passed
two resolutions dealing with women in federal prisons. These resolutions support two of
the recommendatons in the Ouimet Report
which, as you know, was submitted to the
Government last year by the Canadian Committee on Corrections.
The first of the two recommendations supported by the National Council of Women is:
That arrangements for purchase of prison
services for women be made between the
Government of Canada and the various
provinces so that a unified service could

June 9, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

be provided in each area and that the
Government of Canada offer to purchase
service from the larger provinces and to
provide regional services that could be
purchased by smaller provinces.
The second is:
That the Government of Canada appoint
a suitably qualified woman to a position
of senior responsibility and leadership in
relation to correctional treatment of the
woman offender in Canada.
These are my chief reasons for speaking on
the subject of prisons for women tonight.
Honourable senators probably know that in
Canada there are only two prisons where
women from all across Canada, excepting
those from the Province of Newfoundland,
are confined when they have been sentenced
to imprisonment for two years or more. One
of the arrangements made when Newfoundland entered Confederation in 1949 was that a
woman convicted and sentenced in Newfoundland would spend ber term of imprisonment in a Newfoundland jail, but, of course,
the maintenance would be paid by the Government of Canada, whose responsibility she
would be. Before the women's prison was
built in Kingston a block was set aside for
women in the men's prison there.
In addition to this, prior to 1923 one wing
of the penitentiary at Dorchester, New Brunswick, was used for women prisoners from
the Maritime provinces. In that year the wing
was closed, and between 1923 and 1966 all
women prisoners sentenced to imprisonment
for two years or over-excepting those in
Newfoundland-whether they came from
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Toronto, Ontario, or
Victoria, British Columbia, had to be transported, under guard, to the prison in Kingston, Ontario.
In 1966 the Matsqui Institution, which was
established to provide treatment, training and
rehabilitation of drug addicts, was opened.
Later I propose to speak at greater length
about this institution. However, since it has
been opened a female unit has been provided
to which female drug addicts from the western provinces are sent to serve their terms.
Except for the drug addicts from the western
provinces and women prisoners from Newfoundland, at the present time all women sentenced to prison for two years or more must
serve their terms in Kingston. For all women
from the f ar east, the far north and the far
west who are not drug addicts, this means
disrupting practically all contact with husbands, children, relatives and friends, and

1179

this has been the subject of much concern to
people interested in the welfare and rehabilitation of women prisoners.
In the event that honourable senators are of
the opinion that the subject of penal reform
for women is a new interest for me, I would
draw attention to a long-perhaps too longspeech that I made in the Senate on March
21, 1956, regarding this very same prison. One
of the matters to which I referred was the
unnecessary cruelty to the individual, and the
unnecessary expense to the country, caused
by taking to Kingston women from all over
Canada who had been sentenced to jail for
two years or more. I still feel there should be
provision to house such persons nearer their
homes, where ties with family and friends
can be maintained, for this is most important
if there is a desire to rehabilitate prisoners.
A brief presented by the Canadian Corrections Association to the Royal Commission on
the Status of Women in Canada, in referring
to these women, says this: "It seems unjust to
exile them in this manner."
It is recognized by those who have studied
criminology that women offenders generally
are not dangerous or organized criminals, and
that they do not need to be confined in maximum security institutions for the protection
of the public. Some jurisdictions, recognizing
this, have provided correctional services
which are considered more suitable for
women prisoners, such as open institutions
and community-centred hostels. I have visited
some of these in other countries, and have
read of countries that have abandoned maximum prisons for al but a very small core of
incorrigibles, and have built cottage-type
institutions where the inmates can live and
learn to live in what are more normal conditions than those encountered in any maximum security fortress. Those who believe
that rehabilitation is more important than
punishment in the treatment of prisoners, and
that it is certainly of greater advantage in the
long run financially and otherwise to the
state, feel that open institutions, hostels, and
cottage-type institutions are much more likely
to promote rehabilitation.
When Canada's present maximum security
prison for women is closed-as I sincerely
trust it will be, for surely we cannot continue
to keep our few women prisoners in our
"worst prison"-I hope that in whatever plans
are made to shelter our women prisoners the
buildings themselves will be of the type of
open institutions, hostels, or cottage-type
institutions that I have mentioned.

1180

SENATE DEBATES

The number of women in federal prisons in
Canada, compared to the number of men, is
very small. The latest annual report of the
Commissioner of Penitentiaries, contained in
the Report of the Solicitor General for the
fiscal year ending March 31, 1969, shows that
there were 7,160 inmates in federal prisons,
102 of which were females. Seventy-four of
these women were in the women's prison at
Kingston, and 28 were in the female unit at
Matsqui, British Columbia.
The Prison for Women at Kingston is one
of the six maximum security institutions in
our whole prison complex, even though the
few women prisoners do not present a eustodial problem. The capacity of the prison is
about a hundred inmates, and there have
seldom been more than that number in it.
Since the prison was opened in 1934 there
have been two royal commissions on prison
reform prior to the Ouimet Committee on
Corrections. The Archambault Commission on
penal reform in 1938 declared that "the problem of female delinquency is not as serious in
Canada as in some other countries." It also
said that "no women should have to be confined in penitentiaries." The same commission
stated that the number of female prisoners
confined in Kingston did not justify the erection of a women's penitentiary, and that its
further continuance was unjustified. Honourable senators, that was in 1938, and that same
prison is still in use for the same purpose,
and the prison population has increased very
little.
I sincerely hope that the recommendations
of the Ouimet Committee on Corrections, and
the recommendations that will be made this
fall by the Royal Commission on the Status of
Women, will not have to wait so long for
implementation.
I mentioned earlier the Matsqui Institution
in British Columbia. In case any honourable
senators are not familiar with that institution,
I may say that in 1955 the report of the
Fauteux Committee on penal reform recommended the establishment of a specialized
institution for drug addicts. Growing concern
as to the problem of drug addiction over the
years moved the Government of Canada to
approve the construction of such an institution, and planning began in 1961. As the
largest concentration of drug addicts in
Canada is in the Vancouver area, it was logical
to build the institution on the lower mainland
of British Columbia.
The purpose of the female unit at Matsqui
is to accommodate only female drug abusers
[Hon. Mrs. Fergusson.]

June 9, 1970

from western provinces. Generally, other
drug abusers are still detained in the Kingston Prison for Women, and no provision is
made for their treatment. The Matsqui institution provides living accommodation for 312
male inmates and 128 female inmates. The
first female inmates were ten women drug
addicts who originally came from British
Columbia but who had been sentenced and
sent to Kingston, and who, in the summer of
1966 and at their own request, were transferred from the Kingston Prison for Women
to Matsqui for treatment.
Honourable senators may be interested to
know that I visited the Matsqui prison in the
summer of 1966, shortly after those ten
women had arrived, and I had an opportunity
of talking to them. While I was drinking tea
with them and talking over their problems,
I mentioned that I came from New Brunswick. Upon learning that I was from the
Maritime provinces they soundly berated me
because they considered the Maritime provinces did not have proper jails for women
offenders, and especially no proper methods
of dealing with young girls who had committed offences. These women considered that all
too often, because the Maritime jails could
not manage them and because the courts did
not know how else to deal with them, girls
convicted of minor offences received sentences of two years or more, which meant that
they served their terms in Kingston, far from
home, where there is little segregation, and
where they are exposed to hardened criminals. Those ten women were most emphatic
about the harm being done in this way to the
young and unsophisticated girls from "down
east" in the Maritimes. They were really sincere in their complaint, and I believe they
were right.
Honourable senators, I have also visited the
Prison for Women at Kingston a number of
times, sometimes on my own, and once as a
member of the Elizabeth Fry Society. Once I
poured tea at their annual tea and sale of
articles made by them, and through which
they make a little money to buy some special
treat for themselves. Once I spent an evening
playing bingo with them-that is something
that I think they enjoy the most. I also visited
this prison as a member of the Joint Committee on Penitentiaries of the Senate and House
of Commons which sat in 1966 and 1967.
After the hearings by the joint committee
and the visit to the prison by the members I
certainly hoped that it would recommend
some changes. The evidence submitted to the
committee was conflicting in some areas.

June 9, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

The former Superintendent, Miss MacNeill,
whom I knew from my own observation had
made tremendous improvements in the atmosphere of the prison and the attitude of
those living in it, and during whose term
of office the rate of recidivism had been
greatly reduced, had resigned. She had found
it impossible to fit the female prison into a
regional male penal system. She contended
that directives from regional headquarters
were appropriate for the running of a large
male institution but were too rigid for running a small female institution.
Two other staff members, Miss Margaret
Benson, psychologist, and Mrs. Marion Batstone, social worker, had also resigned shortly
before the hearing. The three of them gave
evidence before the committee. They claimed
that regional interference made a modern
treatment approach practically impossible.
The evidence given by these women was
contradicted by the man who had succeeded
Miss MacNeill as Superintendent. Unfortunately, before the committee had made its
report the parliamentary session closed and,
to my disappointment, the committee was not
reconstituted in the next session. At the very
least, I feel sure that had the committee made
a report it would have been critical of the
fact that Canada keeps women prisoners in a
maximum security fortress which, according
to modern penal philosophy, is unnecessary
for women prisoners. It might also have made
other criticisms, had it reported.
Reference was made by Senator Hastings to
the halfway houses for men established by
the Canadian Penitentiary Service in Toronto,
Vancouver and Winnipeg. I heartily endorse
these services. The Penitentiary Service has
not made any similar provision for women
prisoners.
In 1966 newspaper reports indicated that a
women's rehabilitation centre was to be
established in Kingston that year. It was to
accommodate eight women prisoners, who
would be eligible for transfer to the home
two months before the completion of their
sentences. This has not materialized, although
I understand that the Penitentiary Service is
giving support, which I hope is more than
moral support, to the halfway house which
the Elizabeth Fry Society of Kingston has
recently set up in that city.
In referring to the social worker, the psychologist and the superintendent who had
resigned, I thought I should mention that
during the same year, after I had been at the

1181

women's prison, I visited Iran. There I visited
a women's prison and the School of Social
Work which had been set up a few years
earlier. I discovered that six graduates from
the School of Social Work were in the
women's prison as social workers and were
paid by the government. When they asked
me how many social workers we had in the
women's prisons in Canada, I was not very
proud to say that at that time we had none
at all, because the only one had just resigned.
It seems to me that as time passes less
consideration is given to the needs and the
rehabilitation of women.
In 1958 there were only nine federal penal
institutions, which were all maximum security. Now there are 34, consisting of six maximum security penitentiaries, nine medium
security, 12 minimum security and seven specialized units. Although there has been a
reduction of maximum security prisons from
nine to six, the women's prison is still numbered among those six. This seems to me to
follow the pattern of looking after the women
last.
Honourable senators may be interested to
know that in the City of Ottawa, where we
spend most of our time, there is no temporary
home or hostel to which women who are discharged from jail or prison and are hoping to
be absorbed into outside life may go. However, from material that I have had given to
me I know that in 1887 there was such a
place on Wellington Street, in Ottawa, known
as "The Home for Friendless Women." I
believe there is need for such a home at the
present time. The fact that there is not one
now is certainly no evidence of progress.
The Report of the Ouimet Committee on
Corrections pointed out that having one central federal prison for women for Canada creates many problems. First, women from a
distance are separated from their families.
Secondly, there is no French language program at the federal Prison for Women in
Kingston, which causes additional hardships
to French-speaking prisoners. The prison is
too small to operate two programs, one in
English and one in French. Thirdly, segregation presents a great problem because the
population of the prison is made up of a wide
range of inmates in terms of age, degree of
criminal sophistication and emotional stability.

1182

SENATE DEBATES

The Ouimet Committee recommended that
arrangements be made between the Government of Canada and the various provinces so
that a unified service can be provided in each
area. They also recommended that the Government of Canada offer to purchase service
from the larger provinces and to provide
regional services that could be purchased by
the smaller provinces. This would mean that
there would be a high standard of buildings
and services for women prisoners throughout
Canada, which it is hoped would contribute
greatly to their rehabilitation. Adoption of
this recommendation would mean also that
prisoners would go to the regional prison
nearest to them.
I trust that the Canadian Government will
adopt this recommendation, rather than consider building a new maximum security
prison for women, which has been discussed
for some time. Implementing this recommendation will not solve all the problems regarding prison service for women, but it will certainly be a vast improvement on the present
situation.
The Ouimet Report contained another
recommendation regarding women's prisons,
which I trust is receiving the consideration of
the Government. It recommends that there
should be an appointment of a senior woman
officer to a position of both responsibility and
leadership in relation to correctional treatment of women offenders in Canada. I regard
this as very important, and it is recognized
as necessary in many other countries.
Honourable senators, my great interest in
this matter and my earnest desire that the
recommendations of the Ouimet Report
should be implemented have prompted me to
bring these matters before you. I thank you
for your attention.
On motion of Hon. Mrs. Kinnear, debate
adjourned.

June 9, 1970

Mr. Martin, for the second reading of Bill
C-186, to establish a commission for the reform of the laws of Canada.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, I
doubt that I can add much to what has
already been said on this bill, and for that
reason I will try to be brief. Of course,
nobody has any objection to the objects of
this bill. Surely nothing but good common
sense gave rise to the idea that we are in
need of a group
to study and keep under review on a
continuing and systematic basis the statutes and other laws comprising the laws
of Canada with a view to making recommendations for their improvement, modernization and reform.

However, I am not entirely convinced that the
method set out in the bill is the best one, nor
that certain provisions thereof may not create
new problems instead of solving old ones.
First we may ask, as did Senator Aseltine,
whether the cost of the commission may not
be excessive, and whether it might not have
been less costly to assign the task to a special
or standing committee of the Senate. I realize,
of course, that this task is a complex and
permanent one, and that it needs great expertise, which may not be fully available in a
Senate committee.
I find it is interesting to note that Senator
Langlois would like this commission to pursue
the continual review of regulations by order
in council. Have we not very recently entrusted the Standing Senate Committee on Legal
and Constitutional Affairs with this very task
of recommending procedures for the review
of statutory instruments? Has it not been
envisaged that a parliamentary committee-it
may be one here; it may be one in the other
place-be charged with reviewing statutory
NORTHERN INLAND WATERS BILL
instruments to check that they meet certain
rules? To me, this suggestion of Senator LanTHIRD READING
glois is not too far removed from that of
Hon. Hedard Robichaud moved the third Senator Aseltine.
reading of Bill C-187, respecting inland water
In any event, if we are to have a commisresources in the Yukon Territory and Northsion as proposed in the bill, much will depend
west Territories.
on the personnel chosen by the minister.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time,
Maybe as the bill now reads, too much will
as amended, and passed.
depend on the minister himself. In fact, I fear
that we are giving him too much control over
LAW REFORM COMMISSION BILL
the commission.
SECOND READING
I should like to refer to at least seven
The Senate resumed from Thursday, June clauses of the bill which indicate the possible
4, the adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. influence of the minister on the work of the
[Hon. Mrs. Fergusson.]

June 9, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

commission. Clause 7(2) is not too important
here, but it says:
The Commission may engage on a temporary basis or for specific projects the
services of persons having technical or
specialized knowledge of any matter
relating to the work of the Commission,
to advise and assist the Commission in
the performance of its duties under this
Act, and, with the approval of the Minister, may fix and pay the remuneration
and expenses of such persons.

1183

I refer next to clause 12(1)(d) and (e). It
says:
In carrying out its objects, the Commission... (d) shall, in accordance with any
programs for studies described in paragraph (c) that are approved by the
Minister-

It cannot take any initiative without the
approval of the minister. Paragraph (e) says
that in carrying out its objects the commission shall:
-with the concurrence of the Minister
I suggest that giving the minister the
and to the extent that the Commission is
responsibility of approving every decision of
able to do so without, in its opinion,
the commission on the hiring of personnel is
impairing its ability to carry out any stureally a control that goes beyond what is
dies that have been or are to be undernecessary. It should be sufficient to allot to
taken by it pursuant to paragraph (d),
the commission a certain budget with which
provide information, research material
it could perform such responsibilities.
and study results.
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: Financial control Here again the minister may stop any initiawill always be there.
tive of the commission.
Clause 13 says:
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Yes, if there is a budget,
but it should not be necessary to go to the
The Commission may in its discretion
minister every time you want to hire someand with the concurrence of the Minister
body. The honourable Senator Lamontagne
undertake any particular study.
knows what effect it would have had on the
Special Committee of the Senate on Science Here again any initiative is subordinated to
Policy if he had to go to a minister every the will of the minister.
time he wanted to hire somebody.
Clause 15 provides:
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: There was no
The Commission shall to the extent
minister.
that it deems it practicable to do so in
the course of formulating its recommenHon. Mr. Flynn: That is the point. That is
dations for the improvement, modernizawhy I suggest that in this legislation we may
tion and reform of any law or branch of
be giving too much control to the minister.
the law, consult with the Minister.
Anyway, this is not of major importance.
I refer now to clause 10:
Its duty is to consult with the minister
The Commission may make by-laws
before doing anything that is described in
(a) respecting the calling of meetings of clause 15.
the Commission;
Clause 16 directs:
(b) respecting the conduct of business
Upon completion of any study underat meetings of the Commission and the
taken or directed by the Commisestablishment of committees of the Comsion... the Commission shall prepare
mission, the delegation of duties to any
and submit to the Minister a report on
such committees and the fixing of quothe results of such study.
rums for meetings thereof; and
And attached to the report to the minister is
(c) fixing the remunerationeverything the Commission is to do, and it is
This is the problem that we dealt with always under the control of the minister.
before. The concluding words are:
Finally, we have clause 17:
-but no by-law made under paragraph
The Commission shall each year pre(c) shall have any effect unless it has
pare and submit to the Minister a report
been approved by the Minister.
containing a summary of its activities
under this Act for the immediately
Again the minister intervenes if there is any
preceding yearmoney to be spent.

1184

SENATE DEBATES

This is normal, of course. My point is that in
considering what has been done and what
could have been done, all of these matters
initially require the approval of the minister.
This fact is obvious that the minister will be
able, when be receives the report, to check
whether or not the commission has done anything with others, without first having
obtained his permission.
I say that we should give more freedom to
this commission. In any event, it has been
suggested by Senator Lamontagne that if the
task had been given to a committee of the
Senate or a joint committee of both houses,
we would not have placed this committee
under the control of the minister.
The weakness of the bill is that it is not
clear whether the intention is to have the
commission look into provincial legislation. I
now refer to clause 11:
The objects of the Commission are to
study and keep under review on a continuing and systematic basis the statutes
and other laws comprising the laws of
Canada-les lois et les autres règles de droit qui
constituent le droit du CanadaI indicated the other day when Senator Langlois spoke to me that this comprises all provincial legislation. There is no limitation in
these words, and it is not restricted to laws
enacted by the Parliament of Canada. It may
apply to laws enacted by any legislature, or
even regulations enacted by a municipal
authority.
Section 11 refers to the aim of the commission to arrange forthe reflection in and by the law of the
distinctive concepts and institutions of
the common law and civil law legal systems in Canada.
I am not sure what that means. Does it mean
that federal legislation should reflect the two
civil systems which we know in Canada, the
common law and the Napoleonic Code
system? This is a big question, but I suggest
that it supports my view that we are trying to
give this commission power to get into the
field of provincial legislatures. I have another
citation to support this in clause 12, paragraph (b) which speaks of power. It says that
the commission:
may initiate and carry out, or direct the
initiation and carrying out of such studies
and research of a legal nature as it deems
necessary for the proper discharge of its
functions, including studies and research
[Hon. Mr. Flynn.]

June 9, 1970

relating to the laws of legal systems and
institutions of other jurisdictions in
Canada or elsewhere.
What is meant by "other jurisdictions" if not
provincial jurisdictions? I suggest that if this
is the idea, you are creating problems. I doubt
very much that any provincial authority, goverment or legislature will accept that this
commission can make recommendations or
suggestions on provincial legislation.
Hon. Mr. Martin:
should not.

Of course not, and it

Hon. Mr. Flynn: It should not, but I ask the
honourable Leader of the Government, is my
interpretation right or wrong?
Hon. Mr. Martin:
correct.

I do not think it is

Hon. Mr. Flynn: You do not think it is
correct? I hope it is not. This is certainly one
question we should deal with in committee,
and I am convinced this bill will be referred to
committee. The bill as drafted provides no
limit, and that is why I said in my opening
remarks that we may be creating new problems instead of solving old ones.
I have a last observation which is not of
major importance, but I would like the committee to clarify the meaning. This relates to
clause 4, paragraph (4):
Each member of the Commission holds
office during good behaviour but may be
removed at any time,
(a) in the case of a person in receipt of
a salary under the Judges Act, by the
Governor General on address of the
Senate and House of Commons, and
(b) in any other case, by the Governor
in Council for cause.
I am asking myself and the Senate whether
this may mean that when we are dealing with
a member of the commission, who is a
member of a Superior Court or Supreme
Court of any province, that he may not be
removed irom his office as a commissioner
except on an address from both the Senate
and the House of Commons. Does such an
address mean that he would also lose his
prerogative or his office as a judge of the
court? Why? He may be a judge and be
appointed a commissioner. If he does not
carry out his duties properly he may be
discharged for incompetence or other cause. I
do not see why in such a case we should have
an address of both bouses if we are dealing

June 9, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

only with his competence. If we are dealing Senator Hayden went on to quote Professor
with the problem of dismissing a judge, as H. Allan Leal, the well-known Osgoode Hall
provided for in the B.N.A. Act, I agree that professor, in a speech which he made on law
both bouses should be called upon for expres- reform in Ontario;
sion of opinion.
What is new in our generation is that
the tempo of social and economic change
Honourable senators, as I indicated, there is
is such that only full-time agencies are
some confusion here, and I would like an
competent for the task of keeping our
explanation in committee on this point and
laws and legal institutions under continthe other questions I have raised.
uous reviewHon. Joseph A. Sullivan: Honourable senaSenator Lazarus Phillips commented, and I
tors, I am quite sure that many of you are
astounded that as a medical man I should get particularly enjoyed his quotation:
I wanted to repeat exactly what Aristotle
to my feet and speak to legislation pertaining
said in Politics long ago. He said: "Even
to the law. I have been prompted for two
when laws have been written down, they
reasons to do so. One is the excellent speech
ought not always to remain unaltered."
of my close and intimate friend, the honouraSenator Phillips went on further:
ble Senator Grattan O'Leary, and a remark
We find this concept in section 11 of the
he made that I could not let go unchallenged.
bill, and particularly subsection (d),
Secondly, I am interested in the problem of
where the object of the commission is
medical jurisprudence.
stated as:
I may refer to certain senators who have
-the development of new approaches
spoken to this legislation, but in no way am I
to and new concepts of the law in
in any sense leaving out all who have conkeeping with and responsive to the
tributed to this most important debate. I am
changing needs of modern Canadian
much more impressed with what has been
society and of individual members of
that society.
said in this house than anything which has
been said in the other place pertaining to this
Senator Grattan O'Leary remarked:
legislation.
I have always believed that the two
My leader bas just spoken. I have not had
great professions in the world are the
the opportunity to review his remarks, but I
law and medicine. One is concerned with
wish to congratulate him on an excellent preshealing and mercy and the other is concerned with liberty.
entation. It was most worthy of him.
It is a pity! It is a pity that this should
The Leader of the Government (Honourable
happen to the greatest of professions, the
Mr. Martin), in the course of his remarks,
profession among whom are numbered
made this statement:
the architects of our constitution and the
I am sure honourable senators would
defenders and sentinels of human liberty.
agree that the law is not an edifice or
merely a static set of rules. It is a living I can find no quarrel with that remark, except
thing, a reflection of past and present with the adjective by which he refers to the
social standards. It is a dynamic force professions.
The Minister of Justice, the Honourable
which fashions the lives of men and institutions. If it is not to work injustice, and Mr. Turner stated:
We, in Canada, have decided upon a
if it is to be a creative force in the affairs
single commission which will embrace
of men it must meet the exigencies of
within its purview two systems of lawchange.
the system of Anglo-American jurisprudence which obtains in nine of the ten
That is a most worthwhile statement.
provinces, and the civil law system which
Senator Hayden, in his remarks, stated
is practised in the province of Quebec
that:
and which derives from the Napoleonie
The purpose and justification of the bill
Code and French jurisprudence.
is to set up a commission which will be
charged with the duty and function of I am very pleased to know that the minister
keeping under review the statutes and did such a valuable piece of homework, as it
were, before he introduced this legislation. He
other laws of Canada.

1186

SENATE DEBATES

reviewed it thoroughly with Professor J. L.
Edwards, professor of criminology and medical jurisprudence, of the Faculty of Law of
the University of Toronto.
I only wish he had reviewed his amendments to the Criminal Code legislation as
thoroughly. Had he done so, this problem of
abortion would not be in the mess it is today.
Notwithstanding that fact, I still deprecate
that legislation, as I did previously, and for
the record, and for the minister, I draw attention to a pamphlet on The Dangers of Legal
and Illegal Abortion, by Dr. A. Keith Mant of
the Department of Forensic Medicine, Guy's
Hospital,
London,
reprinted
from
the
Proceedings of the Royal Society of Medicine.
I am afraid we have not seen the end of
that type of legislation. This brings me to the
crux of the situation, namely, that I am interested in medical jurisprudence. It has been
my privilege over the years to appear as an
expert witness in medical cases. I have taken
it upon myself to study most carefully the
curriculum vitae in each case not only of the
prosecuting attorney but of the defence attorney. I did not just wait until the day I went
into court, because invariably they wanted
my credentials, and I wanted theirs.
I wish to put before honourable senators
these remarks, in which the Canadian Medical Association joins. We have reviewed this
Bill C-186. A somewhat similar approach was
used in Ontario and it was difficult to oppose,
because one was placed in the position of
"being against motherhood". The major problem with this type of commission is not the
intent or content of the law establishing it,
but rather the result of the studies which the
commission chooses to undertake.
The Canadian Medical Association, for
example, has over the past few years made a
number of submissions to the Minister of Justice regarding changes in the law-on therapeutic abortion, the sale of contraceptives,
blood alcohol levels, and so on. The association has found that action by the minister
was slow, but eventually he introduced the
legislation. The presence of a commission
would give us two alternative routes to use
when suggesting changes in the laws of
Canada, and on balance it is difficult to know
whether two routes would be more effective
than one.
Personally, I am inclined to favour a single
approach through the minister, because
changes are then weighed by the elected
representatives. The tendency for commis[Hon. Mr. Sullivan.]

June 9, 1970

sions is to give greater weight to broad social
implications than to the views of expert
groups.
The bill makes reference to the establishment of the commission for the "improvement, modernization and reform" of the statutes and the other laws comprising the laws
of Canada. I have some concern about the use
of the word "improvement". One cannot
argue with the need for modernization and
reform from time to time, but the word "improvement" has the implication of social
rather than technical legal change.
Sections 13 and 14 are of some concern to
me. Section 13 sets out that the commission
may undertake a joint project with one or
more other law reform commissions, agencies
or bodies in Canada or elsewhere. This rules
out the possibility of joint projects with
organizations such as ours. This could be restrictive, as it is certainly possible that a joint
project could be of benefit in medical problems such as abortions, drinking and driving,
and so on.
Section 14 provides that the commission
shall make use of technical and other information available from departments, branches
and agencies of government, but it makes no
reference, at least in a mandatory sense, to the
use of technical information which we or
other associations might have available.
It may be argued that section 15 meets
these objections because it provides that the
commission may consult with other organizations. I perceive, however, a substantial difference between consultation, when the commission chooses to do so, and the more
definite instruction contained in Section 14,
that it will make use of technical and other
information.
The remarks of Senator O'Leary require an
answer, which I propose to give. I quote from
page 2-1 of a law book, Lawyers' Guide to
Medical Truth, by Marshall Houts, LL.B.,
1966.
The first observation is obvious but
important. The doctor is a highly trained
individual.
With the possible exception of the
clergy, medicine requires a longer period
of formal training than any other profession: four years of college, four years of
medical school, a one-year internship,
and from one to five years of specialized
residency training. Even to just pass his
state boards and open an office, the
doctor has nine years of time and concen-

June 9, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

trated effort... Any way you look at it, it This all has to do with jurisprudence. They
is a long, grueling ordeal.
are:
Certainly, the lawyer appreciates the
(1) the complexity of the human body,
rigours of the professional school routine.
and (2) the unsettled condition of medical
He would hate to have to repeat them. If
knowledge.
anything, the requirements of medicine
Having revealed all this and not being
are more demanding in the training regialarmed, but as one who is to some degree
men than the law.
versed in medical jurisprudence, I would like
Certainly, the lawyer appreciates the rigors to ask the Leader of the Government a quesof the professional school routine. He would tion, which he can answer later. Has he any
hate to have to repeat them. If anything, the knowledge of when this new commission will
requirements of medicine, according to Houts, be formed? I believe it is a most important
are more demanding in the training regimen step and one in the right direction. Will that
particular aspect of the law be fully covered?
than the law.
I would like to quote a remark from the
On page 2-3 of this text it says that the latest edition of Science, the Arts and Letters
medical profession bas taken precedence over by Wilder Penfield:
all other professions.
To everything there is a season, a time to
be born and a time to die. A time to
On page 1-6 the author writes:
plant and a time to pluck. A time to keep
Lawyers are taught to suspectsilent and a time to speak.
And this is what disturbs me because I have
This is from the third chapter of Ecclesiastes.
read this book a nunber of times before I
I consider this is a time to speak in the
have had to go into court.
-to cast doubt and reasonable doubt, to interest of the medical profession and society
as a whole, as pertaining
cross-examine, to probe, to discredit, to dence in the enactment to medical jurispruand final fulfillment of
search for the facts to which the law can this new and most worthwhile legislation. The
be applied. They encounter clients who word "jurisprudence" is defined by Webster
practice deception and covertness day in as the science of law.
and day out. They are accustomed to the
Penfield states that science may be deflned
lying and unreliable lay witness who, for as knowledge of physical phenomena. He goes
various reasons, is not able to give an on further to say that the arts, which include
accurate, believable report of the facts he law, embrace al other forrns of human
knowledge. Thus the social sciences are not
is alleged to have perceived.
From the lawyer's frame of reference, considered a part of science at all. They
it is not difficult to understand why he is belong with the humanities, another naine for
the arts, which include medicine
inclined to look upon this seemingly I ask honourable senators to and the law.
ponder over
irreconcilable conflict of medical opinion that rather erudite piece of information.
with a jaundiced eye. How is it possible
To repeat, science then is knowledge of
for black to be white, and white to be physical phenomena and to understand the
black, so many times?
mind itself and the world of thought and
The temptation is great to impugn the reason is a problem to be studied beyond the
motives and the personal and profession- field of science, beyond the frontier, on the
al integrity of the doctor who offers a other side, as it were, of the great dichotomy.
medical opinion that conflicts with the Scientists will learn in time to understand the
one the lawyer wishes to hear, even brain but they have not yet begun to underthough this opinion is the exact one the stand the mind. They have thrown no light on
opposing attorney must have to permit man's instinctive urge to worship a God.
him to get even as far as the courtroom.
The honest scientist should not pretend to
While considerations of professional speak beyond the frontier of brain physiology,
competence and personal integrity are nor should the lawyer or the doctor.
undoubtedly factors in some cases, this
In my life and profession, I wanted the
great conflict of medical opinion really opportunity to organize a team that would be
stems from two principle sources, neither free to study man and his ailments, employof which is fraudulent.
ing all the available methods of science. I
22481-25

SENATE DEBATES
wanted to be free of interference from oldfashioned tradition in the field, and I wanted
to devote all this with my colleagues, to the
relief of human suffering and to greater
understanding of man himself.
Nothing is more tragic than an individual
who once was wise and bas lost his memory.
And nothing is more tragic to a civilization
than the loss of its tradition. Let you and me
and all of us keep and preserve the basic
concept and tradition of our two great professions, the law and medicine. Thank you.
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senatorsThe Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I must inform honourable senators that
if honourable Senator Martin speaks now, it
will have the effect of closing the debate.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, we
have had a thorough discussion of this bill
and we have had some able speeches. Two
have been given tonight.
I would say at once to Senator Sullivan
that I have no doubt about the implication of
clause 13 of the bill. It gives the commission
wide power to engage, in its discretion and
with the concurrence of the Minister, on any
particular study, having as its intended
result, either directly or indirectly, the
improvement, modernization and reform of
any law of Canada. I am sure that the points
Senator Sullivan made will be carefully considered by the committee, by the officials,
by the department, and by the Minister of
Justice himself, if and when he is called
before the Legal and Constitutional Affairs
Committee of the Senate.
The first speaker in the debate was Senator
Haig who, like most speakers, commended the
bill. We are grateful to him for the account
he gave of the provincial law reform commissions in several of the provinces. I cannot
hope to mention all the speakers, but there
were a number of points raised in the course
of this debate which I think require some
comment and response. In this way I am
able to indicate my respect for the contributions that all honourable senators have made.
Senator Haig said at page 1086 of Hansard
that the Commission should not be an agency
of Government. He said further, and I quote
his exact words:
It should be completely independent.
Problems respecting the updating of the
law can be referred to it by judges, by
the profession, or by the Government
itself.
[Hon. Mr. Sullivan.]

June 9, 1970

That is an understandable position for an
honourable senator to take, but it is not the
provision that is embodied in this bill,
because, as Senator Flynn reminded us, the
Minister of Justice must recommend to his
colleagues in the cabinet any proposal that he
wishes to bring before Parliament and is, in
the first instance, the initiator of policy. We
were further reminded of this in the speech
made by Senator Carter.
The response of the Government to what
Senator Haig has said would be that the bill
proposes that the commission should be as
responsive as possible to the views of the
Government of the day-and of course to
Parliament-as reflected by the Attorney
General of Canada, as to the matters that
ought to be studied by the commission and
the priority of attention it should give such
matters. If the commission is, by law, not
responsive to the views of the Government or
to Parliament in this regard, the commission
could become involved in reform projects that
are not, in the view of the Government and
of Parliament, either of major importance or
urgent priority.
This was the view of Senator Carter who
said, in his speech commencing at page 1110
of Senate Debates, that the only way to prevent the commission getting mixed up in matters of policy is to have the subject matter
referred to the minister and to the Government for approval.
We are not setting up a commission here to
make law. We are setting up a commission to
make an exhaustive examination of the kind
of reforms in our bi-jural system which that
commission feels should be made. The commission will propose recommendations, and it
will be for the Government of the day,
through the Attorney General, the Minister of
Justice, to decide whether those recommendations should be put before Parliament.
This was the view of Senator Hayden who,
in commending the bill, said that his first
concern was how the commission's function
would harmonize with the right-and, I might
add, the duty-of the Government to formulate policy. Senator Hayden was satisfied that
the formulation of policy was the prerogative
of the Government-and, he might have
added, of Parliament-and that the bill provided for reposing in the Executive and in
Parliament this authority.
Senator Carter, in the course of his speech,
as reported at page 1115, said that it was not
clear, in his view, that the commission will

June 9, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

engage vigorously and directly in research
projects. He said:
It may do so but it does not have to,
except as directed by the minister.
It will be recalled that I interjected at that
point and said that there was no doubt that
the commission had the power to make studies. But Senator Carter was correct in saying
that the minister does not lose control-not
that he will dictate, but that as the custodian
of the law, both as it is and as it is thought it
should be, it is his responsibility to make sure
that the commission does relate its work to
possible formulations that might ultimately
find themselves as part of the law of the land.
However, I assure Senator Carter that
several sections of the bill, including section
13, make it clear that the commission will
have the widest opportunity, with the limitation which he himself noted, of making the
kind of studies which are necessary to bring
forward proposals for changes in the legal
system.
In the course of his speech Senator Desruisseaux was asked by the Leader of the Opposition whether he approved of a veto being
given to the minister regarding the submitting of a program of study for approval. The
reply given by Senator Desruisseaux was that
he trusted the broad-mindedness of the Minister of Justice. I take it he was referring not
only to the present Minister of Justice, my
colleague Mr. Turner, but generally to whoever might occupy the high and important
post of Attorney General of Canada. I an
sure that anyone occupying that post would
exercise the greatest care, in light of the control which, under this statute, he is permitted
to exercise. There would be no attempt at
unnecessary interference or veto, but an
attempt to make the work of the commission
meet, first of all, the priorities of the Government and, secondly, to relate its workload to
what the Government and Parliament regard
as matters of particular importance.
Senator Fergusson, in ber comprehensive
speech, spoke favourably of the bill. My only
comment on her address is that it fully conforms to the view of the Minister of Justice.
That gives me additional confidence in the
course that the Minister of Justice has taken.
I asked Senator Phillips (Rigaud) in the
course of his speech what means he had to
suggest for making amendments to statutes
more readily available to Members of Parliament, to the profession and to those who
wished to refer to the statutes of the land
from time to time. In response, he said, at
22481-25J

page 1127 of Hansard, that some consideration ought to be given by the Law Reform
Commission, or some other agency, to a more
functional and efficient way of making
amendments more readily available.
I hope that when this bill reaches the
committee Senator Phillips will pursue this,
because I believe that the Department of Justice is anxious that the new system of putting
the Revised Statutes on magnetic tape and
the new technology it proposes for the continuous up-dating of the statute law will effect
dramatic improvements in this area. Witnesses from the department will be available
to detail their plans in this regard.
Senator Aseltine began his speech by
saying that he was going to be controversial. I
find Senator Aseltine to be one of those men
who, even though they might disagree with
you, always associate their concept of controversy with gentlemanly conduct. I assure
him that nothing he said about this bill in
any way offended me or-I was about to say
"shook me," but that would not be paying
him the tribute I wish to pay him. His criticisms were understandable and useful.
Senator Flynn raised one or two questions
this evening. He said that Senator Aseltine
had remarked that the cost of this commission concerned him. In reply, I would simply
say that, of course, it is difficult ta predict the
long-term annual cost of this or any other
commission, but the Minister of Justice seriously questions the estimate of half a million
dollars a year, at least as far as the immediately foreseeable future is concerned.
Perhaps the basic approach to this criticism, if I may say so with respect to Senator
Aseltine, is that any money spent on law
reform, so long as the amounts are kept
within reasonable limits, is money well spent
both in terms of effecting long term savings
in the Government's costs of administration
and in purely human terms.
Senator Aseltine also spoke of the fact that
there was no time limit on the tenure of the
commission as a whole-not on the office of
the individual commissioners, but on the
work of the commission. Perhaps the answer
should be that we do not anticipate the day
when the laws of our country will achieve
perfection, and we may have to recognize that
we have to follow what has been done in
England and Scotland, in New Zealand, and
in Ontario and what is now being considered
in the United States, and allow this Commission to carry on its very important work of
law reform for a considerable period.

1190

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Aseltine made another point, and I
think it is an important point because it was
in my mind two years ago, as I mentioned
when I introduced the bill. He asked why
Parliament could not do this job. He asked
why the Senate could not do it. He was of the
view that the Senate could do a better job
than any commission. I remember discussing
this question two years ago with Senator
Phillips (Rigaud). I knew then that we were
going to bring forward a proposal for the
establishment of a law reform commission in
Canada; that was the in ention of the present Minister of Justice. While looking to
the future role of the Senate I had in mind
the possibility that what had been done under
the Lord Chancellor in England, and under a
'former Chief Justice in the Province of
Ontario, in regard to law reform in that province, could well be pursued by this chamber,
the membership of which includes so many
eminent members of the legal profession.
I think, however, that if one takes into
account the nature of the work that the law
reform commission is expected by this measure, to do, it will be seen that the work will
be so continuous that it will not permit the
carrying on by the commission, and certainly
by its senior personnel, of anything other
than the work entrusted to it. The chairman
of the commission, presumably a judge of
some standing, will not be able to carry out
his normal judicial functions because he will
not have the time, and neither will his
colleagues.
I am satisfied, after a careful examination
of this matter, not only with Senator Phillips
(Rigaud) but with others, that the kind of
workload envisaged by the Government for
this commission could not be undertaken by
the members of any legislative body, simply
because of the time factor.
This does not mean, however, as the Minister of Justice said in the other place, that
there will not be a function for the legislative
bodies. Under this bill the commission will be
expected to make a report at least once a
year, and it may report more often. These
reports, after they have been examined by
the Minister of Justice, could well be laid
before the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs for comment,
clarification, suggestion, and the like. I am
satisfied that the Government has taken the
right course with respect to this problem of
having carefully examined proposals that
might ultimately be placed before Parliament
for enactment as part of the law of the
country.
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 9, 1970

The experience of the United Kingdom and
New Zealand is not irrelevant merely because
those countries are unitary states and do not
have provinces to deal with as Canada does.
The fact that we do have provinces does complicate our task, and would, I think, make it
difficult for any one of the two legislative
bodies in the Parliament of Canada to engage
in the primary role envisaged for the commission, which will be that of a body set up to
examine and to recommend.
Senator Langlois spoke favourably of the
bill. He hoped that priority objectives would
be given to eliminate existing conflict
between some federal and some provincial
statutes in areas of jurisdiction shared by the
federal and provincial levels. He pointed out
that in the Province of Quebec, the province
from which he comes and at whose Bar he is
a distinguished member, there is no law
reform commission. At page 1152 of the
Debates of the Senate he said that he would
like to see among the objects of the commission a continual review of orders in council,
especially to ensure that they are intra vires
with regard to the laws authorizing their
adoption. The words "and other laws" in
clause 1h are interpreted by Senator Langlois
to include orders in council. He said that he
believes that the minister had this in mind
when he approved the working of clause 11.
He went on to point out that if the Senate
does not agree with his interpretation, then
he hopes that clause 11 will be clarified and
even amended in committee to include in the
objects a review of orders in council.
Senator Flynn dealt with this in the speech
he made a few moments ago.
We well recall that Senator O'Leary some
months ago proposed that orders in council
passed by the Government should be examined by a Parliamentary committee. The
other day we sent to the Standing Senate
Committee on Legal and Constitutional
Affairs my proposal that we examine the
report on statutory orders and delegated
legislation of the other place. I mentioned that
in addition to statutory orders we should
likewise urge the Standing Senate Committee
on Legal and Constitutional Affairs to consider the kind of mechanism which could functionally and efficiently provide this chamber,
or the other chamber in conjunction with
ourselves, with the necessary machinery to
provide for the careful scrutiny of decisions
made by the Executive through what are
called orders in council.

June 9, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

It seems to me that a review on a continuing basis of orders in council, as suggested by
Senator Langlois, is not, and indeed cannot be
made, one of the objects of the law reform
commission. The commission is not being
established to perform a policeman's job. This
is a task that is much better left to some kind
of parliamentary committee or subcommittee.
It is a task that will be undertaken shortly by
the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: Would the honourable
Leader permit a question? Is there not a distinction to be made between the examination
of orders in council or other statutory instruments already passed and the theory behind
the granting of those powers? Surely this is
what Senator Langlois meant and surely he is
quite correct, in suggesting that the Law
Reform Commission would be leaving a very
large gap if it did not examine the law-making authority which has resulted in great
abuse.
I ask the Leader of the Government if he
will not reconsider his remarks in the light of
that distinction.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I thank Senator Grosart
for his intervention but, with respect, I must
say that I am not convinced that I should
change what I have said regarding the views
put forward in this regard by Senator Langlois. I do not think it would be the function
of the law reform commission to examine the
role of governmental institutions. That is
what it would be doing. Nor do I think that
the law reform commission should be saddled
with the policeman's job, which I think
belongs to the legislative body, of examining
the decisions of the cabinet.
However, I was saying that on June 17 the
Minister of Justice will appear before the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs to discuss the proposal
that there be set up some kind of body to
examine delegated
legislation, statutory
orders, orders in council, and the like. I would
hope that from that meeting some useful
suggestions might be made by the minister.
When Senator Langlois was speaking-as
we were reminded this evening-he was
asked by Senator Flynn did he think that the
law commission should examine laws passed
by provincial authorities. I interjected tonight
to say that that was not the intention of the
bill, and notwithstanding the recital by Senator Flynn of various sections of the bill I see
nothing in it that would authorize this com-

mission, set up by the Parliament of Canada
at the suggestion of the Attorney General, to
examine the laws of a province. That would, I
think, be beyond the jurisdiction of the
commission.
As Senator Langlois observed in replying to
Senator Flynn, we would have no authority,
but that does not prevent the lNw commission
co-operating with provincial law commissions
and we hope, as the Minister of Justice has
said in the other place, that that will be done.
There is certainly nothing to prevent the
law commission, in the examination of its
proposed reforms, examining laws of the
provinces to see whether its proposed reforms
have any validity. However, it certainly
would not be open to a federal law commission in any way to invade any area covered
by section 92 of the British North America
Act. That is not intended by this bill and
certainly was not intended by the Government.
I think we have had a useful debate. This
question will be referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs for careful examination.
Senator O'Leary made, I thought, a noble
speech. I sent him a note and told him that I
thought it was a noble speech, such as only
he in this house is able to make. One would
not expect him to enter into the difficulties
and interstices of some of the problems of the
law. However, we did derive from him an
appreciation of the contribution made particularly by common law lawyers, many of whom
he mentioned. He did not seem to believe
that there are in Canada, and perhaps in the
common law world today, the kind of lawyers
that graced the early part of this century and
the last century in the common law and,
indeed, in civil law jurisdictions. He referred
to some of the great lawyers of the Province
of Quebec, men such as Eugène Lafieur and
Aimé Geoffrion.
I can only say to Senator O'Leary, whose
experience is very great and, if he will allow
me, is a man a few years older than I, that !
suppose each generation looks upon itself as
the embodiment of capacities never before
exercised and not likely ever to be exercised
again. However, I am of the view that we do
have in this country some great members of
our bi-jural bar, the Common Law and the
Civil Law. I think there are great professional
figures in the common law in other parts of
the commonwealth. Men such as Birkenhead
and Simon and the other great figures that he

1192

SENATE DEBATES

mentioned undoubtedly have added lustre to
a profession that those of us who belong to
cherish greatly.
I do believe that we have great lawyers
today. The course of the law has changed; the
emphasis on the law has changed; the intervention of the sociological interpretation of
the law or, as Roscoe Pound called it, legal
history, has given the law a new bent, a new
thrust.
Perhaps in some instances some of the glamour of the great advocate has been taken
over by the great corporation lawyer or the
great international lawyer but, in any event, I
believe that our schools of law are producing
eminent men in the legal profession. I can
only say that on both sides of this bouse there
are eminent lawyers who give us great satisfaction when they speak. I would not want to
mention any names, but they are so obvious
as to make my argument at least have the
quality of persuasion.
Honourable senators, this bas been a useful
debate. This is an important subject. I am
sure the Standing Senate Committee on Legal
and Constitutional Affairs will examine this
matter with great care, with the result we
will be able to set in motion a commission
whose work will enable us as legislators to
improve and modernize a legal system, part
of our civilized order, without which we

June 9, 1970

know there could be no order and stability in
the nation.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

On motion of Hon. Mr. Martin, bill referred
to the Standing Senate Committee on Legal
and Constitutional Affairs.
Motion agreed to.
BUSINESS

OF THE SENATE

Hon. Malcolm Holleit: I should like to ask
the Leader of the Government whether it is
absolutely essential for the Standing Senate
Committee on Transport and Communications
to meet at 11 o'clock tomorrow night.
Hon. Paul Martin: I am told that this is a
misprint. It is tomorrow morning. But if the
committee did meet tomorrow night I would
not be surprised, because notwithstanding
what some outsiders think, the Senate bas a
very heavy workload and sometimes it bas to
meet very late.
Hon. Mr. Holleft: That is the reason I asked
the question. I thought probably we did have
to meet tomorrow night at 11 o'clock in committee, but I understand that is not so.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2
p.m.

DEBATES
June10, 970SENATE

June 10, 1970

THE SENATE

Wednesday, June 10, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
DOCUMENT TABLED
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Report o! the Dominion Bureau of Statistics for the fiscal year ended March 31,
1968.

2. How many of these railiners are the
property of the Canadian National Railways and how many are rented?
3. In the case of the rented railiners,
under what ternis and conditions are they
leased?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
Railways
National
The Canadian
advise as follows:
1. 47.
2. Ail are owned by Canadian. National.
3. Not applicable.
TURBOTRAIN DEVELOPMENT COSTS-INQUIRY
ANS WERED

Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Government, pursuant to notice:
How much bas it cost the Canadian
National Railways to develop the turbotrain Up to December 31, 1969?
Hon. Hédard Robichaud, Acting Chairman
on Health,
of the Standing Senate Committee
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
Welfare and Science, reported that the comRailways
National
Canadian
The
mittee had considered Bill C-193, to amend
advise as follows:
Research and Development Inthe Industrial
The TurboTrain was constructed by
centives Act, and had directed that the bill
United Aircraft Corporation and is owned
be reported without ameudment.
by that company. No capital investment
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators,
in the cost thereof bas been made by the
Canadian National. Original estimates by
when shan this bull be read the third time?
United Aircraft of the cost of the flve
Hon. Mr. Robichaud moved that the bill he
trains was $10 million.
placed on the Orders of the day for third
reading at the next sitting.
NATIONAL HEALTH
Motion agreed to.
USE 0F DRUG L-DOPA FOR PARKINSON'S
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES ACT
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT 0F COMMIITTEE

DISEASE-QUESTION

CANADA DAY BILL
FIRST REJADING

Hon. Sarto Fournier presented Bill S-24,
respecting Canada Day.
Bill read first tume.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière> moved
that the bull be placed on the Orders of the
day for second reading on Wednesday, June
17.
Motion agreed to.
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS
NUMBER 0F RAILINERS RENTED AND OWNED
-INQUIRY ANSWERED

Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Government, pursuant to notice:
1. How many railiners are operated by
the Canadian National Railways today?

Hon. Joseph A. Sullivan: Honourable senators, this question is to the Leader of the
Governiment. He may not be in a position to
reply on at the moment, but I believe the
question is important enough to ask.
As the medical appointee of the Board of
Governors of the University of Toronto on
the Banting and Best Research Foundation
Committee, pertinent information bas corne to
me in regard to this matter. There is a new
drug, L-Dopa, for the treatment o! Parkinson's Disease, in which the research was
developed and pioneered in Canada by Dr.
Barbeau, the dlstinguished director o!
neurobiology at the Clinical Investigation
Institute of Montreal. This drug is already
licensed for use in the United States and In
Europe.
Why should the Food and Drug Directorate
withhold this drug of proven value froni use

1194

SENATE DEBATES

now in Canada, to be used initially by only
brain specialists in medical schools throughout this country?
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
will have to take this question as notice, and I
will try to obtain a reply as early as possible.
Hon. Mr. Sullivan: Thank you.
TERRITORIAL SEA AND FISHING ZONES
ACT
BILL TO

AMEND-SECOND
READINGDEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. Hédard Robichaud moved the second
reading of Bill C-203, to amend the Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones Act.
He said: Honourable senators, the proposed
amendments to the Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones Act represent another major initiative by Canada with respect to the international law of the sea. This is a field in which
Canada has been particularly active and
influential for more than a decade.
It is also a subject with which I, with the
present Leader of the Government (Hon. Mr.
Martin), have been personally and very closely associated, and for this reason I am glad to
have the opporunity to speak to the bill
under consideration.
In the last forty years Canada has repeatedly shown its good faith in the multilateral
approach to the territorial sea problems and
has participated vigorously and constructively
in its effort to achieve agreed rules of law on
the breadth of the territorial sea and the
extent of contiguous zones.
The position taken by Canadian representatives at the 1958 and 1960 Law of the Sea
Conferences in Geneva is well known to the
Canadian public in general, and particularly
to Canadian parliamentarians. With nothing
more than limited and belated support from
our neighbours to the south, Canada campaigned for the famous six-plus-six formula,
and at that time warned the international
community that the law was developing
towards
wider assertions of territorial
sovereignty.
Notwithstanding support from over forty
countries, including our British friends, we
were unable to convince the United States,
which declined to join with us in our efforts
for international acceptance of such a
proposal.
In January 1963 the Fisheries Council of
Canada, representing the commercial fishing
industry from coast to coast, submitted to the
[Hon. Mr. Sullivan.]

June 10, 1970

Government a very strong brief outlining the
industry's views on Canada's national and
territorial waters. Recognizing the many
international and national complications with
regard to establishing the breadth of territorial seas, the council's brief limited its submissions to fisheries' interests and the conservation of fishery resources.
I wish at this time to give full credit to the
Fisheries Council for its well prepared brief
and particularly for its continuous efforts in
pressing upon the Government the urgent
necessity for Canada declaring certain bodies
of water adjacent to her coasts as Canadian
national waters in which no foreign fishing
fleets may operate without the consent of the
Government of Canada. Furthermore, their
brief advocated the principle of the straight
base line policy where the breadth of the
territorial sea is measured seaward from a
straight base line drawn from headland to
headland, following the practice of a number
of maritime nations of the world. This practice, I must say in passing, is in accordance
with the decision of the International Court
of Justice in the case of the United Kingdom
v. Norway, known as the Anglo-Norwegian
Fisheries case, decided in 1951.
In 1964 the Canadian Government, fully
aware of the urgency of the problem, and
conscious of the necessity of introducing adequate safeguards to protect and conserve the
marine fisheries resources, has, in the Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones Act laid down
the legislative basis for delimiting the territorial sea from straight base lines rather
than from the sinuosities of the coast, and
established a nine-mile fishing zone contiguous to our three-mile territorial sea. Subsequently, from time to time the Government
has established straight base lines over long
stretches of our coast. In 1966 the United
States followed suit by establishing its own
nine-mile fisheries zone.
May I mention here that it was agreed from
the outset on both sides that the fishermen of
either country would be allowed to fish freely
in the contiguous zones of the other. It has
been apparent, however, that the United
States Government continued to express its
disagreement with our legislation, particularly as it affects the headland to headland
principle.
There has been in the last three or four
years numerous discussions concerning the
desirability of a third Law of the Sea Conference, and Canada has made it publicly known
that it is prepared to participate actively in
any such conference. I will refer again to this

June 10, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

later in my remarks. We must regard with
some satisfaction the fact that the United
States and the Soviet Union have agreed to
give consideration to an agenda for such a
conference, and have made known their position supporting an agreement providing for a
twelve-mile territorial sea.
I well recall the discussions I had in 1966
with the Minister of Fisheries of the U.S.S.R.,
Mr. Ishkov, and the Deputy Premier of the
Supreme Soviet, Mr. Poliansky, regarding the
desirability of convening such a conference.
When the Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones
Act was adopted by the Parliament of Canada
in 1964, the essential objective it was intended
to achieve was the protection of Canada's
coastal fisheries. I do not hesitate to say that
it has served that purpose well. The contiguous fishing zone extending up to twelve
miles from the baselines of the territorial sea
was in 1964 a controversial concept which
had not yet become established in state practice, which is the major source of customary
international law. Indeed, our closest friend,
the United States, publicly expressed disagreement with the Canadian action at the
time, and I am sure that my honourable colleague, the then Secretary of State for External Affairs, well remembers the position that
was taken at the time not only by the United
States but even by some other countries witb
whom we had a number of negotiations.
Only two years later, as I have just mentioned, the U.S.A. followed the Canadian lead
in establishing its own nine-mile contiguous
fishing zone, as did other countries such as
New Zealand and Australia.
Today the extension of fisheries jurisdiction
beyond the traditional limits of the territorial
sea is an established part of customary international law. The Canadian Government bas
been instrumental in bringing about this
important development, first with the sponsorship of the three-plus-nine and the sixplus-six formulas at the 1958 and 1960
Geneva Conferences on the Law of the Sea,
and subsequently with the adoption of the
three-plus-nine formula in the Territorial Sea
and Fishing Zones Act in 1964.
Recognition of the concept of the contiguous fishing zone is one achievement to which
the Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones Act
made a material contribution. Another
achievement, which has not been as widely
noted as it merits, is the fact that since 1964
no new foreign fisheries have been established in the areas comprised in the Canadian
22481-26

twelve-niile limit or the various large bodies
of water on Canada's east and west coasts
That achievement assumes its proper perspective when it is contrasted with the fact that
since 1964 the major distant-water fishing
fleets of the world have greatly expanded
their activities wherever opportunities offered
themselves.
It is true, of course, that since 1964 Canada
has permitted the continuation of the fishing
activities of the countries which have traditionally fished in the areas comprised within
the Canadian fishing zones. The countries
concerned are Britain, France, Norway, Denmark, Italy, Portugal, Spain, and the U.S.A.countries all engaged in fishing operations on
our Atlantic coast. It should be noted, however, that those traditional activities have not
expanded since 1964-that is, they have been
limited to the status quo which prevailed in
1964 in terms of the areas and species
involved. That in itself is not an insignificant
matter.
Moreover, the Government held negotiations for the phasing out of the traditional
activities of the European countries concerned. The treaty fishing rights of France
and the U.S.A. are, of course, another matter,
as are also the traditional non-treaty fishing
practices of the U.S.A. which are being
allowed to continue on the basis of a reciprocal arrangement. I will say more on these
matters later, but for the moment I wish only
to emphasize that we have in fact made considerable progress towards the phasing out of
traditional fishing practices in the Canadian
fishing zones, and that it is hoped to bring to
an early and successful conclusion the
negotiations initiated to this end in 1964.
I will refer to only one more achievement
to the credit of the Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones Act. It was on the basis of this
legislation that the Government was able to
push further out to sea Canada's territorial
sovereignty and fisheries jurisdiction along
vast stretches of the Canadian east and west
coasts. This was done by the establishment of
straight base lines from headland to headland
along the coasts of Labrador and Newfoundland in 1967, and along the east coast of Nova
Scotia and the west coasts of Vancouver
Island and the Queen Charlotte Islands in
1969.
Honourable senators, I trust that this brief
review of the achievement of the Territorial
Sea and Fishing Zones Act will offer convincing evidence that it bas well and truly served
Canadian interests. Like an old soldier, how-

1196

SENATE DEBATES

ever it now requires reinforcements, and it
is to provide those reinforcements that the
Government has introduced the amendments
incorporated in the bill under consideration.
I should now like to discuss those amendments
in some detail.
It is proposed, first of ail, to extend the
territorial sea of Canada from three to 12
miles and consequently to subsume within the
expanded territorial sea the present nine-mile
contiguous fishing zone. This action reflects
the development of state practice since 1964,
during which period a sufficient number of
countries have claimed a 12-mile territorial
sea to give this limit a secure status under
customary international law.
The amendment in question also reflects
the fact that the exercise of fisheries jurisdiction only in the area between three and 12
miles is no longer considered sufficient to protect the full range of Canada's vital coastal
interests.
The advantages of claiming a 12-mile territorial sea were fully explained by the Secretary of State for External Affairs in introducing this bill in the other place on April 17. I
would only remind honourable senators that
these advantages relate to (a) the enforcement
of pollution controls on the Atlantic and
Pacific coasts south of 60 degrees north latitude; (b) the conclusion of negotiations with
the European countries which have been permitted to continue their traditional fishing
activities in Canada's fishing zones; (c) the
protection of Canada's security interests; (d)
the seaward extension of Canada's continental
shelf which, under international law, is measured from the outer limit of the territorial
sea; and, finally, the protection of Canada's
position that the Northwest Passage is not an
international strait, since the adoption of the
12-mile territorial sea will bring Barrow
Strait, in addition to Prince of Wales Strait,
indisputably within complete Canadian sovereignty under any realistic or reasonable view
of existing international law, regardless of
differences of views as to Canada's claims to
sovereignty over the whole of the Northwest
Passage.
From the point of view of Canadian interests, the advantages of the 12-mile limit
amply justify Canada's action in claiming this
limit at the present time. In the light of current state practice there is ample precedent
and a sound legal basis for such action. In the
circumstances there should be no need to provide a defence of the 12-mile territorial sea.
However, the published views of the U.S.A. in
[Hon. Mr. Robichaud.]

June 10, 1970

this connection make it appropriate for me to
give at least some further explanation.
It is generally accepted by the learned
authors that by the end of the seventeenth
century there had emerged in fairly well
established form the two fundamental concepts of the international law of the sea: that
of the high seas and that of the territorial sea
subject to the sovereignty of the coastal state.
Unfortunately, international law had not
yet adopted any definite rules as to the nature
or extent of the territorial sea. The reasons
for this are illuminating. The English author,
Masterson, asserts that the lack of definite
rules arose in part from the somewhat conflicting principles pursued by Great Britain
from the early 1700s to the late 1800s. During
this period Britain was, as a result of her
naval interests, attempting to establish the
freedom of the seas and consequently to
restrict to three miles the marginal belt of
territorial seas. At the same time, however,
because of her fiscal interests, Britain was
claiming increasingly wide customs jurisdiction-as far as 300 miles from her shores in
1826-in order to combat nothing else but
smuggling activities.
We can see here some parallel between
the way great powers acted 300 years ago and
the way at least some of them are acting
today.
It is also commonly alleged, although not so
widely accepted, that the origin of the threemile limit was the so-called "cannon-shot
rule". It is said that the first occasion on
which this principle was advanced was on
May 6, 1610, a year after the proclamation
forbidding unlicensed fishing by James I.
During a formai conference between the
Dutch Ambassador and the English Commissioner, the Dutch Ambassador said: "By the
law of nations the boundless and rolling sea
was as common to all people as the air 'which
no prince could prohibit."' He said, "No
prince could 'challenge further into the sea
than he can command with a cannon, except
gulfs within their land from one point to
another."' This is very important to Canada's position today.
As you can see, honourable senators, the
concept and principle of headland to headland
was mentioned even in those days.
We are evidently being told by certain
countries today the same thing which the
British were told by the Dutch in 1610. I am
afraid that even if the law bas not advanced
since 1610, technology has and, if the law bas
not caught up to technology then it is high
time it did so.

June 10, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

By the nineteenth century the three-mile
limit for the breadth of the territorial sea was
accepted by many, although not all, members
of the international community of nations. it
had become established simply because it was
unilaterally adopted by various maritime
states and gradually became widespread
through state practice. In the course of the
present century, however, and particularly
after the failure of the Hague Codification
Conference in 1930, a large and growing
number of states came to believe that the
three-mile territorial limit was no longer adequate. Such states found it necessary either to
extend their territorial waters beyond the
three-mile limit or to claim more limited
forms of jurisdiction over certain areas
beyond that limit for particular purposes. The
concept that a state's marine jurisdiction
should end at three miles thus steadily lost
support. Even before the first Geneva Conference on the law of the sea in 1958, it had
become clear that a three-mile limit was
no longer sufficient to protect what many
states regarded as their essential needs and
interests.
Until the period after the Second World
War, Canadian policy on the question of
coastal jurisdiction was similar to that of the
main western maritime powers, particularly
of Britain. The post-war period, however, was
marked by increasing international pressure
for greater control by a coastal state of its
adjacent seas. In Canada, there was a steady
and growing interest in extending jurisdiction
over coastal areas and in the delimitation of
the territorial sea and internal waters. After
1945 the inadequacy of the three-mile limit
became a regular subject of discussion in the
House of Commons, particularly with respect
to the coastal fisheries.
I have already stated that a large number
of states now claim a 12-mile territorial sea.
Lest it be thought that such countries are not
influential or that they consist of a few landlocked states, with your indulgence, honourable senators, allow me to list those countries
which have established a 12-mile territorial
sea.
They are Algeria, Bulgaria, Burma, Cambodia, China, Colombia, Cyprus, Dahomey,
Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala,
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Kenya, Korea (North), Kuwait, Liberia,
Libya, Malagasy Republic, Malaysia, Mexico,
Monaco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Romania, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somali Republic, Sudan, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo,
U.SS.R., United Arab Republic, Vietnam
22481-261

1197

(North), Yemen. To that list, we can soon add
Canada.
Honourable senators, for anyone to assert
seriously, in the light of that list which I have
just read, that a claim to a territorial sea
beyond three miles is illegal, is tantamount to
saying "everyone is out of step but my son
John."
The United States Government has made
clear its willingness to accept the 12-mile
limit for the territorial sea provided that it
is fixed by a multilateral agreement rather
than by the continuing development of customary law through state practice. The
Canadian Government sympathizes with the
desire of the United States for agreed rules
of law on these questions. Canada has
repeatedly shown its good faith, as I stated
earlier, by participating vigorously and
constructively in every multilateral effort in
the last 40 years to achieve agreed rules of
law on the breadth of the territorial sea and
the nature and extent of contiguous fishing
zones. These efforts, I believe, have failed
largely because some of the major maritime
states have been rigid and inflexible in their
views. They have too often confused national
interests with international imperatives. As a
result there has developed what has been
called the "tyranny" of the traditional concept of the freedom of the seas. Although
some concessions have been made to the
interests of the newer states and to the new
needs arising from developing technology,
these concessions have been too modest, they
have come too late, and they have had too
many strings attached.
Honourable senators, Canada has had a
long and wide experience of multilateral
approaches to the unresolved problems of the
law of the sea. We have recognized that it is
in our interest and the interest of the international community to preserve the essentials of
the freedom of the seas. We have argued that
this objective could only be achieved by an
imaginative, flexible, constructive approach
based on recognition of the fact that even
universal principles must not remain static.
We have urged that such principles should be
adapted to meet particular situations and to
take into account new developments affecting
the vital interests of coastal states. The validity of our position has, I believe, been amply
demonstrated. In the circumstances we are
justified in asserting that the constructive
development of the international law of the
sea requires the stimulus of responsible state
practice which can serve as the foundation
for later formal agreements.

SENATE DEBATES
Honourable senators, I trust I have made it
clear that the 12-mile limit is well established
in customary international law. Canada is
ready and willing to participate in multilateral efforts to codify that limit in an international convention, but it would be a distortion
of the facts and the law to say that until such
a convention has been adopted Canada cannot
or must not follow a precedent which has the
same validity and the same basis as the 12mile contiguous fishing zone adopted by the
United States in 1966.
In this connection I would draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that Canada's
new reservation to the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice does
not apply to the extension of the territorial
sea to 12 miles. The reason is simple. The
Prime Minister has indicated that Canada
strongly supports the rule of law in international affairs but is not prepared ta litigate on vital issues where the law is either
inadequate or non-existent and does not provide a firm basis for judicial decision, as is
the case with respect to the control of marine
pollution and the conservation of the living
resources of the sea. With respect to the
claim to a 12-mile territorial sea, however,
while there are strong differences of views
concerning the legality of the claim, the
Government considers that the law is sufficiently developed to permit a judicial decision
on any dispute on this matter, and accordingly
the Government has not sought to exclude
this question from the jurisdiction of the
court.
I would like to make only one last point
in connection with the extension of the territorial sea to 12 miles. That point has been
made before but nevertheless bears repeating. It is this: the establishment of a 12-mile
territorial sea, like the establishment of
pollution control zones in the Arctic waters
or exclusive fishing zones in other bodies of
water, cannot be construed as an abandonment of the Canadian position concerning the
status of the Arctic waters or such other
special bodies of water as, for example, the
Gulf of St. Lawrence. There is the highest
authority in the 1910 North Atlantic Coast
Fisheries case for the proposition that a state
may, while claiming sovereignty over the
whole of a sea area, exercise only so much
of its sovereign powers over such part of that
area as may be necessary for immediate
purposes, without prejudicing its claim to
complete sovereignty over the whole of that
area. It should be emphasized that the establishment of a 12-mile territorial sea in no
[Hon. Mr. Robichaud.]

June 10, 1970

way prejudices Canada's wider sovereignty
claims, no more than does the present threemile limit prejudice Canada's proposed 12mile territorial sea.
Honourable senators, I should now like to
turn briefly to the fisheries provisions of the
bill under consideration. Honourable senators
are aware that the present 12-mile fishing
limit will bc subsumed within the extended
territorial sea and that the present bill will
allow it to create exclusive Canadian fishing
zones comprising areas of the sea adjacent ta
the coasts of Canada. The language of the bill
is flexible in this respect, and of course it was
intended to be flexible, so that the Government could respond to changing situations as
and when this might become appropriate. At
the same time, however, the Government has
emphasized its intention to establish the proposed new fishing zones only where Canada's
primary interests relate to fisheries and in
areas where Canada has historic claims. The
bill will, in effect, allow the Government to
complete the delimitation of Canada's exclusive fishing zones in those coastal areas where
straight base lines have not so far been
drawn from headland to headland, namely,
the Gulf of St. Lawrence, Bay of Fundy,
Dixon Entrance, Hecate Strait and Queen
Charlotte Sound.
The Government's approach to the protection of coastal fisheries has been, and
remains, that the most appropriate solution
lies in separate and differentiating fisheries
jurisdiction from the complete sovereignty
which they exercise in their territorial sea
and internal waters. The principle of fisheries
jurisdiction extending beyond the limits of a
territorial sea is well established in international law in so far as it relates to the contiguous fishing zone extending no farther than
12 miles from the base line of the territorial
sea.
In the Canadian view-and here we realize
that we are in advance of existing international law-the same principles should apply
to other areas where there are special circumstances of the kind which pertain to the
Canadian bodies of water I have named. The
special circumstances are historic and legal in
nature, but they relate also to economic and
political considerations and, perhaps most
important of all, to the pressing need to
establish an effective regime for the conservation of our coastal fisheries.
I have already stated that it would be
incorrect in light of existing precedent, to
argue that Canada would in any way be
abandoning its wider sovereignty claims in

June 10, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

any of the areas concerned by asserting fisheries jurisdiction only instead of complete
sovereignty in those areas. By the same
token, it would be equally inappropriate and
even incongruous to argue that Canada
cannot assert fisheries jurisdiction in these
areas without prejudicing Canada's claims to
complete sovereignty over them. This is precisely the kind of unnecessary and unprofitable dilemma which is created by a rigid
adherence to traditional concepts of territoriality and sovereignty with respect to the law
of the sea. Where the essential interests of a
coastal state at a given period of time relate
mainly to fisheries or to pollution control, for
instance, it is incomprehensible that either
domestie or international considerations should
prevent that state from asserting only the
measure of jurisdiction required to protect its
interests, on the grounds that although the
whole cake may belong to the country concerned it is at the same time forbidden to eat
even a piece of it.
This same view was shared by the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the 1910 North
Atlantic Coast Fisheries Case between Britain
and the United States. The court on that
occasion said, and it merits quoting again:
Such a construction by this tribunal
may not only be intrinsically inequitable,
but internationally injurious, in that it
would discourage conciliatory diplomatic
transactions and encourage the assertion
of extreme claims to their fullest extent.
Honourable senators, I have already said
that the Government hopes for an early and
successful conclusion of the negotiations
which were begun in 1964 with respect to
phasing out the traditional fishing practices of
Britain, France, Norway, Denmark, Italy, Portugal and Spain, in the existing and proposed
Canadian fishing zones. The bill under consideration will definitely help Canada to achieve
this objective. It will help us achieve this
objective because after the passage of this bill
the basis for our negotiations will be significantly changed over areas now comprising
the nine-mile contiguous fishing zone. Whereas there may be differences of view as to
whether or not a phasing out period should
be granted for countries which have carried
out traditional flshing activities in areas over
which a coastal state has established fisheries
jurisdiction, there can be no such differences
of view with respect to areas which have
become part of the 12-mile territorial sea. The
bill will also help us to secure our objective
because it will allow the Government to

adopt a more flexible approach to the areas
which have not yet been enclosed within
straight base lines.
Such a flexible approach is required in
order to avoid widening the possibilities of
disputes with respect to the areas concerned.
Having adopted this flexible approach, the
Government will be able to complete the
delimitation of the Canadian fishing zones,
will be able, in effect, to complete the definition of the areas involved in the negotiations
concerning the phasing out of traditional fishing practices, and will have the necessary
domestic legal basis for enforcing its jurisdiction in such areas.
suggesting that Canada
usessarily
am nut 1
d
vill not grant some phasing out period to the
ceuntries with traditional fishing practices or
established flshing rights off our coasts, but I
am suggesting that Canada will not necessarily do so. We have shown our good will vis-Avis the countries concerned by allowing them
to continue their traditional fishing practices
since 1964. We believe in negotiating on such
issues, in good faith, in the interests of good
relations and international co-operation. We
also take the position, however, that good will
and a desire for co-operation must prevail on
both sides.
We note that the international situation has
greatly changed since we flrst began these
negotiations in 1964, and we trust that other
countries are also aware of this fact. Above
ail, we are conscious that phasing out agreements are even more in the interests of the
countries concerned than they are in Canada's
interests, in the light of the alternatives to
such agreements.
Honourable senators are aware, as I mentioned earlier, that the Government has
adopted a different approach to the traditional fishing practices of the United States off
the coasts of Canada, both in the east and in
the west.
On April 24 of this year, representatives of
the Canadian and United States Governments
signed an agreement on reciprocal fishing
privileges which formalizes the working
arrangements which have existed between
Canada and the United States since the establishment of their respective fishing zones in
1964 and 1966. That agreement was negotiated with the advice and support of the Canadian fishing industry, and it secured important
advantages for the fishermen of this country.
It does not prejudice the territorial or jurisdictional claims of either country. Indeed, it
represents an important example of how the

1200

SENATE DEBATES

two countries can overcome differences of
view and find amicable solutions to difficult
questions by concentrating on practical and
concrete measures rather than abstract and
theoretical considerations.
The agreement will allow the fishermen of
both Canada and the United States to continue, on a reciprocal basis, the commercial fishing activities which they have carried out up
to three miles off the coasts of the other
country up to the present time and prior to
the first establishment of exclusive fishing
zones by either Canada or the United States.
The agreement is for a period of two years
and applies only to commercial fisheries, only
in the areas referred to in the agreement, and
only, I repeat, as between Canada and the
United States.
Honourable senators, a great deal has been
said in the other place concerning the treaty
fishing rights of other states, and particularly
those of France, off Canada's east coast. I take
for granted that Canada will continue to
honour ber international treaty obligations. It
is unthinkable that it should be otherwise.
This does not necessarily mean, however,
that there is no way of finding solutions to
some of the problems posed by the treaty
fishing rights in question. I well recall the
long discussions we had with the representatives of France in this regard. I would deal
only briefly at this time with the rights
enjoyed by France, because they are the ones
that give rise to the most difficult problems
and the greatest controversy.
The convention between Great Britain and
France in 1904 gave France the right to fish
in the territorial waters off the west and
north coasts of Newfoundland extending
between Cape St. John and Cape Ray passing
by the north. The rights incorporated in the
1904 convention represent in substantially
modified form the rights it had been granted
under the Treaty of Utrecht of 1713, and the
Treaty of Versailles of 1783. What I wish to
emphasize is that the treaty would appear to
make French fishermen subject to the same
laws and regulations which apply to Canadian
fishermen. If I am correct in this view-and I
believe I am--then I would hope that we have
a basis in the treaty itself for resolving many
of the difficulties associated with this
question.
I would not purport to give a legal opinion
on this matter because I am far from qualified
to do so, but it seems to me that the language
of the 1904 treaty is clear and unequivocal. It
provides that French citizens retain the right
[Hon. Mr. Robichaud.j

June 10. 1970

to fish in the areas concerned "on a footing of
equality with British subjects", and that both
British subjects and French citizens shall
be subject alike to the laws and regulations now in force, or which may hereafter be passed for the establishment of a
close time in regard to any particular
kind of fish, or for the improvement of
the fisheries.
The treaty also stipulates:
Notice of any fishing laws or regulations
shall be given to the Government of the
French Republic three months before
they come into operation.
Whatever may be the effect of this language-and its effect, at any rate, is clear to
me-I would suggest that the question of
French treaty rights can and should be examined and considered independently of the considerations which have permitted the introduction of this bill to amend the Territorial
Sea and Fishing Zones Act. For this reason I
shall say no more on that particular but
important subject.
Honourable senators, in conclusion I wish
only to say that the bill represents a very
important step forward with respect to the
urgent need to conserve and protect Canada's
coastal fisheries. It must be recognized, however, that the preservation of the living
resources of the sea is a world-wide problem
which cannot be resolved by Canada alone, or
by simply extending the limits of national
jurisdiction over fisheries, notwithstanding
the importance of such action. There is a
need for multilateral action as well, and for
increased efforts towards internationally
agreed solutions. In recognition of this need
the Government, as I have already said, has
been consulting with other interested countries for more than two years with respect to
the convening of a Law of the Sea Conference which would deal effectively with the
problem of fisheries conservation. It seems
increasingly likely that such a conference
may be held in the near future, and I certainly express the hope that it will.
Canada has done and will do everything
possible to ensure that such a conference will
give greater recognition to the special interests of the coastal state, and to afford greater
protection for such species as the Atlantic and
Pacific salmon which are protected at considerable cost by the efforts of the coastal state,
only to be depleted by exploitation by other
states on the high seas. Canada believes that
the international climate is increasingly
favourable to measures of this kind. It

June 10, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

participation in the negotiations with a
number of countries in respect of the twelvemile fishing zone limit, in addition to the
other factors connected with Canada's
attempt during the time he was in charge of
these matters to provide for agreement with
regard to other matters concerning fisheries.
The bill that I now explain on second reading represents one of the important policies of
the Government of Canada and applies to one
of the last remaining frontiers, not only in
our own country but in the world. The last
few years have seen great changes in the
attitude of the Canadian people to the Arctic.
Times have changed immensely. No longer
could the great explorer Stefanson say, as he
did in 1922, that the average university
graduate had ten ideas about the Arctic, nine
of which were wrong. Nevertheless, it was
Captain Bernier, a great Canadian, who was
the pioneer in the evidence respecting
Canadian ownership of the Arctic.
Canadian prime ministers have asserted
from time to time the ownership of the
Arctic-Sir Wilfrid Laurier, Sir Robert
Borden, Mr. King, Mr. St. Laurent, Mr. Pearson and the present Prime Minister. However,
long before them Captain Bernier, by his
pioneering and lonely efforts in the Arctic,
laid claim for Canada to the ownership of
what may prove to be one of the important
areas of development in the future.
The Arctic area has already been opened
up by air travel and a new era of shipping
traffic. Mineral exploitation will go a long
way to further opening of our northern frontier. This area is beginning to capture the
imagination of our young people and that of
other generations.
A number of books containing the exploits
of our Arctic explorers have recently been
republished. Eskimo prints and carvings have
sparked an interest in the Arctic among
Canadians who may never have had the
opportunity to travel there. With the opening
ARCTIC WATERS POLLUTION
of the Arctic and our increased knowledge of
PREVENTION BILL
this area, new and exciting possibilities are
SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED
revealed to us. It is the last undeveloped fronHon. Paul Martin moved the second read- tier and offers both a challenge and a
ing of Bill C-202, to prevent pollution of areas responsibility.
of the arctic waters adjacent to the mainland
No wonder it excited the unanimous interand islands of the Canadian arctic.
est of the other place in the unique example
He said: Honourable senators, Bill C-202 of unanimity that attended the presentation
stands by itself, but it obviously bas relation- of the bill there by the Prime Minister. There
ship to Bill C-203 which was so comprehenprobably great reserves of minerais,
sively introduced by Senator Robichaud. It are
petroleum and other resources in the area
was most appropriate that Senator Robichaud
should introduce that bill because of his long which, as our technology advances, will be
association with the subject matter and his capable of economic exploitation. The oppor-

believes that both the coastal fishing states
and the distant-water fishing states of the
world have begun to realize that a rational
system of fisheries conservation, management
and exploitation is required in the common
interest of all concerned.
There are only two alternatives, in my
opinion, to such an international regime. One
is the sort of fisheries conservation which
theoretically might be achieved under the law
of diminishing returns. Since it would be
unprofitable to rake the last fish from the sea,
it might be presumed that the last fish, and
perhaps a few more, will be left where they
are. This alternative is hardly a rational one,
but it could conceivably be the one which
will come about in the absence of effective
international agreement.
The more likely alternative, however, is the
possibility of international conflict as the
states of the world respond to international
inaction by national action. If we are to avoid
such a conflict, if we are to avoid complete
chaos, if we are to conserve the living
resources of the sea, then it is essential that
the countries of the world agree first of all to
recognize the special rights and responsibilities of the coastal states and, secondly, to join
together in a new legal regime for high seas
fisheries which will reconcile both the need for
equitable distribution of benefits and rational
exploitation of resources.
This, honourable senators, is the point of
view which I know the Canadian Government
will urge at a new conference on the Law of
the Sea.
Honourable senators, I commend this bill to
your support. If it receives second reading I
shall move that it be referred to the Standing
Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Grosart, debate
adjourned.

1202

SENATE DEBATES

tunity for economie development carries with
it the responsibility to preserve a unique and
clean environment. This opportunity and
responsibility are the two fundamental reasons for this bill, the Arctie Waters Pollution
Prevention Bill. We realize that both the economic opportunity and the preservation of the
area from pollution are responsibilities that
Canada owes not only to itself but to
mankind.
As the Prime Minister said on October 24,
1969:
Government policy will reflect Canada's
proposed interests not only in the preservation of the ecological balance... but as
well in the economic development of the
north, the security of Canada and our
stature in the world community.
After much consideration the Government
has concluded that the most effective method
of ensuring these objectives would be to enact
the present Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention Bill and the companion bill amending the
Territorial Waters and Fishing Zones Act.
The bill is specifically aimed at the danger
of the threat of pollution of the Arctic environment, while at the same time providing a
scientific and rational basis for the economic
development of this potentially rich area.
We are all aware, of course, that marine
disasters, resulting in appalling pollution
problems, still can and do happen all too frequently. The Torrey Canyon incident, off the
coast of the United Kingdom, spewed thousands of gallons of oil into the Atlantic Ocean
and the English Channel, with incalculable
costs to public beaches and damage to marine
life.
More recently, and closer to home, was the
Arrow disaster in Chedabucto Bay. There are
many more examples which could be cited,
including the oil-well seepages off Santa Barbara and the southeast coast of the United
States.
The only fortunate feature that these incidents had in common was that they all took
place in relatively moderate climatic regions
and, in time, nature, with some help from
man's inexperienced clean-up operations, will
be able to repair most of the damage. If,
however, these incidents had taken place in
the Canadian Arctic waters, we are not sure
whether the oil soilage and spillage could
have been cleaned up to the point where
nature could have taken over and repaired
the damage. Even if this could happen, it
would probably take generations before the
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 10, 1970

tenuous ecological balance of our far northern
environment could be restored.
In short, the problems which we have
encountered in southern climates are minuscule compared to the problems we would
have encountered if accidents of such magnitude had taken place in our Arctic seas. It is
with these problems in mind that the bill to
prevent pollution in Arctic seas has been put
forward by the Government.
I should like briefly to review some of the
more important features of this legislation.
The bill prescribes prohibitions and penalties
for the deposit of waste in Arctic waters or
on the islands or mainland under conditions
where waste may enter these waters.
The safety of shipping oil and other possible pollutants in this region will be effectively
enhanced by establishing shipping safety control zones, wherein ships will be required to
comply with a series of technical requirements relating to hull structure, qualifications
of personnel, navigational aids, and time and
route of passage. Ships that do not meet these
requirements will not be permitted to enter
the area.
The bill gives prevention officers authority
to operate within a safety control zone for
inspection purposes or to order a ship about
to enter or near a safety control zone to
remain outside it if the inspector has reason
to believe that the ship does not meet the
standards set for that zone.
Moreover, the pollution prevention officers
will have the authority to enter into landbased facilities under construction or being
repaired or altered, if there is reason to
believe that the operation of the undertaking
may result in the deposit of waste in the
Arctic waters. There will be occasions, however, when despite the best efforts and intentions, pollution will occur.
To meet these unforeseen events, the bill
imposes civil liability on the polluter and sets
out procedures for recovering the costs of
clean-up operations undertaken by the Government in Canadian courts. The bill also
provides that the Governor in Council may
require evidence of financial responsibility on
the part of a ship or cargo owner, adequate to
cover the estimated cost of cleaning up any
damage resulting from pollution before a ship
is cleared to enter the Arctic zones. At the
same time, so that commercial activity shall
not be unduly inhibited by unrealistic forecasts of possible damage, the bill makes
provisions for setting limits to the liability
that can be imposed on any person.

June 10, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Honourable senators will note that, with
this bill, Canada has taken a forward step in
recognizing the liability not only of owners of
ships navigating in Arctic waters but also of
the owners of cargo on any ships. The law is
absolute and does not depend on proof of
authority or negligence. By adopting this
principle, we are confident that owners of
cargo and ships which may operate in Arctic
waters will insist that the safety standard of
vessels will more than meet our Canadian
regulations.
Although it has always been the Canadian
contention that the waters of the Arctic
archipelago are Canadian waters, this bill
provides for only a limited form of jurisdiction; it lays down certain standards and
regulations which the ships of all the world
desiring to enter the area must adhere to in
order to prevent pollution.
The emphasis in this legislation is on prevention, not remedial action once damage has
occurred, as is the case in existing international pnnventions, such as the Brussels Convention of a year ago in connection with
which Canada was a very active participant
and promoter. Canada has no merchant fleet,
but is a large shipping nation which relies on
the merchant fleets of the world to carry its
trade. We have tried, at international conferences, to persuade the large ship-owning and
cargo-owning states to lay down adequate
regulations to protect coastal states, which are
innocent victims of accidents at sea, from the
pollution of their shores. Our last attempt
was at an International Maritime Conference
held in Brussels last autumn. We failed to
achieve what we considered to be reasonable
standards for protection and thus, to protect
our vulnerable Arctic, we have decided that
we must act immediately and alone, if
necessary.
This limited exercise of jurisdiction is not
inconsistent with our claim to sovereignty
over all these waters. I would refer honourable senators to the statement made on this
point in the House of Commons on April 16,
1970, by the present Secretary of State for
External Affairs, and what he said corresponds with two statements that I made in a
similar capacity in 1964 and 1965. He said:
In the 1910 North Atlantic coast fisheries
case between Britain and the United
States, the Permanent Court of Arbitration held that a state may, without prejudice to its claim to sovereignty over the
whole of a particular area of the sea,
exercise only so much of its sovereign
powers over such part of that area as

1203

may be necessary for immediate purposes. That case is of particular relevance
to the Canadian situation since it
involved areas of Newfoundland, Labrador and other parts of Canada's Atlantic
coast.
International law is developed by state
practice, as well as by international conventions. By far the largest portion of international law bas been developed by state practice, which bas then become absorbed into the
body of customary international law.
That point was effectively made by Senator
Robichaud a moment ago, when he showed
how international law with regard to the 12mile territorial sea was established. When he
and I negotiated, five years ago, for a 10-mile
fishing zone limit with certain countries, it
could not be argued successfully that in international law there was a recognized 10-mile
territorial sea. There certainly was recognized
in international law a 10-mile fishing zone
limit-three miles territorial sea plus nine
miles fishing zone-but since that time, over
57 countries, which Senator Robichaud bas
named, have, by unilateral act, established
the principle of a territorial sea. So we are
now, by this act, this unilateral act of preventing pollution in the Arctic, resorting to
the same procedures that we in Canada
believe have led to the establishment of an
international territorial sea of 12 miles.
A recent Canadian example of state practice crystallizing into customary international
law was our unilaterial action in establishing
a nine-mile contiguous fishing zone. The
United States followed our example in 1966,
although they took issue with the position
which we proposed to take in 1963. An example of United States unilateral practice establishing a new rule in international law is the
Truman Proclamation of 1945 which established the concept of the continental shelf.
This concept was widely accepted and bas
been enshrined in the 1958 Geneva Convention on the continental shelf. State practice is
necessary in certain areas of international
law where international law is inadequate or
non-existent, and, because of modern technology, we feel that urgent action is required.
President Nixon bas recently stated "that
stark fact is that the law of the sea is
inadequate to meet the needs of modern technology and the concerns of the international
community."
This is the case with the law dealing with
the prevention of pollution, and this is the
basis of the Canadian position. The situation

SENATE DEBATES
in the Arctic is especially acute. Here is an
unspoiled area of vast potential riches and
unique dangers. The problems are so complex
that it may take years to get multilateral
agreement on the rules to be applied there
and thus unilateral action by Canada was
imperative. The unilateral action we are
taking does not rule out future international
agreement but, conversely, can lay the foundations for such agreement. As the Secretary of
State for External Affairs said in the House
of Commons:
The bill we have introduced should be
regarded as a stepping-stone toward the
elaboration of an international legal
order which will protect and preserve
this planet Earth for the better use and
greater enjoyment of all mankind. A
single ecological system governs the lives
of all men, and the Arctic regions are an
extremely important part of that system.
Canada bas always tried to work out with
other nations multilateral solutions to resolve
problems of common interest to all nations.
However, it is a long and difficult process to
get agreement on complex issues, and when
we are faced with a situation demanding
immediate action, we cannot afford the
luxury of interminable discussion.
In his speech on this bill in the House of
Commons, the Secretary of State for External
Affairs has outlined the international efforts,
which began in the early 1920s, to find international solutions to the problem of pollution
of the seas by oil. The interests of states are
so varied in this field that no completely
satisfactory set of international rules bas been
agreed upon. A disaster like the Torrey
Canyon was required to bring home the
enormity of the problem to the world, and yet
really effective preventive international rules
have not yet been agreed upon.
A beginning bas been made, but much
work has yet to be done. Because of the
vulnerability of our Arctic region, we cannot
wait for the international community to catch
up with us. We will lead in the area of preventing pollution of our own environment
and hope that our action will serve as an
inspiration for the development of effective
world-wide standards to prevent the contamination of our human environment.
We think that our legislation will provide
the spur for international law to catch up. We
hope that the international community will
join with Canada in working out satisfactory internationally agreed rules which
will complement the protective action which
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 10, 1970

we will take under the legislation that is now
being proposed, as well as the bill that was
explained on second reading a few moments
ago.
This legislation is not only essential to
Canadian interests, it can also serve to develop the law in a manner that will prevent the
contamination of "Spaceship Earth".
Just as Canada bas always attempted to
find multilateral solutions to international
problems, we have also strongly supported
the United Nations and its various agencies
and bodies-for instance, the International
Court-and nothing that we are doing in this
instance must in any way be construed as
derogating from our traditional position with
regard to the court or with regard to the
Charter of the United Nations.
We hope that the measure we are now
introducing will meet with the approval of
the Senate. When this bill becomes law, we
hope that it will excite the interest of other
nations, that it will encourage them to collaborate with us in keeping unspoiled this
great frontier of the Arctic.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Choquette, for Hon.
Mr. Haig, debate adjourned.
CANADA WATER BILL
SECOND

READING-DEBATE

ADJOURNED

Hon. Keith Laird moved the second reading
of Bill C-144, to provide for the management
of the water resources of Canada including
research and the planning and implementation of programs relating to the conservation,
development
and utilization
of water
resources.
He said: Honourable senators, it is a very
hot day and the hour is late, so I have no
intention of indulging in any rhetoric on this
subject, but I would like to make two points
abundantly clear at the outset. Firstly, I do
not know of any bill that bas been given a
more thorough examination by the House of
Commons than this one. I do not intend to
enter into any statisties, but briefly let me say,
for example, that there were thirty-six committee meetings dealing with this bill. They
were not short meetings, as you can judge
from the pile of reports in front of me, and
there was extensive debate on it in the chamber of that bouse. As a result, I believe there
has emerged a bill which is truly satisfactory.
Secondly, if this bill receives second reading, I intend to move that it be referred to the
Standing Senate Committee on Health, Welfare and Science, because I feel that as far as

June 10, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

the details are concerned they should be dealt
with in committee. This afternoon I intend to
deal as briefly as I can with principles.
Much of the publicity and discussion surrounding the Canada Water Bill has had to do
with pollution control-in fact, we have
heard a lot about pollution today-so much so
that many have the idea that the bill deals
only with water pollution. That is not so. Let
me read you the full title of the bill:
an Act to provide for the management of
the water resources of Canada including
research and the planning and implementation of programs relating to the conservation, development and utilization of
water resources.
It is not a pollution control act; rather,
it is not merely a pollution control act. I
think the third recital of the preamble to
the bill sets out the basic idea. Let me read
part of it:
for reprograms...
-comprehensive
search and planning with respect to
those (water) resources and for their conservation, development and utilization to
ensure their optimum use for the benefit
of all Canadians.
The real accent is on comprehensive water
resource development. This means that the
development of any river basin should be
planned with a full view of all the resources
of the basin, indeed the whole region of the
basin, and planning should be carried out so
that the resources are developed to provide
the maximum benefit from all these resources
to all the people in the region, and the country. We do not believe in development merely
for the sake of development. When I say that
maximum benefits should be provided, I do
not mean just the financial benefits, but the
social and even the aesthetic benefits as well.
The Canada Water Bill is designed to provide the legislative, institutional and other
tools necessary to aid in the restoration,
enhancement and efficient utilization of our
water resources. It faces the difficulties inherent in achieving the comprehensive approach
and it recognizes that planning, development
and management of water requires interregional and inter-governmental co-operation,
cutting across many jurisdictional lines.
I should perhaps say a word about the
problem of jurisdiction. There bas been a
great deal of confusion in the public mind as
to who is responsible for Canada's water
resources. This confusion is understandable;
let us face it, there has been a considerable

feeling of "buck-passing" when it comes to
water. As you are all aware, under the B.N.A.
Act the propriety rights, the ownership, of the
water resources in any province are vested in
the provincial government, except for national parks and other federal lands. The provinces therefore have the right to manage
these water resources. They may authorize
developments, license uses, regulate flows and
levy fees. The provinces also have legislative
jurisdiction over water, under various headings under the B.N.A. Act, empowering them
to legislate on such matters as domestic and
industrial water supply, power development,
irrigation, reclamation, recreation and pollution abatement.
For its part, the federal Government has
exclusive legislative jurisdiction over navigation and fisheries, and shares jurisdiction
with the provinces over agricultural uses. The
federal Government also has legislative
responsibilities with regard to interprovincial
undertakings, trade and commerce, and is
responsible for the criminal law, which has
certain applications to water, particularly pollution. It also bas legislative jurisdiction over
undertakings on international waters, and it
is responsible for the implementation of the
Boundary Waters Treaty of 1909, which
applies to water along our common frontier
with the United States. This is an important
point to remember.
It is obvious from this that jurisdiction over
water resources in Canada is divided between
federal and provincial governments. This
means, of course, that a comprebensive
approach to water management in Canada is,
almost by definition, a federal-provincial
approach. It requires a new and flexible legislative framework for programs of research,
planning, development, and management.
Water resource development bas broad social,
economic and cultural dimensions. The planning process, therefore, must include analyses
of alternatives on the use of related resources,
not only at specific sites but on all parts of a
river basin. Decisions must be based upon a
careful examination of sociological, economie,
and ecological factors, as well as technical
feasibility. The fundamental goal should be to
improve regional and national welfare, and
this goal must receive full recognition in the
planning process.
The Canada Water Bill rests firmly on this
comprehensive approach. It is predicated on
the fact that jurisdiction over water is divided between the federal and provincial governments, and it is designed to unlock the
complexities that now sometimes inhibil

SENATE DEBATES
effective planning and management of our
water resources. The key-note is co-operation.
It is not designed to usurp provincial rights
or jurisdictions in any way. Although the bill
enables the initiative in respect of any water
program to originate at either the federal or
provincial level, it provides for joint effort
from the conceptual stage of a program
through to implementation. It provides for
complete flexibility in the selection of mutually acceptable federal or federal-provincial
administrative instruments for consultation,
planning, and development on a national, provincial, regional or river-basin basis.
The instruments could take the form of
River Basin Boards with advisory and planning functions only; or, they might take a
more extended form of River Basin Commissions with responsibility for some aspects of
development, regulation, and management;
or, they could be fully-fledged River Basin
Authorities-corresponding, I suppose, to the
harbour commissions here and there-responsible for all aspects of water planning, developinent, and management including the marketing of some water-based services. The size
of their assigned area could vary. It would
include at least a complete river basin, but in
regions such as western Canada, where major
inter-basin river transfers are possible, it
might extend over several river basins and
encompass parts of two or more provinces
and the northern territories. The spectrum is
virtually unlimited; the choice would depend
on the circumstances and on agreement
among the governments involved.
One of the most important parts of the bill
provides a means of dealing with our most
pressing problem-pollution. There is a specific focus on water quality, because of the
urgent need for action in this field.
In order to deal with this problem, and to
allow the federal and provincial governments
to carry out their respective responsibilities
more effectively, the federal Government proposes to combine forces with the provincial
governments. Again, the object is joint, cooperative action.
The bill provides for the establishment of
water quality management agencies. These
agencies would be set up jointly by the federal and provincial governments in designated
areas where water quality problems exist, or
preventive action must be taken to maintain
a high quality. A water quality management
agency ideally would consist of federal, provincial, and local representatives-meaning
municipal representatives. Its duties would be
to develop and implement a water quality
[Hon. Mr. Laird.]

June 10, 1970

management plan for the area. In particular,
it would recommend water quality standards
for the streams in the area, and ascertain
what treatment would be required for any
waste deposited in those streams. On approval
of these standards by federal and provincial
governments, they would become regulations
to be enforced by the agency. Honourable
senators will remember that I mentioned the
possibility of an agency.
In dealing with pollution, the Government
believes that those who produce goods and
services must accept fully adequate pollution
abatement as a cost of production, just as
they now accept the cost of land, equipment,
labour, transportation, and other production
items. This position rejects the notion that
since pollution abatement benefits society,
therefore society should pay directly. It
adopts instead the idea that the use of a
water body as a means of waste disposal is a
benefit to the producer, and he must pay for
such benefits in the first instance. There is a
variety of mechanisms for transferring these
costs to the consumer and to the taxpayer,
depending on the nature of the goods and
services produced. The Government recognizes the special difficulty that faces many
municipalities in borrowing capital for the
construction of major works, and it is therefore proposed to continue the loans for this
purpose by Central Mortgage and Housing
Corporation, and to provide loans to the
water quality management agencies for capital works.
One of the mechanisms offered in the bill
to ensure that polluters will pay for waste
disposal is the concept of effluent fees. This
seems to have aroused some controversy, but
it is believed it is one of the most effective
means of achieving the desired result. The
idea is that the waste disposer, be it an
individual, firm, municipality, provincial, or
federal government agency, should pay by
some system of fees for the use of the river,
lake or sea as a means of waste disposal, even
after the wastes have been treated.
The setting of a schedule of fees would be
done periodically, based on the standards
required of the particular stream, and the
costs required to maintain those standards.
Fee schedules would have built-in mechanisms to rapidly increase the rates charged
as the waste loads approach levels that would
threaten the water quality objectives. In
other words, the fee schedules for various
types of wastes would be specifically designed
to influence the decisions of industry and
municipalities to have wastes treated.

June 10, 1970

Jurie1970SENATE
1,
DEBATES

The waste disposer would have three
choices:
(a) To treat wastes to a degree of purity
which would permit free disposai into
streams;
(b) To deposit wastes ini the stream for a
fee which would be set by the agency;
(c) To deliver wastes to a treatment facfl.ity
aperated by the agency and ta pay the
charges therefor.
This series of choices would, i effect, bring
the market mechanism to bear on polluters.
By charging fees to compensate for the lowering of quality of water, which is inevitable
even with highly treated effluents, and the
consequent reduction of benefits ta downstream. users, industries or municipalities
would be forced to examine the alternatives,
and either opt for their own treatment or
treatment in agency-operated plants. The
scheme would thus require the disposers of
waste to pay the economic price for the use of
the water. More importantly, it would allow
each designated area to achieve a level of
quality to maximize its net socio-economic
benefit.
This maxin-ization is one of the basic premises underlying the bill. The premise is that
each river and coastal area should be developed and used in an optimum manneroptimum in the sense that the stream of net
social and economic benefits from ail uses,
such as water supply, fisheries, agriculture,
swimming, navigation, waste disposai, and
aesthetic purpose, should be maximized. The
level of water quality in the water body
should be, for every target date in the future,
at that level which satisfles this optimum condition. This approach wouhd yield different
water quality levels in each reach of each
stream. and different levels at each point in
trne. Any other water quality levels would be
sub-optimumn, and reduce the net social product from the water course.
This variation in water quality also seems
to have aroused some controversy. Some critics have suggested that uniformi standards
should be set for ail of Canada. A littie
thought will indicate that titis would be an
undesirable procedure. Would you have the
same level of water quality flxed for, say
Hamilton Harbour and Lake Louise? bviously ail rivers cannot be completely purewe have long passed that stage. Since something less than complete purity is essential.
for some streams, a uniformi standard wouid
speclfy this quality for ail streams. But,
surely, it is desirable for at least some of aur

1207
10

rivers to be held at or returned ta as pure a
state as passible. Irnmediately, then, we are
faced with the necessity for a variation in
standards, based on the use of the stream, the
nature of the region and the economic and
industrial condition of the area. We say, no,
not unilorni standards, but definitely a unif ormn procedure for determining what the
optimal standards should be in each locality.
Under the proposed act, a federal-provincial agreement for the establishment of a
water quality management agency would prescribe the procedures by which the agency
would determine water quahity standards for
any water body, the procedures to develop a
schedule of fees based on type and amount of
waste, or the charges for agency treatmeat of
wastes. Neither the act, its regulations, nor
any agreement under the act, would actually
specify water quality standards, waste disposai or treatment charges. The cross-Canada
uniformity would be in the procedures to be
used for determining these important factors
locally. In arder to enforce adherence ta
standards set by the agency, the bill sets out
very substantial penalties on off enders, up ta
$5,000 per day.
Again, let me emphasize that the federal
Governiment has no intention ta usurp any
provincial night or responsibility. Rather, we
hope that by combining the federal power
with the provincial power, we can jointly
increase aur effectiveness in establishing and
enforcing pollution abatement procedures.
However, for a particular water body over
which the federal Parliament has jurlsdictioa
and when a significant national interest
exists, the bill provides for the federal Governrnent ta go further. If ail reasonable
attempts ta achieve a water quality management agreement with a province should fail
in the case of such waters, the area could be
designated as a federal water quality management area, and the federal Government itself
would then undertake the necessary programi
for that area. Again, I must emphasize that
this would be done only as a hast resort, after
ail attempts at joint federal-provincial action
have failed.
I shouhd add a special word in connection
with the water quahity management agencles,
which I have already described ta you. These
agencies wouid receive federal support for
their initiation, administration and expenses
invohved i their planning studies.
An amendment added ta the bill since its
second reading in the House of Commons is a
provision for water quality management

SENATE DEBATES
agencies to borrow money from either the
federal or provincial government, in order to
permit them to build treatment facilities.
These loans are to be repaid over a period of
years by revenues from users. The original
draft of the bill provided for loans only for
incorporation and operating expenses. It was
realized that this was not adequate. The
amendment will permit the agencies to complete whatever projects they must build. The
provision that borrowing must be only from
one of the sponsoring governments will
ensure that several new borrowers will not
appear on the loan markets in competition
with those municipalities or industries who
wish to construct their own pollution control
facilities.
I would like to mention, in particular,
another amendment which was added to the
bill since its first and second readings in the
House of Commons. This is an amendment
limiting the use of phosphates and other
nutrients dangerous to our waters. I am sure
you are all aware of the problem; it has
received much publicity recently. The amended bill before you provides for a national
prohibition of the manufacture and import of
cleaning compounds
containing harmful
nutrient substances which may upset the ecological balance of our waters. The amendment
provides fines of $5,000 for each offence and
the seizure of offending goods. A recent
amendment on third reading provides a right
of appeal on seizure.
The prohibition will include the provision
that regulations may be issued from time to
time specifying the nutrient substances that
upset the ecological balance, the upper limit
of percentage of such substances permitted in
cleaning agents and how such substances are
to be measured. This amendment anticipates
that phosphates may not be the only harmful
substance, and we must not let other such
materials escape into our waters. This amendment was drafted after consultations with the
provinces showed unanimous agreement that
federal initiative should be taken in this area.
In general summary, the Canada Water Bill
provides a broad scope for federal and federal-provincial activity in respect of research,
data collection and inventories, planning,
development, construction and management.
It encompasses all water resource management functions from research through planning, development, and operation, all water
use problems including pollution abatement,
and all types of watersheds-interprovincial
and international. It enables the initiative in
respect of any program to originate at either
[Hon. Mr. Laird.]

June 10, 1970r

the federal or provincial level and it provides
for joint effort from the conceptual stage
through to implementation.
There are two types of program that may
be envisaged coming under the terms of this
legislation-those that involve only federal
agencies operating in fields of federal jurisdiction, and those involving federal-provincial
co-operation on problems combining aspects
of federal and provincial jurisdictions. Programs for the former will be administered in
the normal manner by the federal agencies
concerned.
Let me trace through what we visualize
would be the sequence of negotiations with
respect to joint federal-provincial programs.
As I have said, a program would be initiated
either by the federal or provincial government. Discussions on the broad purpose and
scope of co-operative research or planning
studies would follow, and mutual agreement
would be reached.
Further negotiation with the provinces concerned would follow, to establish responsibilities for the various aspects of the program, to
specify appropriate administrative machinery
for conducting the program, to indicate agreeable cost-sharing provisions, and to provide
for submission of reports to both governments. Upon ratification of the agreement by
the governments, the study program could
proceed.
The board or commission established to
undertake this work would be required to
submit a final report containing a proposed
comprehensive framework plan for the development of the water resources of the basin
or region in question. This plan would include
a forecast of the future water requirements in
the basin, for all purposes. It would include
an assessment of the available water supply
in the basin and it would identify existing
and future water problems. It would evaluate
the entire range of alternatives--economic,
legal, and institutional, as well as technological-available to deal with these problems.
Finally, it would contain recommendations
for immediate action-a first stage plan-and
a proposed sequence of development projects
as well as any legislative, legal and institutional changes required to implement the
plan.
If both levels of government agreed to the
plan in principle, further agreements could be
drawn under which phases of the overall plan
could be implemented.
Complementary
to this comprehensive
planning process would be the work of the

June 10, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

water quality management agencies. Because
of the urgency of the water quality problem,
this might in some cases precede the development of a comprehensive plan. However, in
all cases comprehensive planning will include
planning for water quality management, and
water quality management agencies would
have an important role to play in the planning process.
It is the intention of the federal Government to concentrate federal resources on the
large multi-dimensional problems usually
found in international, interprovincial and
some major intraprovincial river basins. This
focus will yield a greater return on the limited funds that will be available than would
any attempt to assist in solving the multitude
of minor issues that are of a more local
nature and properly the responsibility of the
provincial water authorities.
The concentration will be on those waters
under federal jurisdiction, those where federal interests and federal responsibility are particularly strong-in boundary and international waters, coastal waters, estuaries and
certain interprovincial waters. Only in limited
cases will the federal Government become
involved with intraprovincial waters. These
cases will be where the management of the
water resource is so intimately related to
some of the other waters I have mentioned
that to overlook them would make it impossible to manage those waters well.

1209

By means of the Canada Water Bill, the
federal Government is serving notice that,
with the co-operation of the provinces, we
intend to assure the effective management
and the quality of our waters. The bill is not
designed to erode, in any way, provincial
authority or responsibility-either in its letter
or its intent. Co-operation is the keynote. But
the federal Government intends to take a
strong posture, to act where necessary, to see
that the job of water management is well
done.
May I just say in conclusion that, in spite
of issues of constitutional defects raised and
suggestions made by my honourable friends
Senator Pearson and Senator Grosart, there
are too many water acts-we dealt with
two more today. Quite frankly I submit
that we need an overall, comprehensive act
such as the Canada Water Act, which will
cover entire situations and not just specific
situations. For example, with all due respect
to Senator Robichaud, and I am sure he
agrees, every body of water does not contain
fish. Therefore, I repeat that what we need is
an overall, comprehensive plan such as that
envisaged by this Canada Water Act.
For that reason I recommend favourable
consideration on second reading.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Pearson, debate
adjourned.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2
p.m.

1210

SENATE DEBATES

June 11, 1970

Both honourable Speakers were invited, but
as it was not possible at this time for Mr.
Speaker Lamoureux to make the trip, it was
felt that one Speaker should head this special
parliamentary delegation. This is the reason I
Thursday, June 11, 1970
have accepted.
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
I am told that a press release will be issued
the Chair.
today. I will be joined by two Members of
Parliament, namely, Mr. Alfred D. Hales
Prayers.
(Wellington) and Mr. Bruce Howard (Okanagan Boundary).
ROYAL ASSENT
I personally regret missing the last two
NOTICE
weeks of our sittings but I know that I will be
The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate replaced during my short absence very
advantageously.
that he
had received
the following
communication:
Hon. Mr. Flynn: There will be some compensation also for the Speaker.

THE SENATE

GOVERNMENT

HOUSE

The Hon. the Speaker: As this is the last
time I shall be in the Chair for this part of
the session, I take this opportunity to express
to all honourable senators my wish that
Sir:
everyone will have a well-deserved rest
I have the honour to inform you that during the coming recess,
after the good parthe Hon. D. C. Abbott, P.C., Puisne Judge
liamentary work that has been accomplished.
of the Supreme Court of Canada, acting
as Deputy of His Excellency the Gover- In other words, there was a choice for me to
nor General, will proceed to the Senate make between the pleasure of being here and
Chamber today, June llth, at 5.45 p.m. the call of dutyfor the purpose of giving Royal Assent to
Hon. Mr. Flynn: What a choice!
certain Bills.
Ottawa
11 June 1970

I have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Louis-Frémont Trudeau,
Brigadier General,
Assistant Secretary to the Governor
General
The Honourable
The Speaker of the Senate,
Ottawa.
EXPO '70
PARLIAMENTARY DELEGATION TO VISIT
JAPAN

The Hon. the Speaker: Of course, I had to
choose the call of duty.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: A good choice; a wise
decision.
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
am sure I express the view of all honourable
senators and certainly the view of the Government of Canada when I say that we are
grateful to the Government of Japan for the
invitation it has extended to the Parliament
of Canada, through Your Honour and His
Honour the Speaker in the other place.
That Your Honour on behalf of the Senate
has found it possible to accept this invitation, is a matter of satisfaction. I know that
Your Honour will represent the Senate and
help to represent Parliament in Japan with
distinction. We will watch your movements
with the greatest of interest and we will
await impatiently your return.

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, I think it is in order for me to inform
honourable senators that a few months ago an
official invitation was extended by the Government of Japan to have a representation
from both houses of the Canadian Parliament
visit Japan during Expo '70, the visit to run
from June 17 to June 28. This is the first time [Translation]
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, I
a special parliamentary delegation has visited
Japan, and no similar Japanese delegation want to join the Government Leader in wishhas ever visited Canada.
ing His Honour the Speaker a good journey.

June Il,

1970

SENATE DEBATES

I have travelled with our Speaker twice
before, having gone last year to Strasbourg,
Prague and Bratislava and this year to Russia.
I know the outstanding way in which he leads
a parliamentary delegation. He is a credit to
Canada as he is to the Senate.
I hope he enjoys his trip and I say he made
a very wise decision, having to choose
between his duty here and his duty over
there.
With your permissionHON. A. HAMILTON McDONALD
FELICITATIONS ON RETURN TO CHAMBER

Accounts and Financial Statements certified by the Auditors, pursuant to section
37 of the Telesat Canada Act, chapter 51,
Statutes of Canada, 1968-69.
Copies of a contract between the Government of Canada and the municipality
of Bonnyville, Alberta, for the use or
employment of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, pursuant to section 20(3)
of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police
Act, chapter 54, Statutes of Canada, 1959.
(English text)
CANADA SHIPPING ACT (PILOTAGE)
REPORT OF COMMITTEE

Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
Hon. J. Campbell Haig, Chairman of the
while I am addressing the Chamber may I
also express my pleasure in seeing Senator Standing Senate Committee on Transport and
McDonald back with us. I am pleased to see Communications, reported that the committee
that he looks so well, and I am quite sure that had considered Bill S-23, to postpone the
the Leader of the Government is happy to expiration of certain provisions of an Act
to amend the Canada Shipping Act, and had
have him at his side once again.
directed that the bill be reported with the
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
following amendment:
Page 1: Strike out lines 9 to 12, both
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, it
inclusive, and substitute therefor the
was my intention, before tabling certain
documents, to take advantage of the opporfollowing:
tunity to welcome Senator McDonald back.
"(3) On the later of
We much appreciate the welcome extended to
(a) the 31st day of December, 1970, or
him by Senator Flynn. I have certainly great(b) such day, not later than six months
ly missed Senator McDonald. In saying to him
after the 31st day of December, 1970,
how much his absence has been noted, we are
as may be fixed by a proclamation of
very happy, nevertheless, that his health is
the Governor in Council issued before
such that he is now able to return to this
that date,
house. I must say that I am very grateful to
Senator Donald Smith for the help that he
or such sooner day as this section is
has given me during the absence of Senator
repealed, this section shall cease to have
McDonald.
any force or effect".
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this report be taken into
DOCUMENTS TABLED
consideration?
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Hon. Mr. Haig moved that the report be
Report of the President of the National taken into consideration at the
next sitting of
Research Council of Canada for the fiscal
year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to the Senate.
Motion agreed to.
section 16(3) of the National Research
Council Act, chapter 239, R.S.C., 1952, as
amended 1966-67.
ADJOURNMENT
Statutory Orders and Regulations pubHon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators,
lished in the Canada Gazette, Part II, of
Wednesday, June 10, 1970, pursuant to with leave of the Senate, and notwithstanding
section 7 of the Regulations Act, chapter Rule 45(1) (g), I move that when the Senate
235, R.S.C., 1952.
adjourns today it do stand adjourned until
First Annual Report of Telesat Canada Tuesday next, June 16, at 8 o'clock in the
covering the first four months of opera- evening.
tions, to December 31, 1969, including its
Motion agreed to.

SENATE DEBATES
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
next week we shall continue the debate on
the motions for the second readings of Bills
C-202, C-203, and C-144. It is hoped that these
debates will be completed and the bills
referred to appropriate committees where
they may be dealt with next week.
It is expected that next week we shall
receive a number of bills from the other
place, including the main supply bill which
probably we shall receive Thursday. I anticipate that it may be necessary for us to sit on
Friday, but that can be determined during the
course of the week.
The Special Senate Committee on Poverty
will meet on Tuesday and Thursday, and the
Special Joint Committee on the Constitution
of Canada will meet on Tuesday afternoon
and again on Thursday. Senator Lamontagne
has asked me to advise the house that on
Tuesday the joint committee will hear officials from the Privy Council office, and on
Thursday officials from the Department of
Justice.
Senator Aird advises that the Standing
Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs will
meet on Tuesday morning to give final consideration to its report on foreign and Commonwealth affairs, with particular reference
to the Caribbean area.
Senator Hayden has asked me to say that
on Tuesday evening the Standing Senate
Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce
will hear representations on the White Paper
from the Sun Oil Company and Great
Canadian Oil Sands Limited. On Wednesday
they will hear from the Canadian Bar
Association, International Nickel, the Quebec
Chamber of Commerce and the Chemical
Institute of Canada. On Thursday the committee will hear from the Canadian Bankers'
Association, the Toronto Board of Trade, the
Mining Association of Canada, the Canadian
Life Insurance Association, and the Insurance
Bureau of Canada.
The Standing Senate Committee on Legal
and Constitutional Affairs will meet on Tuesday to consider Bill C-186, to establish a commission for the reform of the laws of Canada,
and on Thursday they will commence their
study of the procedures for the review by the
Senate of statutory instruments, when the
Minister of Justice will be the first witness.
Other standing committees will be meeting,
but I do not have a list of them at this
moment.

June 11, 1970

On Tuesday night, Senator Everett will
present the report of the National Finance
Committee on the main Estimates for 1970-71.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, I
agree with the Leader of the Government
that we have a rather busy week ahead of us,
especially as far as the work of our committees is concerned. We may also have a considerable flow of legislation, depending upon
what comes to us from the other place. If
necessary we can sit, as bas been indicated by
the Leader of the Government, on Friday
next. However, I wish to clarify a point. I do
not think that the last supply bill need be
passed next week. I understand that as long
as it is passed before the end of the month it
will create no problem.
As it appears that we are trying to complete most of the work of the present session
before we adjourn at the end of the month,
would the Leader of the Government be in a
position to tell us which of its bills the Government considers must go through Parliament before we adjourn for the summer?
Hon. Mr. Martin: The cabinet will meet
later today to consider the remaining work of
the session. There are possibly fifteen other
bills that may have to be dealt with before
the end of the session. However, we may
possibly ask that some of them be dealt with
only when we resume in late September. Perhaps on Tuesday I could give the Leader of
the Opposition and other honourable senators
some more definite indications of what these
bills are.
The bills now before us-the Canada Water
bill, the Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones
bill, and the Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention bill-may occasion considerable discussion. They are bills that the Government
anticipates will be passed before Parliament
rises at the end of the month.
With regard to the supply bill, the Leader
of the Opposition is right, provided there
were no adjournment of Parliament before.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: That is very unlikely.
CONSTITUTION OF CANADA
CHANGE IN MEMBERSHIP OF SPECIAL
JOINT COMMITTEE

Hon. Donald Smith, with leave of the
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(h),
moved:
That the name of the honourable Senator Yuzyk be substituted for that of the

June 11. 1970

DEBATES
June11, 970SENATE

honourable Senator Macdonald on the list
of senators serving on the Special Joint
Committee of the Senate and House of
Commons on the Constitution of Canada;
and
That a message be sent to the House of
Commons to
acquaint
that House
accordingly.
Motion agreed to.
BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
COMMITTEE
AUTHORITY TO MEET DURING SITTINGS 0F
THE SENATE
Hon. Donald Smith, with leave of the
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(a),
moved:
That Rule 76(4) be suspended i relation to the Standing Senate Committee on
Banking, Trade and Commerce from
June 16 to 18, 1970, both inclusive, and
that the committee have power to sit
during sittings of the Senate for that
period.
He said: Honourable senators, may I be
permitted to say a few words on this motion.
I draw attention to the f act that this is, I
believe, the first occasion on which we have
asked leave for the Standing Senate on Banking, Trade and Commerce to meet on three
consecutîve days while the Senate is sitting.
Again, there are unusual circumstances
involved in this request. One is that the pressure of work on the committee is becoming
very heavy indeed, with the general expectation that the heaviest part of the load of
receiving briefs and hearing witnesses will
draw to a close towards the end of this
month, and that a great deal of work out of
the public eye could be done by the committee and its subcommittees during whatever
summer recess may be availabie to us eventually. The Leader of the Goverriment has
already indicated by reading a list of the
witnesses, what the situation wil be next
week.
I should like to make one more comment. I
do not believe that we should i ordinary
circumstances ask the Senate to approve a
motion to the extent of interrupting our sittings for three days a week, but I believe, as I
think most of us are agreed, that these are
unusual conditions which. can be met only in
the way suggested in this motion.
Motion agreed to.

NATIONAL HEALTH
USE 0F DRUG L-DOPA FOR PAIIKINSON'S
DISEASE-ANSWER TO QUESTION
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
should like to give the answer to the question
put to me yesterday by the honourable Senator Sullivan.
The drug L-Dopa has been distributed in
Canada for the purpose of clinical investigation for just under one year, under the
authority of the New Drug Regulations. However, the Food and Drug Directorate has also
invoked the Emergency Drug Regulations to
authorize the importation of L-Dopa into
Canada for a supplier in the United States.
During the last two years, seventeen physicians in ten centres across Canada have treated approximately 250 patients with intractable Parkinson's Disease, using L-Dopa
obtained under the authority of the Emergency Drug Regulations.
No manufacturer may market a new drug
in Canada until he has filed a New Drug
Submission acceptable to the Food and Drug
Directorate, and a notice of compliance has
been issued. The Food and Drug Directorate
received the first application to market
L-Dopa in Canada on May 22, 1970 and
another on June 8, 1970. These applications
are under active review and, if found to
comply with Canadian regulations, notices of
compliance will be issued.
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES ACT
BILL TO AMIEND-TEIRD RE.ADING
lion. Donald Smith for Hon. Mr. Robichaud
moved third reading of Bull C-193, to amend
the Industrial Research and Development
Incentives Act.
Motion agreed to and bil read third time
and passed.
TERRITORIAL SEA AND FISHING ZONES
ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READINGDEBATE CONTENUED

The Senate resumed f rom yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mr.
Robichaud, for the second reading of Bfi
C-203, to amend the Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones Act.

1214

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Allister Grosari: Honourable senators,
it is my intention at this time to make a few
general introductory remarks to the comments I will have to make about this bill, and
then to move the adjournment of the debate. I
know that this is not our usual practice, so
perhaps I should explain why I am taking this
course.
'The bill before us is one of an extraordinary group of bills, all dealing more or less
with the same subject. These bills have come
before us in very rapid succession within the
last few days, and there are more to come. I
may say that the discussion of these bills has
taken many months in the House of Commons,
both in the house and in committee. I for one
find it very difficult to deal adequately with
the implications raised in these bills in the
compressed time within which the Senate is
attempting to deal with them. In saying that, I
am not suggesting that I know the solution to
that problem; I merely put it forward as a
reason for not being prepared today to deal
as extensively as I had hoped with this bill.
We have had recently the Northern Inland
Waters Bill, under which the Government
assumed some very extraordinary jurisdiction, as pointed out in the course of the
debate on that bill. We have had before us
within the last two days a motion for second
reading of the bill, in which the Government
seeks to extend unilaterally, not only Canadian territorial waters to 12 miles, but also to
introduce some far greater problems in
respect to fishing zones. The Government is
asking us, if my judgment is correct, to give
to the cabinet by Order in Council powers
greater than it has ever asked for or, indeed,
ever been given since Confederation. I shall
deal further with that in a moment.
I see that the honourable Leader of the
Government frowns.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Smiles.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: Perhaps he had hoped
that this would not be brought so forcefully
to the attention of the Senate, but I am sure
he is aware of the clause in the bill before us
to which I am referring.
Honourable senators, we are also to have
before us Bill C-144, the Canada Waters Act.
Here again, we have the Government seeking
authority to extend its jurisdiction to some
extent into the area of provincially controlled
waters. I should say that, taken together,
these bills constitute a new policy on the part

June 11, 1970

of the Government in the matter of the control of Canadian waters which can only be
described as revolutionary. Personally, I am
not against the objectives of these bills for
that reason or, indeed, for any other reason.
The objections which I shall make will largely be in connection with the way in which the
Government seeks to go about achieving what
I think most Canadians would agree is an
important national goal, namely, the adequate
control of the various waters which come
under our sovereignty and jurisdiction.
Once again, honourable senators, we have a
Government which is perhaps in too much of
a hurry, or is too much concerned with its
own self-righteousness, to have overlooked
some of the careful procedures which are
normally associated with our kind of democratic government.
The bill before us in its own terms and on
the admission of at least three Ministers of
the Government, the Minister for External
Affairs, the Minister of Fisheries, and the
Leader of the Government here-who is, of
course, also a Minister of the Governmentmakes it clear that in the authority sought in
one clause of this bill we are proudly and, I
would say, defiantly stating that we are in
advance of the existing canons of international law, the law of nations. This statement that
we are in the advance of the law or that we
are on the frontier of the law was given to us
with some pride by Senator Robichaud in an
excellent speech yesterday. The same thesis
was presented yesterday in connection with
another bill by the Leader of the Government
and, I might add, with similar pride.
In due course I shall indicate some doubts
of my own as to whether this pride is fully
justified. I say this because the statement that
this legislation is in advance of international
law is really nothing more than a euphemistic
way of saying that we are going beyond the
pale of international law. We are actually
taking some pride in taking steps that the
Government itself and many honourable
senators here and many members of the other
house have often derided when the same defiance of international law was indicated by
what we in those circumstances called "banana republics". I do not use that term derisively, but if there was a league of banana republies to flaunt international law or the law of
nations without very much concern for the
international effects, then I would say that
the passing of this bill will put us squarely in
the banana republic bloc. Perhaps I should
have some reservations about the use of the

June Il. 1970

DEBATES
June11. 970SENATE

Hon. Mr. Grosart: I would prefer that the
word "republie", so let me amend that to read
Leader of the Government allow me to make
"banana club".
the explanation in the second part of my
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Is that a concession to the address. 1 merely say 1 am readmng the pure
Parti Québécois?
English of the amendment suggested to subsection 4 of section 2 of tbe act. Perbaps the
It is a concession to my honourable Leader o! the Government will
Hon. Mr. Grosart:
own deep convictions and to those that are give some further study to it and be prepared
widely held in the party to which I have to show me where I amn wrong.
given allegiance over the years.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I would suggest that
The complexity of these bils bas its reflection in this bill now before us by the variety before Senator Grosart resumes bis interest-of waters that we are asked to deal with in ing statement, be perhaps wouid look at secdomestic and international law. And each of tion 1 of the bill.
these varieties bas its own peculiar environHon. Mr. Grosart: I did not skip section 1
ment, legal and political. I say this to indicate in reading tbe bill, but if I may I will come to
because we
the complexity of the subi ect,
that later.
now bave inland waters and internai waters.
That is ail I have to say at the moment,
Honourable senators who have not bad time
subject may be surprised to find honourable senators. I apologize to the Leader
to study the
that there is a very great difference between of the Government for not being prepared to
iniand waters and internai. waters, and this go into the matter he bas raised at the
difference, I tbinlc, was not entirely appreciat- moment, because it requires tbe quoting of
ed by some spokesmen for the Government considerable extracts from statements made
when they spoke on the Inland Waters Bil. by ministers and others in connection with
There was evîdent confusion in the minds of the bill.
at least one cabinet minister and one of bis
Therefore, honourable senators, 1 move the
deputies as to the difference between inland adjournment of the debate until the next
and internai. waters, wbich I will not go into s itting.
at tbis time.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Grosart, debate
There are territorial waters and there are
adjourned.
national waters which, again, are not quite
the same tbing. There are contiguous waters.
ARCTIC WATERS POLLUTION
Now, honourable senators, in tbis bill we
PREVENTION BILL
are asked to give parliamentary assent to
adding an entirely new category to tis
SECOND READING-ORDER STANDS
nomenclature, that of international waters. It
On the Order:
wil no doubt be called, perhaps somewhat;
derisively in some circles of the world, the
Resuming the debate on the motion o!
"Canadian. Order in Council Fishing Zones
the Honourable Senator Martin, P.C.,
Act."
seconded by the Honourable Senator
It may surprise honourable senators to
Smith, for the second reading o! the Bfi
know that wbat is proposed in this act is that
C4-02, intituled: "An Act to prevent
the Government of Canada be given unlimitpollution o! areas of the arctic waters
ed power by order in council to extend the
adjacent to the mainland and islands of
the Canadian arctic"l.-(Honourable Senajurisdiction of Canada-I do not say "the
tor Haig).
sovereignty"-as f ar as it likes into tbe higb
seas. There is no restriction whatsoever on
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Stand.
the power asked for by the Governiment to do
this. I say it will cause some degree of deriHon. Paul Martin: May I just say to the
sion in certain circles. However, the Govern- Leader of tbe Opposition that wbile I appreciment maintains it is a brave front in a bravE ate that these bills are complicated and
new world.
require careful research, I wouid hope, in
definiteSenator Grosart bE view of our timetable, tbat we might
Hon. Mr. Martin: Would
ly proceed with the debate on Bill C-202 and
good enough to explain how he reaches thal
C-203 on Tuesday next.
interesting conclusion, which I do not think i Bill
Order stands.
,embraced by this bull?

1216

SENATE DEBATES
CANADA WATER BILL

SECOND READING-DEBATE CONTINUED

The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mr.
Laird for the second reading of Bill C-144, to
provide for the management of the water
resources of Canada including research and
the planning and implementation of programs
relating to the conservation, development and
utilization of water resources.
Hon. Arthur M. Pearson: Honourable senators, Bill C-144 was given first reading in the
other place on November 5, 1969, and it has
been subjected to many days of inquiry in the
committee of the other place before being
referred to the Senate. If and when it is finally passed, it will replace the Canada Water
Assistance Act, which came into force in 1953.
By this latter act the provinces appointed
their own water management agencies.
Under the present bill the Governor in
Council may, on the advice of the minister,
enter into an agreement with one or more
provinces in a designated water management
area to appoint an agency to be in charge of
that particular area. In an area declared an
emergency area, the minister may, with the
approval of the Governor in Council, appoint
an agency to take charge on behalf of the
federal Government.
The provinces shall attend to water management of lakes and rivers wholly located in
their respective provinces, except in the case
of an emergency when the water problem
becomes a matter of national concern.
Honourable senators, this brings me to a
point I want to stress most vigorously in
regard to Bill C-144, and that is the water
management authority. The management of
water quality is a vital part of the bill before
us. Without good management there would
not be adequate pollution control. That is
what this bill is about, the management of
water quality.
I would refer to a statement I made when
speaking to Bill C-187. I said that I thought
there was a division in the cabinet because of
the divisions of control in water management.
What seemed apparent at that time continues
to be evident in this bill.
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: This is not new.
Hon. Mr. Pearson: Probably not.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Only
Lamontagne was there!

when

Senator

June 11, 1970

Hon. Mr. Pearson: I refer now to the fragmentation of authority. Firstly, there is the
problem of division as between the various
federal departments; secondly, the water
authority of the federal and provincial bodies;
thirdly, the appointment of federal and provincial bodies; and finally, the division of
authority over river beds and lakes as
between the numerous agencies to be
appointed.
Let me explain what I mean by the problem of division. Take the case of the river
systems in western Canada, in the southern
half of the three western provinces, where
most of the settlement has taken place in the
West. First, there is the North Saskatchewan
River which rises in Alberta west of Edmonton, flows through Edmonton and into Saskatchewan, through Prince Albert into Manitoba
and Lake Winnipeg, and out through the
Nelson River into Hudson Bay. This river
basin would be classed as inter-jurisdictional.
Next, the South Saskatchewan River, into
which flows the waters of Oldman River, the
Bow River and the Red Deer in Alberta. The
Bow River flows through the City of Calgary.
The South Saskatchewan flows east in Saskatchewan, and then north through Saskatoon, finally joining the North Saskatchewan River.
Then there is the Qu'Appelle River system,
the main sources of which are Thunder
Creek which flows through Moose Jaw, and
the Wascana which flows through Regina.
The Qu'Appelle flows east into the Assiniboine River, which rises in eastern Saskatchewan and flows east through the City of
Brandon to the Red River and Lake
Winnipeg.
The Souris River, which rises in the southeast corner of Saskatchewan, flows southeast
into the United States, then back into Canada,
and joins the Assiniboine to flow into the Red
River at Winnipeg. The Red River rises in the
United States and flows north into Lake
Winnipeg.
In addition, there are the Rainy Lakes and
Rainy River, the boundaries between Ontario
and Minnesota. They flow into the Kenora
Lakes and then into the Winnipeg River,
which flows northwest into Manitoba and on
into Lake Winnipeg.
Honourable senators, nearly all the waters
on the prairies between the 49th parallel and
the 54th parallel find their way into Lake
Winnipeg. These waters support provincial
hydro plants, fishing industries, and water
diversion schemes for irrigation and industry.

June 11, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

According to the wording of Bill C-144 these
waters are, first, wholly provincial; second,
interjurisdictional, in that they flow through
two or three provinces; and third, international waters, because they constitute a
boundary between Canada and the United
States.
Clearly, there will be a number of agencies
appointed under this measure for the management of the river basins and lakes of
western Canada. The result of this bill will be
the fragmentation of management of water
quality.
One of the specific purposes of this bill is to
control the spilling of phosphate and related
nutrients into the rivers. There is, however, a
certain amount of phosphate in the mud in
the beds of rivers and lakes. This is natural.
Man, however, has developed detergents for
heavy-duty laundry purposes, and so on, and
to make these detergents more effective has
added phosphate. Phosphate does not deteriorate, but flows out with the dirty water into
the rivers and lakes. One of the principal
causes of the growth of algae in the lakes is
lack of sufficient oxygen. The growth of algae
comes from the phosphate in the mud. Man
has aggravated this growth by dumping phosphate-laden effluent into the water. The excess
growth of algae literally suffocates most of
the fish in the water. One exception is the
sucker. Suckers can live longer, and can
wallow around in the polluted water, living
on the algae. Our only hope is to achieve a
balance as between phosphate and oxygen in
the water so that the fish can thrive.
Honourable senators, if under this measure
the Government can eventually stop the flow
of phosphate-loaded effluent from whatever
source it comes, then this is good legislation.
The penalties that are set out in clause 22
are adequate. There appears to be an adequate number of agencies to be appointed to
manage and regulate the quality of water in
each water basin. There seems to be adequate
authority for those agencies to act. However,
my quarrel with the bill goes back to what I
said at the beginning of my remarks, and it
stems from the fragmentation of authority at
the senior levels of government, federal and
provincial.
Roughly, five departments of the federal
Government are more or less involved in
water control, and there are the ten provinces
and all the counties and municipalities. In all
those provinces there are many, many
river beds and lakes to be serviced by the

various agencies. These agencies will be
required to negotiate with industry and
municipalities. I see long delays before any
effective results begin to appear. In the meantime, pollution of the Great Lakes and the St.
Lawrence River grows worse every day.
Last night when reading the Ottawa Journal I came across the following paragraph:
Together, the new Canada Water Act
and the Fisheries Act can be used "not
only to prevent further pollution of the
Ottawa River but to clean up some of the
existing mess," says Essex Liberal MP
Eugene Whelan, parliamentary secretary
to Fisheries Minister Jack Davis.
Even now the backbenchers are beginning to
say that they are not quite so sure that they
have here a good bill, because here is one
who is saying that there are so many agencies
that it takes the Fisheries Bill and the
Canada Water Bill to bring some sort of order
out of the mess in the Ottawa River. In addition to the management of water there is the
standard quality of each body of water, and
this is a matter of negotiation, because there
is no set standard of quality.
Honourable senators, I cannot see any real
progress in fighting pollution to be made
under this bill. Pollution will grow faster
than the controls which are supposed to stop
it. The world today is almost on the threshold of destroying itself-not through wars,
nuclear devices, or lack of food, but through
technical know-how, and by the misuse of
soil, air and water.
First, we have a population explosion
which apparently cannot be controlled.
Second, to meet the first problem we have the
technological know-how to supply the population, but we are chewing up our resources at
a ever-faster pace to take care of the increasing population. Third, there is pollution. No
real thought has been given to the waste
created by this human giant. All the bodies of
water in the world are not sufficient to
cleanse the waste that is being created today.
Once again, I wonder why this Government
in its wisdom would spend time in bringing
forward such a pedantic piece of legislation
as this. There is no real muscle in it, except
in regard to phosphate. The fragmentation of
authority is too great to show any real
results.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Belisle, debate
adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES
FEDERAL PENITENTIARIES
FACILITIES FOR WOMEN PRISONERSDEBATE CONTINUED

The Senate resumed from Tuesday, June 9,
the adjourned debate on the inquiry of Hon.
Mrs. Fergusson, calling the attention of the
Senate to the facilities provided by the federal Government for women prisoners.
Hon. Mary E. Kinnear: Honourable senators, in continuing this debate calling attention to the facilities for women prisoners in
federal penitentiaries, I want to congratulate
the honourable Senator Fergusson on her
excellent presentation. She covered the subject thoroughly, and I expect there will be
some repetition in my speech, for which I
hope honourable senators will forgive me.
First, I wish to thank the Reverend John
Nickels, Chief of Social Education and Chaplaincy Service. Much of my material was
taken from the Report of the Canadian Committee on Corrections, published on March 31,
1969, and Crime and its Treatment in Canada
by W. T. McGrath.
Whatever motivates a woman to become a
candidate for prison is a tragedy. The crime
list is long, but there are fewer categories for
women than for men. Rehabilitation then
begins, or should, as soon as the person is
admitted to serve a sentence. Not being a
psychologist or a lawyer, I can only speculate
on the reason for crime. We must analyze the
facilities of the prison, because that will have
considerable influence on the inmate.
The Government of Canada administers
prisons officially designated as penitentiaries,
to which persons sentenced to prison terms of
two years or longer are committed. In the
past, the Government of Canada operated one
prison for women, in Kingston, Ontario. This
prison has a capacity for about 130 inmates.
In 1966 an institution was opened at Matsqui,
British Columbia, to serve drug addicts from
the western provinces. Women from the eastern provinces are sent to Kingston.
With only two prisons in Canada, women
from communities far from Kingston and
Matsqui are separated from their families and
other community contacts. This causes considerable hardship and makes pre-release planning most difficult.
There is no French language program in
Kingston. Quebec courts are reluctant to
impose sentences of two years or more on
offenders, due to the lack of a French pro-

June 11, 1970

gram. At present, conversational French is
being taught. Back in 1967 there were 45
inmates from Ontario and 12 from Quebec. To
operate two free programs does not seem
practicable.
Segregation of the offenders is difficult in
terms of age, emotional stability and the
nature of the crime. If numbers justified it,
these inmates should be segregated in a
number of institutions. There must be adequate correctional services based on a shared
general philosophy to ensure the protection
that society properly demands from criminal
damage.
The period between 1950 and 1966 shows
that there is a very significant difference
between the sexes convicted of indictable
offences. The report of the Canadian Committee on Corrections, at page 27, contains a
graph showing males in 1950 slightly over 600
per 100,000 inhabitants, and fluctuating somewhat through that time to 1966, ending with
the same figure of 600. For females the figure
was 50, then showing a slight decrease until
1966 when the figure rose to 80. In 1950 the
ratio of male to female offenders was 13 to 1,
and fluctuated up to 17 to 1, but in 1966 it
was 7 to 1.
As I have mentioned, there are two federal
penitentiaries in Canada, the large one being
at Kingston. Currently, as of June 9, there are
65 women prisoners in Kingston, 61 in prison
and four in hospital. If hospitalization is
needed, they use the nearby hospitals. One is
the military hospital at Barriefield and the
other the mental hospital at Kingston. At
Matsqui on that day there were 22 prisoners.
This brings to my mind the question Senator
Fergusson asked: Does the House of Commons Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs
intend to visit Kingston Penitentiary? I called
the chairman and lie said the answer is yes,
likely in early this autumn, as the committee
intends to visit all prisons in Ontario this
year.
Because of the small number of women
offenders, I am in complete agreement with
the idea of purchasing space from the provinces in their prisons or else the cottage-type
accommodation on a regional basis. The
expense and magnitude of building a penitentiary is to me unthinkable.
In dealing with the facilities for the woman
offender, we must consider the environment
and opportunity, how the offender responds to
treatment, how receptive to training, and
whether truly sorry for the crime and ready

June 11, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

to make a serious attempt at rehabilitation.
And, of course, probation can be classed as a
facility for returning the offender to societythis is judged to be about 80 per cent
successful.
In 1966 the female unit of Matsqui Institution, British Columbia, was opened. It was
primarily to be for the treatment of addiction.
It should be noted that there are more than
3,000 users of narcotic drugs, both male and
female. They live mostly in metropolitan
areas, and approximately half of them reside
in Vancouver or its environs. Their criminal
activities support their habits, and the threat
of others being lured into using narcotics
through association with them bas caused
grave concern for years.
The Matsqui Institution provides living
accommodation for 128 female inmates. In
addition to the foregoing accommodation,
there is a reception area which can accommodate 15 females. The female unit has two
storeys. All housing is of the single room
variety. All rooms are outside cells and the
traditional steel bars are replaced with concrete sun screens.
Since the first women inmates were
brought to Matsqui in the summer of 1966,
the population of the women's unit has never
risen much above 40. At present it is 22. Due
to the small population, most of the inmates
are engaged in maintenance operation. There
is an academic program and a hairdressing
course. These two endeavours are the main
treatment and training program. Also, all the
women in the unit are engaged in a daily
group counselling session.
The Prison for Women at Kingston is completely divorced from institutions dealing
with male offenders. The women's unit at the
Matsqui Institution for narcotic addicts in
British Columbia is for treatment purposes
completely divorced from the men's unit.
Both institutions have their own independent
staff and independent program.
Most of our female offenders are either
narcotic addicts or alcoholic addicts. Some are
first offenders convicted of crimes against
persons or property. A few professional
criminals have damaged persons or property
for financial gain, and some, whose initial
offences were trivial, have been transferred
penal
institutions for
from provincial
absconding or being unmanageable there.
The crimes for which most of these women
are committed are perhaps rooted in their
inability to cope with the problems facing
22481-27

them in life. These have resulted in selfdestructive solutions such as prostitution,
alcoholism and drug addiction. There is also a
small percentage of females incarcerated for
abortion.
At the Prison for Women, inmates can be
gainfully employed during the day in a
number of ways, which includes the sewing
room, kitchen, laundry, shirt factory, general
cleaning, or in the small bouse in the grounds
used for instructing and teaching Home Economics. The last mentioned activity is very
popular with the women who get much help
and satisfaction from the program. There is
also a vocational hairdressing course at
Matsqui.
The academic program at the Prison for
Women includes-and I think this is a great
opportunity
for
them-elementary
and
secondary education. Extramural courses at
the university level are also available. The
school is recognized as an adult training
centre by the provincial Department of Education and Manpower. Thus, graduates can
proceed to further training upon release.
Several inmates are released on day parolethis is a new procedure-to attend university
summer courses. At the present time two
inmates are employed at Queen's University
in some form of work for supportive staff and
one inmate is engaged in computer terminal
training-all three are on day parole. I think
one could say that a sense of achievement is
its own reward. The earnings of inmates
range from 35 cents to 65 cents per day.
There is a full recreational program of
sports and athletic activities all year round.
This summer, the inmates are participating in
an eight-team baseball league-how do you
like that, and that is for women-though
most of the games will be played in the institution. In baseball, age is no barrier to women
offenders. Some participants are over 40 years
old.
The appearance of the inmates is thought
to be of prime importance. Inmates are
encouraged within reason to wear what they
like, as this encourages self-respect and lessens the feeling of institutionalism.
There is at present a pre-release programthis is a new service-and 100 inmates were
released on temporary absence for the period
of April 1969 to February 1970. Temporary
absence was introduced in the Treatment and
Training Program about a year ago and
inmates are released for humanitarian and
rehabilitative reasons, such as family visits,

1220

SENATE DEBATES

employment, socialization projects in the
community and for educational reasons such
as taking an examination.
Three weeks ago, as Senator Fergusson
said, the Elizabeth Fry Society opened a HalfWay House and at the present time three
girls are in residence. Conditions for ordinary
visiting are most liberal, and the girls receive
their visitors in an open lounge. Visits take
place every day of the year, apart from statutory holidays.
Crimes involving violence are rare. Other
crimes are theft and, to a lesser degree, fraud,
vagrancy, public intoxication, drug addiction,
prostitution, neglect in childbirth or concealing the body of a child, abortion, infanticide
and child neglect.
It is only in recent years that treatment of
the offender is such as to enhance, rather
than degrade, human dignity, and give a
sense of worth to a person; but, unfortunately,
many of our traditional correctional procedures are based upon the assumption that if
society's abhorrence of the offending behaviour through dramatizing the offender's difference from and inferiority to the normal citizen, the consequences of such behaviour will
be feared and offending behaviour avoided.
Often contrary experience shows that the
offenders think that public opinion believes
them to be degraded and inferior persons. If
the persons can be persuaded that they will
be accepted in society again, then the more
humane way will prevail and the offenders
will become rehabilitated and adjusted to
their families and to society.
I would like now to speak of voluntary
agencies, because I have been told they are
doing a great deal for the offender. Possibly
Canada is beginning to make more extensive
use of voluntary agencies and voluntary
workers. The earliest record shows that in
1867 church workers in Toronto began to conduct Sunday School classes in the Toronto
jail. Now there are 23 voluntary agencies
offering correctional services as their primary
function, excluding those offering only hostel
facilities.
During the last two years, there has been
an increase in the use made of the community
as an aid to lessen the isolation of the inmate.
With this in mind, citizens' advisory committees have been established at most institutions. There is a most active committee at the
Prison for Women. The purpose of the committee is to encourage citizens to offer their
skills and talents as a form of citizen partici[Hon. Mrs. Kinnear.]

June 11, 1970

pation in the treatment and training program.
Consequently, you find many individuals and
groups engaged in the weekly program, such
as The Protestant Chapel Visitors, a group
which meets every two weeks in the Protestant Chapel for a period of visiting with
inmates. Each visitor is assigned to an
individual inmate, selected on the basis of
having something in common.
Then there is Street Haven-which seems
to me an odd name-of Toronto and Kingston. Members of the Kingston Branch come
in bi-monthly and instruct the girls in mosaics and various hobbycrafts. On alternate
weeks, the Toronto group attend the institution for social evening discussions.
Everyone knows of the Elizabeth Fry Society. Members and inmates gather weekly in
the gym for sewing classes and general social
discussions-usually 18 to 20 girls attendand they also have someone who has offered
to give them guitar lessons. Weekly classes
are held in the Protestant Chapel with Mr.
Trembley instructing. Approximately seven
girls are in attendance for this period of
instruction. Mr. Nickels told me that the girls
give high praise to Mr. Trembley, and it is
one of the highlights of the week for them.
As indicated, under temporary absence,
inmates participate in social outings sponsored by the Elizabeth Fry Society, Protestant
Chapel Visitors Group, Street Haven, The
Salvation Army, and other groups.
The annual bazaar and tea is always held
in November in the gymnasium. Last year
there was an excellent attendance. Many
prominent citizens attended from Kingston,
Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal, and various other
communities.
A new feature of socialization was introduced in the fall of 1969. The Elizabeth Fry
Society sponsored a Hallowe'en and Christmas dance, with law students from Queen's
University in attendance. On both occasions,
there was 100 per cent inmate co-operation
and attendance.
Visitors are always invited to the respective
chapels on Sundays; among them groups like
the Legion of Mary are very prominent.
At Matsqui, there is a most active citizens'
group called the Social Activity Group.
With all that is being done for the female
offenders today, great strides have been made
in the treatment and training of the offender
for her preparation and re-entry into society,
and with increasing use being made of parole

June 11L 1970

SENATE DEBATES

in the future, everything is being done that
can be done for those who offend against
society.
To summarize, there are four main functions performed by the voluntary agencies.
First, in public education-agencies try to
develop an interest on the part of the public
in correctional matters, and to ensure that the
members of the public who are interested are
properly informed. Second, citizen involvement-some serve on boards, helping to plan,
operate and finance the agency's total program. There are study groups to examine specific programs related to corrections, direct
service to offenders, within the prison or on
parole. Still others become involved as
employers to ex-offenders and other organizations like Job Therapy Inc. Many of these
agencies serve as critics of the public correctional services, suggesting to governments
ways in which services can be improved.
Much credit is due the voluntary agencies
towards penal reform in Canada.
With regard to direct service, this is provided by voluntary agencies at almost every
step in the judicial and correctional process.
For instance, the Salvation Army traditionally has provided a social service to the accused
while she is awaiting trial. This includes
helping with family problems, and so on.
Many other agencies work along the same
line. The changing role of the chaplain bas
become identified in federal institutions as
the bridge between the inmate, the institution
and the community.
Despite the correctional services by voluntary agencies, hostel facilities are urgently
needed for women offenders. Services for the
woman offender are not as widespread in
Canada as those for men.
If you will permit me to digress, I would
like to tell you that there are two unusual
services for the male offender. The one in
Winnipeg, Manitoba, is called The Chaplain's
Volunteers. They have formed eleven committees. Some of them are: housing, clothing,
transportation, babysitting, legal aid, employment, home-visiting, letter writing. The other,
in Montreal, Quebec, is The Benevolent
Anonymous, which has been giving a general
service to offenders and their families for
years.
The sole purpose of the program at both
female institutions is for the rehabilitation of
the inmate and for her eventual successful
reintegration in the community. With this end
in view there is adequate professional help to
22481-27

meet the needs of the individual inmate from
psychiatrists, psychologists, chaplains and
classification officers.
On motion of Hon. Mr. McGrand, debate
adjourned.
POLLUTION
THIRD INTERIM REPORT OF INTERNATIONAL
JOINT COMMISSION-STATEMENT

Leave having been given to revert to Notice
of Inquiries:
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
you will recall that on Tuesday, May 26, I
tabled in the Senate a Special Report of the
International Joint Commission on Potential
Oil Pollution, Eutrophication and Pollution
from Watercraft in Lake Erie, Lake Ontario
and the International Section of the St. Lawrence River. At that time I indicated that at a
later date I might make a brief statement on
this report. It occurred to me yesterday, in
view of the three bills that are before us for
consideration next week, that this would be
the appropriate time to make that statement,
so that honourable senators who propose to
participate in the debate on the three bills
introduced yesterday will have an opportunity to prepare themselves in the light of this
particular report on the work of the International Joint Commission in connection with
pollution on the Great Lakes.
This report is the third of three interim
reports dealing with water pollution on Lake
Erie, Lake Ontario and the International Section of the St. Lawrence River. On October 7,
1964, the Canadian and United States Governments requested the International Joint Commission to investigate and report on the
extent, causes, locations and effects of pollution in Lake Erie, Lake Ontario and the International Section of the St. Lawrence River
and to propose solutions. These three interim
reports, along with a final report, which
should be submitted to the Canadian and
American governments later this year, are the
responses of the International Joint Commission to the request made by the governments
of the two countries.
This third interim report deals with three
aspects of the pollution problem-potential oil
pollution from all sources, including underwater drilling, eutrophication of the waters
caused by phosphorus in detergents and
sewage, and pollution from various kinds of
watercraft.

1222

SENATE DEBATES

The report recommended that steps be
taken by all levels of government in both
Canada and the United States to reduce the
danger of oil pollution in Lake Erie. It also
recommended that the governments of
Canada and the United States co-operate in
introducing an integrated program of phosphorus control to prevent further eutrophication of Lake Erie, Lake Ontario and the International Section of the St. Lawrence River.
Finally, it proposed that the Canadian and
American federal governments and the provincial and state governments of both countries directly concerned, implement, as soon
as possible, regulations to control water pollution from all kinds of commercial vessels and
pleasure craft on Lake Erie, Lake Ontario
and the International Section of the St. Lawrence River.
The Canadian Government is concerned
with the pollution problem on the Great
Lakes and recognizes that stronger controls
on the part of both federal governments, and
provincial and state governments are necessary. The Canadian Government is now
taking steps to combat pollution on the Great
Lakes and elsewhere.
The Government has proposed in the
Canada Water Bill, now before Parliament,
that it has the authority to limit phosphorus
content in detergents and to regulate the flow
or seepage of other nutrients into Canadian
waters. The Government intends to make use
of this authority to reduce the phosphorus
content in laundry detergents to 20 per cent
by next fall, and to eliminate them completely, probably some time in 1972.
Recent amendments to the Fisheries Act,
now before Parliament, reinforce existing
prohibitions against the deposit of waste substances harmful to fish.
Finally, amendments to the Canada Shipping Act, passed by Parliament in June 1969,
empowered the Governor in Council to regulate pollution by oil, chemicals, garbage,
sewage and other substances emanating from
ships within Canadian waters.
I wish to take this opportunity to underline
the importance of the Canadian Government
and the United States Government acting
together to deal with the pollution problems
of the Great Lakes. The International Joint
Commission has pointed out what needs to be
done. The Government of Canada has taken
several important steps in an effort to control
pollution on the lakes, but problems still
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 11, 1970

remain. I am sure that a start will be made in
achieving a co-ordinated effort in the near
future, and I may advise the Senate that
there will be a meeting at the ministerial
level between the Canadian and the American
governments later this month to discuss the
implementation of the reports of the International Joint Commission.
Hon. Mr. Belisle: May I be permitted to ask
a question of the honourable Leader of the
Government?
Hon. Mr. Martin: Certainly.
Hon. Mr. Belisle: First of all, I would like
to thank him for the additional information
he has just given us. I have perused Hansard
of May 26 and I notice that the document was
tabled, but it does not form part of the proceedings of that day. Where might I obtain a
copy?
Hon. Mr. Martin: I will certainly sec that
Senator Belisle gets a copy of it forthwith.
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.

At 5.45 p.m. the sitting was resumed.
HUDSON'S BAY COMPANY

BILL

FIRST READING

Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald, for Hon. Mr.
Martin, presented Bill S-25, respecting Hudson's Bay Company.
Bill read first time.
Hon. Mr. McDonald, for Hon. Mr. Martin,
moved that the bill be placed on the Orders
of the Day for second reading at the next
sitting.

Motion agreed to.
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.

ROYAL ASSENT

The Honourable D. C. Abbott, P.C., Puisne
Judge of the Supreme Court of Canada,
Deputy of His Excellency the Governor General, having come and being seated at the foot
of the Throne, and the House of Commons
having been summoned, and being come with
their Speaker, the Honourable the Deputy of

June 11, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1223

His Excellency the Governor General was
An Act to amend the Supreme Court
pleased ta give the Royal Assent ta the folAct.
lowing bis:
An Act to amend the Industrial
An Act respecting Brunner Corporation
Research and Development Incentives
(Canada) Limited.
Act.
An Act ta amend the Criininal Code.
The House of Comnions withdrew.
An Act respecting the expropriation of
land.
The Honourable the Deputy of His ExcelAn Act ta incorporate National Farm- lency the Governor General was pleased ta
retire.
ers Union.
An Act to amend the Oul and Gas Production and Conservation Act.
An Act ta provîde for the relief of
The sitting of the Senate was resumed.
persans who have been convicted of
offences and have subsequently rehabiliThe Senate adjourned until Tuesday, June
tated themselves.
16, at 8 p.m.

SENATE DEBATES

DOCUMENTS TABLED

THE SENATE
Tuesday, June 16, 1970
The Senate met at 8 p.m., Honourable
Maurice Bourget, P.C., Speaker pro tem, in
the Chair.
Prayers.
CANADA CORPORATIONS ACT
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST

READING

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that a message had been received from the
House of Commons with Bill C-4, to amend
the Canada Corporations Act and other statutory provisions related to the subject matter
of certain of those amendments.
Bill read first time.
Hon. Paul Martin moved, with leave of the
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 44(1)(f), that
the bill be placed on the Orders of the Day
for second reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.
EXCISE ACT
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST

READING

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that a message had been received from the
House of Commons with Bill C-209, to amend
the Excise Act.
Bill read first time.
Hon. W. M. Benidickson moved, with leave
of the Senate and notwithstanding Rule
44(1)(f), that the bill be placed on the Orders
of the Day for second reading at the next
sitting.
Motion agreed to.
CANADA LABOUR (STANDARDS) CODE
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST

June 16, 1970

READING

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that a message had been received from the
House of Commons with Bill C-214, to amend
the Canada Labour (Standards) Code.
Bill read first time.
Hon. Paul Martin moved, with leave of the
Senate and notwithstanding Rule 44(l)(f), that
the bill be placed on the Orders of the Day
for second reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.

Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
First Annual Report of the Export
Development Corporation, including its
Accounts and Financial Statements certified by the Auditor General, for the three
months ended December 31, 1969, pursuant to sections 85(3) and 87(3) of the
Financial Administration Act, chapter
116, R.S.C., 1952.
Report on the Operation of the Regional Development Incentives Act for the
period May 1 to May 31, 1970, pursuant to
section 16 of the said act, chapter 56,
Statutes of Canada, 1968-69.
Report of the Department of Fisheries
and Forestry for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1969, pursuant to section 5 of
the Government Organization Act, 1969,
chapter 28, Statutes of Canada, 1968-69.
Copies of Agreement, dated June 12,
1970, between the Government of Canada
and the Government of the Province of
Nova Scotia, with respect to Special Areas
and Highways, pursuant to sections 24
and 26 of the Government Organization
Act, 1969, chapter 28, Statutes of Canada,
1968-69.
Report on Operations under Part II of
the Export Credits Insurance Act for the
fiscal year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 27 of the said act, chapter
106, R.S.C., 1952.
Minutes of Proceedings of the Royal
Society of Canada, 1969, together with
Financial Statements, certified by the
Auditors, for the year ended February 28,
1970, pursuant to section 9 of An Act to
incorporate the Royal Society of Canada,
chapter 46, Statutes of Canada, 1883.
Report of the number and amount of
Loans to Indians made under section
69(1) of the Indian Act for the fiscal year
ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to section
69(6) of the said act, chapter 149, R.S.C.,
1952.
Copies of a Report entitled "Participation by Telecommunications Carriers in
Public Data-Processing", prepared by the
Department of Communications.
Capital Budgets of the Freshwater Fish
Marketing Corporation for the fiscal year
ending March 31, 1970 and for the
twelve-month period ending April 30,
1971, pursuant to section 80(2) of the
Financial Administration Act, chapter
116, R.S.C., 1952.

June 16, 1970

June16, 970SENATE
DEBATES

LAW REFORM COMMISSION BILL
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE

the Canadian National Railways during
the last ten years?

Hon. Lazarus Phillips, Acting Chairman of
(2) How many of these stations and
the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and service centres are rented, not owned, by
Constitutional Aif airs, reported that the cointhe Canadian National Railways?
mittee had considered Bill C-186, ta establish
(3) Where is each of these rented staa commission for the reformn of the laws of
Canada, and had directed that the bill be tions or service centres located?
reported without amendrnent.
(4) What is the annual rent paid by the
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senaCanadian National Railways ta the owner
tors, when shall this bill be read the third
in each case, and what are the terms of
Urne?
each lease?
Han. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud) moved that the
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
bill be placed on the Orders of the Day for
(The answer follows)
third reading at the next sitting.
1. Records are not maintained at headMotion agreed ta.
quarters that would readily reveal data
on the construction, etc. of every single
THE ESTIMATES
fadility which might be involved in passREPORT 0F NATIONAL FINANCE COMMITTEE
enger handling. To extract the informaPRESENTED AND PRINTED AS APPENDIX
tion would entail considerable Urne and
expense. However, during the past ten
Hon. Douglas D. Everel, Chairman of the
years such facilities have been constructStanding Senate Committee on National
ed by or leased to the Canadian National
Finance, presented the foilowing report of the
at thirteen principal locations. No actual
committee, ta which was referred the Esticonstruction has as yet been undertaken
mates laid before Parliament for the fiscal
to provide specific facilities for customer
year ending March 31, 1971, and asked that
service centres.
the report be printed as an appendix ta the
Debates af the Senate and the Minutes of the
2. Six.
Proceedings of today and formn part of the
permanent record of thîs hause.
3. Passenger handling stations are
rented at the following points: Moncton,
The Hon. the Speaker: Honaurable senaCampbellton, London, Saskatoon, Edmontors, is it agreed that this report be printed as
ton, Prince George.
an appendîx ta the Debates of the Senate and
Minutes of the Proceedings of today and form
4. It is not in the Railway's best interpart of the permanent record of this house?
est ta divulge details of its transactions as
tis could prejudicially affect the RailHan. Senators: Agreed.
way in future negotiations.
(For text of report, see Appendix pp.
1244-8)
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable sena- FEDERAL SUBSIDIES APPLIED TO PASSENGER
SERVICE-INQUIRY ANSWERED
tors, when shail this report be taken into
consideration?
Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Hon. Mr. Everefi: Honourable senators, I Governrnent, pursuant ta notice:
move, seconded by Senator Isnor, that this
1. What was the total amount of Federreport be taken into consideration at the next
ai subsidies ta the Canadian National
sitting of the Senate.
Railways for the year 1968-69?
Motion agreed ta.
2. What proportion of the said subsidies
was applied toward the maintainîng of
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS
passenger service?
RAILWAY STATIONS AND SERVICE CENTRESLNQUIRY ANSWERED

Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Government, pursuant ta notice:
(1) How many railroad stations and
service centers have been bullt by or for

3. What were the numbers of the passenger trains so subsidized and on which
limes were they used?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
(The answer follaws)

SENATE DEBATES
1. Under Section 329 of
the Railway Act ......
Under Section 469 of
the Railway Act Normal Payments ........

June 16, 1970

Bil
0-187,
respecting
lnland
water
resources in the Yukon Territory and Northwest Territories.
Bil C-202, to prevent pollution of areas of
53,494,145 the arctic waters.
787918
$53
Bill C-203, to amend the Territorial Sea
$53,787,918and Fishing Zones Act.
Bill C-212, to amend the Yukon Act.
2. No portion of the payment under
Bil C-214, an Act to amend the Canada
Section 469 was allocated specifically to Labour (Standards) Code.
passenger service since the process of
Bil C-215, respecting the franchise of elecmaking applications by the C.N.R. to dis- tors and the election of members to the House
continue train services had not reached of Commons. That measure is stihi being
the stage where the railway had become debated before the her place, and will
eligible to receive subsidy for individual
passenger train services under Section tomorrow.
314J, based on their actual loss for the
Bil C-218, respecting regulations made
previous year. The amount of $53,494,145,
paid under Section 469, represented the pursuant to section 4 of the Aeronautics Act.
Bil S-23, to postpone the expiration of cerbalance of the Canadian National share
of the $93,666,664 payable pursuant to the tain provisions of an Act to amend the
provisions of the National Transportation Canada Shipping Act.
Act.
Bil S-25, respecting Hudson's Bay Compa3. This is covered in the reply to Ques- ny. It is expected that this bil will reccive
second reading tonight.
tion No. 2.
Then, honourable senators, there is, o!
course, the Supply Bil.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
$

293,773

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
last Thursday the Leader of the Opposition
asked me if I could give him an indication of

the remaining legislative work to be carried
out by the Senate during this portion of the
session. I now have a list of the bills which
the Government is anxious to have passed
before adjournment, which it is hoped will
take place some time around the end of next
week.
Tomorrow we hope to proceed with second
reading of a bill to amend the Canada Corporations Act, and following second reading
the intention is to send the bill to the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce. Senator Hayden informs me that
he proposes that the committee will meet to
consider this bill around September 10.
The following is a list of the bills which we
hope to deal with and pass before
adjournment:
Bill C-144, to provide for the management
of the water resources of Canada. Debate on
this bill will continue this evening.
Bill C-186, to establish a commission for the
reform of the laws of Canada. This bill has
received second reading, and been referred to
committee. The report of the committee wihl
be presented tonight and we will have third
reading of the bill tomorrow.
[Hon.

Martinwe

RÉSUMÉ 0F ACTIVITIES

On the oeders of the Day:
Hon. Paul Desruisseaux: Honourable senabut I wish to take the opportunity o! doing so
now, if I may.
The Hon. ±he Speaker: Is it agreed, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Hon. Mr. Desruisseaux: The Senate will
shortly be adjourning, and I understand that
after the summer recess there may bo a short
continuation of the present session and then a
new session will open. For that reason I wish
b address a few remarks to the Senate on
some matters which have occurred to me.
Perhaps, honourable senators, the Senate
could wehl do with some kind of formal State
of the Sonate speech in reverse, if I may SO
put it. Such a speech would gîve an outline o!
the activities which tho Senate has undertaken and also an outline of tho activities it
expects to undertake a the future. It seems to
me that this would fil what I might describe
as a gap. I appreciate that there is a week-bytrr.

June 16, 1970

week forecast of the work to be done by the
Senate, and we have had some comments on
the need for a review of the work that is to
come to the Senate. My suggestion is somewhat different from that. I have in mind a
kind of formal State of the Senate speech just
before the adjournment for the recess. This
would provide a basis for honourable senators
te speak, if they se wished, on what has been
happening in the Senate. It would also give
the public an opportunity of making a proper
assessment of the Senate. Little is yet known
of the Senate, and the more that is known the
better it will be.
Such a speech could cite the changes that
have occurred here during the past year.
There have been a number of changes in the
customs, rules and the procedure. It could
include a review of the bills originating in the
Senate, and as well the bills originating in the
other place which have been considered by
us. There have also been some special conmittees doing important work for Parliament.
Their reports could also form part of the
speech.
Honourable senators, such a speech would
be a departure from our normal practice, but
it could form the basis of what we might
wish te do during the following session. It
would also serve the purpose of informing the
Prime Minister and the Cabinet. Of course,
we assume that he knows everything that
goes on here, but such a review would be
better than the day-to-day record.
Furthermore, such a speech would show
that te some extent the Senate has been revitalized and that the work being done here is
important te Parliament and te Canada.
I was prompted te make these remarks
because it is customary te have a Speech from
the Throne at the beginning of each session,
on which we may all speak. What I propose
would form a fitting closing for a session. I
have limited experience as a politician and as
a member of the Senate, having been here
only since 1966. I am merely expressing my
own views, without consultation, but I
thought I should put these thoughts before
you for appraisal.
Hon. Mr. Croll: A question arises out of the
statement made by the Leader of the Government in which he suggested that one of the
committees would be meeting here some time
in September. Is it the intention te recall the
Senate as a body for the purpose of giving
the committee such permission?
Hon. Mr. Martin: It will not be necessary.
The session will simply be adjourned, and if
22481-28

1227

SENATE DEBATES

we give second reading te the bill in question
and refer it te committee, the committee can
meet during the adjournment, as it proposes
te do.
May I say te Senator Desruisseaux that
while our agenda will be crowded between
now and the adjournment, I think his suggestion is a good one. He proposes that we indicate the work that has been done during this
portion of the session. I will certainly take
note of what he has suggested.
HUDSON'S BAY COMPANY BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE

ADJOURNED

Leave having been given te proceed with
Order No. 5:
Hon. Douglas D. Everett moved the second
reading of Bill S-25, respecting Hudson's Bay
Company.
He said: Honourable senators, thank you
for your consideration in allowing me te
move the second reading of Bill S-25,
respecting the Hudson's Bay Company, at this
time.
The Governor and Company of Adventurers of England trading into Hudson's Bay
received a Royal Charter from King Charles
II on May 2, 1670. In the 300 years of its
existence the company has retained its original name but, of course, it has been more
widely known as the Hudson's Bay Company.
It is not necessary te detail for honourable
senators the tie between the history of the
Hudson's Bay Company and the history of
Canada, especially that of western and northern Canada. The contribution of the Hudson's
Bay Company te the formation and growth of
Canada is well known. The company today
operates in all but two provinces, as well as
in the Yukon and the Northwest Territories.
It operates 28 major department stores under
the "Hudson's Bay" and "Morgan" names, 218
northern stores throughout Canada, 24 wholesale branches, and through the Hudson's Bay
Oil and Gas Company Limited it is heavily
involved in the development of Canada's
natural resources. In accordance with its
original purpose, it is the world's largest fur
trader.
The original Royal Charter has been
amended on a number of occasions by the
Privy Council of the United Kingdom. In
view of the fact that 95 per cent of the assets
of the company and 98 per cent of its
employees are located in Canada, the compa-

1228

SENATE DEBATES

ny, upon attaining its 300th birthday,
expressed a wish to become a Canadian company. This calls for a transfer of jurisdiction,
which is an unusual procedure and, as a
matter of fact, is almost without precedent.
The Privy Council of the United Kingdom
by supplementary Letters Patent issued on
May 29, 1970, revoked all amendments to and
all sections of the original charter except the
original incorporating section. The supplementary Letters Patent permit the company
to continue under the authority of the Government of Canada. On the same date the
Privy Council of Canada issued Letters
Patent under the Great Seal of Canada permitting the continuation of the company in
Canada under the original Royal Charter. The
Canadian Letters Patent also contain the following provisions:
1. The company is subject to Part I of the
Canada Corporations Act.
2. The par value of the shares is changed
from £1 to no par value.
3. Winnipeg is designated as the location of
the head office.
4. The company may have from 12 to 22
directors on a three-year rotating basis.
5. The following restrictions are imposed on
the transfer of shares: Not more than 25 per
cent of the shares may be held by non-residents of Canada or the United Kingdom. For
a five-year transitional period from May 29,
1970, not more than 10 per cent of the shares
may be held by any one person or associated
group of persons.
I should mention in passing that 10 per cent
of the outstanding shares are presently held
in Canada, 86 per cent in the United Kingdom
and 4 per cent in other parts of the world.
The purposes of Bill C-25, which may be
cited as the Hudson's Bay Company Act, are as
follows: (1) to continue the original Royal
Charter as a Canadian incorporation under
the laws of Canada; (2) to give the company a
name in French-la Compagnie de la Baie
d'Hudson; and (3) to make the company subject to Part I of the Canada Corporations Act,
with certain exceptions.
These exceptions are as follows: Section
22(1) of the Canada Corporations Act provides
that all companies must use the word "limited" or the abbreviation "Ltd." as the last
word in the corporate name. This exception
permits the company to continue to be known
as the Hudson's Bay Company. Section 29 of
the Canada Corporations Act permits a company under Part I to surrender its charter to
[Hon. Mr. Everett.]

June 16, 1970

the Minister of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs by a mere administrative procedure.
The Hudson's Bay Company will not be permitted to avail itself of this section as it
would require a special act of Parliament to
surrender its charter.
Sections 84, 87 and 88 provide that a company must at all times have a fixed number
of directors and cannot change that number
without having a by-law passed and approved
by the Minister of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs. According to its charter, the company
has always had the right to have a varying
number of directors, and the exception to the
act is made here to allow the company to
continue that procedure.
Finally, section 38(1) precludes restrictions
on the transfer of shares of a public company.
The exception provided here is to allow the
Hudson's Bay Company to restrict transfers
in the manner provided in the supplementary
Letters Patent granted to the company by
Canada. I have already mentioned, honourable senators, the restrictions that are presently contained in that charter.
In the past, the Hudson's Bay Company bas
been operated by a board of directors with its
head office in London, England. The board
created a Canadian committee at Winnipeg
and delegated to it extensive but not complete
management powers.
Upon issue of the Canadian Letters Patent,
the head office of the company will be in Winnipeg, where the board of directors will
meet on most occasions. The present governor
is Viscount Amory and the deputy governor is
Mr. George T. Richardson of Winnipeg. Viscount Amory has indicated that it is his
intention to retire within one year, and it is
expected that a Canadian will be appointed
governor at that time.
Honourable senators, I think that we can be
happy that the proud name of the Hudson's
Bay Company is now completely Canadian.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Haig, debate
adjourned.
CANADA WATER BILL
SECOND READING

The Senate resumed from Wednesday, June
10, the adjourned debate on the motion of
Hon. Mr. Laird, for the second reading of Bill
C-144, to provide for the management of the
water resources of Canada including research
and the planning and implementation of programs relating to the conservation, development and utilization of water resources.

June 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Rhéal Belisle: Honourable senators,
the destructive and deleterious effects of pollution are potentially so great as to make
them well-nigh indescribable. Without doubt,
pollution is the most serious problem into
which twentieth century man has collectivized himself, and it merits our immediate
attention.
The general public has, of late, demonstrated an intense interest in the problems surrounding the control of air and water pollution. The reason is not simply that they are
now more refined and aesthetic than they
were a few years ago, but rather that they
are much better informed. They have begun
to realize that we have reached the critical
point in human habitation of the earth, and
they are justifiably apprehensive.
Ecological experts the world over are of the
opinion that within 20 years life on our planet
will be showing the first signs of succumbing
to pollution: the atmosphere will become
unbreathable for men and animals; life in
rivers and lakes will cease, and plants will
wither from poisoning. Even if the pollution
problem is only half as bad as these experts
believe, it must be conceded that the condition of the planet's air and water is deteriorating rapidly.
Given, thus, the magnitude of the problem,
the inevitably disastrous effects of continued
unabated polluting of our environment, and
the increased awareness and paramount concern of an electorate that is worried, small
wonder that, finally, politicians of all stripes
have decided to don their armour and valiantly joust with that unspeakably wicked
monster of our own creation-environmental
pollution. Up to this time, due to the formidable potential for shocking the average citizen,
reams have been written on the subject but
intolerably little has actually been done to
control it.
Enter now onto the scene the federal Government brandishing "the solution" to at least
part of the pollution problems which threaten
our lives. The Canada Water Bill C-144
is the ultimate weapon, the panacea which
will not permit the level of pollution in
Hamilton Harbour to rise to the point where
one could walk across, but rather will keep it
at a tolerable level, being that point at which
one cannot bear the smell of it.
I cannot but pause here to reflect upon the
inestimable capacity of the federal Government to make any problem significantly
worse through intense treatment.
22481-281

1229

Precedent suggests that the central Government will require a budget of millions of
dollars before it can even begin to do anything
of value pertaining to the possible amelioration of our moribund environment. Also, it
will require an incalculable length of time to
straighten out the constitutional problems
surrounding federal and provincial jurisdictions in the area of pollution before any
action can begin. But environment is not that
kind of problem. We do not need a federal
bureaucracy to manage pollution. Environmental control is essentially a problem of
regulation by law. We must, in effect, limit
the introduction of pollutants into air and
water.
To begin with, we should seek to have the
various levels of government concerned set
up and enforce standards of emission control.
For example, how should we control the effluent of an industrial plant into a local stream?
The plant effluent should have at least the
quality of the stream into which it discharges.
If this standard were applied to navigable
streams from top to bottom, industrial pollution would be ended. The same standard
should be applied to municipal discharges of
sewage or other wastes. Such a law, with
strict deadlines for compliance, would put an
end to stream pollution. Similar strictness on
factory and vehicle emissions into the atmosphere would cut back on air pollution. Industry and municipalities would be put to heavy
expense, but that is precisely where the load
should be carried.
Our present polluters have not cleaned up
their own nests but have instead spread their
wastes in the public domain. Persistent poisons are spread on land and in air and water.
That was the cheap way of doing businessor so it seemed-and it can no longer be tolerated. The cost of meeting environmental
standards should be met by industry and
municipality and passed on to consumers in
product prices and service charges. The law
must define the standards to be met. Products
which cannot meet the costs of compliance
should be dropped from our industrial inventory. Cities will have to recover costs in service charges, whatever they may be. If city
growth is thereby inhibited, that may be all
to the good.
As I see it, one of the facts that has greatly
contributed to making pollution the gigantie
problem that it now is has been the loss of
prestige which common law has suffered at
the hands of this century's invigorated legislatures. If the courts were to begin to award

SENATE DEBATES

damages to those affected by the problems of
air and water pollution, this might serve to
bring about a faster, more efficient solution
of the problem. Furthermore, such a move
would not have the drawback of being construed as oppressive government regulation
of industry.
The distinction between this proposal and
many of the others that have been considered
goes back to the unwarranted distinction
between civil and criminal law. Criminal law
is considered in the judicial systems of the
world as applying to an act that offends society in general, while civil law is supposed to
deal with case in which an individual has
suffered damage. It seems obvious that this is
an unfounded distinction. If society is offended or damaged by the actions of an individual, it must be because of the effect of those
actions upon some other individual or
individuals. The fact that what few laws we
have with regard to air and water pollution
have been written for the most part as criminal laws has allowed many polluters to continue in their errant ways. Where it might
cost a great deal to eliminate some source of
pollution, many corporations have been faced
with the almost happy alternative of paying a
token fine of a few hundred dollars a few
times a years.
Perhaps the most successful way of eliminating pollution might be through court
injunctions. If giant industries or municipal
utilities found that their entire production
could be halted by the act of a single affected
individual, the cost of eliminating the pollution they cause might seem small indeed in
comparison.
Another avenue should be explored in our
quest for a solution to this acute problem of
pollution. Why could not the crime of pollution be considered one of embezzlement? For
what we are misusing is that which we hold
in trust-the environment in which succeeding generations will be forced to live.
I am not a lawyer, so there may be some
legal considerations in this approach that
have escaped my notice. However, the idea,
which is not mine but that of Julius Kane,
Professor of Mathematical Ecology at the
University of British Columbia, offers a fascinating mechanism for the abatement, if not
complete eradication, of a lethal problem.
If we accept the premise that we are not
the owners of our air and waters, but rather
their temporary trustees, then the road to a
possible solution opens up promisingly, for
[Hon. Mr. Bélisle.]

June 16, 1970

there is a well-defined body of law regarding
the custody of trust funds. It is recognized
that funds must be properly invested. They
must not be permitted to lie dormant, nor can
they be squandered in reckless speculation,
seeking immediate advantage rather than
long-term benefit.
The problem is not to be solved by punishing polluters but rather by preventing them
from wreaking havoc upon our environment.
We can start by not establishing rigid codes
of behaviour. We should, as a matter of fact,
quite simply trust our industrialists and give
them all the legal responsibility of a legal
trustee. We could then reasonably expect
their behaviour to be considered responsible
to the needs of the future, for misconduct or
dereliction of duty would expose them to
enormous liability. At any time they could be
held accountable for violation of trust. Instead
of the state being saddled with the burden of
having to prove guilt in the misuse of an
environmental trust, the industrialists would
be forced to prove that they had acted in a
mature and responsible fashion, displaying
edifying concern for the rights of others. This
they could do only by demonstrating in a
court of law that their actions had been prudent and fully considerate of the trust
bestowed upon them.
What Professor Kane suggests is that we
replace licences, permits, claims and all other
federal and provincial patents of access to
public property by a new document which
might be termed an assignment of trust. This
would grant a body access to any public
domaine-air, water, land, airwaves, natural
resources, et cetera-for a specified purpose,
but only as a trustee. This means that the
trustee would be accepting unlimited liability
for his actions in perpetuity. If the trustee
were a corporation, then not only would the
corporation be liable but also its officers and
board of directors. To be more specific, severe
breach of trust would be regarded as embezzlement, a criminal act not shielded by the
laws limiting corporate liability. There is
more than adequate precedent for this. In the
United States, corporate officers have been
jailed for conspiracy to fix prices in the electrical and plumbing industries.
Criminal action would be reserved for
extreme cases of blatant unreserved abuse.
Most disputes would be settled in civil courts,
where the penalties would be primarily financial. Since the potential impositions for
misuse of a trust would be huge, an individual or firm seeking an assignment of trust

June 16. 1970

SENATE DEBATES

would have to obtain liability insurance. We
could then count on the insurance companies
to raise premiums sky high if a firm were to
take extreme chances with potential pollution
hazards. This would alert management, the
Government, and the public to the imminent
crisis. Preventive action could then be taken
rather than awaiting the fait accompli and
suffering through an interminable legal
hassle.
Correspondingly, the entrepreneur would
have continuous incentive to keep reducing
his potential pollution hazards, for this would
result in a reduction in his insurance premiums. Thus, rather than hovering at pollution
thresholds, the proper course for any firm
would be to reduce its hazards to an absolute
minimum. To this end management would
continuously research in an effort to find
technological
improvements
that
might
enhance its profits. It would be in a company's best interests to anticipate tightening
standards so as better to protect their future
operations. Huge profits would become meaningless, if in the course of amassing them a
firm brought down upon its head legal action
on a question of pollution.
The Government has shown in Bill C-144
that it believes that those who produce goods
and services must accept fully adequate pollution abatement as a cost of production. I
could not agree more. The longer this day of
reckoning is put off, the larger will be the
cost of eliminating such unknown costs as are
now being paid by the innocent. It is impossible to calculate the damage that has already
been done. In addition, the free ride which
the pollution producers have enjoyed at the
expense of everyone else has brought untold
distortions into society. Al of the products of
these industries have been underpriced and
overproduced at the expense of those industries which do not produce pollution. Suppose
the automobile industry had been obliged to
compete with other forms of transportation
under this condition, that each pay in full to
eliminate any pollution it caused! What would
likely have happened? Fewer cars due to
higher price-and less pollution due to fewer
cars. In effect, the failure of the courts to
award damages to those affected by pollution
is an intervention by default and should be
considered as such. There is no valid reason
to substantiate a claim that society should
pay directly for pollution control when it is
not the offender. This procedure would definitely not be more efficient.
Pertaining to the matter of effluent fees as
a mechanism to ensure that polluters will pay

for waste disposal, I cannot understand how
this could even for a moment be deemed as
an acceptable method of procedure. The very
idea that "for a price" the polluter will be
permitted to continue undisturbed his mindless polluting, seems to me completely at
variance with the principle or intent of the
bill which, as I understand it, is to clean up
our waters. Money paid in fines is most
assuredly not what will clean up our waterways and bodies of water. An intelligent first
step would have been to prohibit an aggravation of the problem, not to encourage one by
spineless tolerance.
Next, I come to the matter of varying
standards in the purity of water. The Canada
Water Act aims merely at achieving optimum
standards in each of the nation's water
basins, depending upon the uses to which that
particular body of water or waterway is commonly put. Senator Laird, in introducing this
bill, suggested that it would be unreasonable
to impose the same standard of purity on
Hamilton Harbour as one would on Lake
Louise. The trouble with espousing a variety
of standards is that, in effect, we are letting
in a Trojan horse. We are sowing the seeds of
destruction. Our all-out campaign against
water pollution is bound to fail dismally if, at
the very outset, with Government approval,
we start waffling and vacillating on the
matter of standards. No one will respect the
Government nor co-operate with it if it feels
that the Government is compromising its
principles for a consideration in some other
part of Canada. The multi-standard just won't
work. We cannot tolerate more pollution in
this area than in that area. Such a procedure
will surely lead to jealousy and strife. The
Government in taking its multi-standard position does not reveal that it is reasonable and
understanding but rather that it lacks direction and decision. The Government lacks fortitude; it lacks the courage of its convictions.
This bill envisages a possible penalty of up
to $5,000 per diem for industries that continue
to pollute above the level deemed acceptable
by the proposed federal-provincial agency.
The sad part to this, of course, is that prosecutions are likely to be quite rare.
For reasons political, no government
already saddled with a mammoth unemployment problem born of its own manifest
incompetence and lack of foresight, will seek
legal action against a polluter and risk driving him out of business and thus further
enlarge the ranks of the unemployed. What is
likely to happen is that the Government will

SENATE DEBATES
seek to co-operate with the industry, which,
in essence, means that industries, especially
those bordering on bankruptcy, will be permitted to continue polluting because to close
them down would only serve to aggravate an
aiready chronic unemployment problem. The
fact is that this Government's so-called efforts
to eliminate pollution are, for the time being,
just one big publicity smokescreen. The Government cannot move with muscle against
any industrial complex because it is hamstrung by its own crass inability to control an
equally serious problem-unemployment.
The problem in implementing this bill will
surely be to talk three and sometimes four
levels of government into pulling together
with industry in order to achieve a commonly
desired goal. The problem among the governments will be that of determining jurisdictions, and the fact that some of our rivers and
lakes not only cross provincial borders but
also our national border makes the problem
even more complex.
In closing, I repeat what I said at the outset
of my remarks. We would have welcomed the
intervention of the federal Government in the
controversial area of pollution control with
great enthusiasm had it sought to cast itself
in its proper role. Again I submit that government's most useful role would have been that
of the policeman whose task it is to prevent
crime or that of the judge whose job it is to
mete out punishment for transgressions
against the law. Unfortunately, government
has chosen the role of manager, a role not
unfamiliar to it but one which it has never
mastered, though it bas tried unrelentingly
for many decades. So, again, in this crucial
problem, we will have visited upon our
heads the inept bungling efforts of a ridiculous and ubiquitous overgrown government
which can be relied upon to complicate
unnecessarily, waste uncontrollably, and
maladminister unrepentingly.
Consequently, I am far from enthusiastic
about this bill. It holds little promise of an
imminent solution. But then again we really
should have long ago given up looking to the
present Government for solutions to our many
problems.
Honourable
Macnaugh±on:
Hon.
Alan
senators,
I brought you to a fertile country to
enjoy its produce and good things, but no
sooner had you entered than you defiled
my land.
When Jeremiah, the prophet, wrote those
words 25 centuries ago, he was not speaking
fHon. Mr. Bélisle.]

June 16, 1970

of physical pollution, but today they seem
appropriate to that subject. We have defiled
our land-we are continuing to defile it-as
our technology allows us to produce more and
more waste products at a steadily increasing
rate. I am sure all of you have read predictions of what can happen if we continue to
pollute as we are doing. Predictions of doom
for the entire human race! If we are to
believe some of the prophecies, we can visualize the future, again in the words of
Jeremiah:
I looked to the earth, to see a formless
waste;
I looked, to see no man at all,
The very birds of heaven had fled.
I looked to see the wooded country a
wilderness.
What of these prophecies? Is the human
race really doomed? Can we, mankind, really
do so much damage that we can destroy this
planet? I am not speaking now of nuclear
holocaust, but the subtle, slow strangling of
life from the earth. Prophets of doom have a
tendency to be disbelieved, so it is perhaps
unwise to go too far in such prophecies. But
if we do not wish to emulate Cassandra,
surely Pollyanna should not be our pattern
either? Everything is not all right with the
world.
But it all seems so sudden, does it not? It
was not like this, say, ten years ago, or even
five. Have we just started to defile our environment? Have we only begun to pollute our
water, air and soil? Or are we just becoming
aware of what we have done to our world?
Certainly, pollution is not a new thing.
Four centuries before Christ, Hippocrates
explained how to boil and filter polluted
water. Water pollution has plagued mankind
for centuries.
How about air pollution-surely that is
new? You think so! When the Spanish explorers landed at Los Angeles in the 1500s, they
observed smoke from Indian fires hanging in
layers over the area. "Smog" may be a new
word, but it is an old situation. In the thirteenth century, in England, smoke from coal
and charcoal fires was causing complaints
from the populace.
Why then, after all these centuries of pollution, is it suddenly becoming so vital a matter?
Why did President Nixon, just last February,
say to Congress, "The time has come when
we can wait no longer to repair the damage. . ." He called it "a cause as fundamental
as life itself."

June 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Why did U Thant, last May, say that man
has only ten years-nine years now-to face
up to the problem of a fit environment? Why
has the deterioration of our environment suddenly become, not just a matter of annoyance
or discomfort, but a crisis?
There are, obviously, three factors which
have combined to cause this sudden upsurge
of a long-standing problem. They are more
people, more wealth, more technology.
Eight thousand years ago, the world's population was five million, about half the population of New York City today. When Christ
walked on the earth, there were perhaps two
hundred million persons in the world-the
population of the United States today. By
1600, the world was peopled by five hundred
million-there are more than that in China
today. It took about another 250 years for the
world's population to double-to one billion
in 1850. Now we are pushing four billion. We
doubled and almost doubled again in 128
years. Eight billion people, when? Perhaps by
2000, only 30 years away. Every new person
on the earth adds to the pollution load.
Even if we all lived the way men did 20
centuries ago, we would have a problem. But
we do not live that way. We have more
wealth; we demand more products to keep us
"happy". As production rises and we consume
more natural resources, we generate waste at
an increased rate per capita. Our wastes are
truly multiplying.
But that is not all. We are producing some
indestructible rubbish. Tin cans no longer
rust away to powder. Throw-away bottles no
longer provide an economic incentive to
return them for re-use. And we have created
wastes and products that were not even
dreamed of a hundred years ago-new chemicals, five hundred new ones every year; radioactive materials, pesticides which can kill
more than just pests; unwanted fertilizers in
the detergents we demand to keep ourselves
clean, causing excessive growth of undesirable algae in our lakes.
The deterioration of our environment goes
much further than the usual concepts of pollution, of course. Drab city streets, billboards,
clogged highways, noise-all these are part of
it. Perhaps, up to now, we have been so
preoccupied with developing and producing
the "hardware" which we think we need to
make life beautiful, that we have forgotten
what we really want.
We want a higher quality for our environment, not larger quantities of goods. Perhaps
our young people see this more clearly than

we do. "Flower power", student riots, demonstrations against the Establishment-are not
these symptoms of a dissatisfaction with
things as they have been? A dissatisfaction
with what? Social unrest, pockets of poverty,
obnoxious fumes, ugliness and noise, crowding. I suggest that it is, in total, a dissatisfaction with the environment we have created
for ourselves. Improving the quality of this
environment does not mean more cars, more
expensive houses, more electronic gadgetry in
the home, but less war, less pollution, less
poverty, less discrimination, fewer slums.
E. B. White has said:
I am pessimistic about the human race
because it is too ingenious for its own
good. Our approach to nature is to beat it
into submission. We would stand a much
better chance of survival if we accommodated ourselves to this planet and
viewed it appreciatively.
In striving for material progress we have
tended to neglect some things, to forget about
some of the undesirable by-products of our
affluent life. But surely that same ingenuity
which has been responsible for the terrifie
material progress can turn itself to the problem of reversing our environmental deterioration. It will not be an easy job. Technical
ingenuity may be needed, but it will not be
enough. It will not suffice merely to develop
piecemeal technical cures for each environmental poison. We must probe for the root
cause of this deterioration, and I feel that if
we do, we will find that we must produce not
just a technological pill to cure it, but the
evolution of new moral, intellectual, political,
legal, social and economic patterns. This is a
tall order, but the handwriting on the wall is
clearly visible. It is nature's order, and we
cannot browbeat nature. We must obey or
perish.
But, being human, survival is not the most
compelling motive for unpolluting our environment. Warnings that life will perish, in
the future, tend to be disregarded. How many
people have given up smoking because smoking imperils their life expectancy? Penalties
in the future we can shrug off. We are living
here and now. But here and now, there are
penalties too. Here and now we can see the
results of our misuse of our world. Here and
now our life is being diminished, not merely
shortened. Here and now we are punishing
ourselves. The quality of our life is not what
it could be or should be.

1234

SENATE DEBATES

What is the answer? As I said earlier, the
answer is not easy, and, in fact, we do not
know exactly what must be done. But something must be done and done soon. It will
require changes in our laws, our morais, our
social concept of society. I think that
the emotional climate is now right to begin
the task of restoring the quality of our environment. Honourable senators may recall my
motion to set up a special Senate committee,
which is still on the order paper. I think we
have the will to act; as you all know, we are
feeling the public pressures very strongly.
The Canadian people are demanding action.
New legislation is only one tool in the task.
It needs many others, wielded not only by
governments but by every citizen in every
walk of life. As the Honourable J. J. Greene
said when he introduced this bill in the
Commons:
What we need is a new ethic. We need to
proclaim to the world that henceforth we
will include the quality of our environment in our calculus of progress.
But new legislation is one tool, and an
important one. I believe that the Canada
Water Act will be a big step in our battle for
a higher quality environment.
In dealing with water, it seems to fall into
the category of "piecemeal technical cures"
that I mentioned earlier; it is concerned with
air and soil only so far as they affect water
management. But we must take steps, and we
cannot do anything at once. The impelling
argument for dealing with water pollution as
a first step is that no other element of our
environment seems to be in worse shape
today than our once clean waters. A large
part of the problem, curiously enough, is that
we have so much water-at least two billion
acre-feet are annually renewed in the natural
cycle of rainfall and runoff. Because everyone, including our neighbours to the south, is so
conscious of our water abundance, conservation has faced an uphill struggle. The earlier
attitude bas been why worry about the quantity or quality of resources in use when there
is so much more waiting to be developed?
Some have even suggested that, rather than
attack excesses in its use and pollution, we
should simply import more water from the
north to flush out or replace existing supplies.
This philosophy of unlimited exploitation
may have been appropriate to an earlier era
when Canadians were preoccupied with developing a new land, with supporting the
successive war efforts, and with recovering
from economic depression. Society then was
[Hon. Mr. Macnaughton.]

June 16, 1970

naturally more concerned with what it could
quickly harvest from the environment in tangible goods and immediate services than with
what was happening to that environment in
the process. But the inevitable was merely
postponed. Already the waterways which carried the early explorers, fur traders and soldiers have been despoiled almost beyond
recognition. The Saint John, the St. Lawrence, the Ottawa, the Lower Great Lakes,
the Red, the Qu'Appelle, the Fraser-each has
its own sad story. Truly a great heritage, but
we cannot seem to spoil it fast enough.
We do not propose, however, to go backwards into history. Anti-development makes
no sense in a world of so many and diverse
benefits. There will be more people in Canada
every year and they will require more factories, more homes, more products and facilities
of all kinds. To suggest that "conservation"
means that chies, dams and factories are not
going to be built, is idle thought; to suggest
that "development" means only greater production of material goods and commercial
services, is likewise outdated. Taken together,
these terms make clear that the facilities wili
be built, but with a view to location, capacity
and design to achieve the greatest possible
combination of benefits to which people
attribute value.
The record of the past has been less than
satisfactory. Truc, many desirable features
have been incorporated by industry, as well
as by governments, in plans for river, lake
and harbour developments. But equally true
has been the over-emphasis on structural
solutions-from treatment plants for waste
reduction to massive dams for controlling
floods-without consideration of alternative
means available to managers by such devices
as flood zoning and changes in the waste product processes. Too often, development has
focussed on one or two traditional uses,
rather than on the full range of uses to
which water can be put and the effects of
some uses on others. Meanwhile, as I said
earlier, new products and processes have
created a major threat to environmental stability, and other social values have intruded
into what was once the technician's domain.
Pollution in particular has moved the full
distance from being an academic consideration to becoming a burning social issue. No
longer can we eat, drink, extract, pollute and
be merry with the comforting thought that
the future will somehow take care of itself.
Recognizing the mistakes of our past
experience, of course, is only part of the pic-

June 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1235

ture. Having the authority and capability to t he Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation. But these loans still retain the basic ecodo something about them is another.
that it is the polluter who
Pollution control, or, more properly the nomic principle the only ethical position we
of our resources, nust pay. That is
management of the quality
is the only efficient one; it is
is a matter of waste disposal. It is a funda- can take; it and effective.
mental law of Newtonian physics that "mat- simple, direct
Earlier I referred to the concept of a new
ter cannot be created or destroyed." Every
pound of material utilized by man including Canadian ethic, and I have just mentioned
himself as well as huge tonnages of natural our hope that a new axiom of Canadian life
wastes must be disposed of in some natural will develop. This implies an educational
sink. We can only burn, bury, orbit in space, process among our citizens. The act we are
or wash away these vast daily tonnages. Most now discussing anticipates this necessary
of the residues are washed into streams for process. It includes a provision for publie
information and education. Through this
transport to the sea.
ethic,
To think that we can avoid such waste process we hope to create the essential prois nonsense. The real issue of pollu- among all Canadians, for environmental
disposal
practises
tion control is the efficient management of tection. Only when each individual
he is willing to pay
these wastes in the face of increasing waste self-restraints, only when
and pollution
production. The trick is to harness political, for efficient waste disposal
costs of coneconomic forces to create an abatement by slightly increased when he aids
moral, and
This, the sumer goods and services, only
improved management process.
in reporting pollution, can we really have
Canada Water Act, is designed to do.
any water quality
into the complete confidence in
I do not intend to go further
management process.
mechanics of the proposed operation of the
Education must stress such an ethic or lifeCanada Water Act because I believe Senator
this facet admirably well, style. in schools, i universities, through the
Laird has covered
proand there is no need for me to retrace his mass news media. Such an educational will
and it
steps. I do not think it would be amiss, how- gram has already been started, Act.
Water
ever, for me to emphasize the two basic expand under the Canada
to know of such a program which
Water Act is
I happen
premises on which the Canada
based. One is that each river and coastal area is underwriten by the World Wildlife Fund
should be managed and used in an optimum (Canada) and is in process in the Montreal
manner. The second is that polluters must educational system-the English Protestant
pay. We hope that this will become an axiom school system, the English Catholic school
of Canadian life. Pollution abatement must system, and the French Catholic school
become accepted as a cost of production, just system. It is under the control of the Redpath
as land, labour and raw materials are. Some Museum of McGill University.
critics of the bill have argued for federal
Related to this is the utilization of public
funds to fight pollution. This temptation bas opinion by involving local interests in the
been resisted because such a use of tax dol- management process. Pollution simply cannot
lars would penalize the non-polluter and be enforced from federal and provincial capiallow the polluter to shirk his obvious
alone; it must be a part of the local
responsibility. There must be an incentive to tals
establishing
pollution sources. We must seek effi- decision-making process. By
reduce
of tax dollars water quality agencies, utilizing local resicient solutions, and the use
would remove the most potent force to dents, the intention is to obtain community
achieve such efficiency, namely, the burden of commitment and support.
The Canada Water Act-as Senator Laird
paying for pollution abatement. So we have
to industry and municipalities, has pointed out-is not merely a pollution
been saying
"You must pay these costs in the first control measure. It will allow the federal
instance, recognizing the transfer of these Government to join forces with the provinces
costs to the consumers of goods and services". to study water problems, to prepare and
On the other hand, everyone in government, approve plans, and to share in the implemenat any of the three levels, is well aware of the tation of those plans so that our magnificent
financial straits of many Canadian towns and water resources may produce the ultimate
cities and the values of federal loans to speed benefit for all Canadians. Part of the benefit
the construction of sewage systems and waste is in the use of these resources for waste
this one
treatment facilities, such as those offered by disposal but, above al other uses,

1236

SENATE DEBATES

leads most easily to abuse. Such a use must
be integrated into the fabric of management
so that we may preserve and enhance the
quality of our environment for future generations.
The eventual cost of our way of life could
be its extinction, unless we take steps now to
preserve our environment. We must guard
against the decay in our spirit that allows us
to despoil our heritage, to sacrifice it on the
altar of growth. True progress must include
environmental health and beauty. We believe
that this aim will have the wholehearted,
enthusiastic will of the people, and that the
Canada Water Act will give us a statutory
basis for one phase of the battle to achieve
that aim.
The federal Government must take its
place in this battle. Although resource management bas been interpreted to be primarily
a provincial responsibility, as you know and
as Senator Laird bas emphasized, the federal
Government has clearly defined rights and
responsibilities in this field. For the job to be
done at all, and certainly for it to be done
effectively, we must have the Canada Water
Act. It will allow us to play our part in the
war against pollution and for a higher quality
environment.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: May I ask Senator Macnaughton a question? I very much appreciate
the lucid, knowledgeable and concerned
speech which the honourable senator has just
made. I know that he is concerned, as are we
all, with the immediacy of this problem. I
notice that his motion for the appointment of
a special committee on environmental control
has been on the Order Paper for a long
time, and together with a number of others I
have heard the suggestion made that it is to
languish and wither because there is no great
concern in the Senate with respect to this
whole
environmental problem.
I have
attempted to defend his motion by suggesting
that the honourable Senator Macnaughton is
an authority on this subject and that he is
one who has fought the battle for environmental control in Europe and many other
areas.
The question I wish to ask him is this: In
view of the fact that his motion bas been on
the Order Paper for a long time, could be
give us a plain answer as to whether he
proposes to speak on it and to set up a committee with respect to this urgent problem?

June 16, 1970

secondly, because I do not think there would
be any purpose in proceeding with this
motion unless we had the full support of the
Government, which I have reason to believe
in due course we will probably get. I know
that the Government authorities who really
have the basic responsibility are studying this
matter very carefully, and I would hope that
the Leader of the Government in the Senate
would be able to assist us, in due course, in
the timely presentation of this motion.
Hon. Mr. Martin: If we had more personnel,
we could do much more work.
Hon. Orville H. PhiIlips: Honourable senators, in rising to take part in the debate on
Bill C-144 I wish, first of all, to thank Senator
Laird for his introduction and explanation of
the bill. However, it is my understanding that
he has had a long association with the honourable Senator Martin, and I am afraid that
some of his characteristics are beginning to
rub off on the honourable Senator Laird,
because be ended up with a ringing plea
for the general plan outlined in Bill C-144.
Frankly, I think Senator Laird has had too
close a contact with Senator Martin, who has
had political delusions and has seen visions of
benefits that do not exist with regard to various bills that have been introduced in Parliament over a long period of time. I suggest,
Senator Laird, that you watch very closely
your association with Senator Martin in the
future.
Hon. Mr. Martin: That is good advice!

Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): I very much
appreciate the question asked by the honourable Senator Thompson of the honourable
Senator Macnaughton. I too was going to
mention the fact that his motion had been on
the Order Paper since the beginning of the
session and we have not proceeded with it.
However, I am a little surprised at the reply
by Senator Macnaughton, in that he sees no
benefit in procecding with the motion unless
we have the full support of the Government.
If we had the full support of the Government,
they would have acted on this matter and
there would be no need for the motion standing in the name of Senator Macnaughton, or
for a committee, and we would have had an
entirely different bill.
The honourable senator's answer is further
Hon. Mr. Macnaugh±on: Honourable senators, I cannot give a specific answer to this confused by the fact that a motion in his
question, firstly, because the question is so name has been standing on the Order Paper
wide that it is not an easy one to resolve, and, since last September. It will be called again
[Hon. Mr. Macnaughton.]

June 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

has
on Thursday next, when I venture to guess it Mortgage and Housing Corporation
received very little attention. In fact, during
will be stood over to a later date.
years the excuse used for not
Over the last six months this bill has been the past few
replenishing the funds for the making of
hailed as an anti-pollution measure. Every
was that it was an anti-inflation meastime pollution was mentioned, a cabinet min- loans Surely, the Government does not intend
would point to this bill and say, "We ure.
ister
measure until it has
have an anti-pollution measure." I really to delay an anti-pollutionefforts to deal with
been successful in its
cannot see it in that way.
inflation.
The minister introduced the bill in the
There is, however, one definite commitother place and gave his explanation of it on ment. Honourable senators know how I like to
20, 1969. We are now into the
November
the Senate a little bit. One
month of June 1970. Somehow or other in the ride the lawyers in in the bill, and I find it
definite commitment
intervening period of time the Government interesting, is that the federal Government
seems to have lost any feeling of urgency in
will pay for the incorporation of the local
dealing with the matter of pollution.
water agencies. I should like to ask the
In his explanation in the other place, the honourable sponsor of the bill (Hon. Mr.
minister emphasized that the keynote of the Laird) how many lawyers supporting the Libbill was flexibility. I cannot quite see it in eral Party have they lined up ready to incorthat way. To me the main feature of the bil porate the local water boards?
is evasiveness. It avoids every major issue
Hon. Mr. Laird: None, up to this point.
that needs to be dealt with in overcoming
pollution. First of all, it evades a clear-cut
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): Then Senator
federal responsibility for providing leadership Martin must be dealing with that matter. I
dealing with pollution.
in
am sure he has a long list.
Let us face facts, honourable senators. Only
The bill also avoids any definite committhe federal Government bas the finances ment to continue its provisions beyond a cernecessary to overcome all forms of pollution, tain length of time. I mention this particularparticularly water pollution. Instead of pro- ly because I think the provinces are rather
viding this leadership, the federal Government suspicious of the federal Government after
is establishing a number of local water boards their unfortunate experience with medicare.
in which there will be federal and provincial When medicare was introduced there was no
participation, and in some cases municipal mention of a time limit. The provinces joined
participation. These water boards are given the scheme, and then they found that after a
no clear-cut authority. There is no constitu- certain date they will be assuming the full
tion outlined for them in the bill. It is very cost, and that the federal Government intendfashionable these days to have guidelines, but ed to participate for only five years. So perthere are no guidelines in this bill.
haps it is fair to ask if this bill is for five
The bill contains no financial commitment years or for ten years.
on the part of the federal Government, except
Throughout the explanation of the bill
in two minor instances. There is no fixed there was a constant reference to consultants'
cost-sharing arrangement between the federal reports, and reports from local water boards.
Government and the provincial governments. I would suggest that when all these reports
Some provinces may be asked to pay 80 per are completed our pulp and paper mills are
cent, while the federal Government pays 20 going to be a greater source of pollution of
per cent. In other cases the provincial govern- our rivers than they are now. Those reports,
ments will pay 60 per cent, while the federal minutes of the meetings, and everything else
Government will pay 40 per cent. We are will require a very large amount of paper,
going to end up with a situation in which one and I am afraid that we shall denude our
province will be pitted against another at fed.
the problem
eral-provincial conferences, and I do no' forests while we are still facing
of pollution.
think that this will be good for Confederation
It is my view that all reports, regardless of
The bill does provide for loans to be made
their quality, should be made to Parliament
by the Central Mortgage and Housing Corpo
ration to municipalities, but this is nothin or to the legislatures, rather than to governnew. A Progressive Conservative Governmen t ments. I have two specific reasons for saying
established this in 1960. Following the defea t this. Firstly, when a report is made to a minof that government and the election of a Lib - ister it becomes a privileged document. Pareral Government, this aspect of the Centra 1 liament and the public are left in the dark as

SENATE DEBATES
far as its contents are concerned. Secondly, it
is hoped that shortly our universities will
establish programs by which post-graduate
students can obtain their master's degrees and
their doctorates, and these reports should be
available to them.
The bill provides for the local authorities to
collect fees and charges, as well as effluent
charges. I am wondering, honourable senators,
in what form this charge is to be made. Is this
to be in the form of taxation? If so, then
surely the federal Parliament and the legislatures should have control over it. It shouid
not be placed in the hands of local boards.
The fact that the bill provides for an effluent charge, raises the question of how much
faith the Governmont really has in this bill. If
this is a measure to overcome pollution then
why have a provision for the collection of an
effluent fee? The provision for the collection
of this fee raises a very serious problem.
Let us take the case of a small town vhere
there is one industry which is the main
source of employment. That industry may be
discharging its waste material into the local
water supply, and it may say that if it has to
pay an effluent fec it will have to close. If
that is the case, then who pays the fee? The
municipality or the province? Certainly I
cannot imagine a situation where any one
town or province is going to allow the only
source of industry in the town to close down
because they refuse to pay the fee. Most
municipalities are already in financial trouble.
If we are to pass the problem of sewage
installation to the municipality, we should
bear in mind that over the years the federal
and provincial governments have collected
the corporation and income taxes. I think it is
very unfair, honourable senators, to pass the
full burden back to the municipalities.
During hearings of the Special Senate Committee on Science Policy we learned that
approximately 228 bodies are working on
water pollution in Canada at the present
time.

June 16, 1970

error in this regard. Instead of the federal
Government passing the buck and saying we
are co-operating with everyone, I would
rather sec them take strong action in some
form of research on pollution.
The federal Government has been very
negligent in this regard. If a small town came
to the federal Governmcnt and asked
for advice on the most efficient type of
sewage installation, there is no one authority
authorized to advise it.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: They should ask the
provincial government. If they do not know,
they ought to.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): They should ask
the provincial government. However, it is not
the provincial government that is introducing
this bill; it is the federal Government.
lon. Mr. McDonald: The provinces have
also failed.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): Some of the
provinces have done very well, others not as
well.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Do not allow Senator
McDonald to arouse you.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): No, Senator
McDonald never arouses me; he only encourages me. I was going to point out to him that
in his days as a provincial cabinet minister I
do not think any legislation in that regard
went through the Saskatchewan Legislature.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: We do not have
pollution.

Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): In fact, you
agreed with me that the provinces themselves
could not afford it at that time. However, you
have gone through a political metamorphosis
since then.
If an industry which is a major source of
tax revenue for the federal Government
asked for assistance and advice, where would
they turn? The National Research Council
Hon. Mr. Martin: How many?
does not specialize in this area. They would
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): I believe the probably send them to C.M.H.C. Because it is
figure is 228, Senator Martin. I have not had not a housing problem, they would meet
the opportunity to go back and check the nothing but a bureaucratie wall.
evidence, but I am trusting my memory. You
I am sure that Senator Martin would like to
know far better than I that it is not always give this problem a great deal
of thought, and
safe to trust one's memory.
I leave it in his good hands trusting that it
This bill further aggravates the situation by will be corrected.
creating more authorities, more chains of
I would like for a moment to discuss clause
command and more reports to be submitted 18, dealing with phosphates. The bill
authorand approved. I think the bill is very much in izes the Government to restrict the
use of
[Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince).]

June 16. 1970

SENATE DEBATES

phosphates and so forth. You have dealt with
detergents. However, farm fertilizer is also a
great source of pollution as far as phosphates
are concerned.
The minister made reference to this in his
introduction in the other place. I would like
to hear more from the Government side concerning the intentions of the Government
under this bill in providing for the control of
fertilizers. In speaking to an honourable
member on the other side, who has more
knowledge of agriculture than 1, I asked him
about this and he said well, probably we
might be hungry, but we would not be thirsty. Perhaps we have to make a decision
between being hungry and thirsty, but I
would like to know the intentions of the Government in this regard. I cannot picture a
water control authority being really very
sympathetic to the problem of the farmers.
Honourable senators may have read an
article by Dr. Windleigh, Director of Soil and
Water Conservation and Research Division,
Agricultural Research Service Division of the
United States Department of Agriculture,
published in May of this year, in which he
very much questioned if phosphates are the
main source of algea growth. I know that this
is a minority view, but it is a factor to be
considered.
If I may, without appearing too partisan, I
will criticize the Govrenment for the fact that
while they have directed the soap companies
to reduce the phosphate content of soap by
August 1 of this year, they have given them
no direction on the substitutes that can be
used or that are acceptable. Consequently the
soap companies are planning to move to a
substance known as NTA. There is very little
known of nitrilotriacetic acid, its breakdown
and effect on water. Some reports from Harvard indicate that it can be a carcinogenic or
cancer-causing agent. Here again we have a
piece of paper in the form of a bill, but we
have no direction.
If I may, I would like to direct a question to
the sponsor of the bill-a simple, ordinary,
everyday question-and ask him to define
water quality, because, sir, I do not find it
defined in the bill. You have made reference
to the fact that water quality cannot be the
same all across Canada. It is the same at
the present time. What are you accomplishing
under the bill?
Clause 21 of the bill states that anyone who
wishes to make an appeal must notify the
minister 15 days before an appeal to a magistrate. I am not a lawyer and by no means am

I apologizing for that, but I would like to
think that the courts are supreme. I find it
rather odd that anyone who wishes to appear
before our courts must notify a minister of
the Crown 15 days before he can make an
appeal to a magistrate. Surely we should protect the system under which anyone has the
right to appear before the court, and our
courts are supreme and unbiased.
There is a clause in the bill providing for
an advisory committee. When I read that I
thought oh, not another one, not again! Then I
thought when any minister refuses to take
advice it is the Abe Lincoln of Canada, the
present Minister of Energy, Mines and
Resources. He is no more interested in taking
advice than the original Abe Lincoln would
have been in taking advice from Colonel
Sanders. I ended up wondering just how
many Liberal organizers are left unemployed,
and how many it is intended to put on that
advisory board.
Clause 15 provides for local water authority
boards to open various bank accounts, and to
buy and sell certain securities. I am wondering if the operation of these boards will be
open to examination by the Auditor General.
We all know that the Auditor General has not
been too popular with the Government lately,
and I am wondering whether he will be
allowed to inspect these operations. Perhaps
the sponsor of the bill can tell me, or maybe
it could be explained in committee.
Honourable senators, I say this is merely a
piece of propaganda. It evades responsibility,
and it treats the symptoms, not the disease.
Hon. Keith Laird: Honourable senatorsThe Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, I must inform you that if the honourable Senator Laird speaks now, it will have
the effect of closing the debate.
Hon. Mr. Laird: Honourable senators, it is
certainly not my intention to keep you at this
late hour for any length of time. I appreciated
the speeches made by my friends Senator
Phillips (Prince) and Senator Belisle, and also
the help that Senator Macnaughton gave me
in answering some of the points raised in the
very interesting criticisms to which we have
listened tonight. Were I to reply at length, I
fear I would only reiterate what I said last
Wednesday when introducing the bill. There
are, however, one or two things that should
be said. First, I refer to the question asked by
Senator Phillips (Prince) about what water
quality is. That, of course, is the very thing

SENATE DEBATES

the water quality agencies are designed for,
having in mind the needs of the areas in
which they will operate.
That leads me to make this fundamental
point about the bill. While there is criticism
of the fact that there are numerous agencies
dealing with the problem of water, I know of
no other bill than a bill of this type-which by
the way was put through the wringer in the
other place and in the committee there-that
could hope to be sufficiently comprehensive to solve the overall problem, which perhaps has been dealt with in a fragmentary
fashion.
In other words, there are two important
points to remember about this bill. First, it
enables the problem to be tackled in co-operation with the provinces. I admit quite frankly that if the provinces do not co-operate in
the implementation of the provisions of the
bill, it may fall fiat on its face. Nevertheless, I
think we have every reason to hope, because
of the negotiations that have taken place with
the provinces, that they will co-operate. For
example, one of the most important provinces
involved, I am sure you will agree, is the
Province of Ontario, and I noted with interest
an interview with Premier Robarts of that
province appearing in the Windsor Star on
May 20, 1970.
Hon. Mr. Martin: It could not appear in a
better paper.
Hon. Mr. Laird: An excellent newspaper.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: Where is it?
Hon. Mr. Laird: I am not quite sure, but it
is called the Windsor Star. It is down west
somewhere.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): They appeared
before the Special Committee on Mass Media.
Hon. Mr. Laird: Yes, it was before the Special Committee on Mass Media. That was the
clue I was looking for. It is Windsor, Ontario.
According to this article, Mr. Robarts, talking of the bill I introduced, said:
-in view of the importance of controlling water pollution, I am sure we can
find ways of working in agreement. The
bill provides for great scope for federalprovincial action by agreement, so we
may be concerned here about a confiict
that may never arise.

June 16, 1970

that in all likelihood it will be the attitude of
the premiers and governments of the other
provinces.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): Would the
honourable senator admit that the Premier of
Ontario is much more co-operative than the
Premier of Saskatchewan?
Hon. Mr. Laird: I would have to ask my
friend Senator McDonald to give the answer
to that. At this late hour I am reluctant to do
so.
Senator Phillips (Prince) asked specifically
whether or not the Auditor General will have
jurisdiction to look into the accounts of these
agencies. I would certainly think so, because
he has overall jurisdiction for all Government
expenditures. I am no authority on the subject, but that would be my impression.
Finally, I want to reiterate what bas
already been said, first by myself and then by
Senator Macnaughton. I draw to your attention, in conclusion, the very important point
that we need a bill of this kind because of the
present international problem. One of the
most important water body systems in the
world is the Great Lakes system. There, for
example, we simply must have co-operation
with the United States, otherwise there can
be no solution to the problem. This co-operation, as you know, can only be effectively
achieved constitutionally by the federal Government. I therefore submit that we simply
must have a comprehensive bill of this kind.
I repeat, if this bill receives second reading
I shall move that it be referred to the appropriate committee.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this bill be read the third
time?
Hon. Mr. Laird: Honourable senators, with
leave of the Senate and notwithstanding Rule
67(l)(j)(vii), I move that Bill C-144 be
referred to the Standing Senate Committee on
Hcalth, Welfare and Science.
Motion agreed to.
CANADA SHIPPING ACT (PILOTAGE)
REPORT

OF

COMMITTEE ADOPTED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of
Actually he was referring to the constitution- the report of the Standing Senate Committee
al conflict. If that is the attitude of the Premi- on Transport and Communications on Bill
er of Ontario, I suggest with great respect S-23, to postpone the expiration of certain
[Hon. Mr. Laird.]

June 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

provisions of an Act to amend the Canada using this passage will know ahead of time
Shipping Act, which was presented on Thurs- what the conditions of the passage will be.
Unfortunately, or fortunately, all of the oil
day, June 11.
spills which occurred in the last few years
Hon. J. Campbell Haig moved adoption of have occurred in moderate waters. Nobody
the report.
knows what would happen to the balance of
Report adopted.
nature in the Arctic if an oil spill occurred
there.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators,
This bill, which by the way passed in the
when shall this bill be read the third time?
House of Commons unanimously, provides for
Hon. Mr. Petten moved that the bill be prevention officers to see the construction of
placed on the Orders of the Day for third the ship, construction of the equipment and to
assure that the proper regulations are comreading at the next sitting.
plied with. There is also the liability of the
Motion agreed to.
palluter and the expense of cleaning up the
pollution if any occurs. There is also proviARCTIC WATERS POLLUTION
sion that there should be evidence of financial
BILL
PREVENTION
responsibility.
SECOND READING
This bill applies under clause 3 to the areas
of north latitude,
June enclosed by the 60th parallel
The Senate resumed from Wednesday,
the 141st meridian of longitude and a line
10, the adjourned debate on the motion of measured seaward from the nearest Canadian
Hon. Mr. Martin, for the second reading of land for a distance of 100 nautical miles. Not
Bill C-202, to prevent pollution of areas of the
Arctic personally, I presume that
aretic waters adjacent to the mainland and knowing the have figured out that this would
the officials
islands of the Canadian arctic.
take in all of the known passages.
Hon. J. Campbell Haig: Honourable senaI suggest, honourable senators, that this bill
tors, I am going to speak tonight at this very should carry the unanimous consent of this
late hour on:
chamber.
any substance that, if added to any
We know of these four disasters of oil spills
waters, would degrade or alter or form which have been mentioned. But think of the
part of a process of degradation or altera- hundreds of other ships that have been
tion of the quality of those waters to an broken up or had a breakdown in the middle
extent that is detrimental to their use by of the ocean and the pollution has never bit
man or by any animal, fish or plant that the shorelines. That is what this bill is to
is useful to man.
prevent, the pollution of the Arctic waters,
which includes the shorelines.
We are getting a little away from water.
I think, honourable senators, that after the
about is oil pollution, espeWhat I am talking
excellent explanation by Senator Martin on
cially in the Arctic.
June 10 when he introduced this bill, and
In the past few years the world has seen an after reading the Hansard of the other place,
increase in the number of oil spills. After the we should agree to second reading now and
voyage of the S. S. Manhattan last year not refer the bill to a committee.
through the Arctic passage, it was felt by the
Hon. Paul Yuzyk: Honourable senators, Bill
Government that they would attempt by reasons of regulations and by-laws to regulate C-202, under the heading of the Arctic Waters
the passage of ships through that area.
Pollution Prevention Act, is such an extremely
You will remember that we had pollution important measure that it is being piloted in
from the Torrey Canyon off the English coast, this chamber by the Leader of the Governand we had an oil well blow up off the Santa ment (Hon. Mr. Martin). Certainly, because of
Barbara coast in California. We had the the unilateral assertion of jurisdiction, this
Arrow break-up in the Chedabucto Bay, and legislation constitutes a precedent which is
now we have the breaking of a pipe line in
without a legal basis in international law or
northern Alberta.
in multilateral treaties, as has been so ably
I think that the Government has done a
by the sponsor.
very excellent job-as the old saying goes, explained
By taking this bold and necessary step,
"An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of
cure." After Parliament has passed this bill Canada is, so to speak, breaking new ice
with its by-laws and regulations, any one which undoubtedly will be followed by other

SENATE DEBATES

countries having a similar situation and similar problems. Eventually, it is hoped these
problems will be covered under international
law.
The risk of not taking such action, which
could have disastrous effects on the ecology of
the north, as I have previously stated in the
debate on C-187, and has been commented on
by Senator Haig before me and other senators
who spoke on other measures, is too immediate and urgent for Canada to wait for some
international agreement, which at the present
time appears remote. The Aretie Archipelago
is our territory over which we have full sovereignty, and we are within our rights to provide for the protection of our plant, animal
and human life by taking measures to prevent the pollution of the Aretic waters within
a 100-mile limit of our coast.
We will be exercising our sovereignty over
territorial waters up to 12 miles from our
shoreline, according to Bill C-203 and Bill
C-204, and, with the passage of this bill now
before us, jurisdiction up to 100 miles from
our shore, with the object of preventing pollution. This means the establishment of a control zone outside territorial waters. Canada is
therefore acting as a sovereign nation, eautious of her rights as well as duties, which I
am sure gives Canadians a stronger sense of
pride in our country.
I have very little knowledge of international law and international courts. I am worried
about the probable effects of this unilateral
action by Canada on our external and international relations, particularly our relations
with our neighbour, the United States. We
can well be pioneering in the field of the
control of pollution on the high seas, but I
would like to be sure that our approach will
not have harmful repercussions. In other
words, I want to believe Senator Martin's
reassuring statements regarding this important matter. I hope that he will forgive me,
however, if I should also seek the opinions of other experts in international law and
international relations which would be made
available to legislators.
Consequently, I would like to see this bill
referred to a committee. I think the most
appropriate body would be the Standing
Senate Committee on Health, Welfare and
Science. There we could obtain evidence from
experts from the legal division of the Department of External Affairs and from the
Department of Indian Affairs and Northern
Development.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
[Hon. Mr. Yuzyk.]

June 16, 1970

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this bill be read the third
time?
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
had hoped that it would not be necessary to
send this bill to a committee. I listened to
Senator Haig with great interest. He
expressed the view that in all probability
there would be, as fie saw it, unanimity for
this measure, as there was in the other
house-a demonstration of Canadian unanimity with regard to this vital matter.
Senator Yuzyk has said that fie would like
to see this bill go to a committee. I have no
means of forcing the situation. We have had a
spirit of co-operation this evening that is
most encouraging, and I do not wish to
appear to enter a discordant note. Nevertheless, I wonder if, in view of what Senator
Haig has said, and the unanimity that prevailed in the other place, Senator Yuzyk, at
this late hour of the session, still wishes this
procedure to be followed.
Hon. Mr. Yuzyk: Honourable senators, I did
not state so specifically, but I would like to
state now that I fully support this bill. From
this point of view, the unanimity is very evident. The only reason why I asked that it go
to a committee is to get certain explanations,
which I know will be forthcoming from legal
experts, in particular. I am sure that what we
are doing is right, but I think we should have
a firmer legal base on which to found it. Also
this would be a protection for the future. I do
not see that this detracts in any way from the
unanimity.
Hon. Mr. Martin: No, of course net. I am
going to be very presumptuous and say that,
in this matter, I would feel that the Leader of
the Government in the Senate does have a
competence, because this came under his
capacity as Secretary of State for External
Affairs. I would be prepared to answer whatever questions Senator Yuzyk has in mind-and it may be that the adequacy of my
answers will convince the senator that the
bill should not go to a committee.
Hon. Mr. Yuzyk: I will pose the question
that I raised here, namely, with respect to our
relations with the United States. The United
States has objected to this 100-mile limit.
This is an important matter, because it effects
relations which are very important to us in
Canada. The Government Leader has had a
great deal of experience in External Affairs,
respecting our relations with the United

June 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1243

States. He could explain to us today that the our two countries, and I do not believe that
relations will not worsen but that we should this situation will.
be able to solve this matter, shall we say,
The proposal is based on the fact that there
through negotiations.
is no international law of any kind with
regard to this particular measure. The situaHon. Mr. Martin: I presume our procedure tion is otherwise when it comes to the teris slightly irregular, but I take it that there is ritorial seas, where there is a clear internaa consensus in the house that I might answer tional law, where 57 states within the last
these questions to expedite this matter.
four or five years have taken unilateral
actions to establish a 12-mile territorial limit.
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
There is no international law with regard
Hon. Mr. Martin: It is very clear that the to this particular situation. We have acted
action taken by the Canadian Government pragmatically because of the urgency. The
was not one that the United States would tremendous voyage of the S.S. Manhattan
have preferred. However, the Government together with the assistance given her by the
took the position that action had to be taken John A. Macdonald alerted Canada and
forthwith, to avoid unnecessary pollution in the world to the necessity for action.
the Arctic, in this one unspoiled frontier.
I believe that this action, which has been
The Government bas welcomed, and indeed widely applauded, not only in our own counhas encouraged, collaboration with all coun- try but in many parts of the world, will be
tries. It has had consultations with a number accepted by our neighbour in the light of the
of countries and, while it is evident that the exigencies of the situation.
United States would have preferred someHon. Mr. Yuzyk: Honourable senators, in
thing other than a unilateral act on the part
view of the strong statement which bas been
of Canada, I have had sufficient experience to made by the Government Leader, I shall not
cause me to believe that this is one more
on this bill going to a committee. I
measure in which there is not full agreement insist
original suggestion. I hope that
to method, but in which I withdraw my
as to procedure, as
this will make the legislative action
need have no doubt whatsoever that it will unanimous.
not affect basically the relations between our
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
two countries, any more than unilateral acts
from time to time by the United States.
Hon. Paul Martin moved that the bill be
For instance, there was the act of President placed on the Orders of the Day for third
Truman with regard to a not dissimilar situa- reading at the next sitting.
tion a few years ago, and there have been
Motion agreed to.
other acts taken by the United States unilatThe Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2
erally, sometimes against Canadian wishes.
the relations between p.m.
This has not affected

1244

SENATE DEBATES

June 16, 1970

APPENDIX

(See p. 1225)
THE ESTIMATES
REPORT OF STANDING

SENATE COMMITTEE ON NATIONAL FINANCE PRESENTED
HON. DOUGLAS D. EVERETT

Ottawa, June 11, 1970
The Standing Senate Committee on National Finance, to which were referred the Estimates laid before Parliament for the fiscal
year ending March 31st, 1971, has in obedience to the order of reference of February 12,
1970, examined the said Estimates and reports
as follows:
1. Your Committee was authorized by the
Senate as recorded in the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Senate, February 12, 1970, "to
examine and report upon the expenditures
proposed by the Estimates laid before Parliament for the fiscal year ending 31st March,
1971, in advance of Bills based upon the said
Estimates reaching the Senate."
2. In obedience to the foregoing, your Committee held seven meetings on the Estimates
and heard evidence from Mr. S. Cloutier,
Deputy Secretary, Program Branch, Treasury
Board; Dr. A. J. R. Smith, Chairman of the
Economic Council of Canada; Mr. Tom Kent,
Deputy Minister of Regional Economic
Expansion; Professor E. P. Neufeld of the
University of Toronto; Mr. Jules Léger,
Under-Secretary of State; Mr. H. B. Robinson,
Deputy Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development; and, in camera, Mr. L. Rasminsky, Governor of the Bank of Canada.
3. As was the case in past examinations of
the Estimates, your Committee made (a) a
general examination; (b) a detailed examination of certain matters arising out of the general examination; (c) an examination of the
current economic situation in Canada as it
pertains to government expenditures.
4. The Main Estimates for 1970-71 amount to
$12,910 million, an increase of 7.4 per cent
over the Main Estimates for 1969-70. This
increase compares with a percentage increase
of the 1969-70 Estimates over 1968-69 Estimates of 9.5 per cent. Statutory expenditures
take up 73 per cent of the increase in 1970-71,
and these statutory increases include public
debt charges, payments to the provinces,
grain payments and carrying costs of wheat.
The total increase in government expendi-

BY

tures over the preceding year is $892 million
on statutory and budgetary items as follows:
statutory $651 million, budgetary $241 million. Estimates of nime programs in various
departments show increased expenditures
totalling $293 million which are partially
offset by estimated decreases totalling $52
million in other programs. The individual
increases attributable to these nine programs
are Regional and Economic Expension $75
million; Bilingualism Development $52 million; Postal Services $36 million; Indian and
Eskimo Affairs $34 million; the Royal Canadian Mounted Police $26 million; Air Services
$22 million; Development and Utilization of
Manpower $21 million; International Development Assistance $15 million; Incentives to
Industry for Technological Innovation and
Development $12 million.
5. The $52 million decrease
programs has been achieved
increases in salaries, goods and
involves commendable savings in

in all other
in spite of
services and
other costs.

6. In light of these facts, your Committee
determined on a detailed examination of the
three programs which account for a large
part of the increase in non-statutory expenditures. That is, Regional and Economic Expansion $75 million, Bilingualism Development
$52 million, and Indian and Eskimo Affairs
$34 million.
7. Your Committee heard evidence from Mr.
Tom Kent, Deputy Minister of Regional Economic Expansion, regarding the increases in
expenditures by that department from $192
million in 1969-70 to $267 million in 1970-71.
The bulk of this increase of $75 million is due
to a $20 million increase in expenditures
under the Departmental Industrial Incentives
Program and the introduction of a new Special Areas Program which is estimated at $50
million for the 1970-71 fiscal year. The Industrial Incentives Program provides federal government grants to industry to help reduce the
capital costs of establishing, expanding or
modernizing a plant in one of the designated
regions. The special area program provides

June 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1245

regarding the allotment of these grants, the
committee could only deal with the broad
objectives of the policy. However, the UnderSecretary of State has agreed to provide your
Committee with details of the allotinent of
these grants to the provinces as soon as
agreement has been reached with the
provinces.
9. Your Committee heard evidence from
Mr. H. B. Robinson, Deputy Minister of
Indian Affairs and Northern Development,
regarding the increase in expenditures by
that department from $304 million in 1969-70
to $335 million in 1970-71. The increase of $31
million plus the decrease in other departmental programs is accounted for by an increase
in the Indian and Eskimo Affairs program of
$34 million. This increase was examined in
detail and the department was requested to
provide additional information. More specifically, the department was asked to determine
the per capita cost for Indians and Eskimos
assisted by the program; to compare these
costs in different reserves across Canada and
While it is too early in the life of these pro- to assess the per capita benefits from other
grains to assess whether they are successful Federal Government programs. This conforms
in terms of the aforementioned criteria, there to the previously expressed desire of the
is evidence that the previous industrial incen- Committee to make detailed examinations of
tive legislation did increase employment in certain government programs to determine
slow-growth areas. Your Committee is of the whether they are fulfilling their original
opinion that the two programs examined will objectives in terms of efficiency and benefit.
tend to alleviate regional disparity and to
10. The form of the 1970-71 Estimates is
modify the effect of government monetary
and fiscal restraints in the slow-growth radically different from that which has been
regions.
followed in the past. The expenditure proposals respecting departments and agencies are
8. Your Committee heard evidence from formulated in teris of programs. The objecState,
Mr. Jules Léger, Under-Secretary of
tives and sub-objectives of each program are
regarding the increases in expenditures by stated and the nature of the program further
that department from $343 million in 1969-70 amplified through a description of the activito $452 million in 1970-71. After deducting ties carried on in pursuit of program objecincreases in statutory items of $49 million the tives. The aggregate of expenditures proposed
bulk of the $61 million increase is due to a to Parliament for each program is classified
$52 million increase in the Bilingualism De- first in terms of these activities and second in
velopment Program fron $2 million in 1969-70 terms of the portions of the aggregate to be
to $54 million in 1970-71. This program con- devoted respectively to operations, to capital,
sists of grants to the provinces in the amount and to grants and contributions. Data are
of up to $50 million to provide instruction in provided under the same classification for the
their own language to official minorities in
forecast expenditure for 1969-70 and the
their respective provinces and to bring about actual expenditure for 1968-69. When a prothe learning of the second of Canada's officiai gram involves a large expenditure on capital
languages. It also consists of grants for lan- there is provided a table listing the major
guage research and promotion, and covers the projects, and, showing for each, total cost disexpenses of the Bilingual Districts Adminis- tributed between expenditures up to and
tration. These grants to the provinces are to including the current year, the expenditures
offset the additional costs of education arising forecast for 1970-71 and the subsequent total
out of the attempt to improve the quality and until completion. Loans, investments and
quantity of second language instruction ini advances are shown alongside the related
Canada. As negotiations are stil in process budgetary expenditures.

federal governiment financial contributions to
provinces and municipalities to assist them in
undertaking public works in 22 special areas
in Canada which will build the infrastructure
essential to the economic growth of the areas.
These prograis have been adopted by the
federal governinent and conform to your
Committee's recommendation in its review of
the 1969-70 Estimates that regional development programs be carried on, especially
where general deflationary measures are
being undertaken by the governinent. The
effectiveness of these programs will be measured by:
(a) The extent to which unemployment
in slow growth regions is brought closer
to the national average.
(b) The extent to which participation in
the labour force in slow growth regions is
raised closer to the national average.
(c) The extent to which household
earnings in the slow growth regions are
raised closer to the national average.

SENATE DEBATES
11. As a result of its examination of the
1970-71 Estimates, your Committee makes the
following recommendations:
(a) In examining the details of departmental estimates your Committee was
unable to obtain from some departments
full explanations of the expenditures of
Crown corporations and other agencies
which report to Parliament through the
Minister or for which the Minister is the
spokesman for Parliament. This is an official distinction in the status of responsibility of these agencies to Parliament on
which your Committee seeks further
clarification. Your Committee recommends that departments appearing before
it be prepared in future to supply such
explanations.
(b) Your Committee notes that there
appears to be inadequate federal audit of
the operational effectiveness of certain
shared cost or response grant programs
administered by the provinces. Your
Committee recommends better qualitative
as well as quantitative appraisal of such
programs wherever possible.
(c) Your Committee found that in some
cases different government grants by
departments are lumped together in one
sum. Your Committee recommends that
the details of individual grants be given
in the Estimates.
(d) The Estimates list certain appropriations from the previous year that
have lapsed because the amounts voted
were not spent. An example appears on
page 21-8 of the Main Estimates 1970-71
of the Secretary of State. The item states
as follows under Vote 1: "Appropriation
not required for 1970-71-$13,617,105."
No details are given to indicate the programs to which these sums refer. Your
Committee recommends that this information be included in future Estimates.
12. Dr. A. J. R. Smith, Chairman of the
Economic Council of Canada, gave evidence
on the potential of the Canadian economy to
1975. The Council estimates a potential G.N.P.
of $100 billion by 1975, which means an average real growth of 5.5 per cent per year. It is
noted that the share of total output going to
consumers will decline while the share
absorbed by governments will increase. It is
further indicated that while government revenues will approximately double from 1967 to
1975 without any increase in taxation, present
government expenditures will also double

June 16, 1970

even if no new major programs are added.
This means that new major programs will be
possible only if governments replace or
reduce existing programs, increase taxation
or accept deficit financing. To quote from Dr.
Smith's evidence:
"More than 40 per cent of the total
increase in government expenditures
from 1967 to 1975 is anticipated in the
health and education fields."
"Education will continue to be the largest
single item of government expenditure,
rising to well in excess of $8 billion by
1975 before any allowance for price increases. The estimates suggest that expenditures at post secondary levels will
rise by roughly 15 per cent a year
1967-75."
"Health expenditures are expected to
grow faster than all other areas of government spending to 1975, reaching
nearly $5 billion (in 1967 prices) by the
latter year, about double the 1967 level."
13. As a result of these data, the following
initiatives are indicated:
(a) Some better method of appraising,
auditing and controlling the outlays
under shared cost programs must be
developed.
(b) There must be an ongoing evaluation of government programs to determine whether they are meeting their
original objectives with efficiency and
whether their original objectives are still
valid.
(c) Since Canada can reach its potential
only by a proper mix of public and private expenditures, there should be published each year a five year forward estimate of government expenditures which
would not necessarily be a detailed commitment, but an indication of the future
course of government activities.
14. In a comparative review of the Canadian economy of the 1960's Dr. Smith submitted
the appended chart. This chart indicates the
performance of the Canadian economy
between 1960 and 1970 against its potential.
Examination of this chart shows that the
Canadian economy was well below potential
at the beginning of the decade, and, in rushing to catch up, the inflation burden at the
end of the period was created. It is therefore
clear that if Canada is to reach its potential
without inflation (or is not to fall short) fiscal
and monetary measures must be applied as
evenly as possible.

June 16, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1247

are expected to increase by 8.3 per cent
15. In his appearance before your Commitand total Federal Government expenditee Professor Neufeld pointed out that budgetures on goods and services by 12.7 per
tary expenditures in 1969-70 produced a
cent. It would seem that government
budgetary surplus of $355 million as against a
spending is continuing to take an increasbudgetary deficit of $576 million in 1968-69,
ing share of the nation's output.
or a total restriction of $931 million. In 197071 budgetary expenditures will produce a
(b) There should be a much more critibudgetary surplus of $250 million which,
cal and informed analysis of costs and
when compared to 1969-70, means an easing
benefits with respect to government
of restriction of $105 million. On a National
expenditures.
Accounts basis (which concentrates on the
17. In conclusion, your Committee quotes
impact of the Federal Government's expenditures on the demand for goods and services) from its report on the 1969-70 Estimates:
It is the view of the Senate Committee on
the same easing of the restrictive effect of a
National Finance that some type of consurplus appears. Between 1968-69 and 1969-70
solidated cash budget statement be prethe restriction was $650 million, whereas
sented in future years in order to show
between 1969-70 and 1970-71 there is an
cash movements between the Governeasing of restriction of $440 million. When
ment and other sectors of the economy.
these facts are added to the fact that the
This would reflect the extra-budgetary
Federal Government's cash requirements are
matters as well as budgetary matters and
estimated at $500 million, it can be seen that
give a more accurate assessment of the
the freedom of action in monetary policy can
impact of the public sector on the econobe seriously affected.
my-especially as to its impact on finan16. Professor Neufeld made two further
cial markets, private sector liquidity, and
points:
the limitations placed upon monetary
policy by the banking system's require(a) Total government expenditures and
ments to finance the Government's bortotal govermnent expenditures on goods
rowing needs.
and services have been rising as a proportion of G.N.P.-the former amounting
Respectfully submitted,
to around 33 per cent and the latter to
D. D. Everett
over 21 per cent in 1969-70. In 1970-71
Chairman
total Federal Government expenditures

SENATE DEBATES

June 16, 1970

ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL G.N.P.
CANADA AND UNITED STATES
75 rCANADA

POTENTIAL
55

1-

750

700 -J

-

650

M
60

-

6o

ACTUAL
550

500

1961

62

63

64

65

66

67

68

69

0

14
1249

DEBATES
1970SENATE
17,
June

June 17. 1970

THE SENATE

ARCTIC WATERS POLLUTION
PREVENTION BILL
THIRID READING

Wednesday, June 17, 1970

Hon. Paul Martin moved the third readmng
The Senate met at 2 p.m., Honourable Mau- of Bill C-202, to prevent pollution of areas of
rice Bourget, P.C., Speaker pro tem, in the the arctic waters adjacent to the mainland
and islands of the Canadian arctic.
Chair.
Motion agreed to and bill read third lime
Prayers.
and passed.
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS IN SENATE
GALLERY
DELEGATES FROM SOUTHEAST ASIA TO
COMMONWEALTH PARLIAMENTARY
ASSOCIATION

HUDSON'S BAY COMPANY BILL
SECOND READING

The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mr.
The Hon. the Speaker pro fem: Honourable Everett for the second reading of Bill S-25,
senators, I wîsh to draw to your attention the respecting Hudson's Bay Company.
fact that we have today ti the South gallery
Hon. J. Canmpbell Haig: Honourable senadistinguished visitors from Southeast Asia tors, the second reading of this bil was
who are travelling i Canada under the aus- moved last evening by Senator Everett of
pices of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Winnipeg. To both of us it has a special sigAssociation. On your behaif, I extend to nificance because the Governor and Company
them a most hearty welcome to the Senate of Adventurers of England trading into Hudchamber.
son's Bay have a speciai rapport for our city.
This company has a long and distinguished
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
record of service to, Canada, and it is fitting
that on the 300th anniversary of its incorpoLAW REFORM COMMISSION BILL
ration by Royal Charter on May 2, 1670 it
shouid become a Canadian company with
THIRDI READING
headquarters in Winnipeg.
Before dealing with the particulars of the
Hon. Lazarus Phillips moved the third
reading of Bull C-186, to establish a commis- bill I should like to indicate to the house that
the Fort Garry Gate, from the original fort at
sion for the reform of the laws of Canada.
the junction of the Red and the Assiniboine,
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable is stili standing at the corner of Broadway
senators, it is moved by the honourabie Sena- and Main. On July 1 of this year the cabinet,
tor Phillips (Rigaud) that this bull be now headed by the Right Honourable Pierre Elliread the third trne. Is it your pleasure, ott Trudeau, will hold a meeting at Lower
honourable senators, to adopt the motion?
Fort Garry, some thirty miles north of
Winnipeg.
Somne Hon. Senators: Carried.
On July 14, as part of the program for the
celebration of Manîtoba's centennial, Her
Hon. Mr. Aselline: On division.
Motion agreed to and bull read third tirne Majesty the Queen will be presented with the
royal rent. It is a condition of the Royal
and passed, on division.
Charter that when the sovereign enters the
province he or she receives certain animal
skins as the royal rent. So, this tradition that
CANADA SHIPPING ACT (PILOTAGE)
was started 300 years ago is being conlinued.
THIRD READING
Ninety-five per cent of the shares of this
company, which is known in Winnipeg as
Hon. William J. Peotn moved the third
reading of Bill S-23, to postpone the expira- "The Bay", are heid in Canada. Although the
tion of certain provisions of an Act to amend head office of the company is in England,
there is a Canadian Coinmittee, the members
the Canada Shipping Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time of which are Canadians, and which handies
the operations in Canada. With the exception
and passed.

SENATE DEBATES

1250

of certain important financial decisions which
are referred to the head office in England, the
actual management of the company has
always been with the Canadian Committee at
Hudson's Bay House on Main Street, Winnipeg. On the 300th anniversary of its incorporation, the head office of the company is to
be located in Winnipeg.
This bill restricts the individual ownership
of shares in the company to 25 per cent. No
person or persons can own more than 10 per
cent of the authorized stock of the company,
and not more than 25 per cent may be owned
by non-residents. For five years from May 29,
1979, not more than 10 per cent of the shares
may be held by one person or an associated
group of persons.
I am advised by the officials of the company
that the reason for this is to prevent an
individual or group of individuals from
obtaining control of this company, because
they want to continue as they are now, a widely-held corporation. The shares originally
were issued in pounds. Now they have been
reduced to a no-par-value share and they are
a dollar value. The reason for this is that
because of the move of the head office to
Canada, it is expected that the large number
of shares held in the United Kingdom will be
sold, and it is hoped it will be to Canadians.
Honourable senators, this is a very simple
bill, and was fully explained by Senator Everett last evening. The Royal Charter in England is transferred to Canada, and produces a
charter that validates the original charter.
One of the reasons for this change-which I
found out only last night-is that the Justice
Department said, "If we want to sue you, who
do we sue?" Therefore, this bill validates and
produces a charter under Part I of the
Canada Corporations Act, which shall apply
to this company.
I would suggest, honourable senators, that
this bill receive unanimous consent of the
Senaie. I do not sec any reason for it going to
a committce of this house for further
discussion.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Honourable senators, I
suggest that it should be as easy to repatriate
the Constitution of Canada as it is to repatriaIe the Hudson's Bay Company.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
THIRD

READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, when shall this bill be read a third
time?
[Hon. Mr. Haig.]

June 17, 1970

Hon. Mr. Evereti: Honourable senators, in
light of the comments of honourable Senator
Haig, if there is no objection I would not
propose that the bill be sent to committee, but
rather, with leave, that it be given third
reading now.
Hon. Mr. Haig: Next sitting.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: On principle, honourable
senators, I do not see why we should set aside
our rules at this time unless sufficient reason
is given by the proposer.
Hon. Mr. Evereit: I defer to honourable
Senator Grosart, and mnove for consideration
next sitting.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: It is moved
by honourable Senator Everett, seconded by
honourable Senator Connolly, that this
bill be placed on the Orders of the Day for
third reading at the next sitting of the
Senate. Is it your pleasure, honourable
senatorsHon. Mr. Martin: Mr. Speaker, may I say a
few words before the motion is put? I think
the point taken by Senator Grosart is correct,
but I just overheard Senator Smith make an
observation which seems to me to have some
validity.
I am sure that we all want to see this bill
passed. There is the question of getting it to
the other place. In addition to whatever
reason Senator Everett had in mind, that perhaps is a reason we should consider.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I would be prepared to
accept that as a good reason, sir.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: When is the other place
considering private bills?
Hon. Mr. Martin: Offhand, I cannot say.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: If it were tonight or
tomorrow, that would be a reason.
Hon. Mr. Martin: In any event, so that no
chances will be taken I suggest that we follow
that course.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I was prepared to agree
with Senator Everett, but when Senator Grosart raised the objection I was hoping that we
would be told that the other place is prepared
to consider this bill tonight or tomorrow. If
that is not the case, then the argument of the
leader is not valid.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I think it still is valid, but
I cannot say that it will be considered tomor-

June 17, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

row. At the end of the session I think
arrangements will be made for certain bills to
be passed, and I would hope this would be
one of them. In the event that the adjournment occurs earlier than expected, I think the
acquiescence of Senator Grosart would be
helpful.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I am prepared to consent
to third reading now.
Hon. Mr. Evereti: I thank the honourable
Senator Grosart for his co-operation, and
move third reading now.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: With leave
of the Senate, it is moved by the honourable Senator Everett, notwithstanding Rule
45(1)(b), that this bill be now read the third
time. Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the motion?
Motion agreed to and bill read third time
and passed.
TERRITORIAL SEA AND FISHING ZONES
ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND

READING

Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: I wonder if
honourable senators would agree that Order
No. 10, for the resumption of this debate, in
the name of the honourable Senator Grosart,
be moved forward? He is committed to spend
some time later this afternoon with the guests
who were introduced to us earlier by Mr.
Speaker. I am sure that he and our guests
would appreciate it if he were able to make
his remarks now, and thus be relieved of this
duty later this afternoon.
Hon. Senaors: Agreed.
The Senate resumed from Thursday, June
11, the adjourned debate on the motion of
Hon. Mr. Robichaud, for the second reading
of Bill C-203, to amend the Territorial Sea
and Fishing Zones Act.
Hon. Allister Grosari: Honourable senators,
before I moved the adjournment of the debate
I made a few remarks in which I hope I made
it clear that, whereas I have some serious
objections to the bill in the form in which it
stands, I am generally in favour of its
objectives.
As I see them, the objectives of the bill are
to bring about an extension of the national
seas of all nations-although this bill refers
only to Canada-to the 12-mile limit drawn
on the headland-to-headland base Une basis;
22481-29

and, secondly, to provide for a fishing zone
over which Canada would not have sovereignty but over which it would exercise certain jurisdiction, a zone that would extend
considerably beyond the national or territorial sea. The objection I have to the bill is that
it seeks to bring about this objective-again I
say, for all countries-by unilateral action on
the part of one country, namely, Canada.
If honourable senators were to ask me what
the alternative is, I would say that it is obvious. It is that we continue our efforts to bring
about this laudable objective by multilateral
international action.
Therefore, I oppose the bill on the
grounds-and
I think they are good
grounds-of respect for the law. These are
times when one of our major problems, both
national and international, is lack of respect
for the rule of law. One of the problems is
the tendency of individuals and of nations to
take the law into their own hands, to become
impatient with the slow changes in the law,
and to say, as the sponsor of the bill said in
his excellent address, "If the law does not
keep up with technology, then it is about time
it did."
There are many instances in which we
would all be in agreement with that sentiment, but I suggest to honourable senators
that in the situation that faces us in the world
today-when we are concerned, above all
else, with the development and continuation
of respect for the law, both domestic law and
the law of nations-it is unfortunate that
Canada is putting itself in the position of
taking the law into its own hands. I will
acknowledge almost immediately that very
interesting arguments have been put forward,
particularly by Senator Robichaud, by the
law officers of the Crown and by three ministers. But I would have to say, from my own
limited knowledge of international law, that
they are specious arguments and will be so
regarded by many of our friends around the
world.
In objecting to some of the arguments that
have been put forward to justify this action, I
would like to make it very clear that I mean
no offence to Senator Robichaud. He has an
understandable interest in one aspect of this
bill. He is a distinguished former Minister of
Fisheries and has taken an active interest in
the development of jurisdiction over our fishing waters. Over the years he has made a
great contribution to the development of the
fisheries, in our domestic and coastal waters,
and in what are still, in my view, internation-

1252

SENATE DEBATES

al waters. I appreciate the fact that, as the
sponsor of the bill, Senator Robichaud necessarily put forward the views of the Government; and in what I have already described
as an excellent speech, he made as good a case
as could be made out for what I think is
fundamentally a bad case.
Any reading of the background of this bill
makes it clear that the Government placed
the responsibility on its legal advisers-and
very good advisers they were-to present the
best possible case for Canada, in this particular instance, taking the law into its own
hands. I have already indicated that I do not
think they have made out a good case,
though, as I have said, Senator Robichaud
painted it a better colour than did some of
the legal experts in their purely academic
arguments.
The basic issue here is whether we are
going to make laws in the future by unilateral action internationally, or by multilateral
action. The law of nations, international law,
is, to a large extent, in a state of flux. I may
say that my own interest in the subject goes
back many years. If honourable senators will
pardon a personal reference, some forty years
ago I was appointed a Carnegie Fellow of
International Law, and it so happens that I
wrote my thesis on the very subject with
which this bill is concerned, namely, the international law of territorial waters.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I have maintained my
interest over the years in international law,
hoping, as I am sure all honourable senators
have hoped, that international law would
develop on a basis of multilateral agreement,
rather than by unilateral action on the part of
individual states.
I have suggested that the arguments put
forward in favour of the action the Government contemplates, or is asking Parliament to
approve in this bill, are weak. To the best of
my ability, I would state briefly the main
arguments and suggest why, in my view, they
are weak.
The first general statement we have is
found in Senator Robichaud's speech at page
1194 of Hansard-and, if I may, I will not
quote from pages as I go along because the
speech is to be found on that page and the
following pages.
Senator Robichaud told us that in the last
forty years Canada has repeatedly shown its
good faith in the multilateral approach to the
territorial sea problems, and has participated
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

June 17, 1970

vigorously and constructively in its efforts to
achieve agreed rules of law on the breadth of
the territorial sea and the extent of contiguous zones.
I am sure Senator Robichaud is convinced
that we have acted in good faith. On the
contrary, honourable senators, I suggest that
the evidence is that we have not acted in
good faith. The fact of the matter is that two
international Laws of the Sea Conferences
were convened under the auspices of the
United Nations, in 1958 and 1960. At both
those conferences Canada put forth to the
nations of the world a particular view, in
general the view expressed in this bill. I say
in general-not exactly.
Senator Robichaud referred to the six-forsix formula, which was a proposal that the
territorial seas be extended to six miles from
the baseline and fishing zones another six. In
other words, Canada proposed a 12-mile limit
at those two international conferences. We
lost. The nations of the world decided against
the Canadian proposition. That was in 1960. It
is true that we lost by only one vote-more
correctly, by a fraction of vote, but we lost.
What was our good faith? We went to two
international conferences, put our position
before the nations of the world, and were
turned down.
There was an election campaign shortly
after that, and in the Maritimes the Prime
Minister promised that if his party was elected it would claim jurisdiction up to 12 miles.
In 1964 the act this bill seeks to amend was
brought in. This act extended the jurisdiction
of Canada up to the 12-mile limit. Now, was
that good faith? Is it good faith to go to a
conference and say, "Let's all agree. If you
don't agree, we are going to do it anyway?" I
suggest, honourable senators, that is not evidence that can be looked on with confidence by any country or nation having
what Senator Robichaud called forty years of
good faith.
Furthermore, having made this unilateral
declaration, we then said: "This does not
apply to everybody." We decided to except
some countries, to pick and choose from
among the countries with which we have to
live the ones to which we will make this
apply, and exceptions were made. I will name
the countries, because it will have some
relevance to something I will say shortly.
Senator Robichaud gave us the names of the
countries. They are: Britain, France, Norway,
Denmark, Italy, Portugal, Spain and the
United States. Senator Robichaud described
them as countries all engaged in fishing opera-

June 17, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

tions on our Atlantic coast. Exceptions were
made to our unilateral assertion of jurisdiction in respect to those countries because they
had what were called traditional fishing
rights. To emphasize the point, Senator Robichaud later in his speech again mentioned
those countries.
A third argument in support of the Canadian position is that we are in favour of a
third law of the sea conference. All those who
have spoken on behalf of the Government
have made a great deal of it and said, "We
are trying to get a third law of the sea conference." Can you wonder, honourable senators, if the other countries are hesitant to pay
very much attention to that kind of suggestion? Surely they will take this position:
What is the sense in having a third law of the
sea conference with you people? Whatever we
agree to, you have already made it quite clear
that you will pay no attention. You will sit
down and say you will discuss it, but if you
do not get your own way at the third law of
the sea conference you will do exactly what
you did after the second.
So, I do not blame the nations of the
world if they are rather sceptical about our
passion, which seems to be indicated, for this
third conference. If there is a third conference and the nations do not agree with the
action proposed in this bill, are we going to
repeal it? What sort of position do we put
ourselves in? We make a unilateral declaration. If at another conference the nations of
the world say, "We do not agree with youyou are going beyond the pale of international law", will we then reply, "We don't care.
We passed a bill. We have taken single state
action"?
One of the arguments in favour of this
attitude is, of course, that this is the way
customary international law is made, that
nations take unilateral action, and that if
enough of them take such unilateral action
we have customary international law.
To support this, Senator Robichaud gave us
the names of a number of countries who have
legislated a 12-mile limit. He and the Government have made a case, in their view, for the
development of our unilateral action of 1964
into what they now say is customary international law. This is how the game works. You
do it; somebody else does it. Senator Robichaud pointed out that in 1966 the United
States said, "If Canada is going to do it, we
are living along the same coastline, so we have
to do it too", and that is correct. They pro22481-291

1253

claimed a 12-mile territorial sea following us.
Then some other countries did it. As Senator
Robichaud told us:
I have already stated that a large number
of states now claim a 12-mile territorial
sea. Lest it be thought that such countries
are not influential or that they consist of
a few land-locked states, with your indulgence, honourable senators, allow me to
list those countries which have established a 12-mile territorial sea.
These are the countries: Algeria, Bulgaria,
Burma, Cambodia, China, Colombia, Cyprus,
Dahomey, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana,
Guatemala, and so on-I will not go through
the whole list. The important point is that of
the eight countries named as having traditional interests in what we do about our
claims to our territorial seas, not one of them
is on that list. So the only argument we really
have is to give this list of countries who have
no interest whatsoever in what Canada bas
done, or what Canada did in 1964, and who
have done the same thing. But not one country that has a direct interest, not one of the
eight countries for whom we made an exception, is on this list. So the list of countries is
useless. They are not countries with any
interest at all in the international law of the
seas. They may have some self-interest, such
as we have.
Senator Robichaud made a very strong
point of the fact that the unilateral action we
took in 1964 has worked out to the advantage
of Canadian self-interest. I have no doubt that
is true. But is this an argument for taking the
law into our own hands? Is it an argument
merely to say this has been good for us? Is
not that the hippie argument? Is not that the
argument of any self-interested group which
says, "If we cannot get the law changed, we
will pay no attention to it. We will change it
as far as we are concerned and forget about
the interests of any others who may be affected?" Surely self-interest in any such
approach to change in any law is a very poor
and completely invalid argument. Yet in
Senator Robichaud's speech we have such
statements as: "This action is amply justified."
"There is ample precedent." "There is a
sound legal basis."
Honourable senators, this is just whistling
by the graveyard. There is not ample justification in international law. There is not
ample and valid precedent in international
law, and there is not a sound basis in international law for the unilateral action proposed
in this bill.

1254

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Robichaud, having claimed that
there is this ample justification, went to say
that there is no need for a defence of Canada's action, but, as honourable senators will
remember, he gave us a long, learned, and
interesting speech in defence of it. I suggest
that if honourable senators read that speech
carefully-and I must assume that it is the
attitude of the Government-they will have
to say that he doth protest too much.
Another argument is that international law
as it stands is too rigid. We do not like this
international law. We do not like a law that
declares: Here are your territorial waters,
established by agreement among the nations.
Senator Robichaud said that this is too rigid,
and he told us of our efforts to change the
law over the years. I insist again that I am in
favour of change by multilateral agreement,
but not by unilateral action.
Senator Robichaud said that these efforts
failed largely because some of the major
maritime states have been rigid and inflexible
in their view, that they have too often confused national interests with international
imperatives.
I ask honourable senators if there is a more
glaring example of the confusion of national
efforts with international imperatives than
the bill that is now before us. Surely, we are
saying that these are our national interests,
and we have lost sight of the great international imperative of respect for the rule of
international law.
There is evidence throughout the whole of
the Government's position that they are not
very sure of their ground. One of my reasons
for saying this is the assurance that we find
in the bill, and in the speeches that have been
made in support of it, that there will be
exceptions. I mentioned this earlier, but now
we are going further. We say now that unilaterally we are going to make international
law; that by state practice it will become customary international law. Then we will decide
who are to be the exceptions to this customary international law. The absurdity of this is
obvious. We are saying that we are going to
make not Canadian law but customary international law-international law that becomes
part of the custom of nations-but we say
that Canada will decide to whom the custom
applies. Surely, the absurdity is obvious.
Of course, we except those countries which
we say have traditional fishing rights. We
say that we will negotiate with them, and
phase them out. We admit they have tradi[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

June 17, 1970

tional rights, but under this bill we say that
we are going to phase out those rights, and
this we call law. France and the United States
have long established treaty rights, and we
say we are going to respect those treaty rights.
They are a special kind of right. They are
different from what we call Canadian-made
customary international law.
Clause 3 provides for an amendment of
section 5(2) of the act, and by it we admit
that there might be a conflict between the
kind of extension we might make beyond the
12-mile limit, and that of other nations who
may themselves have a 12-mile limit, or a
conflict with their fishing zones.
Interestingly enough, not only in Senator
Robichaud's speech but in comments made by
ministers of the Crown, we find the phrase
"the present three-mile limit" cropping up.
This makes it clear that the Government is
making a specious argument when the realities of the law as it stands keep cropping up.
The phrase "the present limits" is found in
not only Senator Robichaud's speech but in
the evidence given by the legal experts and in
speeches made by ministers.
While speaking of what ministers have
said, I should point out that a most revealing
statement was made by the Minister of Fisheries who under questioning said: "Look, we
are going to go as far as we can get away
with." That is the best statement I have seen
so far as to what the Government is really
asking Parliament to allow it to do. The Government is, in effect, saying: Let us get away
with anything we can.
Hon. Mr. Lamontagne: What is your objection to that?
Hon. Mr. Grosart: My objection to that is
that that is the kind of approach to the rule
of law by an individual or a nation that leads
to anarchy and chaos. I hope that that satisfies the honourable senator. I know that in his
own private life he would not like his neighbour to take the attitude, in respect of the
rule of law generally, that he could go as far
as he could get away with, particularly if he
had two neighbours. In this particular case
Canada appears to have forgotten that she
has approximately a hundred neighbours on
the high seas.
Senator Robichaud's argument, re-echoing
the comment of the legal advisers, was that
the United Kingdom V. Norway case applied
to this unilateral action. Our action of 1964 is
cited as being in accordance with the decision
of the International Court of Justice in the
United Kingdom v. Norway case.

June 17, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Honourable senators, I have read that case
more than once, and if anything could be
further from the truth to say that it covers
the action we have taken here, I do not know
what it is. The International Court of Justice
in that case made a specific exception in the
Norwegian situation. The situation that arose
was in relation to fisheries and to the economy of the country, but the decision of the
court did not cover this new kind of future
development. I am quite sure that the International Court of Justice had no idea in mind
that any nation within a few years would
take this position: We are taking your decision in that case to justify a unilateral extension of our territorial waters and, under the
authority of order in council, of our fishing
zones as far out into the high seas as we wish.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Surely Senator Grosart is
not arguing that the Norwegian case is not
authority for the establishment by the International Court of Justice of the principle that
you might begin to measure the territorial
line out to sea on the headland-to-headland
principle.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I do not disagree with
that as a generalization, but it is very much
of a generalization. It was not, by the courts,
made generally applicable, and again it
referred to the great indentations of the
Norwegian coastline. It made very clear that
this was a particular case where the headlineto-headline baselines of territorial waters,
jurisdictional waters, or fishing zones, made
sense.

1255

do you see wrong with that law? Why are we
not allowed to protect our own shores? What
are we going to do with our east and west
coasts, let every country come in and take
our fisheries? Do we not have the right to
protect our people on these shores?
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I said at the outset that I
was in favour of the objective of the bill. I
am in favour that the right be given to countries under international law-not merely
customary international law, but international
law-to protect their national and territorial
waters and have jurisdiction in respect to
fishing zones. I might also add in respect to
pollution. I have no objection to that position.
The objection I have to the bill is to any
one country, or to any one individual or any
group of individuals taking the law into their
own hands because they felt it was necessary.
The position we should have taken is the one
taken by the United States and quoted by
Senator Robichaud. I refer to Hansardat page
1197:
-the
United States Government bas
made clear its willingness to accept the
12-mile limit for the territorial sea provided that it is fixed by a multilateral
agreement rather than by the continuing
development of customary law through
state practice.

Hon. Mr. Grosarit: With respect, I think the
honourable senator did misunderstand me.
There is a difference between the eight and
the 40. The 40-odd countries are the ones
which have followed the Canadian lead. It is
that following of our lead that is cited as
making a valid case for the extension of unilateral action by Canada into customary
international law. The eight nations I cited
are those which have a specific interest in the
Canadian position, and they are not among
the 40. That was my point.

That is the position which I am taking.
If we are to have respect for law and the
law of nations then we should protect our
own interests within the law and not go
beyond the pale of the law. The argument
which we have heard over and over again is
that if we do it the others will follow our
lead. Of course they will if we get away with
it, as the Minister of Fisheries said. Other
nations decided not to let us get away with it.
They decided to do the same thing. Is this the
way we want the law of nations to develop?
Is this the way we want to settle honest international disagreement? I suggest, honourable
senators, that is the essential danger, the
danger in principle of Canada taking this particular way of achieving a laudable objective.
Finally, honourable senators, what about
the consequences? Will we get away with
it? I suppose there will be those who will
say that if we can get away with it, this
is fine. We have defied international law and
put the gun to the other nations. The Americans will not land the marines and nobody is
going to send in gunboats-maybe not.

Hon. Mr. McLean: What do you see wrong
in our country protecting our shores? What

Hon. Mr. Kickham: Honourable senators, I
cannot help but make the remark that for

Hon. Mr. McLean: I would like to ask a
question. Senator Grosart stated that there
were eight countries which Senator Robichaud mentioned that had a 12-mile limit. He
named more than 40 countries which extended over a 12-mile limit. Did Senator Grosart
say eight countries, or did I misunderstand
him?

1256

SENATE DEBATES

June 17, 1970

years the Conservative opposition, especially when they happen to be out in the high seas.
under the St. Laurent administration, con- We want one law for Canada in one area and
tinually demanded that the Government take we want another law in the high seas."
unilateral action. Senator Grosart's position is
I say to honourable senators that most of
exactly contradictory to the attitude which international law has historically developed
has been taken for years by the Conservative with and through the law of the high seas. I
opposition in the House of Commons. When suggest that if we pass this bill we are taking
they did get into office, they did not do a a step which will not enhance Canada's posisingle thing, either multilaterally or unilater- tion among the nations in the long run, but
ally. I cannot understand how Senator Gro- may prove deleterious to our own best
sart's remarks can make any sense to me or interests.
anyone else.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: I must warn
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I do not find that posi- honourable senators
that
tion surprising from the senator who has such Senator Robichaud speaks if the honourable
a well-known interest in the particular area the effect of closing the now it will have
debate.
of our Maritimes and our fishing zones. In
reply, I can only say that I am not today
Hon. Hédard Robichaud: Honourable senaspeaking for the Conservative Party, past or tors, I have, as I am sure all honourable senapresent. I am speaking for myself as one tors have, great respect for the arguments
interested in the development of the law of raised by Senator Grosart. We are fully
nations. I am not to be bound by any position aware of his experience and knowledge in
that was taken by individuals or senators or international law. I must say, however, and it
to my recollection by the Conservative party was quite evident by the remarks which I
as such. But that is neither here nor there. I made when introducing this bill, that I do not
am speaking from a particular point of view agree entirely with his position in this regard.
and it is immaterial to me who took any I would like to answer at least one point
other position at any time in our history.
raised, and I shall be very brief.
Senator Robichaud indicated that there is
I assure you I do not intend to make as
some real area of concern. Toward the con- lengthy a speech as I did when explaining the
clusion of his remarks he said:
bill, when I took the opportunity to place on
Canada has done and will do every- the record certain evidence which I felt had
thing possible to ensure that such a con- not been made public or had not been used in
ference will give greater recognition to the discussions which took place in the other
the special interests of the coastal state, place.
and to afford greater protection for such
Senator Grosart referred to the position
species as the Atlantic and Pacifie salmon taken by Canada as a unilateral action. I
which are protected at considerable cost agree that it is a unilateral action, but it is an
by the efforts of the coastal state, only to action which Canada was forced to take when
be depleted by exploitation by other faced with the necessity of introducing adestates on the high seas. Canada believes quate safeguards to protect and conserve our
that the international climate is increas- marine fishery resources. It is only after years
ingly favourableand years of negotiations that this decision
I hope it is, but I would suggest to honourable has been reached, as the time had come to
senators that if other countries are going to take action if we wanted to conserve our
be urged by Canada to take the very impor- fisheries resources.
tant step of limiting the deep-sea exploitation
In the course of my remarks I referred to
of the reserves of our own salmon and other the negotiations which had been taking place
fish, that this is not the way to go about it. since 1964 with a number of countries, mostly
We would be in a very weak position if we European countries and the United States,
were to go to the next conference of the Law who are engaged in fishing opera4 ions in the
of the Sea and say, "Will you please give us west Atlantic. We have not selected those
the right to exploit our own fisheries as much countries. Those countries with whom we
as we want in our own territorial waters. have negotiated have not been singled out for
Allow us the right to extend our fishing zones such negotiations, but it was only natural and
as far as we wish by order in council-that is logical that Canada would negotiate with
what this bill asks-but please do not do the countries involved in fishing operations along
same thing to us. Do not exploit our resources our coasts, in Canadian waters.
[Hon. Mr. Kickham.]

June 17, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

With these countries we have discussed the
question of phasing out traditional activities,
historic rights, which are recognized under
international law, and we have also discussed
with them the establishment of base lines
from headland to headland. There again,
these are matters recognized and accepted to
a certain extent, under international law.
Like many countries, some of which I have
mentioned, Canada is not entirely satisfied
that the international law is going far enough
in recognizing the establishment of headlandto-headland baselines; and if we are to protect our fisheries, on the east as well as on the
west coast-whether in the Gulf of the St.
Lawrence, the Bay of Fundy, Hecate Strait,
Dixon Entrance or Queen Charlotte Soundwe have to take action similar to that taken
by a number of countries, otherwise our own
fisheries resources are going to be overexploited by foreign nations.
I want to make it clear that the Government bas taken action only after having
taken advantage of every opportunity to discuss such problems with the countries
involved.
Senator Grosart has asked the question: If
we are not successful, will we repeal the bil?
If I remember correctly, in my remarks I
mentioned the flexibility of this bill. In introducing particularly the headland-to-headland
baselines, the Government is given certain
flexibility, and these will be established, I am
sure, after further negotiations with the countries involved. As a last resort-and I am
certainly not hoping that it will come to
that-if the countries involved are not satisfied, they can always appeal to the International Court of Justice for a decision.
Honourable senators, I mentioned in introducing the bill that if it received second reading I would move that it be referred to the
Standing Senate Committee on Foreign
Affairs. My understanding is that certain
negotiations or discussions have taken place
since the introduction of this bill, and as the
other place has given a thorough examination
to the bill, unless there is objection on the
part of honourable senators, I intend to move,
after second reading, that the bill be placed
on the Orders of the Day for third reading at
the next sitting.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.

Hon. Mr. Robichaud moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.
CANADA DAY BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE

ADJOURNED

Hon. Sarto Fournier moved the second
reading of Bill S-24, respecting Canada Day.
He said: Honourable senators, the purpose
of this bill is to repeal the Dominion Day Act
and to substitute therefor a Canada Day Act.
The bill also provides that the first day of
July shall be a legal holiday, kept and
observed as such.
Now, you may ask me why I would like to
call our national holiday "Canada Day",
rather than "Dominion Day" or, as has
been suggested, "Confederation Day". This
is very easily answered. I like "Canada Day"
because I like Canada and I like being a
Canadian. It gives me a sense of pride and
satisfaction to realize that Canada is now
such a grand country, a beautiful and comfortable country to live in, a country that is
envied by everyone who is not a Canadian.
Having said this, honourable senators, I will
now tell you why I do not like the word
"dominion," nor the word "confederation" to
qualify our national holiday.
Let us start with the word "dominion". It is
what someone has called a very archaic term,
which really has no appeal to me or to
anyone who has any pride in the achievements of our country, in its constitutional
development, in its own sovereignty and in
the equality it has achieved with the other
parts of the Commonwealth, more especially
since the adoption of the Statute of Westminster in 1931. In my opinion, the only people
who would relish the word "dominion" are
those who enjoy being under someone else's
domination. As one member of the other
place once said:
The word "dominion" having a colonial
flavour involves a concept of domination,
and we want neither to dominate anyone,
nor to be dominated by anyone.

The story has been told that one of the
Fathers of Confederation, Sir Leonard Tilley,
I think from New Brunswick, whilst reading
his Bible, rather than listening to Sir John A.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable Macdonald at a meeting preparatory to the
senators, when shall this bill be read the union of the different colonies, hit upon a
beautiful passage in Psalm 72, where it is
third time?

1258

SENATE DEBATES

written that the Lord shall have dominion
from sea to sea, and that that was the origin
of the word "dominion". This, of course, came
before the adoption of the saying "Britannia
rules the waves", but it is in line with that
expression of imperialism. However, Tilley's
discovery of a suitable word-or what he
thought a suitable word-to describe our
country had been discovered long before.
For instance, I have had occasion to read,
thanks to the diligent research and science of
the British statutes by my friend Dr. Maurice
Ollivier, the distinguished Parliamentary
Counsel of the House of Commons, a statute
entitled:
An Act for Laws and Justice to be
ministered in Wales in like Forms as it is
in this Realm.
This statute happens to have been passed
during the reign of Henry VIII, in the year
1535-36, and it refers to the:
-dominion
principalities and country
of Wales justly and righteously, incorporated, annexed, united and subject to
and under the imperial crown of this
realm.
Further reference is made at page 337, to "the
new Dominion of Wales", and to the fact that
the subjects of this Dominion shall obey the
King's justices, etc. Verily indeed, honourable
senators, I do not like the word "dominion".
And now what of the word "confederation"? I believe that if you want to encourage
separatism in this country you should adopt
this word. Let us ask ourselves, what is a
"confederation"?
Everyone who has studied international law
knows that the word "confederation" applies
to a collection of sovereign states which,
without losing any degree of their sovereignty, unite for certain specific purposes, and at
the same time reserve the right to secede
from the union, which to them is valuable
only as long as it serves these purposes. As an
example, following the teaching of my law
professor, Dr. Ollivier, the Confederation of
the Rhine which existed in 1805 was dissolved
several years later. The colonies of British
North America in 1867 were certainly not
sovereign states and they made no rampart;
they were simply united more or less, at least
in the case of one of them, by an act of the
United Kingdom Parliament, passed at Westminister. To apply to this process the word
"confederation", is to make use of a misnomer. Canada is a federation, or more exactly a
federal state.
[Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière).]

June 17. 1970

Before concluding, honourable senators, I
would like to say how grateful and happy I
am to have my motion seconded by the most
distinguished Senator Quart. The honourable
Senator Quart is a lady senator, and with the
other ladies sitting in this chamber she represents at least one half of the population of
our country. It is with great pride that I
received her so graciously offered support.
Maybe there is another reason too. I know
that the honourable Senator Quart is a very
prominent member of the Conservative Party,
and perhaps that will put the discussion at a
higher level, over and above any partisan
approach. Again I express my gratitude to the
honourable Senator Quart.
I hope, honourable senators, that the members of this chamber will not hesitate to put
the name of Canada where it belongs. At this
stage of the twentieth century it is time to get
rid of words that do not cope with the situation in which we are living, which are in
direct contradiction to the legal and constitutional position of our country. If we have to
use the words "dominion" or "confederation",
I hope we will use them for some other purpose than to give a definition of what our
country, Canada, really is.
On motion of Hon. Mrs. Quart, debate
adjourned.
CANADA

CORPORATIONS ACT

BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READINGDEBATE ADJOURNED
Hon. Earl W. Urquhart moved the second
reading of Bill C-4, to amend the Canada
Corporations Act and other statutory provisions related to the subject matter of certain
of those amendments.
He said: Honourable senators, Bill C-4 contains important and far reaching amendments
to the Canada Corporations Act. Since its
enactment in 1934, the Canada Corporations
Act has been amended only three times. Of
those amendments, only those enacted in 1965
could in any way be looked at as substantial
amendments. The amendments now before
you are the most extensive that have been
prepared since 1934.
Bill C-4 bas been the subject of a thorough
study in the other place. The House of Commons Committee on Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs held 19 sittings, where witnesses from 17 organizations, as well as
individuals, the Minister of Consumer and
Corporate Affairs and his officials, testified. I
am telling you this because I believe that this

June 17, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

in itself is indicative of the importance of this
legislative measure. Without entering into a
discussion of the technical intricacies of the
bill, I would like to briefly outline the important features of these amendments.
This bill does not propose a complete revision of the Canada Corporations Act. It deals
only with the most pressing problems. Other
aspects of the act are still under consideration
in the Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs as part of a general view of
company law.
The role of securities regulation in our
capital markets has received a good deal of
attention in recent years. The first attempt in
Canada to consider this question in a meaningful manner goes back to the Royal Commission on Banking and Finance, known as
the Porter Commission. The 1964 report of the
commission helped to focus public attention
on some of the key problems in this field and
certainly helped point the way to the
advances that we have witnessed during the
last five or six years.
As was pointed out by the Kimber Committee in Ontario, more recently, "One of the
strongest single forces in the complex process
of raising capital is public confidence." One of
the prerequisites to public confidence is the
knowledge of the relevant facts without which
sound and rational decisions cannot be made.
It is not, for that reason, surprising that the
Porter Commission stressed the desirability of
greater disclosure of corporate information
regarding not only financial institutions but
also the securities market as a whole. As
honourable senators know, the Kimber Report
paved the way to the enactment of a comprehensive set of disclosure requirements in
Ontario in 1967. The four western provinces
have since followed suit and have adopted, in
substantially the same form, the Ontario
requirements.
The maintenance and strengthening of
investor confidence are real concerns of the
federal Government. The financial disclosure
requirements of the Canada Corporations Act
were greatly improved by the 1965 amendments. This, however, was only a first step.
Bill C-4 is another step in the same direction.
As the Minister of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs said in the other place, this bill will
considerably improve, with respect to federally incorporated companies, the quality, the
range and the level, not only of the financial
information but generally of the corporate
information available to shareholders, prospective shareholders and to the public in gen22481-30

1259

eral. The improvements proposed in this bill
should go a long way to increase confidence
in the securities industry. As was pointed out
by the Kimber Report, to the extent that the
securities industry becomes a more effective
and a more efficient part of the economy, the
general public will benefit. This is the main
objective pursued in Bill C-4.
The various provisions contained in the bill,
whether they concern financial disclosure,
insider trading, take-over bids, proxy solicitation, or inspection and investigation, are al
designed to promote the climate required for
the development of a high degree of investor
confidence.
The objectives of the amendments with
respect to financial disclosure are two-fold:
firstly, to improve the adequacy and sufficiency of the information reported, and, secondly,
to increase public disclosure of financial
statements.
Regarding the contents of the financial
statements, recent innovations adopted in
Ontario and the four western provinces will
enlarge and refine the disclosure requirements that apply to federal companies. The
amendments would require companies, for
example, to prepare a statement showing the
source and application of their funds and to
prepare their financial statements in a comparative form, showing in a single statement
figures for the last two consecutive years. I
believe it is correct to say that these new
requirements would involve little or no additional work by the company, as the figures to
be included in these statements could be
readily derived from the company's books.
Great care has been taken to make the
financial requirements imposed on federal
companies correspond as much as possible to
the requirements that apply to provincially
incorporated companies. There are, however,
two fundamental questions, not dealt with in
provincial legislation, which deserve special
attention. The first of these questions concerns the financial reporting of diversified
multi-line companies, while the second has to
do with the availability to the public of the
financial statements of private companies of
economic significance.
The quality and usefulness of the financial
statements of many corporations have been
considerably reduced in recent years by the
growing conglomeration and diversification of
business enterprises, especially in the United
States, but also in Canada. Companies operating across many industries commonly report
their operating results on a consolidated basis,

1260

SENATE DEBATES

thus depriving the public from having access
to relevant financial and operating characteristics. The failure to make public detailed
financial information not only deprives investors of the data they need to make informed
investment judgments, but also deprives
shareholders of the data they require to
assess the performance and quality of the
administrators of companies.
For these reasons, companies with more
than one class of business will be required to
indicate the proportion in which their sales or
gross revenue are divided among these
classes. Originally, the bill would also have
required the companies to disclose the extent
to which the carrying on of the business of
each class contributed to or restricted the
profit or loss of the company. This last
requirement is not in the bill any more. It
was thought in the other place that before a
decision is made as to requiring companies to
give such information, the results of a
number of studies now in process, especially
that of the Accounting and Auditing Research
Committee of the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants, should be awaited. Companies, however, should have no difficulty in
reporting the proportion in which their sales
are related to each class of business, especially when companies will be required to report
only with respect to those classes that contribute at least 10 per cent or more to the
gross revenue of the company.
The experience in other jurisdictions, especially in the United States and Great Britain,
has shown that reporting requirements of this
sort are both desirable and feasible.
The other question of importance, in the
context of financial disclosure, relates to the
provisions that would require private companies of economic significance to make public
their financial statements.
As honourable senators may know, the
great majority of companies incorporated
under the Canada Corporations Act are private companies. The corporations branch estimates that out of the 17,500 business companies incorporated under the act, approximately 15,000 are private companies.
In the case of public companies, I believe it
is fair to say that in recent years we have
achieved in Canada, through amendments to
the companies acts and the securities legislation of the various Canadian jurisdictions, a
relatively high degree of public disclosure.
Progress has not kept pace, however, in the
case of large private companies.
[Hon. Mr. Urquhart.]

June 17, 1970

This issue is not, by any means, a new
problem. As long ago as 1935, the Royal Commission on Price Spreads-the Steven's Commission-called for better financial statements
and recommended that they be published in
the press and the Canada Gazette. The Royal
Commission on Prices, the Curtis Commission,
the 1959 Royal Commission on Price Spreads
in Food Products, the Stewart Commission,
the Porter Commission, and the Carter Commission, all expressed concern about the
standards of corporate disclosure in Canada.
There are a number of reasons why private
companies of economic significance should be
required to disclose their financial statements.
I would like to briefly discuss some of them
with you.
Many large private companies exert considerable influence in our economy. The private
company device, which had originally been
developed to assist a small entrepreneur, most
often organized on the family basis, has
very often become the corporate structure
used by many huge firms. Many of these
large private companies are in effect in competition with other companies that must disclose information about their operations.
Many of these private companies are wholly
owned subsidiaries of public companies incorporated abroad. Little is known about their
operations in Canada, although the global
operations of the parent and subsidiaries
taken as a whole may be required to be disclosed in the jurisdiction concerned.
It is a prerequisite of any rational decision
making process that it be based on information as complete and accurate as possible. The
Government and the public need to know
more about the affairs of the large private
enterprises.
The proposals contained in Bill C-4 would
make an important contribution toward
improving the adequacy of the information
available to the public about the operations of
private firms in Canada.
No one has suggested that the requirements
contained in this bill would in themselves be
the answer to the questions that many have
raised about foreign ownership or control of
Canadian industry. They will, however, provide factual information that will help understand what the real problems are.
But this question of disclosure of financial
information by privately incorporated firms
has much broader implications. Assuredly, the
disclosure of financial information is one of
the essential tools of the whole spectrum of
policies designed to protect the investor and

June 17, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

maintain his confidence in the operation of
our economic system. But the disclosure of
financial information is fundamental to our
system of private enterprise in another
respect.
The performance of firms can be measured
only through disclosure. It is only when sufficient information is available that decisions
can be made by the entrepreneurs as to the
sectors of the economy in which new firms
should be set up and new investments made.
The efficient working of this basic decisionmaking process is obviously made much more
difficult when, as in the case in Canada presently, the performance or profitability of
many of the larger firms operating in important sectors of the economy are not known,
because they are so-called private companies.
There are many conditions necessary for an
efficient allocation of our economic resources,
but surely one of the most important is the
availability of information about the essential
financial characteristics of existing firms.
This question of public disclosure by private companies of economic significance bas
received a great deal of attention in the
House of Commons and in its Committee on
Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs as
well. Much of the discussion turned on the
level of significance at which private firms
should be required to disclose. The committee
finally decided that the financial disclosure
requirements would be fairer if they were
raised from $3 million of assets or sales, as
originally set, to $5 million of assets or $10
million sales.
Some have suggested that these disclosure
requirements would be discriminatory as
against federal companies, because provincially incorporated private firms would not be
required to disclose similar information to the
public. But, may I ask, has a convincing case
been made that disclosure of the information
required by Bill C-4 would really be detrimental to the interest of the companies to
which the requirements would apply? If one
is to talk about discrimination, it should not
be forgotten that those who would have valid
reasons to complain would really be the
public companies rather than the private
ones.
To accomplish its disclosure objectives, the
Government has followed the route of the
incorporating statute or, in other words, the
Canada Corporations Act. This is the road
that presents the fewest legal problems. The
Government is confident that federal action in
this aspect will encourage the other jurisdic22481--30

1261

tions to follow suit. If this were not to
happen, other avenues would have to be
explored.
Before leaving this subject, I would like to
emphasize that Bill C-4 has been amended in
the other place to provide for a clear and
comprehensive exemption procedure, to be
administered by the court, to insure that no
undue prejudice will result to private firms
by reason of these disclosure requirements.
This brings me to the other important
provisions of Bill C-4. Much of the discussion
about corporate law in recent years bas centred on the question of the duties and responsibilities of corporate management. Bill C-4
deals in a comprehensive manner with one of
the most important of these problems, the
problem of insider trading.
Insiders who have access to confidential
corporate information and who take advantage of the information when they trade for
their own account in the securities of the
corporation do great damage to our system of
free market economy.
The Ontario Kimber Committee studied
this question in depth. It concluded that while
it is not improper for an insider to buy or sell
securities in his own company, it is improper
to use confidential information acquired by
him by the virtue of his position as an insider
in order to make personal profits in trading in
the security of his company. The ideal securities market should be a free and open market
and the price of securities be based upon the
fullest possible knowledge of all relevant
facts. Honourable senators will agree with
me, I believe, that any factor which tends to
destroy or put in question this concept lessens
the confidence of the investing public in the
market place and is therefore a matter of
public concern.
While the problem of insider trading is
dealt with in a rather rudimentary way in the
present Canada Corporations Act, Bill C-4
proposes a comprehensive code to deal with
the problem. The proposed insider trading
rules are substantially the same as those to be
found in the company law or securities legislation of Ontario and the four western provinces. The important features of the uniform
provincial legislation have been adopted.
As a rule, insiders would not under these
provisions be prevented from trading in the
securities of their company. The amendments,
however, provide for full and effective disclosure of their trading by insiders and remove
the financial rewards for insiders, their relatives and business associates, should they

SENATE DEBATES
breach the prohibition not to make improper
use of confidential information belonging to
the company.
The amendments would, in this respect,
impose a statutory liability on the insiders,
their associates and affiliates, including those
members of the family as well as any
employee of the company or any person
whose services are retained by the company,
who take improper advantage of their inside
knowledge. These people would be accountable to any persons who have suffered a direct
loss, because of the use by such insiders of
specific confidential information in connection
with a transaction relating to the securities of
the company. They would also be accountable
to the company for any direct benefit
received by them in these circumstances.
These new requirements should help to
maintain a high degree of confidence in the
investing public that all would be treated
fairly and equitably. They should also serve
as a deterrent against the undue enrichment
of insiders through their confidential knowledge, at the expense of the shareholders or
other affected persons who lack the inside
knowledge.
This brings me to the provisions of Bill C-4
that deal with proxies and proxy solicitation.
As our economy expands, our companies
grow larger and more complex. At the same
time, management seems more isolated from
shareholders in an increasing number of companies. For most of the year, corporate management can carry on without reference to
the shareholders. Once a year, however, the
shareholders have the privilege of deciding
whether the present management should be
continued in office. Relatively few shareholders actually appear at annual meetings, and
more are willing to give proxies to representatives of management. Unregulated, the
proxy device thus tends to become a powerful
instrument that management can easily use to
perpetuate itself indefinitely. Furthermore,
proxies are often solicited to approve management's action in cases where shareholders
are not given sufficient information. An
informed decision is often almost impossible.
The proposed amendments provide a comprehensive set of rules governing proxies and
proxy solicitation, whether the solicitation is
by management or others. The form of the
proxy would be regulated and would be
designed in such a manner to afford the
shareholder the opportunity to appoint as his
nominee someone other than the person
designated on the proxy solicitation material.
[Hon. Mr. Urquhart.]

June 17, 1970

The form would also allow the shareholder to
instruct his proxy how to vote on each matter
to be considered.
As sufficient information is a prerequisite to
sound decisions, an information statement
would be required to accompany any solicitation of proxy. Similarly, as shareholders must
be provided with an opportunity to exercise
their right of corporate suffrage, companies
would be required to send suitable proxy
forms along with notices of meetings, and
some companies would be required to solicit
proxies.
These requirements would not apply to a
private company or to a public company that
has fewer than 15 shareholders, as the considerations to which I have referred are less
likely to arise in companies owned by a small
number of shareholders.
Many amendments have been made to Bill
C-4 in the House of Commons to ensure that
it corresponds more fully with the provisions
of the uniform provincial legislation on similar matters. The differences that remain
between Bill C-4 and the uniform provincial
legislation are only peripheral and represent
necessary improvements.
In one important respect, however, Bill C-4
is breaking new ground in so far as Canada is
concerned. The bill could introduce, for the
first time in Canada, a procedure that would
make it easier for those shareholders who
wish to involve themselves in the affairs of
their company to do so more effectively. The
amendments would, in effect, provide a
machinery that would enable a shareholder
to give notice to all his fellow shareholders of
his intention to submit a proposal to a meeting. A company soliciting proxies would be
required to include the shareholder proposal
in its information statement. Thus a shareholder, and not only management, could avail
himself of the company's mailing facilities, at
comparatively little cost to the company. This
should prove, as has been the experience in
other jurisdictions, a healthy device in stimulating shareholder interest. The bill contains
provisions to prevent abuse of this privilege.
In effect, the amendments made to the bill in
the House of Commons have considerably
improved the safeguards contained in the bill
in that regard.
Another major aspect of Bill C-4 relates to
take-over bids. At present, there is virtually
no provision in the Canada Corporations Act
governing take-over bids, despite the growing
importance of this method of acquiring control of companies. There can be serious

June 17, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

undesirable side effects, if shareholders are
not given the time and information necessary
to judge an offer on its merits. Most other
jurisdictions have found such legislation
desirable for orderly activity in the market
place. Essentially the aiin has been to give the
shareholders, whose shares are wanted for the
purpose of a take-over, the information which
they need to evaluate the bid intelligently
and to ensure that those shareholders who
want to accept the bid are treated equally by
the bidder. These new rules would apply to
take-over bids involving public companies
with more than 15 shareholders. They would
cover situations where the bidder or offeror
has, or would have, 10 per cent of the company's equity shares, which can often constitute
control.
The rules contained in Bill C-4 for the regulation of take-over bids relating to federal
companies correspond very closely to the uniform provincial legislation of Ontario and the
four western provinces. There are a small
number of peripheral exceptions, but none of
these is such as to offset in any material way
the benefit of uniformity.
Another series of provisions contained in
Bill C-4 relates to the inspection and investigation of federal companies. The Minister of
Consumer and Corporate Affairs indicated in
his testimony before the Finance, Trade and
Economic Affairs Committee of the House of
Commons, that the two most important objectives of the Government in this respect were:
firstly, to ensure that no corporation created
by the federal Government be used as a
defrauding device; secondly, to ensure that
shareholders, whatever the extent of their
financial involvement in the company, be
treated fairly and equitably. The inspection
and investigation procedures can thus be seen
as having a key role to play in maintaining
and developing investment confidence in our
market system.
Under the present Canada Corporations Act
the minister may appoint inspectors to investigate the affairs of a company, but only on
the application of shareholders. Furthermore,
the expenses of any such inspection are the
responsibility of the applicants, or, where the
Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs
so directs, that of the company. Such requirements would seem to have deterred people
from bringing forward valid complaints.
Since 1950, the Corporations Branch of the
Department of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs has received only 11 formal requests
for inspection, although the number of infor-

1263

mal complaints is substantially higher-about
six a year. A few of the investigations that
have been ordered by the department have
paved the way to the laying of criminal
charges. In other cases the investigation was
useful in showing suspicions of irregularities
or misconduct to be groundless.
Bill C-4 proposes a new approach to investigation and inspection. First, the bill spells
out the grounds on which an inspection or
investigation can be made. These grounds are
mainly of two categories: first, suspected
fraudulent or unlawful acts, or misconduct on
the part of companies; secondly, acts that are
oppressive on the minority of dissenting
shareholders.
Secondly, an investigation could be recommended only with the approval of a tribunal,
namely, the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission. This approval could be sought either
by the Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs or by a sufficient number of
shareholders of the company. On approving
the initiation of an investigation, the tribunal
would appoint an inspector and define the
scope of the investigation to be undertaken.
I would like to emphasize that, in spelling
out the powers of the inspector, great care
has been taken to ensure that all will be
treated justly and equitably. On completing
his investigation, the inspector would be
required to prepare a statement of the evidence he has obtained, and the tribunal
would be required to give anyone affected by
the statement a fair opportunity to be heard
before any report is made.
Some have objected to the role of the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission in the
investigatory process set up by Bill C-4. The
suggestion was made that the sort of function
contemplated for the RTPC under this bill is
one that normally belongs to our courts of
law. Those who so believe seem to be the
victim of a fundamental misunderstanding.
The traditional role of our courts has been to
determine the rights of the parties before it,
on the basis of the facts before it. The purpose of the proceedings before the RTPC will
be to gather facts, not to ascribe liabilities,
not to adjudicate on the rights of the parties.
The Government does not intend to take
away from the courts their jurisdiction to
decide whether or not a firm is observing the
law. What the bill does, however, is to ascribe
to an existing administration tribunal the
duty to supervise what is essentially an
administrative process.

SENATE DEBATES
The fact that the proceedings may be initiated ex parte should not be objected to
when one understands their purpose, which is
to ascertain the facts. As in many other types
of investigation, the person under investigation has no statutory right to know that he is
the subject of an investigation. To do otherwise would, in many instances, amount to an
invitation to suppress evidence.
A simple procedure is provided where the
purpose of the investigation is solely to determine the reasons why a company has failed
to file with the Department of Consumer and
Corporate Affairs a document that is required
by the act to be filed.
Finally, the bill proposes that, as a rule, the
cost of carrying out an investigation be part
of the public cost of administering the act.
It is hoped that these powers of investigation and inquiry need never be used. Any
investigation or inquiry power has, however,
to provide for proper safeguards. Those built
into the bill can, I believe, be considered as
proper safeguards in the circumstances.
The opportunity has been taken in Bill C-4
to deal with one very different kind of problem, namely, the incorporation of companies
by special Act of Parliament. As honourable
senators are aware, various categories of companies, such as pipeline companies, loan and
railway companies, cannot now be incorporated under the Canada Corporations Act or any
other statute of general application. They can
only be incorporated by special Act of
Parliament.
The pressure of other business does not
always permit the setting aside of sufficient
parliamentary time to consider and dispose of
requests for special acts to incorporate new
companies or amend the original incorporating statutes. As a result, much inconvenience
can be caused to the companies involved
because of the uncertainty of the procedure
and the lengthy delays that are sometimes
involved. The bill contains an alternative
procedure to the special act machinery.
In the case of pipeline companies and loan
companies, letters patent of incorporation
could issue pursuant to the Canada Corporations Act, with the concurrence of the minister responsible for the department concerned
or any other minister named by order in
council. In the case of railway companies, the
granting of letters patent would be subject to
the issue of a certificate of public convenience
and necessity by the Canadian Transport
Commission. Companies of this kind, now
governed by special acts, would also be
[Hon. Mr. Urquhart.]

June 17, 1970

allowed to apply to become companies subject
to the ordinary provisions of the Canada Corporations Act.
These amendments would not apply to
banks, telephone and telegraph companies.
These will continue to be governed by their
special act provisions.
Great care has been taken to ensure that
the public interest continues to be a paramount consideration when dealing with these
special types of companies.
Finally, I should draw to the attention of
honourable senators clause 4 of the bill. At
present, companies incorporated under the
Canada Corporations Act do not have the
power to restrict their shareholdings to
Canadian citizens or residents, although certain federal regulations, for example in the
field of broadcasting, make a certain degree
of Canadian ownership a requirement. The
provisions of clause 4 would, together with
the provisions of clause 29 of the bill, provide
federally incorporated companies with the
facility to comply with federal requirements
in this respect.
Before concluding my remarks I would like
to emphasize that, with respect to insider
trading, proxies and proxy solicitation, and
take-over bids, the adoption of Bill C-4 would
contribute towards creating a higher degree
of uniformity between the Canada Corporations Act and the provincial legislation on
similar subject matters. This is not to say that
there would be complete uniformity between
the federal legislation and provincial. Where
Bill C-4 differs, however, from provincial
legislation, it merely implements advances
dictated by experience with this type of legislation in other jurisdictions. While the desirability of achieving the greatest degree of uniformity possible should assuredly command
itself to our attention, we should not foreclose
the possibility of improving on the provincial
legislation, especially when these improvements are compatible with a large degree of
uniformity.
These provisions are primarily designed to
protect the shareholders of federal companies.
When the federal authorities incorporate a
company, they should accept the responsibility of ensuring that the shareholders of these
companies are given adequate protection.
Assuredly, it is not sufficient to rely on the
legislation enacted by other Canadian jurisdictions in this respect. Such legislation can
apply only to shareholders that reside within
the relevant provinces. There is no valid

DEBATES
1970SENATE
June
17.

June 17. 1970

reason why the shareholders of federal comnpanies should be treated differently, depending upon whether they happen to live
in Newfoundland, or Quebec, or British
Columbia. This equallty of treatment given to
ail shareholders of companies incorporated by
the federal Government is one of the important features of these amendments. And, 1
should say, one of the most important features of the Canada Cororations Act.
Honourable senators, that is the bil.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Macdonald, for Hon.
Mr. Beaubien, debate adjourned.
EXCISE ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND

READING

Hon. W. M. Benidickson moved the second
reading of Bml C-209, to amend the Excise
Act.
He said: Honourable senators, the purpose
of the amendments to the Excise Act as contained in Bill C-209 is to facilitate the general
administrative work of the Department of
National Revenue, which is charged with the
control and management of the collection of
the excise duties imposed by the act. The bill,
I think, is not a contentious one, and it has
been very well received by the various industries licensed under the act and their
associations.
Except for budgetary purposes, the Excise
Act has flot been amended since 1957, and the
departmnent has found that many of its provisions which are carryovers from the nineteenth century, when it was the Inland Revenue Act, are out of step with the changing
times. Many of the provisions of the legislation are not; compatible with the modemn-day
opemations of licensed distillers, brewers and
tobacco manufacturers who employ or propose to use computerized or automated systemns for the manufacture of their products.
The bill, themefore, introduces changes which
wil bring the Excise Act abreast of changing
technological conditions.
Upon examining the bill, honourable senators will find new definitions for "cigar" and
"cigarette". The introduction in Canada by
some domestic cigar manufacturers of the socalled small cigar has created a problem of
product classification for revenue purposes.
The difficulty arises because many of these
cigars, by reason of their size, structure,
appearance and packaging, pretend to be
cigarettes. The object of the amendmnent is to
improve the wording to take into account al

16
1265

f ormns of cigars, and to facilitate classification
of these products for duty purposes. The definition of "cigarette" contains the following
words "to include products that are flot made
of tobacco". These words are included in the
definition to take into account the use of synthetic products and other vegetable matter as
tobacco substitutes.
The definition of "Canadian brandy" has
been changed by the deletion of the percentage of absolute alcohol by volume, which is
no longer appropriate. The Wartime Alcoholic
Beverage Order restricted the selling, supply
or deivery of spirits to 70 per cent proof
spirit, which is 30 per cent under proof, or
39.94 per cent by volume of absolute alcohol.
This order ceased to be effective after the
cessation of World War IL. However, the provincial liquor control boards and commissions
generally have agreed not to seli Canadian
brandy at a strength greater than 39.94 per
cent by volume of absolute alcohol, hence the
present section does not; conform to the
modern practice.
Amendments are contained in the bill for
the making of regulations when required to
accommodate modern storage methods such as
palletization, automated storage, and retrieval
systems.
The bill provides for the removal of specific
statutory allowances for losses of distilled
spirits tbrough evaporation, and also provides
that no excise duty is to be collected in
respect of spirits lost through evaporation and
legitirnate operations, on the principle that it
is flot; equitable to colleet the duty on spirits
while in bond if the loss occurs without f ault
or negligence of the distiller, and urider circumstances over which hie has no control.
Under the new provisions, distillers will be
able to store their spirits in warehouses for
indefinite periods, as Bull C-209 also provides
for the elimination of the 15-year limitation
applicable to spirits stored in maturing
warehouses.
Honourable senators will also note in the
bill that provision is made for the exwarehousing of vodka spirits by distillers
without age, as the Food and Drugs Act
which provides identity standards for whiskies, brandies, rums, gins and other alcoholic
beverages, permits the sale of vodka to
Canadian consuzners without age. Under section 149(3) of the Excise Act, domestic vodka
is ini the category of spirits which must be
kept in warehouse for a minimum of two
years before release from a distmlery. To
meet the two-year obligation, distillers store

1266

SENATE DEBATES

vodka spirits in metal storage tanks, and
experience has indicated that under such
storage conditions there is no aging or maturing effect.
It is the consumer who, in the end, absorbs
the cost for inventory and storage facilities,
and it is considered that this is unnecessary
because imported vodka is not governed by
the excise tax as is domestic vodka. Since the
Department of National Health and Welfare
does not consider or require vodka to be aged
for consumption purposes, imported vodka
has hitherto been accorded an advantage over
domestic vodka. The bill, therefore, removed
this anomaly and places domestie vodka on
an equal footing with imported vodka.
Other amendments are included in the bill
to permit clear interpretation of existing sections, or are made in the interest of safety,
uniformity and conformity with other legislation, such as the Hazardous Products Act,
Trademarks Act and the Food and Drug Act.
This bill, therefore honourable senators, is
largely a housekeeping bill.
In closing, I should say that I am informed
that the bill has been initiated by the Department of National Revenue and has been fully
supported by all segments of the industries,
licensed under the Excise Act and will reduce
the administrative costs presently involved in
the supervision of licensed premises, and at
the same time would place certain industries
in a competitive position with former
producers.
At this stage in our sessional proceedings I
am not sure whether it is desirable that this
bill be referred to a committee. I will simply
say that after introduction in the other place,
it received very brief debate on second reading. It was referred to the Miscellaneous Estimates Committee, and received there only
minor amendments which were suggested by
the department itself. The bill received third
reading and passed in the other place yesterday, with no new suggestions being made.

June 17, 1970

well prepared. I do not mean the copy which
was distributed today and contained amendments passed by the Commons, but the original bill which gave a very clear explanation
on each of the amendments. It showed each of
the sections which were being amended, and
it was a very easy bill to follow and to judge.
I do not think that there can be any objection to the bill as such. However, I would like
to make this one observation. I think one
must be struck by the number of times that
the act is changed, whereby a set fee or
licence that was contained in the old act, and
is in this measure by regulation.
I went over the original bill rather quickly
and I noted where twice it mentioned that the
amount of a bond to be given would be fixed
by the minister, whereas in the old act it was
fixed by the statute. At least fourteen times
we find under the amendment that certain
fees for licences are to be set by regulation,
where under the old act they were set in the
statute. This brings to mind the debate which
took place on regulations, referred to as
Statutory Instruments.
In my opinion, in this day and age more
and more regulations will be required. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that these
statutory instruments be well defined and be
well known. As I mentioned earlier, there are
at least fourteen instances in which fees were
set out in the statute, and now they are to be
set by regulation.
I have no objection to the passage of the
bill. I agree with the sponsor, that no useful
purpose would be served by sending it to
committee at this time, because I do believe
that the bill as originally proposed contains
all the information that we could get before a
committee. However, there are one or two
things on which I would like to have my
curiosity satisfied. One was the tobacco substitute which was mentioned.
I must confess that I do not know what is
meant by a tobacco substitute. I do know that
those who give up smoking use some type of
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable sena- substitute to do away with the desire for
tors, I agree with the sponsor, who gave a tobacco, but I do not know if anyone has
very informative and interesting address on found an acceptable substitute. It is just perthis bill, that it is mostly a housekeeping bill. sonal curiosity, but I also do not know what is
There is no general underlying principle by meant by reconstituting or converting
which you could judge whether this is a tobacco.
worthy bill or not. In fact, while it changes,
I should also like, if the sponsor could tell
modifies or modernizes a good many sections us on third reading, why on page 20 of this
of the act, yet it dealt with each of these bill, clause 45, subsection (3) of section 1 of
sections in an individual way.
Part I of the Schedule to the English version
I would like to say at the outset that I think of the said Act is amended by striking out the
that this bill, in its original form, was very word "druggist" and substituting therefor the
[Hon. Mr. Benidickson.]

June 17, 1970

DEBATES
17,
June1970SENATE

word "pharmacist". Plersonally, I always
thought they were interchangable words, but
perhaps there is some good reason why this
change shouid be made at this time.
Honourable senators, as I mentioned, the
bil contains no tax changes. The sponsor
mentions that the amendments are for the
better administration of the act, and with that
I agree. So with these few words, I would say
that we on this side are quite content to have
the bull read the second time.
Motion agreed to and bill read second tine.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shail this bill be read the third
time?
Hon. Mr. Benidickson moved that the bill
be placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.
CANADA LABOUR (STANDARDS)
BELL

TO

CODE

READINGAMEND-SECOND
DEBATE ADJOURNED

Hon. John J. Connolly moved the second
reading of Bill C-214, to amend the Canada
Labour (Standards) Code.
He said: Honourable senators, I should say
first that this bill as passed by the House of
Commons has not been distributed, but it was
not amended in the other place. Honourable
senators will find the bill on their files as it
was passed by the Commons.
The bill is very short, containing only one
section. In effect, what it does is increase the
minimum wage paid within works under federal jurisdiction from $1.25 an hour to $1.65
an hour. However, I think honourable senators are entitled to a good deal more than
that by way of explanation.
In the first place, I should refer to the
mother act, which was passed in the session
of 1964-65, and is cited as chapter 38 of that
session. That act, the Canada Labour (Standards) Code, was debated in this bouse March
2 and 3 of 1965. It was introduced by the
honourable Senator Smith fromn Queens-Shelburne, who was very highly complimented on
the work he did. The Opposition was led by
Senator Choquette, who was quite satisfied
generally with the terms of the bill which
raised a number of points.
Subsequently, Senators Roebuck, Thorvaldson, Macdonald (Cape Breton), Croll and
McCutcheon took part in that debate. Senator

16
1267

Croil made the remark on March 3 that the
bill was a notable event in the hlstory and in
the evolution of labour legisiation in Canada
it broke new ground. The bil was duly considered in the committee and it was returned
here for third reading.
On page 1398 of Hansard there is a record
of the fact that Senator Flynn on third reading moved an amendment. In fact, I believe
hie moved two amendments which raised certain problems. He was supported in his argument by various senators, including the late
Senator Thorvaldson and the late Senator
McCutcheon.
I think I should say too, honourable senators, that the mother act generally has application to federal works and undertakings.
It establishes an eight-hour day, and a maximum 40-hour week for hours of work in federal undertakings. It provides for overlime.
It also provided for a minimum wage of
$1.25 an hour, and for workers under the age
of 17 there were to be special regulations
made providing a minimum wage for that
category of workers. The application of those
regulations resulted in a minimum wage of
$1 an hour in federal undertakings for workers under 17 years.
The mother act also provided for two
weeks' holidays for every year of employment. It also provided for eight general houidays each year.
It further provided for certain deferments
from the application of the act. These deferments and suspensions were provided for i
sections 35 and 51 of the act. It was simply on
the question of these deferments that most of
the argument centred because, if honourable
senators wil recali, Senator Flynn talked
transportation
about the interprovincial
industry, the late Senator Thorvaldson took a
position with respect to the problems faced
by the grain elevator operators in western
Canada, other honourable senators referred to
problems within the shipping industry, and
yet others referred to the mining industry.
I think I owe it to the Senate to say that
most of these objections were rather satisfactorily handled by the officiais of the department under the two sections that I have mentioned, namely, sections 35 and 51. For
example, in the trucking industry special
hours of work have been arranged so that the
industry would not find itself i violation of
the code. There have been representations
made with respect to shipping in the Newfoundland and St. Lawrence regions. Originally, the provisions of the act were suspend-

1268

SENATE DEBATES

ed for both these areas. An inquiry was
undertaken under section 35, and now both
these shipping areas, Newfoundland and the
St. Lawrence, are under special orders which
deal with the number of hours per day and
the number of weeks per year for workers.
Likewise, there have been special arrangements made in the mining industry, particularly with regard to the problems encountered
by Devco in Cape Breton. The railways of the
country have applied for a deferment under
section 51. This is a very complicated problem
for the railways, and it is now under advisement. Because it is under advisement and
because there is a working party in the
Department of Labour investigating it, the
railways are not actually required to comply
with the provisions of the act in respect of
hours of work. In time, they will be fully
compliant, when the result of the inquiry has
been published.
I should tell honourable senators too-and I
am glad to see that Senator Flynn bas
returned to the chamber, because one of the
problems be will remember was that of fitting
the grain elevator operators into the operation of the scheme proposed in the original
act-that there were 374 applications made
for deferment of the provisions of the act by
grain elevator operators in western Canada,
and 348 of those applications were granted.
In other words, the problems posed by the
Opposition, through the amendments moved
in the house by members of the Opposition,
and on third reading, registered in a very
effective way, and I think generally helped in
the administration of the act.
This preliminary statement is perhaps too
lengthy, but I think it is worth while having
it on the record because of the fairly extensive debate we had in 1965, at which time we
even had recorded votes. So, I thought it
useful to give some report on the way in
which the act has been administered.
The specific provision in Bill C-214 simply
raises the minimum wage in industries under
federal jurisdiction from the rate of $1.25 to
$1.65 an hour.
I understand it is expected to make a more
general revision of the code, perhaps at the
next session of Parliament, but in the meantime a special working party within the
department has been considering the question
of the amount of the minimum wage. After
reviewing the figures developed for the rise
in the cost of living since July 1, 1965, when
the mother bill came into effect, up to the
present time, it was found that an additional
[Hon. Mr. Connolly

(Ottawa West).]

June 17. 1970

40 cents would be as close an approximation
to a proper level for a minimum wage as
could be devised.
I may say that this is slightly higher than
the average which is expected to prevail at
the provincial level by November 1, 1971,
because by that time it is forecast that in all
the provinces the rate will be $1.50 an hour.
Perhaps I should not say "all the provinces,"
but rather that it will be an average rate,
because the level varies in the various provinces. For example, the rate in Ontario now is
$1.30 an hour; in British Columbia, $1.50; in
Alberta, $1.40; in Manitoba, $1.35, and $1.50
by October of this year. In Quebec, as of May
1 the rate in Montreal was raised to $1.35,
and for the rest of the province to $1.30 an
hour.
So the federal proposal based, as I say,
upon the increase in the cost of living, and
based also upon an increase in productivity,
has resulted in a recommendation to the Government that the minimum wage should be
increased by 40 cents to $1.65.
I think, honourable senators, this is all the
explanation the Senate might require at this
time. If there are questions I can answer,
I shall be happy to do so. If it is desired to
send the bill to a committee, I would be
pleased to move that it be sent to the Standing Senate Committee on Health, Welfare and
Science.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Macdonald, for Hon.
Mr. Phillips (Prince), debate adjourned.
THE ESTIMATES
REPORT OF NATIONAL FINANCE COMMITTEE-.
DEBATE ADJOURNED

The Senate proceeded to consideration of
the report of the Standing Senate Committee
on National Finance with respect to the Estimates for the fiscal year ending March 31,
1971, which was presented yesterday.
Hon. Douglas D. Evereti moved that the
report be adopted.
He said: Honourable senators, I apologise
for going on at this late hour. However, I read
from the second paragraph of the report,
which is an appendix to the proceedings
dated June 16, that the committee is:
-to
examine and report upon the
expenditures proposed by the Estimates
laid before Parliament for the fiscal year
ending 31st March, 1971, in advance of
Bills based upon the said Estimates
reaching the Senate.

June 17, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

It is for this purpose that we bring the report
forward now in advance of the Appropriation Bill.
Examination of the 1970-71 Estimates by
the Standing Senate Committee on National
Finance comprised a detailed review of the
Estimates with officiais of the Treasury
Board, a detailed review of three departments
with officiais of those departments, and we
also heard three witnesses on the general subject of the Canadian economy.
The result of the general examination of
the 1970-71 Estimates indicated that they
total $12,910 million, an increase of $892 million over the 1969-70 Estimates. The 1970-71
Estimates have increased 7.4 per cent over
the 1969-70 Estimates, and this may be compared with an increase of 9.5 per cent in the
1969-70 Estimates over the 1968-69 Estimates.
Of the $892 million increase, $651 million is
attributable to statutory expenditures. These
statutory expenditures include the servicing
of debt, payments to the provinces, carrying
costs of storing wheat and grain payments.
Certain budgetary measures increased by
$293 million. These increases were in programs contributing to national unity, social
justice, education, economic development in
Canada and in the developing countries. Al
other budgetary expenditures decreased by
$52 million. When you consider, honourable
senators, that this includes increases in salaries and increases in the cost of goods and
services, it means that there has been a substantial decrease in the budgetary expenditures of ail programs other than the special
programs that I previously mentioned. You
will find in the report that the committee has
commended the Government on this decrease
in the general part of the budgetary
expenditures.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Would the honourable
senator hazard a figure as te the decrease?
Could he give us an idea what the figure of
the decrease would be?
Hon. Mr. Evereti:
million.

The decrease

is $52

Hon. Mr. Flynn: I know, but you mentioned
that this decrease is taking into consideration
increases in salaries and so on. What would
be the absolute decrease outside this?
Hon. Mr. Evereti: I can get that figure for
the honourable senator. Of course, at the
moment I have no idea, but I think it would
be quite substantial, and considerably larger
than the $52 million.

Hon. Mr. Flynn: It would be interesting to
know.
Hon. Mr. Everett: I will get it for the
honourable senator and deliver it to him.
I mentioned earlier that the $293 million
increase was attributed to certain special programs, which I have already listed. Your committee made a detailed examination of three
of those programs-the Industrial Incentives
and Special Areas Program, which is administered by the Department of Regional and
Economic Expansion; the Bilingualism Development Program, which is administered by
the Department of the Secretary of State; the
Indian and Eskimo affairs Program, which is
administered by the Department of Indian
Affairs and Northern Development. Detailed
results of our examinations are contained in
paragraphs 6 to 9 of the report.
Under the new planning program and
budgeting system used by the Treasury
Board, we have for the first year an entirely
new form of Estimates. The details of this
form of Estimates are given in paragraph 10
of our report, and the committee has cornmended the Government on the clarity of this
new form. However, having examined the
form and the Estimates themselves, the committee has seen fit to make certain recommendations, which it hopes would improve
the form of the Estimates.
Briefly, those recommendations are that the
departments supply information direct to parliamentary committees on agencies and crown
corporations that report to Parliament
through those particular departments. It is
also suggested that the Government, wherever possible, audit the quality of programs
where the costs are shared with the provinces, that is, quality as well as any financial
considerations. Certain grants from departments to organizations are lumped into one
sum in the Estimates.
It is the belief of the committee that the
individual grants should be broken down and
details of each grant given. Appropriations
which were not required from previous years
are allowed to lapse in the 1970-71 Estimates. In the Estimates themselves this is
indicated only by the fact that a certain
figure has been allowed to lapse. No details
are given to indicate what that figure was for,
and your committee suggests that those
details be given.
As I said earlier, honourable senators, a
general review of Government expenditure
policies was made by your committee. This

SENATE DEBATES
review elicited the following facts. First, that
the expenditures of all governments are
taking an increased share of the gross national product of Canada, and as far ahead as
1975, it would appear that this increased share
will continue to grow. Governments get the
advantage of something we call tax elasticity.
What tax elasticity means is that without
increasing any taxes, in an expanding economy revenues increase to the Government. You
can say, in fact, that revenues increase in
percentage faster than a percentage increase
in the gross national product. The result is a
fiscal dividend which accrues to the government. This fiscal dividend, of course, is a
wonderful thing to have, but on our investigation we found that between now and 1975
the present programs that have been undertaken by governments in Canada are increasing in cost so fast that they are using up all
of the fiscal dividend that can be projected
between now and 1975. This means that it
would not be possible for governments in
Canada to consider new programs unless they
are prepared to reduce or replace present
programs, to impose new taxes, or to run
heavy deficits. This indicated certain measures to your committee.
First of all, some method has to be found
for controlling the costs of programs shared
with the provinces.
Secondly, there has to be a continuing
method of program re-evaluation. We have to
discover whether present programs administered by the Government are being administered efficiently, and whether indeed they are
fulfilling their original objectives. If they are
not, then they have either to be changed so
that they are efficient, or replaced, or cut out
altogether.
Thirdly, it was indicated to your committee
that the Government should publish a fiveyear forward estimate of all its expenditures.
This need not be a detailed estimate, but one
that would be revised each year, and one that
would permit better planning and use of tax
revenues.
Honourable senators, I stated earlier that
your committee made a general examination
of the economy, and in this examination it
elicited certain facts. The Economic Council
of Canada tells us that the potential of the
Canadian economy is a gross national product
by 1975 of $100 billion. This means a real
growth of 5.5 per cent per year. The question
that we have to ask ourselves is: How do we
achieve this potential growth without runaway inflation? The tendency for any govern[Hon. Mr. Everett.]

June 17, 1970

ment, when it has to deal with inflation, is to
delay doing anything about it, and then when
it imposes restraints it has to impose them so
harshly that it tends to reduce growth below
the potential. Having reduced growth below
the potential, there is a tendency to want to
catch up to the potential indicated, to the 5.5
per cent real growth per year, and so another
round of inflation is started. This indicates to
us that certain policies must be applied evenly
in Canada if we are to achieve a potential economy of $100 billion by 1975 without
severe inflation.
Certain tools are being used in Canada to
accomplish this end. We have wage and price
restraints which are being administered
wherever possible by the Prices and Incomes
Commission. We have monetary measures
that are being administered by the Bank of
Canada, and we have fiscal measures that are
administered by the federal and provincial
governments. I would like, if I may, honourable senators, to give a personal view of
the use of these particular tools.
It seems to me that wage and price
restraints will work only where there is no
excess demand, and that, in fact, if you want
to get the potential out of the economy without inflation the most important tool is monetary policy. It seems to me that we should
investigate whether that monetary policy can
be exercised on a more open basis, so that the
members of the public can understand what
is the objective of the Bank of Canada.
If you accept the proposition that monetary
policy is the most important tool, then it follows that fiscal measures applied by governments must not draw monetary policy off its
course. Fiscal measures must concert with
monetary policy.
As an example I can think of a situation in
which the Bank of Canada might be imposing
monetary restraint. If in that period the
cash requirements of the Government are
extremely high, then the Bank of Canada, as
the lender of last resort, might well have to
increase the money supply and move away
from restraints in order to accommodate the
Government's cash requirements.
This brings me to my final point. The per
capita real national income of Canada is 20
per cent below that of the United States. I
suggest to honourable senators that growth is
a valid concept, and we should be concerned
about the fact that we are 20 per cent below
the United States.
There is a new conventional wisdom abroad
that says that growth should be sacrificed for

June 17, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

the quality of life. It is my view that we do
not have to sacrifice one for the other, but, in
fact, we can have quality in life and we can
have growth. As a matter of fact, I suggest,
honourable senators, that quality in our life is
more likely with growth. I also suggest, for
example, that more has been done since the
war to alleviate poverty by the growth of our
economy than any other single measure or
group of measures imposed by government or
private charity. If we can achieve a real
growth in Canada of 5.5 per cent per year,
then every year we close the gap with the
United States. That is why I say it is very
important that in Canada our monetary policies must produce the full potential outlined
by the Economic Council without inflation.
Fiscal policies and income policies must concert with that monetary policy.
As the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce is considering the
White Paper, "Proposals for Tax Reform", I
suggest strongly to honourable senators,
and through you to the Government, that
while tax policies must redistribute income,
they must in the interests of the average
Canadian who wants a better life and a better
quality of life, promote the growth of this
country.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Macdonald, for Hon.
Mr. Grosart, debate adjourned.
FEDERAL PENITENTIARIES
FACILITIES FOR WOMEN PRISONERSDEBATE ADJOURNED

The Senate resumed from Thursday, June
11, the adjourned debate on the inquiry of
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson, calling the attention of
the Senate to the facilities provided by the
federal Government for women prisoners.
Hon. Fred A. McGrand: Honourable senators, I have been requested to say a few
words in this debate, probably because of my
interest in criminology and allied subjects, an
interest that has extended over most of my
lifetime. Anyone interested in mental health,
psychology and sociology becomes involved in
a study of crime and its causes, and I have
done some research on certain aspects of the
subject.
I do not belong to any organization for the
liberation of women, and I do not intend to
join the crusade for abortions, free and on
demand.
Hon. Mr. Sullivan: Hear, hear.

1271

Hon. Mr. McGrand: Criminals, big and
little are sentenced to jails or prisons, but
punishment for their crimes against society
does not prevent them from repeating the
offence.
Within the last century attempts have been
made to rehabilitate the offender during the
period of his imprisonment. How successful
has rehabilitation been? Too many former
inmates will tell you that in their opinion the
penitentiary offers a post-graduate course in
crime. It is becoming more and more evident
that the parole system offers the best means
of rehabilitation because it gives the offender
an objective, the objective of improving himself without the bitter experience of loss of
freedom.
The number of women who are recognized
as criminals is small when compared with
men. They do not rob banks, commit armed
robbery, assault their fellow citizens, produce
or circulate counterfeit money. They are
imprisoned for several varieties of crime:
shoplifting, drug addiction, prostitution, bootlegging and occasionally one is sentenced for
manslaughter or non-capital murder. At present the ratio between male and female
offenders is as follows:
Males Womeni
1
3
Theft $50 and under
1
10
Theft over $50
1
16
(not indecent)
Assault
1
8
Fraud
i
49
Break and entry
1
14
Having stolen goods
1
14
Gambling and betting
1
3
Narcotic Control Act
Car theft
Offensive weapons
Robbery
Sex offences
Wounding
Murder
Attempted murder
Manslaughter
We must remember that the male of any
species, human, animal, bird or fish, fight for
territory. For this reason, the aggressive
action in the possession of territory and/or for
property is mostly due to the male's instinct
to search for and possess territory.
It is obvious that most women are in jail or
prison for theft under $50, prostitution, drug
addiction, bootlegging and manslaughter, and
they usually leave the institution no better
than when they entered. Little has been done

SENATE DEBATES

to rehabilitate them. If she is married, or is a
common law wife, what has happened to her
children during ber absence? She comes back
a stranger to them. Family life that was bad
when she left is worse when she comes home.
If you placed a child from a slum home into
a selected foster home in the best part of the
city, and after two or three days asked him
which house he preferred to live in, nine out
of ten would decide to go back to the house
in the slum-because mother is there. What
does that child think of home or mother when
she goes to jail? Children and mother both
deteriorate from separation. Many prostitutes
employ their trade to support their children,
because their husbands are alcoholics, have
deserted or are in jail. Why keep such a
woman in confinement? Put ber on parole
under the observation of the Elizabeth Fry
Society or some other voluntary group whose
responsibility is rebuilding the lives of
offenders.
It is well known that the rate of rehabilitation of those who violate the law is much
higher when managed by voluntary groups
than achieved by the prison reformatories.
The reason is obvious. In jail a prisoner is
there against his will. He considers himself a
victim of an unjust society. He has lost his
respect for public opinion. He regards his
instructors much the same as a schoolboy,
who stands for hours in the corner as punishment, regards his teacher. He does his best to
maintain what is left of his self-respect, and
he does this by refusing to accept the offer of
what he considers an unjust society to brainwash him. He is a nonentity with a number.
His name is seldom used.
In a voluntary rehabilitation centre he is a
guest with a name, a Mr. Jones or a Mr.
Smith, not a nonentity in the custody of the
law. To himself and to those around him he
bas the dignity of a free man and he responds
with a desire to help himself.
We must remember that most offences committed by the underprivileged against the law
are the only defence they have to evade the
regulations imposed by the administration of
law and order. Evasion becomes violation as
circumstances become acute.
Small children often in their first year of
life are sometimes taken to a hospital with
fractured limbs or skull. This is the battered
child syndrome that we hear so much about.
Mothers are sometimes charged with attempts
to kill these helpless infants. There must be
frustration in such a home amongst those
emotionally imbalanced women when they
[Hon. Mr. McGrand.]

June 17, 1970

are taken to court for beating up their
own child. Only one year ago this chamber
approved a law permitting abortions if the
mental health of the mother required it. If an
emotionally disturbed pregnant woman, in a
tantrum, can obtain an abortion under the
disguise of medical care and paid for by some
form of bealth insurance, why should an emo-

tionally disturbed mother, in a tantrum, who
kills ber child by a severe beating, be charged

with a form of manslaughter? If a woman can

arrange the legal killing of ber child when

she is carrying it in ber uterus and call it
medical care, why should she be charged with
the murder of ber child which she is carrying
in ber arms? The argument that a child in
the uterus is only a potential human being,
because it is dependent on the mother, is
ridiculous to me. What does dependency
mean? When does dependency end? A child is
as dependent on its mother for care the day,
week or month after it is born, as it is the
day, week or month before it is born.
We have read and heard much on the
breakdown of the family and on the breakup
of the family. The breakdown of the family
begins long before the breakup of the family
takes place. The lack of parental care and
love and the security of the home, which
form part of the breakdown of the family,
often lead to the breakup of the family. When
affection between members of the family is
present, the family does not break up: the
family is a unit; security binds it together.
Teenage children are aware that a new
member of the family is on the way. They
must be emotionally disturbed and their
security threatened when they know that
their parents plan the death of their unborn
brother or sister. In these circumstances, children develop anxiety and distrust of their
parents and the environment in which they
live.
The child who will return to his home in
the slum because his mother is there, rather
than stay in a fine house in suburbia, may
have second thoughts about his security in
the family of the future if abortions are
granted on demand, and the battered child
syndrome and infanticide will no longer be an
offence. "Live and let live" is the first principle of social justice. Without reverence for
life, there is no civilization worth while.
The woman who enjoys an affluent society
can fly to London for an abortion and return
home without losing status in our affluent

June 17, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

society. But the disturbed woman ini the slum.
who kills her defenseless child-in-arms is a
social outcast. The law of the land does not
distinguish between the rich and the poor, in
principle, but it does in administration. We
may have a moral law for the weil-to-do and
another for the poor.
Shakespeare divides aur lives into seven
stages. He starts us out in Uife as the infant
mewling and puking in the nurse's arms.
However, Shakespeare knew littie of biology.
Our lives did flot start on the day the doctor
called at our parent's home with his littie
black bag. Each of us was a going concern for
the previous nine months. Our birthday was
not the day we were greeted by aur relatives
and friends, but the day we were conceived,
and birthdays should coincide with that date.
Many things contribute to the breakdown
and the breakup of families. The loss of confidence of children ini their parents is a dominant factor. How big a role does the demand
for abortions play in this phenomenon? And

1273

what wffl the role be as a bad situation grows
worse? It is worthy of a study in depth-and
now.
A study of poverty includes poverty of the
spirit. 0f ail the interested people who have
made a serious study of poverty and the culture of poverty over the past two years, none
has recommended abortions on demand as a
remedy.
In spite of ail the problems that lie ahead
due ta growing permissiveness and a declining moral law, no lasting good is obtained by
the imprisonmient of women.
It was a long long time ago when God used
one of Adam's ribs for a noble purpose, and
down through these long centuries men have
failed to learn that they cannot improve
women by locking them up in jail.
On motion of Hon. Mrs. Iniman, debate
adj ourned.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2
P.m.

SENATE DEBATES

June 18, 1970

Senator Hayden has asked me to remind
honourable senators that the Standing Senate
Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce
will meet to consider the White Paper on
Thursday, June 18, 1970
Taxation on Wednesday and Thursday.
The Special Senate Committee on Mass
The Senate met at 2 p.m., Honourable Maurice Bourget, P.C., Speaker pro tem, in the Media will hold a business meeting relating to
matters concerning their report. There will
Chair.
also be meetings of other standing committees
Prayers.
to deal with legislation referred to them. The
time will depend on when the legislation
DOCUMENTS TABLED
comes to us.
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
I hope this will assist the Leader of the
Opposition and others to realize the workload
Report, dated May 25, 1970, of the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission ahead of us next week.
under the Combines Investigation Act [Later:]
concerning Quotations in 1965 to the
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators,
Province of Quebec on Public Tenders
for the sale or Supply of Business Forms. when I was announcing the business for next
week I made a mistake, which I now wish to
White Paper entitled "Unemployment correct. Senator Walker had asked me on
Insurance in the 70s", presented by the what days the Standing Senate Committee on
Minister of Labour.
Banking, Trade and Commerce would sit next
week, and I advised the house that it would
ADJOURNMENT
be Wednesday and Thursday. I should have
Hon. Léopold Langlois: Honourable sena- said Tuesday and Wednesday. Perhaps Senators, with leave of the Senate, and notwith- tor Macdonald would be good enough to
standing Rule 45(1)(g), I move that when the convey this information to Senator Walker
Senate adjourns today it do stand adjourned when he bas the opportunity to do so.
until Monday next, June 22, at 8 o'clock in
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: Very well.
the evening.

THE SENATE

Motion agreed to.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE

CANADA WATER BILL
REPORT OF COMMITTEE

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
Hon. Maurice Lamontagne, Chairman of
may I indicate briefly the work for next
the Standing Senate Committee on Health,
week.
Welfare and Science, reported that the comAs the motion proposed by Senator Lan- mittee had considered Bill C-144, to provide
glois indicates, it will not be necessary now for the management of the water refor us to meet until Monday. It is proposed sources of Canada including research and
that we sit Monday evening and Tuesday the planning and implementation of
programs
afternoon and evening. As we will not be relating to the conservation, development and
sitting Wednesday, we will have only four utilization of water resources, and had
sitting days before the proposed adjournment directed that the bill be reported without
for the summer recess, which I expect will be amendment.
after Royal Assent on Friday next. It is
expected that the main supply bill covering
THIRD READING
the 1970-71 Estimates will pass the other
place tonight. Therefore, we can proceed with
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
it on Monday. In addition, there are seven senators, when shall this bill be read the third
bills which have not yet reached us and time?
which I think we will have to deal with
Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable senabefore the summer recess.
tors, before that motion is put, may I say that
Senator Aird bas asked me to indicate that I am rather disappointed in that the report
on Tuesday he proposes to present the report gives no indication of the general agreement
of the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign made in the committee, that the Standing
Affairs, with particular relation to the Carib- Senate Committee on Health, Welfare and
bean area.
Science would serve as a public forum for

June 18, 1970

DEBATES
June19, 970SENATE

any future discussion on regulations concerning the Canada Water Act. I would like
to put on record that this is to be clearly
understood, and I amn sure the Chairman will
reinforce me in this.
Han. Mr. Lamantagne: Mr. Speaker, I did
not understand my honourable friend's
remarks at the beginning. Would he please
repeat them?
Hon. Mr. Phillips <Prince): Honourable senators, in the rather lengthy committee meeting
this morning, we met with various witnesses
and representatives of companies, and with
the minister. At that time, if my understanding of Senator Cameron's remarks is correct,
it was understood that anyone who had any
complaints or any representations to make
concerning the Canada Water Act would be
free to present them to this committee. I arn
disappointed that that is not included in the
remarks, and I would like the chairman to
confirmi my understanding.
Hon. Maurice Lamontagne: Honourable
senators, I do flot think that this kind of
arrangement could have been included in the
report of the committee. We were merely
reportîng on the bill. But I think that there
was this kind of general agreement among
the members of the commiittee, that ini future
if there were any complaint; about the essence
of a regulation under this act, people who
wished to make representations would be
welcome to appear before the committee.

this bill, that in some respects it gives us
concern. Frankly, I do not think the representatives of the department did their homework
in the way they should have.
In regard to one point, on section 3, the
constitutional issue, very littie attention was
given to it. It wil corne Up again. On the
point that we were concerned only with controlling the eutrophication of the water in the
lake, you cannot departmentalize thîngs like
that, because it is so obvious there may be
other disadvantages as a resuit of this
legislation.
However, it was a very happy ending. The
resuit of the discussion is much better than if
we had had to make an amendment, and it
strengthens the position of the Senate to have
problemns of this kind given to one of its
standing committees. I feel very happy about
it.
I want to say to the Leader of the Government that when his proposais with respect to
statutory instruments corne back to this
house, I hope it will be made clear that regulations must, as far as possible, be attached to
ail bis, so that we can see the kind of regulations that wiil be used to implement the
legisiation.
Hon. Joseph A. Sullivan: Honourable senators, I would like to comment briefly on this
legisiation and to substantiate the remarks of
the honourable Senator Cameron. They certainly have not done their homework, particullarly inl so far as it applies to a field in
which I arn vitally interested, namnely, the sterilization of hospital equipment, instruments
and beds. The use of phosphates is long established in this process. The Canadian Medical
Association was neyer consulted, nor was the
Canadian Hospital Association.
I referred to thîs this morning when 1 saîd
to the Minîster, jokingly, that when he was in
hospital we took good care of hlm and kept
himi sterile. But the fact is that the authorities
did not do their homework in relation to a
very vital aspect of this bill. I hope that this
will be thoroughly threshed out in the Health,
Welf are and Science Committee under the
chairmanship of Senator Lamontagne.

Hon. Donald Cameron: Honourable senators, I do not wish to delay the proceedings on
this bill, but I think it is important to record
this point. First of all, we had an excellent
meeting of the committee-three and a quarter hours is a full meeting. Everyone had a
chance to say what should be done.
I had a draft resolution in front of me and
was prepared to move an amnendment similar
to section 9 of Bill S-26, încorporating the
Hazardous Products Act. Although I was prepared to move the amendment, I think the
result of the meeting is something much better-the fact that we are publicly on record
that any concerned person-public body or
disadvantaged
feels
body-who
private
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
through the application of regulations, has the
this debate has
before the Standing senators, I must point out that
right to ask to corne
been completely out of order. You may perSenate Committee on Health, Welf are and
Science. That is an excellent precedent to haps accuse me of letting it go on, but I felt it
establish, something that has not been done was an important question and that the points
raised by Senators Phiillips (Prince), Cameron,
before.
Honourable senators, may I observe i Lamontagne and Sullivan were relevant and
passing, having carefully read the material on of interest to ail honourable senators. Neyer-

1276

1276
~SENATE DEBATESJue1,97

June 18, 1970

theless, in future I would like you to help me
During 1966 and 1967 1 was a member of
in these matters, and help the honourable The the joint committee of the Senate and House
Speaker when he is in the chair.
of Commons that studied the penitentiary
Honourable senators, when shall this bill be system of Canada. This committee was under
the able co-chairmanship of the honourable
read the third time?
Senator Benidickson and Mr. Ian Watson,
Hon. Mr. Martin: I move that it be consid- M.P. It was an interesting
cornmittee on
ered at the next sitting-unless the house which to serve. I became very
wishes to pass it now. 1 would neyer be ed in penology as practised much interestin Canada, paropposed to that suggestion.
ticularly as it concerned femnale offenders.
Motion agreed to and bill placed on the
On several occasions I visited these instituOrders of the Day for third reading at next tions, both old and new. It was frustratîng
to
sitting of the Senate.
sc how restricted and poor were the facihities
for the treatment of the women and young
girls who are unfortunate enough to be put
CANADIAN NATIONAL ]RAILWAYS
behind bars and locked doors in the
INQUIRIES STAND
women's prisons.
On Inquiries 1 to 13 inclusive:
I would now like to give a hrief history of
penitentiaries, particularly the development
Hon. Paul Martini: Honourable senators, 1 of penitentiaries
for women.
ask that these inquiries stand.
Penology is the termn usually applied t0 the
I say to Senator Fournier that I will do my study and treatment of
criminals. The word
best to get the answers before the end of the was coined by the noted
pohitical scientist
session. If 1 cannot do so, it wilî be because and criminologist,
Dr. Francis Lieber, who
the trains do not run fast enough.
was born in 1800 and died in 1872. He
defined penology as that hranch of criminal
science which occupies itself with the punishFEDERAL PENITENTIARIES
ment of the criminal. But penology, as it is
FAcILITIES FOR WOMEN PRISONERSnow understood, includes the entire field of
DEBATE CONTINUED
treaiment and borrows from any of the
Leave having been given to proceed to sciences 0f human behaviour which promises
f0
be helpful in the regeneration of the
Order Number 7:
The Senate resumed from Thursday, June off ender.
The practice of imprisoning persons for the
11, the adjourned debate on the inquiry of
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson, calling the attention of commission of crimes against society is as old
the Senate to the facilities provided by the as hisfory. But those institutions, falling
wifhin the overali meaning of the term as if
federal Government for women prisoners.
is known in modern times, originated about
Hon. F. Elsie Inman: Honourable senators, the end of the ninefeenth century.
we have heard some excellent speeches recentPrior fo the
hy on the subject of federal penitentiaries and crim.inals, maieera of imprisoanment, convicted
the facilithes afforded at the present time for a great numnber and female, were punished in
of cruel ways, such as beating
female prisoners. Senator Fergusson's speech Io deafh,
burning af the stake, mutilation,
was indeed outstanding, most informative and exposure
to wild animais and other extreme
extremely interesting. She covered very thoroughly the subi ect of female prisoners in fed- tortures.
Lafer, other procedures of punishment were
eral penitentiaries, their treatment at present
and their hopes for better conditions in the used. Convicfs-again female as well as
male-were deporfed, subjecfed to hard
future.
labour and a variefy of physical punishments
I was unfortunately not able to be present -anything to make them
suifer.
to hear Senator Fergusson speak, but I read
The firsf deportafion from Brifain to
her presentation very carefully. I wish to congratulate her for bringing the matter before America took place in 1597. Soon many were
this honourable house and for saying the sent to other colonies. Some European countries folhowed this example, as did a few
things that needed to be said.
The honourable Senators Kinnear and South American countries.
It is important, then, to recognize imprisonMcGrand have also deait very interestingly
with the question, and I wish to congratulate ment as a humane and more progressive
them.
mefhod of dealing with the offending mem[The Hon. the Speaker pro terni

June 18, 1970

June18, 970SENATE
DEBATES

bers of our society, but we must progress stili
further in our treatment of those unfortunates.
The house of correction, or workhouse, was
the foreri.mner of the penitentiary. Such an
institution was established in London, England, in 1557. It was created for the purpose
of coping witb the increasing number of beggars, vagrants and wanton women who
swarmed over tbe countryside. The philosophy of the workbouse or bouse of correction
was that those sent there were given bard
work and sinple food, so that these men and
women might be returned to society as an
asset instead of living in idleness and vice.
In 1593 a prison for women was bufit in
Amsterdam which, I believe, was the first
prison built especiafly for women. Its object
was moral reform. by work and religious
influences.
It was the famous John Howard who
around 1777 conceived tbe idea of an institution to be known as a penitentiary, wbere
real penitence could be encouraged among tbe
inmates. He believed in a prograin of work,
education and religion as best designed for
reformation. The act of April 5, 1790 created
tbe first modemn penitentiary in tbe United
States, based upon the principles laid down
by John Howard.
The first prison built for women and
managed exclusively by women in tbe U.S.A.
was the Indiana Reformatory Institution for
women and girls in Indianapolis. It received
its first prisoners, seventeen women, on October 8, 1873. Tbe first superintendent was a
woman, Sarab J. Smith, wbo served for nine
and a haif years. In 1907 tbe name was
changed to Indiana Women's Prison. Since
1877 members of tbe Board of Trustees of
this prison bave ail been women-an excellent example whicb migbt be followed in
Canada.
Upon Confederation in Canada, three provincial penitentiaries came under the exclusive legîslative authority of the Parliament of
Canada. Two of these tbree, Halifax and
Saint John, ceased to be federal penitentiaries
in 1880, leaving Kingston as tbe only remaining component of the Canadian system. Kingston Penitentiary was built in the preConfederation era, in 1835. So it is old and is
not; up to modemn standards.
The Prison for Women was built at Kingston in 1930. It also is behind the modemn
conception of an ideal place for the correction
and training of women and girls.

Tbe crimes of women have not; varied
greatly over tbe centuries. Aitbougb women
now take part in ail aspects of business and
professional life, crixninal statistics show few
changes. Today, as in the past, women face
the same family situations and undergo the
same physical and social stresses, especiaily
the stress of poverty. Their off ences are
mostly thieving, fill treatment of cbildren,
infanticide, attempted suicide, homicide, prostitution, the occasional murder. Usuaily these
days the murder charge is cbanged to manslaughter, but tbese cases are rare, altbougb
we do have some, even in the Maritimes.
Women prisoners are seldom dangerous and
are not apt to commit crimes of extreme violence. There seems to, be a higher crime rate
in urban areas generaily, as compared to
rural areas, due mainly to the obvious te'mptations and opportunities for delinquency
offered by city life, especially in congested
and poor areas where people of different
races, religions and ways of life come into too
close contact.
The present-day tbinking is that prisons
must prepare lawbreakers, men and women,
for a hetter life in the future. Tbey should be
kept gainfully employed, witb a fair rate of
pay, and trained for some work or trade to
belp them adjust to a useful if e again in
whicb tbey can earn a reasonably good standard of living, at least, for themselves and
their familles.
The term "tberapeutic" community, or the
better word "correctional" cornmunity, is
sometimes used in dealing witb offenders, and
especiaily women offenders. The purpose of
the correctional community is to bave a
person responsible for herseif, but wbile
trying to become responsible the correctional
institution must provide the controls and
limi.ts adniinistered by a sympathetic staff
member who is respected and weil liked by
the inmate. This is most important.
It is important also that women of initiative
and strengtb of character be encouraged to
join the prison service, for the success of any
prison system depends upon tbose who bear
the day-to-day burden of watching over, and
working for, the rebabilitating of off enders,
wbether they be men or women. Without
good prison officers, the best building and the
best methods of training cannot hope to
succeed.
The success of a womnans eventual return
ta society will depend largely on her having
mamntained contact witb relatives and friends,
by visits and by letters while she is serving

SENATE DEBATES
her sentence. And here I would suggest that
some accommodation should be provided for
women offenders from the three Maritime
provinces where they could serve their sentences nearer home. Up until 1923 Maritime
women offenders went to Dorchester Penitentiary. I do not think that the number of
female prisoners from these provinces would
warrant the setting up of a special institution.
However, it would be feasible to add a wing
to the new minimum or medium security
institutions at Springhill to accommodate
those who need to be confined, or some sort
of cottage system in the Maritime provinces
should be set up.
Perhaps, too, it would be better to give
some female offenders a longer sentence, even
two years, which of course is 18 months on
good behaviour, in such an institution where
they could learn some useful work, rather
than six, nine or 12 months in jail where
there are no training courses or work of any
kind to fit them to earn a living when they
return to the outside.
I might add that I think every jail should
be equipped so that inmates could work rather
than do nothing at all while serving sentences. I have spoken on this matter many
times in the past.
The shortest term for which a woman is
sent to Kingston is two years, and that length
of time out of contact with relatives and
friends is hard on the morale of the offender
and not easily overcome. If a woman could
have visits from her family, see her children,
husband or parents, she could in all probability adjust more readily while in prison, and on
release.
It is amazing to learn that many people do
not realize that there are women prisoners
confined in outside-of-the-province penitentiaries. The relatives of these unfortunates,
however, know this only too well. They, too,
must feel deprived because of not being able
to visit occasionally. This distance problem
causes much hardship on those concerned as
well as those behind bars. To be able to meet
their visitors under as cheerful and relaxed
conditions as possible is most important for
women prisoners, who are likely to be in a
particularly emotional state at such times.
They could discuss with members of their
family the outlook after release; plans could
be made, hopes and aims concerning the
future could be talked over on these occasions, with regard to integrating into family
life again. This is most important, especially
[Hon. Mrs. Inman.]

June 18, 1970

with female offenders. They must be made to
feel welcome again among relatives and
friends.
There is a tendency in society to judge a
female offender on release with less tolerance
than a male offender. That is what the
woman prisoner feels and fears. Al women
offenders require counselling, education, guidance, sympathy and understanding so that on
release they can find a place in society,
employment and a well-adjusted life without
the shadow of the past interfering to make
them lose courage in trying to live good and
useful lives.
Some female offenders may be incorrigible,
but in many cases circumstances have made
it easy for them to slip by the wayside and
get into trouble. Good counselling and
encouragement
could influence them to
change their behaviour problems. They might
change bitterness to responsibility
and
replace anxieties and guilt with confidence
and communication with their fellowman.
In 1966 release centres were established at
Montreal, Toronto, Winnipeg and Vancouver.
This is good but more are needed in localities
nearer home for those whose homes are far
away from those centres. Many of these
women and girls have completed training
courses and could find employment among
their relatives and friends in a familiar
environment.
It is true that a strong and intimate change
should be made in the therapy of women
prisoners in Canada. They should be released
under happy circumstances so that it would
be possible to look back on their experience
in prison as a profitable time instead of a bad
memory.
But how does the outsider feel? What does
he do? When the women offenders come back
into our everyday world, are they going to be
welcomed back into society or will they be
frowned upon as undesirables? That brings us
to rehabilitation again-that big word that is
being used so much these days.
All the troubles and fears may again crowd
in upon the female offender. Even though she
has learned lessons in punctuality and cleanliness, benefited from regular hours and good
food, she will no doubt be uneasy. Here again,
as conditions are now, the Atlantic provinces'
women offenders' fears are compounded since
they have not had the month-to-month, or
week-to-week visits from their relatives and
friends, and so have lost touch. What a
woman needs most when she is released fron
prison is the feeling that she is trusted and

June 18, 1970

1279

SENATE DEBATES

that someone has the confidence to give her a
job, in order to assist her to rehabilitate and
integrate into society.
There should be an after-care or follow-up
period for some time after an inmate is
released from prison; a counsellor should
keep in touch so that the released person
would feel she could have help and advice
when needed, and not be utterly alone. It
would eut down the number of repeat offenders in many cases, I feel sure. This follow-up
program is perhaps being used to some extent
by the John Howard Society, the Elizabeth
Fry Society and other organizations, but not
fully enough yet.
If after-care is to be extended as I hope it
will be, many more trained staff will be
needed to deal with the welfare of women
prisoners, inside and on release, in order that
they may become well adjusted to enter the
mainstream of life again.
The desirability of employing women for
the superintendence and control of female
prisoners should be recognized. I believe this
is the case in our women's prisons at present.
Also, I think, it is preferable to have women
doctors, psychiatrists and other types of
professional people in attendance who will
have intimate contact with the women and
girls in prison, for even in this age when we
speak so much of equality between the sexes,
there are still some women and girls who are
shy in contact with men. They will not
speak as freely to a man as to a woman,
especially in prison environment, or before
they go to prison. Indeed, I know that to be
true. I have interviewed women offenders
before they went into court after committing
an offence, to allay their fears of appearing
before a roomful of men in court or even
before one lawyer or judge when trying to
tell their story. It was an interesting experience, I can assure you.
Now, honourable senators, we must never
feel discouraged about our prisoners for there
is no doubt that prison reform is with us and
will continue to progress and offenders in
society will feel welcome on their return ta
normal life again.
Penology is a science that men are still
experimenting with-some things succeed,
others do not work out-and the mistakes we
make today will show us what to avoid
tomorrow.

Society and other organizations such as the
Elizabeth Fry Society do some after-care
work. May I ask her whether the federal
Government employs any women psychiatrists and whether they have women parole
officers?
Hon. Mrs. Inman: They have psychologists.
I cannot not speak of psychiatrists, as I really
do not know.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: Do you know if they
employ women parole officers?
Hon. Mrs. Inman: Yes, we have parole
officers.
Hon. Mr. Thompson:
Government?

With the

federal

Hon. Mrs. Inman: Yes.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Smith, for Hon. Mr.
Croll, debate adjourned.
TERRITORIAL SEA AND FISHING ZONES
ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING
Hon. Hédard Robichaud moved the third

reading of Bill C-203, to amend the Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time
and passed.
EXCISE ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD

READING-

ORDER STANDS

On the Order:
Third reading of Bill C-209, intituled:
"An Act to amend the Excise Act"(Honourable Senator Benidickson.)
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
regarding this bill, Senator Macdonald had

asked Senator Benidickson some questions,
and I understand there has been an exchange
of correspondence between them. Senator
Benidickson is today away on public business.
I understand that Senator Macdonald would
be agreeable that we dispose of the matter,
notwithstanding an arrangement made, but I
think we could let this stand until Monday
evening. In suggesting that, Senator BenidickHon. Mr. Thompson: I have a great interes t son and I do so by way of tribute to Senator
in this work and appreciate the very luck Macdonald, whom we all greatly admire and
remarks of the honourable senator. I notice love in this house.
Order stands.
she mentioned the fact that the John Howard

1280

SENATE DEBATES
CANADA DAY BILL

SECOND READING-DEBATE CONTINUED

The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mr.
Fournier (de Lanaudière), for the second reading of Bill S-24, respecting Canada Day.
Hon. Josie D. Quart: Honourable senators,
when the honourable Senator Sarto Fournier
suggested that I second Bill S-24, I was very
happy to comply with his request.
I wish to congratulate Senator Fournier for
his initiative in proposing this bill respecting
Canada Day. His clear and concise explanation of the bill leaves very little for me to
add. Suffice it to say, it is a simple bill. As
Senator Fournier has stated it merely substitutes the word "Canada" for "Dominion" in
the act and by so doing it repeals the Dominion Day Act.
The bill would also provide that Canada
Day shall be kept and observed as a legal
holiday on the first day of July, except when
the first day of July falls on a Sunday; when
this occurs, the second day of July shall, in
lieu thereof, be a legal holiday and be kept
and observed as such.
A national day of any homeland should
reflect the aspirations of the majority of its
citizens. Over the years there has been an
obvious desire by an overwhelming majority
of Canadians to change the word "Dominion"
to "Canada" or "Confederation" to celebrate
the birthday of our nation.
Perhaps I could be considered of a generation which did not let the use of the word
"Dominion" upset me. For, the Dominions
evolved from colonies and are now autonomous states. We all know that Canada is completely independent and recognized as such at
the United Nations and in world affairs. We
all remember that in 1943 Canada appointed
a full ambassador to the United States, thus
heralding her assumption of full sovereign
statehood.
However, I believe if we set aside a day
each year, preferably on July lst, and call it
"Canada Day", it would give Canadians a
greater sense of pride.
The word "dominion", according to Webster's Encyclopedic Dictionary, is defined as
follows:
Dominion-a territory controlled by a
particular government, or monarch, often
self-governing and, politically, wholly
independent. The name, Dominion of
Canada, for example, was given to the
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 18, 1970

federated Canadian provinces in 1867;
other parts of the British Empire are also
dominions. Since 1926 these governments
have had equal authority in imperial
matters with the British Government,
and have an equal footing with Great
Britain and other countries in the United
Nations.
A poll conducted by the Ottawa Citizen,
and I believe by a few other newspapers
across Canada, revealed that a large majority
of Canadian citizens favoured Canada Day as
opposed to Confederation Day-or either
"Canada" or "Confederation" in preference to
"Dominion".
Last year, on July lst, there were many
celebrations across Canada under the official
name of Canada Day. Take Stoney Creek as
an example, where over 10,000 people, young
and old, assembled for a Canada Day
celebration.
I do not always support change for the sake
of change, and I have a great respect for
Canada's historic past and as a member of the
great Commonwealth of Nations. But the
change from "Dominion" to "Canada" in the
act does not run counterwise to tradition.
Especially at the present time, when Canada
is faced with internal difficulties, we should
evaluate the positive advantage such a change
might achieve for newer generations.
About six months ago, when I was guest
speaker at an Ontario branch of the Jaycees, I
was told that their national organization, the
Junior Chamber of Commerce, had adopted
as their major project the changing of the
name Dominion Day to Canada Day. Furthermore, evidence is everywhere that other
national organizations would do likewise, if
they were polled, in order to promote national unity.
Moreover, numerous speakers in the federal
Parliament and in the provincial legislatures
across this great country, and in service
clubs, speak in glowing terms about our
Canadian Indians, and rightly so. What could
be more timely than to honour Canada's first
citizens by the name Canada Day? The word
"Canada" is an Indian name, taken from the
Indian language.
According to the Encyclopedia Canadiana,
"Canada" is a term that was apparently
derived from the Huron-Iroquois word
"Kanata", meaning a village or community,
or a "group of huts". It first appears in the
narrative of Jacques Cartier in 1534, where it
seems to have reference to the Indian com-

June 18, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

munity of Stadacona. The name was then
applied in connection with the St. Lawrence
River, which is described as "that famous
river of Canada" in Robert's Merchants' Map
of Canada, 1638.
The term "Canada" continued in popular
usage and came into official use with the
Canada Act-or Constitutional Act-of 1791. I
feel sure our Indian population, the original
Canadians, would have reason to feel elated
that the word "Canada" was chosen, as it
would be a reminder to them of their traditions and history.
I am largely in sympathy with this bill, and
I believe its passage would convey to our
young people a legitimate sense of national
pride, a proper sense of identity, and what it
really means to be a Canadian. It is my firm
belief that "Canada" Day more accurately
reflects the desires and modern traditions of
the current generation of Canadians.
I say this in support of the principle of the
bill and commend honourable Senator Fournier for introducing it in this chamber.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Smith, debate
adjourned.
CANADA LABOUR (STANDARDS) CODE
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING

The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mr.
Connolly (Ottawa West), for the second reading of Bill C-214, to amend the Canada
Labour (Standards) Code.
Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable senators, at the outset of my remarks I want to
point out that I have taken on the rather
formidable and difficult task of attempting to
reform Senator Martin. His lesson today is
that of brevity, and I shall be very brief in
my own remarks.
I want to thank honourable Senator Connolly (Ottawa West) for his explanation of
this bill. As usual, he did a superb job of
explaining it. I also want to thank him for his
kind references to the points raised on this
side of the house when the so-called mother
bill was introduced. At times, Senator Connolly, we on this side of the house feel that
we are more or less a voice crying in the
wilderness. Therefore, I am the more pleased
to know that our observations and objections
received consideration. I can assure you that
your emphasis on this point was very much
appreciated and wll encourage us to offer to
the Government even better advice in the
future.

One point in the explanation of the bill
which left me somewhat confused was as to
the reference to the railways asking for deferment under clause 51. I presume the reference there is to both the C.P.R. and the
C.N.R., and I find it rather confusing that the
C.N.R., which is a Governiment corporation,
should be asking for a deferment from the
Department of Labour. Perhaps the sponsor
of the bill will be kind enough to give us a
further explanation in that regard.
Honourable senators, the original bill which
set the minimum wage at $1.25 an hour was
introduced on July 1, 1965. Since that time,
the various committees which have been
working on the bill have recommended an
increase of 40 cents an hour. This cannot be
interpreted in any way as meeting the infiationary trends that we have experienced in
the interim.
One injustice in this bill, honourable senators, that I think we should be at least aware
of is the fact that some employees of Crown
corporations received an increase of one-third
in their earnings in one agreement; yet we
find in a five-year period the so-called casual
employees have received only an increase of
one-third. I think this point should receive
further consideration, and I have no doubt
that Senator Connolly (Ottawa West) will
quickly point this out to the Minister of
Labour.
At this stage I would like to emphasize and
draw your attention to the fact that in the
course of the committee meetings in the other
place on this bill, a vote was taken on an
amendment to make the minimum wage $2
an hour. A most unusual situation occurred,
in that the vote was tied and the chairman of
the committee had to cast a vote to break the
tie. Needless to say, he voted along party
lines and voted against the amendment. Certainly $1.65 an hour is not too much, considering today's cost of living-no one could
object to the figure being too high. The only
question that can be raised is as to whether it
is in fact too little, and when will the next
review take place.
I should like to put one further question to
the sponsor, and ask him if the terms of the
biH apply to projects under joint federal-provincial cost-sharing arrangements. I am referring specifically here to the Department of
Regional Development. I point out to him that
it would be rather unfair that a worker on a
project that is completely federally financed
should receive $1.65 an hour if that rate were
not to apply to all workers engaged on joint

1282

SENATE DEBATES

projects. I wonder if, in his wisdom, he can
find a way to have this apply in al cases. I
should also like to ask him if he could inform
us as to the number of employees affected by
this bill, as I believe he omitted to mention
that in his explanation.
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable senators, in saying a few words concerning this
bill let me point out that I associate myself
completely with the remarks of honourable
Senator Phillips (Prince). I am sure there is
general agreement as to the principle of the
bill.
Senator Phillips asked as to the number of
people affected by the bill. I also had that
point in mind. The only figures I have heard
mentioned in this regard-and this is going
back to June, 1969-is that something over
20,000 people would be affected. Of this
number, about 8,000 were employees of the
chartered banks in Canada, another 5,600
were employed in transportation systems and,
of the remainder, more than 800 were
employed by radio and television enterprises.
I was surprised to learn that there were so
many people engaged in industries under federal Government jurisdiction receiving less
than $1.65 an hour.
Of course, honourable senators, we know
that those affected are mainly non-union
people who are weak in bargaining power
and are therefore more or less helpless. For
that reason, they need the help of the Parliament of Canada. I express no strong opinion
as to whether the amount of $1.65 is adequate
at the present time. I share Senator Phillips'
view when he says he would like to see it
increased, but I can appreciate the fact, after
reading the speeches of the Minister in the
House of Commons, that he also has problems. So, perhaps this is the best we can hope
for at the present time.
Of course, honourable senators, this bill
only applies to industries under federal Government jurisdiction. But if something over
20,000 people are affected by it, then how
many more thousands must be affected
because they are employed in industries
under provincial government jurisdiction. I
believe that the setting of a higher rate by
the federal Government is a good thing
because it will give an incentive, as it were,
to the provinces to try te bring their minimum wage rates up to that same standard. At
the present time, as I understand, they are all
under it.
As I read what went on, I came to the
conclusion that the fact that the federal Gov[Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince).]

June 18, 1970

ernment five years ago introduced a minimum
wage of $1.25 an hour had a very beneficial
effect, and that various provinces tried to
bring their minimum wage rates up to that
point. Most of them have done so, and some
have even exceeded it, but now there will be
a further incentive to them to try to bring
their rates up to $1.65 an hour. I realize, of
course, that the provinces have, perhaps,
more difficult problems-in fact, I know they
have. I have no doubt that all the provinces
would very much like to be able to increase
their minimum wage rates to 1.65 or even $2
an hour. But they have this serious problem,
that there are in many places marginal industries, industries which are existing perhaps
under low-wage rates. If the minimum were
raised, either the industry would go out of
business or mechanization would come into
being. In either case, unemployment would be
the result. I know the old argument that if
they cannot pay a decent wage, the industry
does not deserve to exist. That is ail very fine
in theory, but it is of no help to men and
women who are unemployed.
I can tell you, honourable senators, that
unemployment is a terrible problem right
now. Let me give one instance which came to
my attention the day before yesterday, in a
letter fron a person in my own area, asking
me if I could help him obtain employment. He
said, in part:
I am a returned veteran of five years'
service overseas, 48 years old; served in
England, Italy, France, Belgium and
Holland.
He is 48 years old, worked in one place for 15
years, and for three or four years in another,
and in neither case when he lost his position
was it his own fault-the industry went out
of business. He went on to say:
At present I am drawing thirty-eight dollars per week Unemployment Insurance. I
have tried to get work, God only knows
how I tried without success, and I am still
trying.
It is no use trying to tell people like this
that they should be getting a minimum wage.
They want employment. The problem faced
by provincial governments is that if they try
to put the minimum wage rates too high
unemployment is the result.
Honourable senators, I must say that I was
a little surprised to learn that in the rich
Province of Ontario-it has, I believe, a minimum rate at the present time of $1.30 an
hour-there are many people getting only

June 18, 1970

June18, 970SENATE
DEBATES

$1.40 an hour. I know clerks in this city,
responsible people, whose wage rate is $1.40
an hour, working for industries which could
well afford to pay more.
That is one of the reasons why I think this
bull is a good one, for, certainly, if the federal
Governiment raises the minimum rate in
industries under its jurisdiction to $1.65 an
hour, I do not believe that the Province of
Ontario can do less, and I hope it wiil do
more.
One thing that disturbed me a littie, on
readinig the June 12 issue of the Toronto
Daily Star, was a report in relation to the
announcement by the Minister of Manpower
and Immigration of assistance that was to be
given to create summer employment for students. The headlîne reads:
Ottawa out to create 36,000 student jobs.
The article goes on to state:
The federal Government announced yesterday it would create more than 36,000
new jobs for students this summer,
including 5,000 for summer soldiers in
the militia.
In the first place, I think it shows a terrible
lack of vision and imagination to say that
they can only create new jobs by putting
people in the milltia. However, that is by the
way.
Allan MacEachen, Minister of Manpower andi Immigration, told the Commons he expected the program, to cost
almost $28 millionBut listen to this, honourable senators:
-Militia students will earn $7 a day.
Is $7 a day an adequate wage? At $1.25,
which, if I recall correctiy, is the minimum
now, this means that they should only work
for 5J hours a day. If $1.65 is to be the
minimum, then they should only work
between four and five hours a day. Unless the
militia is far different from what I believe it
to be, they will be called upon to work for
more than four or five hours a day. So, I say
to honourable senators, the first thing the federal Government must do is to see that they
pay those students at least the minimum.
wage, and flot any miserable $7 a day.
Borne Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: Honourable senators,
with these few remarks, I say that we support
the bill I do not see any need to send it to
committee, because it is plainly and simply
raising the minimum wage.
22481-31

There is one thing the sponsor might also
deal with when he replies. 1 know it is not
something new, but I sec that this legisiation
would apply to persons 17 years of age or
over. Why should it apply only to those 17
years of age or over? If a person 16 years of
age is doing a man's work, should he flot be
paid a man's wages?
Honourable senators, I thank you for your
attention.
Hon. John
J. Cannally:
Honourable
senators,The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, I must inform you that if the
honourable Senator Connolly speaks now, it
will have the effect of closing the debate.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): Honourable senators, first of ail, may I thank the
honourable Senator Phiilips (Prince) and the
honourable Senator Macdonald, my two Maritime friends, for their generous, indeed charitable, references to my explanation of this
bull yesterday. Let me return the compliment, because what they have done today
has been a great contribution to this important piece of legisiation, short though it be.
They have given evidence here of something that is heartwarming for Parliament to
observe, namely, a sense of social conscience.
I think we are ail particularly concerned in
this bouse with providing flot only a minimum wage for the workers of this country,
but also with providing, as far as we can do
50 within the federal jurisdiction, a living
wage. That is the ideal that we should be
striving for, both federally and provincially,
as we enact legisiation of this character.
Both of my honourable friends have asked
about the number of people who have been
affected. I would like to put on record some
statistics that have been gathered since the
mother act came into force in 1965. 1 believe
these statistics bear out precisely what Senator Macdonald said, namely, that the enactment of the provision with respect to the
minimum wage in federal employment has, lin
fact, improved the wage rates that have been
paid.
The numbers of employees earning less
than $1.65 in industry under federal jurisdiction between 1965 and 1969 are as follows: in
1965, there were 84,967; in 1966, 71,452,
despite the increase in the labour force; in
1967, 56,771, despite the increase in the labour
force; and in 1968 the number feUl to 31,055,
despite the increase in the labour force. In

1284

SENATE DEBATES

1969 the figure fell to 20,747, despite the
increase in the labour force.
Now, this bears out what Senator Macdonald said, that when you legislate for a
minimum wage you do have a general effect
through this legislation upon the wage level.
The average change over these five years
has been a drop of about 16,000 persons each
year who were getting less than $1.65 an
hour. The minimum through those years has
been $1.25. It is thought that perhaps in 1970,
if this average drop continues, there might be
a little less than 5,000 workers in federal
undertakings in Canada who would be getting
less than the $1.65 an hour. These are the
people
who
will
benefit
directly
as
a result of the passage of this legislation.
I hope that that explanation is reassuring to
both honourable senators.
Senator Phillips (Prince) asked about the
problem that arises from the fact that in certain industries wage increases have gone as
high as 33 per cent as a result of the process
of collective bargaining, while in this case the
increase of 40 cents over $1.25 to $1.65 is
much less than that. This is true. I would
point out, however, that here we are legislating for a minimum, not a maximum. I hope
we shall never in this country attempt to
legislate for maximum rates of pay. This is
what is done in the countries behind the Iron
Curtain, where wage levels are held very
strongly and severely below a certain ceiling.
If the process of collective bargaining
results in increases, then in so far as these
increases are within reason and do not contribute to the inflationary process, which we
all deplore and which hurts the workers more
than anyone else, I say more power to the
collective bargaining process. I deplore, as I
am sure all honourable senators do, the
increases that have been made in some industries far beyond the guidelines suggested by
the Prices and Wages Commission. However,
sometimes the trade unions are in a very
strong bargaining position and can afford to
push high, hard and effectively. However, I
do think that the objective should be consistent with the reservations I originally mentioned, that every worker in this country
should be paid a living wage.
Senator Phillips (Prince) also asked when
the next increase might come, and suggested
that perhaps the present one might be too
little. I would say that, depending upon the
skill of the individual, this minimum certainly
is far below what you would find in certain
technical categories. I understand that car[Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West).]

June 18, 1970

penters, plumbers and electricians are paid
many times this minimum and this in the
areas of this country which are less opulent
than some of the central provinces.
However, the minister has indicated that
there will be a more comprehensive review of
this act at the next session of Parliament. In
the meantime the officials of the department
have shown good initiative in establishing a
working party to look into the situation arising from the increase in the cost of living and
the increase in productivity, in order to
arrive at a figure that is now comparable for
1970 to the figure of $1.25 an hour five years
ago, namely, in 1965.
Senator Phillips (Prince) also asked about
the railways. I do not pretend to be an expert on the problem which faces the railways
of this country. However, the question is
really not a matter of the minimum wage in
connection with railways. The railway workers are all unionized and their rates are set as
a result of collective bargaining between the
owners and the representatives of the workers. The problem of the railways arises out of
other provisions of the mother bill with
respect to hours of work. Honourable senators
will remember that the bill prescribes an
eight-hour day, a 40-hour week, two weeks
holidays with pay after working for one year
and eight holidays with pay during each year.
The work schedule of the railway worker,
indeed in many industries, is such that it
cannot be accommodated to this rather rigid
formula.
For that reason the railways have applied
for deferment in respect of hours of work
primarily. Under section 53 of the act this
means not that their workers are going to get
less money, but that there is a process going
on whereby the railways in their management
of their work forces and in co-operation with
the unions that represent the work forces will
be able to harmonize the position that they
face in respect of operating the railway systems with the provisions of this act. It may
take a good deal more time, certainly many
more months, before a satisfactory result is
achieved.
I think, honourable senators, I have
answered all the questions that were raised
by my two Maritime friends. If I have forgotten any one of them, perhaps they would
remind me.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): May I direct one
short supplementary question to the honourable Senator Connolly (Ottawa West). He
stated that he hoped we would not reach the

June 18, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

day when we would have a maximum salary
increase. I personally find a rather grey area
between the 6 per cent ceiling and the maximum increase. Perhaps he would care to
clarify that point.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): In view
of the fact that the guideline is 6 per cent and
in some cases the increases are 33 per cent, I
would rather describe it as a black area in
the face of the inflation that we have in this
country.
I suppose that wage and price control could
be established if there were agreement
between the federal and provincial jurisdictions. Certainly, the federal jurisdiction could
not do it on its own. Certainly, the provincial
jurisdictions would have difficulty agreeing
on a national basis as to what the appropriate
level should be. I would imagine also that in
the face of the performance of the trade
unions in their approach to the suggestion
that there should be a guideline followed on
wage increases, there might be quite a political storm raised in the country.
This is somewhat outside the scope of this
bill and I am talking pretty much off the top
of my head. There is nothing really to prevent my thought coming out, as Senator Sullivan reminds me by fondling his own curly
locks!
I would hope that in a society like our
Canadian society, with the free market and a
free economy, we would not, except in time
of war, have anything like wage control or
price control. I believe that all of us set our
faces against that kind of thing.
I am in favour of voluntary restraints if
they can be made to work. We cannot expect
co-operation from every segment of the
economy, but we can always hope and can
always urge. Perhaps part of the urging lies
in the capacity of public men to explain how
unreasonably large increases in prices and in
wages adversely affect, not the rich man as
much as the poor man.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
The Hon. the Speaker (Hon. Mr. Cameron):
Honourable senators, when shall this bill be
read the third time?
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): Since
Senator Macdonald has indicated that it was
not necessary to send this bill to a committee,
I would move that it be placed on the Orders
of the Day for third reading at the next sitting of the Senate.
Motion agreed to.
22481-31J

1285

ESTIMATES
REPORT OF NATIONAL FINANCE COMMITTEEADOPTED

The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the report of the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance
with respect to the Estimates for the fiscal
year ending March 31, 1971.
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable senators, Senator Grosart has asked me to inform
the Senate that he is unavoidably detained
this afternoon attending other senatorial
duties, so he will be unable to continue the
debate on this report. In view of our expectation of having the final supply bill next week,
Senator Grosart has asked that he be allowed
to forego speaking on this report. At the same
time, he wishes me to emphasize that he
means no discourtesy to Senator Everett,
whose report he feels is very worthy and
entitled to great respect.
Hon. Hazen Argue: Honourable senators, 1
wish to say a few words on this motion, dealing particularly with the effective speech,
made by Senator Everett, in bringing in very
pertinent suggestions to the house and to Parliament from the Committee on National
Finance.
The first item I wish to raise is what 1
consider to be the rather slow action forthcoming from the Canadian Government as a
result of the terrible disaster in Peru. While I
am pleased that Canada did take some action
and I fully support it, I share the opinion
expressed by responsible people over the
radio and in the press that the Government
seemed uncertain as to what action to take
and undue delay in taking it.
The first announcement as to some action,
in the light of this terrible disaster, was by
the Prime Minister, that Canada would send
$25,000 cash through the Red Cross, and that
the Red Cross itself was sending another
$16,000 in clothes and cash. That was on a
Tuesday. It was not until Friday that some
Caribou planes of the Department of National
Defence were ready to take off with a Hercules aircraft for Peru.
It has been suggested that the Department
of External Affairs failed to have the kind of
immediate contact and to exercise the kind of
immediate response one would have expected
would take place in the week of this great
disaster.
I would make the positive suggestion that
Canada should have on a standby basis emer-

1286

SENATE DEBATES

gency equipment by way of planes, portable
hospital units, and appropriation, so that it
would be ready to give immediate assistance
whenever a disaster occurs anywhere in the
world.
I believe that the Americans had planes
going to Peru on the Tuesday. There was no
reason why we could not have been as
responsive to this very grave situation. I
understand that Canada is in a position to
provide a number of 200-bed portable hospital units, which is very commendable. One
such unit consists of 10 wards, three portable
x-ray units, a laboratory, a pharmacy, a central supply unit and a utility unit, which is
made up of an electric pump, a water pump,
water tank and a generator to run the electric
pump. In other words, we have hospital facilities available. They have to be erected in
some place in order to be made operative.
Honourable senators, I would suggest also
that we should have voluntary medical doctors on a standby basis, ready to accompany
these portable hospitals and to man these
facilities, and as well the necessary nursing
personnel.
U Thant from time to time has made
requests to member nations to have this kind
of emergency facility available through the
United Nations. I think this kind of facility,
being made available by Canada through the
United Nations, would receive the general
support of the Canadian public. I would think
we might earmark $10 million for this kind of
'provision and that that idea would receive
very nearly unanimous support from Canadians generally.
On this subject, I should say that I have
read carefully some of the statements that
have been made by Mr. Clyde Sanger and
Mr. Peter Ward, both distinguished members
of the news media. Mr. Sanger has written a
very informative book on the whole question
of economic aid and on this kind of assistance. It has not been in the library, but the
library is ordering it. I wish to say that the
kind of humanitarian thinking which has
gone into the proposals that have been made
by such gentlemen as these, is to be
commended.
I know that the Leader of the Government
in the Senate, expert as he is on external
affairs, a man who has a humanitarian record
over the years, will recognize that this is
the kind of action that Canada should be
taking, not just when a disaster happens but
in order to be prepared in advance. This aid
should be made readily available to the
[Hon. Mr. Argue.]

June 18, 1970

United Nations as the constructive action by
Canada in the interests of suffering humanity
and of international good will.
Honourable senators, there is another subject which I wish to raise, a subject which
has been one of very great controversy in the
Province of Saskatchewan. It has hit the news
media all across Canada and I feel it is a
subject that should and can very properly be
raised in the Senate, and I am proud and
happy to do so on this occasion. At the same
time I regret the circumstances that have
made it necessary to raise it.
At a time when everybody is aware of the
great generation gap, at a time when more
and more people are coming to understand
the fact that Canadian youth has decided to
reject much of society today that they feel is
phony, and at a time when Canadian youth
has great difficulty in obtaining jobs and in
making a living, at a time when greater and
greater recognition is given by Government,
by Parliaments and by legislatures, to the fact
that youth is becoming more and more
mature, I regret that the management
of ihe C.N.R. hotel in Saskatoon has taken an
arbitrary, high-handed and, in my opinion,
wrongful action in barring certain young
people from the beverage room on the sole
ground of style of dress.
Hon. Mr. Aselline: And for wearing beards
as well.
Hon. Mr. Argue: Yes, for wearing beards
and long hair and so on and so forth.
I hope to present myself, in due course, in
certain of these beverage rooms, which normally I do not frequent, and I shall be interested to see what will happen when I do so.
However, honourable senators, these young
people were rejected.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Perhaps the honourable
senator will remember the occasion in the
other place when a former Prime Minister
objected to the sandals worn by the present
Prime Minister. I successfully took objection
to what Mr. Diefenbaker had said, with widespread approval from honourable members,
including the honourable senator who is now
speaking and whom I did not recognize until
a few moments ago.
Hon. Mr. Argue: I think the comment about
recognition is stretching it a little bit! However, when the style of dress of the present
Prime Minister was objected to in the House
of Commons, I understand that with the
sandals, he had bare feet. I am positive that if

June 18, 1870

June1970SENATE
18,
DEBATES

the present Prime Minister of Canada should
present himseif in his customary attire, when
he is out in an informai way in the beverage
room of the C.N.R. publicly-owned hotel in
Saskatoon, he wouid be refused service. 0f
course if they recognized him, then they
would bow and scrape and wouid give him
the best possible service.
But, honourable senators, I raise this point
honestly, earnestly and sincerely. I think it is
a ridiculous position for the management of
the C.N.R. hotel to have taken, and I think
that when the demonstrations are over and
the public discussions have come to an end,
the C.N.R. management will lose because,
I suggest, this is the kind of thing that cannot
be sustained for anything but a very short
period of time.
Following the refusai to, serve these
youths-and Saskatchewan has just recently
lowered the age of majority to 19 yearsthere have been demonstrations, confrontations, public protest meetings and the closing
of the beverage room in question. I am happy
to say that the demonstrations that have foliowed have been peaceful and non-violent,
which is the way they should be. But this
kind of action taken by the Bessborough
Hotel is the type that can lead to larger and
larger demonstrations that may at some time
get ouf of hand and become violent.
I fhink the action of the C.N.R. hotel is
misguided, wrongful and shouid be changed. I
fhink if is an unwarranfed infringement on the
personal rights of people, their right fo decide
their own type of dress, and their right f0
wear their hair ini any style they see fit. The
hotel is owned by the public, but the public
are nof able f0 frequent the beverage room
unless they comply with certain very rigid,
and, 1 would say, very ridiculous standards.
The hair, according to their regulations,
may be long, but not too long-not lower than
the shouiders. The ears must be visible. Just
look at that. This, of course, I gather is for
males only, and f0 thaf extent if shows a type
of sex discrimination. It would be ail right, I
presumne, for a woman f0 have long hair,
lower than her shoulders, and she may even
bide ber ears. But wbat would the management say of a lady wbo wore ber bair
cropped and with her ears clearly visible?
This would be wbat we used f0 cail a boy's
bob. If she sought admittance f0 the beverage
room, I presurne fhey wouid admit her. This
in my view, bonourable senafors, demonstrates a very silly kind of discrimination.

1287
19

We have already h*ad reference to the use
of sandals. In this situation sandals may be
worn, but they must be worn with socks.
That wouid count our Prime Minister ouf; he
would not get into the beverage room. Apparently if is felt thaf sandals bousing dirfy
socks are preferable f0 sandals bousing dlean
feet. At any rate, the socks must be on the
feet if the person wearing the sandals is to
gain admittance f0 the beverage room.
Parliament used f0 be a pretty sfuffy place
too. I remember when a lady appearing in the
gallery of the House of Commons--and I presume the same situation applied in the Senate-bad f0 have ber bead covered. On some
occasions, a lady would arrive at the gallery
and say "Oh, 1 haven't got a bat," and she
would reach for a serviette or a scrap of
paper and put if on her head and so would go
into the gallery. Thaf kind of nonsense has
now sfopped around here, but even a year
ago the 16-year old son of a senator, accompanied by his fat ber or so I have been
informed, was refused service in the parliament ary restaurant because be was not wearing a fie. We can bebave in a prefty ridiculous fashion af fimes f00. I arn informed that
this rule has now been cbanged and that if
could not happen again.
I undersfand the Bessborougb rules says
jeans can be worn, but not if there is a pafch
on the jeans.
So, bonourable senafors, I wanf f0 prof est
against this kind of arbifrary action on the
part of the C.N.R., aimed direcfly and solely, I
suggest, against youfh. In the Cifty of Regina
or the City of Saskatoon, if you are taking
part in the pioneer celebrations and you have
long bair and a long beard and front ier garb,
and especially if you happen fo be one of the
400 who are worth a million bucks, you wifl
be welcomed into the beverage room, but a
young person in the same type of attire will
be turned away. Thaf is the situation in the
City of Saskatoon.
There were five young people from eastern
Canada who appeared i the beverage room
of the Belle City Motel in Regina, which bas
the sophisticafed namne of "The Pig and Whisfie". The management objected f0 their long
hair and fhey couid nof gef in. I asked these
young people, "Were you dlean?" They
replied, "«Yes, we had jusf hifcb-hiked froni
Toronto, Ontario. We resfed a day, washed
and cleaned up, and went f0 the laundromat
and bad ail our ciothes washed. Then we put
themn on and were as clean as could be." So,
they presented fhemseives af "The Pig and

1288

SENATE DEBATES

June 18, 1970

Whistle" beverage room in the Belle City
Motel in the City of Regina, and were refused
service.

C.N.R., to see if a change in the management
or in the orders cannot be made in the City of
Saskatoon.
I understand that Mr. George McCabe has
Hon. Mr. Thompson: Is "The Pig and Whis- recently
been appointed the hotel manager.
tle" a C.N. motel?
He has the hotel in trouble and the communiHon. Mr. Argue: No; this is an instance of a ty in an unnecessary uproar. I think this man
privately-owned motel doing the same thing. I might usefully go on to some other place, and
asked the young people, "What did you do, that an apology to the young people should be
protest or call the mayor?" They said "No, we prepared.
just took it."
Hon. Mr. Martin: If I undertake to bring
Hon. Mr. Martin: The "Whistle" part would this matter to the attention of my colleagues,
to the extent they have any jurisdiction in
belong to a railway hotel.
the matter, I hope that Senator Argue and
Hon. Mr. Argue: I do not get the signifi- Senator McDonald from Saskatchewan will
cance of that interjection.
bring to the attention of Premier Thatcher
Hon. Mr. Martin: I understood Senator the problem arising out of "The Pig and
Thompson wanted to know if it was owned Whistle."
by a railway.
Hon. Mr. Argue: I do not know if the minister is saying this with sincerity or not. I
Hon. Mr. Argue: Yes-and I said "No."
think he is making a joke of it, and I do not
Hon. Mr. Martin: I thought you said "Yes." regard it as a joke.
It was for that reason I suggested that if the
Hon. Mr. Martin: I am not making a joke of
title of the motel was "The Pig and Whistle,"
it was the "Whistle" portion that was it. If "The Pig and Whistle" comes under the
jurisdiction of another government, and I
significant.
undertake to bring this matter to the attenHon. Mr. Argue: There has already been tion of my colleagues in respect of their jurisreaction in the City of Saskatoon. Sorne diction, I do not think I am being jocular
when I ask Senator Argue and Senator
people say, "The management did rightdon't let these people in." However, there McDonald to accept their share of responwere people attending a conference of the sibility with regard to "The Pig and Whistle."
Lutheran Church at the Bessborough Hotel,
Hon.
and they went on record as saying that they attentionMr. Argue: I am bringing it to the
of the Minister of Transport for
thought the management was wrong. The
Canada by speaking on the floor of this chamnewspaper report states:
ber. I am bringing it-I hope as a result of
W. K. Pontikes, beverage roorn manager news coverage-to the attention of the Preat the Ritz Hotel, said long hair was not mier of Saskatchewan by speaking in this
used as a reason for refusing to serve a chamber, and I will certainly make represencustomer, as long as he was not causing tations to him when I speak to him at another
trouble on the premises.
time.
He said a group of long-haired youths
However, I point out to the honourable
entered the Ritz Monday night following minister that the Belle City Motel, as far as I
the demonstration at The Bessborough know, is not owned by the Government of
against new hotel regulations governing Saskatchewan or the people of Saskatchewan,
dress and appearance.
but is a privately owned motel being operated
"They thanked me for letting them have in the City of Regina. However, be it publicly
a drink in the pub," he said. "I was or privately owned, its action is despicable.
pleased to have thern; they behaved
Hon. Mr. Martin: They issued the licence.
themselves."
As part of their protest the young people
carried signs which read, "We want beer, not
dope."
I think this whole situation is a serious
reflection on the C.N.R. I would hope that the
Minister of Transport would intercede and
discuss this question with the President of the
[Hon. Mr. Argue.]

Hon. Mr. Argue: And they can withdraw
the licence. I would think a government such
as the government of Premier Thatcherwhich reduced the age of majority in Saskatchewan, at the recent session, to 19, making it
possible for young people of 19 or 20 years of
age to present themselves at beverages

June 18, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

rooms-has a responsibility to say that such
silly, ridiculous regulations should not be
countenanced; and, to that extent, I think
there may be a responsibility.
I want to say that in discussing this question privately with my colleagues in the
Senate, I have been pleased to find that there
is a great deal of surprise and consternation
with regard to it, and there is a great deal of
support for saying that this kind of discrimination should have no place in a public building and should not be part and parcel of the
regulations of a C.N.R. hotel.
Hon. Charles McElman: Honourable senators, I would like to speak briefly in support
of the subject Senator Argue bas spoken to.
Some honourable senators might feel that
Senator Argue has a personal involvement in
this, in view of his present camouflage. Since
I do not have similar camouflage at the
moment, perhaps I will not be so suspected. In
any event, I have discussed this incident at
the C.N.R. hotel in Saskatoon with Senator
Argue, and I share with him the feeling of
offence that a bureaucratie appointee would
be permitted to get away with this sort of
nonsense in a hotel owned by an agency of
the Government of Canada.
One evening last week, when the national
news was being aired on television, I saw this
gentleman being interviewed. As Senator
Argue has indicated, from his great altitude
he suggested that he could be the judge as to
what particular length of hair a man should
wear in order to get into his elite premises, as
to what particular length of beard a man
should have in order to enter his doors. Again
I say, to me it was the absolute in bureaucratie buffoonery. In my view, by his attitude the
man held up to ridicule the outstanding
public servants of this nation, and those
involved in operating the agencies of government in a commendable fashion.
I hope, as Senator Argue has suggested,
that the media will indicate the displeasure of
this house, and that the responsible minister
in government might also indicate his displeasure at this sort of activity. This was a
case of serious over-reaction on the part of
the hotel officials involved. It is such overreaction as this that in other ways in the
society in which we are living further broadens the generation gap and generates further
reaction from young people-often times emotional reaction, unfortunately-and to a
lesser degree, but sufficient to cause us concern, over-reaction creates again a reaction
of violence.

1289

In this instance, if one can believe the
reports that came over the television on the
national news that evening, the young people
who were treated in this fashion were not
served and went out. They purchased their
own alcoholic beverages and returned to the
premises, gained entry and proceeded to
drink their own beverages. I should assume
that under the liquor control laws of Saskatchewan this would be an illegal act. So this
bureaucratie buffoon, by his stupidity, provoked young people to take illegal action to
protest what had been done.
This is the sort of thing that should
not emanate from those in charge of government agency licensed premises. I would
simply like to support Senator Argue in his
protest of this.
Hon. Andrew Thompson: Honourable senators, I also stand in support of Senator Argue.
In a sense it may seem to us that this is a
small point, yet I think it is so vital that the
Senate should be alert and sensitive to these
kinds of restrictions by bureaucracy which
cause frustration in citizens across the
country.
I commend Senator Argue for bringing up
what some people may suggest is really a
minor incident. It is not. As senators, we
should always be ready to protect the rights
of minorities. I suggest that in some ways
these young people are a minority and wish
to assert the rights of citizens. I want to distinguish from the Pig and Whistle. I think
that is another area, but I am particularly
concerned with respect to government-owned
hotels. Their management must be sensitive
to the needs of the public. We pay for these
hotels. I have talked with Senator Argue and
discussed this narrowness on the part of some
persons suggesting the length of my hair or
these young people's hair-and I consider it
to be absolutely none of their business and an
infringement on our rights.
One of the things that sometimes cause
concern in Canada is the dull conformity, the
greyness that can develop across our country
because of the lack of individuality. I congratulate people who either by dress or the
way they have their hair or anything else
want to express themselves. That is their
right, and I object strongly that a government
agency should not give public access to young
people who are asserting that right.
Therefore I commend Senator Argue in
bringing this point to the Senate.

SENATE DEBATES
Senator Phillips (Prince): Honourable senators, I would like to take part in this debate.
However, unfortunately I cannot; I have an
appointment for a haircut.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators,
Senator Argue raised another matter about
which I wish to say something. I indicated
with sincerity and seriously, notwithstanding
what Senator Argue implied, that I did appreciate the point he was making. It is salutory that the Senate should be the vehicle
through which these views on behalf of the
young people should be expressed. This is an
indication of the modernity and contemporaneity of the Senate with regard to one of the
burning questions of our time, the problem iof
the generation gap.
I will certainly bring this matter to the
attention of my colleague, the Minister of
Transport. I should mention, however, that
the railways are regarded, and have been by
all governments, as business operations. The
extent of interference by the excutive or the
minister is open to question. However, Mr.
Jamieson is an ingenious man and he may
find ways of bringing the problem that has
been raised to the attention of the management. He will then be in a position to ascertain for himself whether or not the complaints deserve the construction and interpretation that has been placed on them.
Having said this I want to make it clear
that we of the Government are conscious of
the importance of letting all sections of the
country know of the concern and interest we
have for them. This applies not only to senior
citizens but to younger people. I do not think
anyone has given greater evidence of his
interest in this than the present Prime
Minister.
The problems of the younger generation
today are of great concern to us all. We have
to learn to establish a proper dialogue, one
generation with another. I am sure that it is
through dialogue that we will find a solution
for the problem that undoubtedly does exist
in the gap between the generations.
However, one thing that is clear in my
mind is that the way to solve whatever may
be agitating any generation, including the
young people, is not through violence. That
yields no solution.
Senator Argue complained about the slowness of the Canadian effort in assisting the
unfortunate people in Peru. It happened that
during the time that Mr. Sharp was away at
the NATO meeting and during his official
visit to Roumania and Ireland I was the
[Hon. Mr. Thompson.]

June 18, 1970

Acting Secretary of State for External
Affairs. If there is any blame I suppose it
should be directed to and at me. It is because
of this, in addition to what Senator Argue
says, that I make a reply.
I have seen what Mr. Sanger and others
have written. I do not deny that Mr. Sanger is
a competent student in the field of foreign
aid. I know his book. I regret his inclusion of
our military aid to Tanzania as though it
were external aid. That was an error in his
book which I pointed out to him at the time.
However, he did perform a useful service in
writing that book. I mention it simply because
I am aware of his interest in the problem. I
know that be too thought the Government
was slow in what it did to assist the people in
Peru. Well, it is one thing to make a charge
of that kind but another to substantiate it.
The tragedy in Peru is one of major proportion. Over 50,000 people have lost their
lives. I was in contact with our Ambassador
in Peru, Mr. Houde. The situation was not as
clear as it seems to be in retrospect. The kind
of assistance that was needed was not clear
and, as we usually do in Canada, the Government relied primarily on the co-ordinating
efforts of the Canadian Red Cross Society.
I have learned from people with some
experience in these matters, that that is a
very useful thing to do. So we had to rely on
information that came from the Red Cross as
well as from our own diplomatic contacts in
Peru.
In the light of this obligation, the ultimate
and the gradual result was not one that
deserves excessive criticism in the matter.
Honourable senators, it is important to
recognize the nature of the Canadian assistance and I think it has been relatively significant. The Canadian assistance to Peru will
compare with that of almost any other country, proportionately, including the United
States. The United States was able to send
planes more quickly than we because they
have the machinery to get them there and
because they have more planes. The equipment the United States has is something that
no other nation has.
Through an announcement of the Prime
Minister on June 2, as Senator Argue has
pointed out, we made a cash donation of
$25,000 to the Canadian Red Cross Society to
assist with immediate purchase of emergency
supplies. At that time we did not know what
the situation was and we were relying
primarily on newspaper accounts.

June 18, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

On June 5 we sent five Caribou aircraft of
the Canadian Armed Forces, accompanied by
one Hercules, which flew to Peru to provide
logistic support. The Caribous are still in
Peru and I may say that we have had indications from our ambassador that the Peruvian
Government is grateful to Canada for this
assistance.
These Caribous, which represented a limited number of air vehicles that we possess,
have transported injured people out of the
stricken area and they are airlifting supplies
and essential personnel from the coast into
the mountain areas which were hardest hit.
These aircraft carried to Peru, in addition,
a small initial shipment of relief supplies,
such as tents and x-ray units-the kind of
assistance that we had been advised by the
Red Cross and by our own ambassador was
needed.
During the past weekend, three Hercules
and two Yukons of the Canadian Armed
Forces left Canada, carrying 1,000 large tents,
seven 100-kilowatt generators which had been
requested by the Peruvian Government, and
several portable radio-telephones and base
stations, which were a gift of Bill Telephone
Company of Canada. In addition, 12 C.A.F.
technicians travelled to Peru to put these
generators and equipment into operation.
Towards the end of this month, 3,000 tons of
flour will be shipped from Montreal, as a gift
from the Government of Canada.
Honourable senators, the cost of these
measures will be over $1 million.
The Ontario Department of Health is supplying bandages and disposable hypodermie
needles and syringes. Many private Canadian
agencies, under the leadership of the Red
Cross, will be providing assistance. To mention but a few, the Red Cross has donated
$15,000 in cash and $9,000 in supplies from
the League's strategic warehouse in Santiago,
and the Oblate Fathers have donated $30,500
in medicines and $5,000 in cash. Other
Canadian agencies, such as Oxfam and Care,
have responded with vigour and have also
launched national appeals for contributions.
Canadian Pacific Airlines has been co-operating by flying relief supplies from private
agencies without charge.
In reciting this assistance, we know it is not
great in proportion to the damage that has
been suffered and the loss of life in Peru,
nevertheless, it is only fair to the Canadian
Government and to the Canadian people to
say that this survey shows that what we have
22481-32

done, and the amounts in which we have
done it, is not an action that we should be
ashamed of.
Report adopted.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
MOTION FOR APPOINTMENT

OF SPECIAL

COMMITTEE-ORDER STANDS

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of the
honourable Senator Macnaughton, seconded
by the honourable Senator Robichaud:
That a Special Committee of the
Senate be appointed to consider and
report upon
(a) the current quality of the Canadian
environment and identification of probiems of environmental destruction and
quality control,
(b) the establishment of a national policy
on environnental quality,
(c) the establishment of administrative
and research organizations in the federal
Government to implement that policy
and to integrate and coordinate appropriate federal departmental and agency
activities towards the achievement of the
policy's objectives, and
(d) encouraging the involvement of provincial and territorial governments in
establishing a national policy and in
developing their own policies in harmony
with the national policy;
That the committee have power to
engage the services of such counsel, staff
and technical advisors as may be necessary for the purpose of the inquiry;
That the committee have power to send
for persons, papers and records, to examine witnesses, and to report from time to
time; and
That the committee before assuming
any financial obligations submit to the
Standing Committee on Internal Economy
and Contingent Accounts a budget for
approval setting forth in reasonable
detail the forecast of expenses to be
incurred; and
That the committee be authorized to
print such papers and evidence from day
to day as may be ordered by the committee, to sit during sittings and adjournments of the Senate, and to adjourn from
place to place.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
Senator Langlois.

SENATE DEBATES

June 18, 1970

Hon. Mr. McDonald: Stand, until October
31.

remind honourable senators that there is no
motion before the house, other than that
Senator McDonald asked that this order
Hon. Mr. Argue: Why not kill it now?
should stand. Is there unanimous consent to
Hon. Mr. McDonald: We will deal with it Senator McDonald speaking now?
some day.
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
Hon. Mr. McDonald: Honourable senators, I
this is not an effort to put anything off.
would point out that, if my memory serves
Honourable senators and the public of me
Canada might as well know this-we have eachright and I am certain that it does, on
and every occasion when it has been
many committees meeting currently. It is
suggested that this motion be held over, the
hard to man our committees and also to do
sponsor has not been in the chamber. That is
our work in this chamber.
not my fault. I wish to repeat what Senator
We had a clear example of that this morn- Martin has said to you. The number of
standing, in the Standing Committee on Health, ing and special committees
of the Senate that
Welfare and Science.
have been in action over the past several
I merely mention this, not because I am years-not just months-have been such that
trying to respond to any interjections made, we have utilized the full membership of the
but to indicate that we are doing our job as Senate and all the secretarial staff we can get
well as we can and we just do not have the our hands on. As a matter of fact, we have
personnel available to carry on the work that increased our staff from time to time. I have
would be required in the motion put forward no doubt that this particular motion has
by Senator Macnaughton.
created great interest among senators and
Canadians
soon as
Hon. Hazen Argue: Honourable senators, if we are able generally, and as
to bring an end to the work
I may respond to that statement, it would
be preferable if the senator in whose being carried out by some of the special committees now
name a motion stands would suggest the post- will proceed sitting, I have no doubt that we
with this particular motion.
ponement himself rather than have his However,
in the meantime, if sorne particular
motion placed in the hands of the Leader and senator
his assistant in such a way that the mover no like to or the sponsor of the motion would
proceed with a debate in this house, I
longer is in control of his motion.
see no objection to that, and if he is present
I would suggest that when a senator places on October 31, then perhaps that
is what we
a motion on the Order Paper it should come can do.
up for debate in reasonable course. I would
Order stands.
point out to the honourable leader-and he
must know this as well as anyone else and
certainly as well as I do-that debates could
COMMONWEALTH PARLIAMENTARY
take place from time to timeASSOCIATION
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETINGS ON THE
Hon. Mr. Martin: It could take place today.
ISLAND OF JERSEY
Hon. Mr. Argue:-without the need to concern ourselves with whether or not committee Leave having been given to revert to inquiries:
space is available. I know from private talks
Hon. John J. Connolly rose pursuant to
with the sponsor that he thought he had the notice:
support of the house to have a committee set
That he will call the attention of the
up, but today he is not certain.
Senate to the mid-year meeting of the
The question of pollution is of sufficient
Executive Committee of the Commonimportance that we should have a debate,
wealth Parliamentary Association, held at
even if the committee cannot be set up
Jersey, Channel Islands, 30th May to 6th
because of physical difficulties.
June, 1970.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: Honourable senatorsThe Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, I think this debate is out of order.
Nevertheless, with unanimous consent, Senator McDonald might say a few words. I would
[Hon. Mr. Speaker.]

He said: Honourable senators, I apologize
for keeping the Senate at this time, but I
think it is appropriate and timely to draw the
attention of the Senate to the mid-year meeting of the Executive Committee of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association which

June 18, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

was held on the Island of Jersey in the Channel Islands between May 30 and June 6 of
this year.
The people present at that meeting included the Chairman of the Executive Committee,
Honourable Peter Howson of Australia, and
Senator the Honourable Sir Alister McMullin,
Chairman of the Association. The Vice-Chairman of the Association, the Honourable A. G.
Montano of Trinidad was not able to be
present. Sir Alfred Broughton, Honorary Treasurer of the Association and Sir Frederic
Bennett, Honorary Financial Adviser, both
took time from their campaigning in the
United Kimgdom to attend for two days. Dr.
N. M. Perera from Ceylon could not attend
because he had just been made Finance Minister of his country after the election. The
Honourable M. O. Bash-Taqi from Sierra
Leone was present, but the Honourable P. A.
Kisumo of Tanzania could not attend.
The regional representatives were present.
The Honourable W. P. Nyirenda from Zambia
was there. From Asia, we had the Speaker of
of the Lok Sabha, the Honourable G. S. DhilIon. From Australasia, we had Mr. W. F.
Nankivel, and from Canada there was myself.
From Southeast Asia we had the Honourable
Tan Sri Ong Yoke Lin from Malaysia, and
from the United Kingdom and Mediterranean
area we had Dr. Guido DeMarco from Malta.
From the West Indies, Central and South
American Mainland we had Mr. N. J. Bissember from Guyana. Of course the Secretary
General, Mr. Robin Vanderfelt, Mr. Ian Grey,
his Deputy, Mr. L. M. Fowler, the Finance
Officer, and Miss Betty May, the Administrative Officer, all of whom run the affairs of the
Association so efficiently, were on hand.
The meeting was primarily engaged in preparing for the Sixteenth Annual Meeting of
the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, which will be held in Canberra between
September 18 and October 10.
The actual meeting of the Association will
take place between October 2 and October 10,
and the details of these meetings will be
available to Canadian delegates from the
office of Mr. Ian Imrie and will be supplied to
delegates as required.
One of the first tasks that the Executive
Committee had to deal with was the agenda,
and I would ask permission of honourable
senators to include as an appendix to the
report of today's proceedings the agenda for
the Sixteenth Annual Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference, Canberra-1970.
22481-321

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Is it agreed
honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
(For text of appendix see p. 1298)
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): Let me
indicate in a general way what this agenda
includes. There are three plenary sessions
which will be devoted to international affairs
and defence, the first dealing with Southeast
Asia, the Pacific and Indian Oceans. There
will be one dealing with Rhodesia and South
Africa. Finally, there will be one dealing with
the Middle East and the Mediterranean.
There will be three committees, and two
sessions of the meeting will be devoted to
committee work. One committee will deal
with the problems of the parliamentarian.
The topic for the second committee will be
"Partners in Development", and the question
of aid will be discussed both from the point
of view of the public sector and from the
point of view of the private sector. Committee
C will deal with conservation and pollution,
and two sessions will be devoted to that very
important subject, not only for the developing
countries of the Commonwealth but also for
the underdeveloped or developing countries.
There will be two plenary sessions to deal
with trade and economic developments, at
one of which it is expected to discuss the
European Economic Community and its possible impact on Commonwealth countries. The
second will discuss regional trade communities and commodity agreements.
There will be a plenary session to deal
with race relations and population growth.
There will be two plenary sessions to deal
with the general subject of parliamentary
democracy and its capacity to meet the chalenge of internal and external subversive tactics and techniques, industrial unrest, the protest of youth, poverty, and general turmoil,
and how these affect the operation of the
parliamentary system.
I may say that the agenda as it has been
prepared for the meeting in Canberra not
only indicates the names of the countries
from which leaders will be nominated to open
each of these debates, but it also indicates, in
the case of committee sessions, the countries
which will provide the chairmen and the
rapporteurs.
The Australians say that the meeting in
Canberra will be the largest ever held of the
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. A

SENATE DEBATES

daily Hansard will be produced, and the
Secretary General of the Commonwealth, Mr.
Arnold Smith, is expected to attend and
address the delegates.
Perhaps honourable senators should know
that in 1971 the General Conference will be
held in Zambia, and in 1972, if parliamentary
government is restored in time, in Pakistan.
Otherwise, I understand that Indian wlll be
the host on that occasion.
The next mid-year meeting of the Executive Committee, will be held in Sierra Leone
in 1971 and the following one will be held in
Singapore in 1972.
I should also report that there have been
regional conferences held in 1970, and that
for the United Kingdom and the Mediterranean region, they are being held in Gibraltar in June. There was a Caribbean
regional meeting held in Granada in June.
There was an African regional meeting held
in April.
There will be an area conference meeting
in Canada in 1970. That meeting will be held
in Ottawa, beginning August 30, at which the
federal branch will be the host. There will
also be meetings in the African region for
speakers of that region, in Malawai, beginning August 25. The speakers of the Caribbean region will be meeting on August 17, on
one of the islands in the Caribbean.
The executive committee was concerned
with the conduct of seminars by experts in
the parliamentary system. One such seminar
was held in the Australian region, one in the
African region, one in Fiji and one in Westminster in 1970.
I think honourable senators are aware of
the publications which are put out by the
C.P.A. I need not go into that, except to say
that definite steps were recommended to
undertake the writing of a history of the
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association,
including the days of the Empire Parliamentary Asssociation, when our colleague Senator
Roebuck was Chairman of the General Council. It is hoped that a beginning will be made
on that work this year.
I should like to report also to the Senate
that the financial affairs of the C.P.A. are in a
highly satisfactory condition. A general report
will be made to the General Council in Australia in the fall. I particularly want to commend the work of the Honorary Treasurer
and of the Financial Advisor, Sir Frederick
Bennett. He has been very businesslike and
efficient in the way he has handled the not
[Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West).]

June 18, 1970

inconsiderable sums of money required to
operate this important organization.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ot±awa West): While I
am talking about those who have meant much
to the development of the organization, I
should like to pay a special tribute to the
Chairman of the Executive Committee for the
past three years, the Honourable Peter Howson from Australia. He has shown leadership;
he has planned well; he has visited many,
perhaps most of the countries of the Commonwealth during his term of office; and he
has done a great deal to further the purposes
and objects of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association.
I think this is a very important association.
Some 7,000 parliamentarians are members,
representing half a billion people. There are
80 branches on every continent, of every race,
colour, religion and language. I may say that
90 per cent of the countries within the Commonwealth are developing countries, new
countries, and they have both substantive
problems and problems of the mechanical
part of governing their people.
The substantive problems are economic,
social and political. Let me give just one
example. Papua and New Guinea recently
applied for an increase in status. Two and a
quarter million people live in this state,
speaking 500 different languages. They have
24 different religions; there is no paramount
chieftain; they have a one-party system of
government; they are newly independent.
Obviously, they need a great deal of help,
both with the substantive problems they
face-social, economic and political-and in
the sphere of the operation of Parliament.
These are the countries which need training
and nurturing so that the parliamentary
system will work well and be effective in
solving their real problems.
As honourable senators know, South Africa
and Rhodesia are no longer members of the
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association.
The membership of Nigeria, Pakistan and
Cyprus, because of the non-existence of parliamentary government, bas been suspended. I
am happy to be able to report that Ghana bas
resumed the use of the parliamentary system,
so that she is a full-fledged member again.
We must remember that the old Empire, as
we used to know it, is long gone. The new
Commonwealth, as we have it, consists of
emerging countries, new countries, countries
with new problems, with new approaches,

June 18, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

and we all, both developed and developing,
have new opportunities.
There are opportunities for progress, cooperation and understanding. I think that one
of the best ways to develop co-operation and
understanding is to educate, to inculcate into
the 7,000 parliamentarians who belong to this
world-wide organization something of the
nature of the problems that the less fortunate
members of the Commonwealth have to face.
There are various vehicles in the Commonwealth for doing these things. The prime ministers' meetings are one example. The prime
ministers now, fortunately, have an executive
arm in the Commonwealth Secretariat,
headed by a Canadian, Mr. Arnold Smith. I
believe that the work Mr. Smith and his
associates are doing is progressing and developing, making the work of the prime ministers and the governments they represent more
meaningful within the Commonwealth. The
Commonwealth ministers meet from time to
time-ministers of finance, ministers of
trade-and I think these all help to bring
solutions to some of the common problems.
There are some 100 voluntary agencies,
most of them centered in Great Britain, dedicated to the solution of Commonwealth problems in a variety of fields-health, economics,
science and culture. But the greatest organization, so far as parliamentarians are concerned, is the Commonwealth Parliamentary
Association, because there, as I say, the 7,000
members can be educated and informed about
problems, not only within their own country,
their own region, or their on continent, but
throughout the world.
Here I should like to pay a tribute to what
the United Kingdom has done, especially
since the war. This being my last year as a
member of the Executive Committee, I feel I
should make this reference.
Through the years since 1945, Britain has
passed various statutes through her Parliament by which different countries have been
given their independence, some of them large,
some of them small, some of them very much
underdeveloped. Not only in respect of the
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association,
but in many other respects, the British have
made contributions to the security and
development of those regions, perhaps far
beyond what they might have been expected
to do once they set them free.
There are times when the British have
been criticized, and violently criticized, for
their attitude towards Rhodesia, Singapore,
Malta, Cyprus and other parts of the world.

Sometimes I wonder how British parliamentarians can take this kind of criticism at the
C.P.A. meetings and still continue to promote
the aims and objectives of the Commonwealth. I pay them this tribute, that they are
not only a very patient but, I believe, a very
wise group. I believe that they are a group
interested in promoting the welfare of peoples
once under their jurisdiction but now set free,
and they are anxious to see them prosper in
their new freedom. I should like to pay that
tribute to the approach to Commonwealth
affairs by successive British governments, and
by successive British parliamentarians whom
I have had the privilege to meet at the various meetings through the years.
I should now like to say a few words about
the Island of Jersey. As honourable senators
know, it is one of the four Channel Islands,
the others being Guernsey, Alderney and
Sark.
Jersey is a lush, fertile place, mainly
agricultural. It produces flowers, fruit ýand
vegetables, of course, for the British market.
It is the home of the famous Jersey cow.
Jersey is one of the most interesting and
beautiful places in the world to visit. It bas
long, white beaches, stark, spectacular, rocky
headlands and offshore islands that are fortresses. It is an ideal vacation area. It is small,
being about 42 square miles in area. There
are superb hotels and inns, all of them small
but homey and interesting. There is every
type of sport and every type of vacation
activity, both on water and on land. I cannot
speak too highly of the warmth, hospitality
and generosity of the people who are of
Anglo-Norman descent.
With the exception of their foreign affairs,
which is largely the responsibility of ýthe
United Kingdom Government, they run their
own affairs in Jersey. The Lieutenant Governor, Sir Edward Davis, represents the Queen.
They have an assembly called the States. It is
perhaps a derivation from the old Estates
General of France. It was established in 1497,
just after America was discovered. The chief
man in the States is the Bailiff, Sir Robert Le,
Masurier. The Deputy Bailiff is Mr. H. F. C.
Eraut. I should particularly like to mention
him because he was the one who welcomed
the members of the executive committee on
behalf of the members of the States.
The States consist of 12 senators, who serve
for six years, 12 constables, 28 deputies, the
dean, the attorney general and the solicitor
general. They held a special sitting for the
executive of the C.P.A.

1296

SENATE DEBATES

Their roll call was done verbally and they
all responded with the French word "présent".
They said their prayers in French which
was originally used as the sole language
within the States. Their arms and seal were
conferred by Edward I of England in the year
1297. Their mace was presented by Charles Il
in 1663, and it has a most interesting inscription upon it which I would not want to take
the time of the Senate to read. Because it has
such unique wording and because some of the
names mentioned are familiar to CanadiansNorman and Breton names-I should like to
have permission, Mr. Speaker, to put the
inscription of the mace on the record of the
Senate.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Is it agreed?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
(The translation of the inscription follows):
Tali Haud Omnes Dignatur Honore
(Not all doth he deem worthy of such a
reward) Charles II, King of Great Britain,
France and Ireland, as a proof of his
royal affection towards the Isle of Jersey
(in which has been twice received in
safety, when he was excluded from the
remainder of his dominions) has willed
that this Royal Mace should be consecrated to posterity and has ordered that hereafter it shall be carried before the Bailiffs, in perpetual remembrance of their
fidelity, not only to his august father
Charles I but to His Majesty during the
fury of the Civil Wars, when the Island
was maintained by the illustrious Philip
and George de Carteret,
Knights Bailiffs and Governors of the
said Island.
Translation of the Latin inscription on
the Royal Mace presented to Jersey by
King Charles II.
1663 November 28
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): There
are no political parties in the States and the
members serve without indemnity. Their
clerk is called the Greffier and they have 11
committees.
While their chamber is very small, it is
well proportioned and beautifully woodpanelled. Members attended practically all of
the social functions which were held during
the period of the meeting of the executive
committee, and the members took us into
their homes as well as showing us the island.
They were most hospitable, generous and
interested in what we were doing, and were
[Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West).]

June 18, 1970

also interested in telling us about what they
do and how they live. I would particularly
like to pay a tribute to Senator W. H. Krichefski, O.B.E., and his wife. He, in particularly, was indefatigable and made perfect
arrangements for this meeting. He attended
the sessions personally and wound up as the
considerate friend of all of the members of
the executive.
There is one other point I would like to
mention. It is a point of very poignant interest to me. On June 4 we were invited to
attend a luncheon in France. Jersey is only 14
miles off the coast of France. Not to dilate
upon this aspect of the visit, we drove some
50 miles during the afternoon, through the
countryside of beautiful Normandy and Brittany, which was so reminiscent of the countryside of Quebec, Mr. Speaker. We went
down to the sea, to the striking Gothic magnificence of Mont St-Michel. I do not intend
to speak of the history of this place as a
fortress, a prison, even a place of prayer and
study, but to say only that it is a superb
medieval building. It will forever be a joy for
anyone who looks upon it. It will forever be a
monument to the highest
of human
aspirations.
It was particularly moving and impressive
for me, however, that day to visit St. Malo
and Dinard. We were received by the subprefect of the district and the Mayor or Dinard
and given lunch by Monsieur Yvon Bourges,
the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs. He
came down from Paris with his staff for this
particular occasion. We heard the pipes and
the songs, saw the dances and customs of the
Normans that day. We surveyed the ramparts, the walls, the bridges and the streets of
St. Malo. For any Canadian this could not but
be a most moving experience. To be in St.
Malo, to see the old town, even to see its own
flag flying, to walk the streets where Jacques
Cartier and his intrepid band set out in three
small ships so long ago, La Grande Hermine,
La Petite Hermine, and L'Émerillon, to look
for China and to discover instead our own
beloved country.
I was privileged to respond to the minister
on that occasion. I referred in French to the
historic association between St. Malo and
Canada. Looking from a tremendous plate
glass window into the harbour of St. Malo, I
was able to quote from a poem that I had
learned as a young boy, written by one of our
Fathers of Confederation, D'Arcy McGee. I
said I thought it was a rather appropriate
occasion to do this.

June 18, 1970

SENATE 1 )EBATES

They were very pleased indeed, first of ail,
to have the reference made. They were
rather touched that a Canadian public man
should have written so moving a poem as
"Jacques Cartier". It may be appropriate for
me ta put the words of the first verse of that
poem on tis record:
In the seaport of Saint Malo,
'twas a smiling morn, in May,
When the Commodore Jacques Cartier
ta the westward sail'd away;
In the crowded aid cathedral al
the town were on their knees,
For the saf e return of kinsmen from

1297

the undiscover'd seas;
And every autuinn blast that swept
o'er pinnacle and pier
Fill'd manly hearts with sorrow anid
gentie hearts with fear.
I wished that D'Arcy McGee, who penned
those lines, could have had the privilege of
standing as I did, and looking out over the
port of St. Malo, and seeing the very waters
and walls from which Cartier sailed in 1534
to discover the country to which we give our
allegiance.
The Senate adjourned until Monday, June
22, at 8 p.m.

1298

SENATE DEBATES

June 18, 1970

APPENDIX
(See p. 1293)
AGENDA
SIXTEENTH COMMONWEALTH PARLIAMENTARY CONFERENCE
CANBERRA - 1970

INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS AND DEFENCE
AusTRALIA
GHANA
MALTA

(a) East Asia, the Pacific and Indian Oceans
(b) Rhodesia and South Africa
(c) Middle East and the Mediterranean:
detente
CoMMITTEE A-THE PARLIAMENTARIAN

INDIA

ZAMBIA

Three Plenary Sessions

(a) The Parliamentarian and his responsibility and loyalty to the constituency,
the party, the Parliament and the government
(b) Pressure groups as sources of democratic participation in Parliament

Three Comm itteees
Two Sessions
Chairman
W. P. Nyirenda
Rapporteur
Dr. DeMarco

COMMITTEE B-PARTNERS IN DEVELOPMENT
CANADA

KENYA

(a) Aid-public sector
(i) Education
(ii) Exchange of technical know-how
(iii) Infrastructure
(b) Aid-private sector
(i) Investment
(ii) Exchange of technical know-how

Chairman
Tan Sri Ong
Rapporteur.
M. D. Bash-Taqui

COMMITTEE C-CONSERVATION AND
POLLUTION
UNITED KINGDOM

(a) Conservation and environmental
control
(b) Urbanisation
TRADE AND EcONoMIc DEVELOPMENTS

NEW ZEALAND
MALAYSIA

Its capacity to meet the challenge of:

JAMAICA

One Plenary Session

(a) Race Relations
(b) Population Growth
PARLIAMENTARY DEMOCRACY

UNITED KINGDOM

Two Plenary Sessions

(a) E.E.C. and its possible impact on
Commonwealth countries
(b) Regional trade communities and
commodity agreements
RACE RELATIONS AND GROWTH

TRINIDAD AND ToBAGO
INDIA

Chairman
J. J. Connolly
Rapporteur.
N. J. Bissember

(a) Internal and external subversive
tactics and techniques
(b) Industrial unrest
(c) The Protest of Youth
(d) Poverty
(e) General turmoil

Two Plenary Sessions

1299

SENATE DEBATES

June 22, 1970

THE SENATE

Monday, June 22, 1970
The Senate met at 8 p.m., Honourable Maurice Bourget, P.C., Speaker pro tem, in the
Chair.
Prayers.
THE BALTIC COUNTRIES
COMMEMORATION OF DEPORTATION

Hon. Andrew Thompson: Mr. Speaker, I
rise on a question of privilege. I should like to
make a few remarks on the Baltic
commemoration.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, is it agreed?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: Honourable senators, I
make these remarks because I feel that the
Senate is a place where the voice of the
minority should be heard, and is' heard.
Last week Baltie people all across Canada
commemorated, with solemnity and dignity, a
very harsh memory to them. Yet it was not
reported in the press of Canada or on the
national radio. Indeed, in Toronto only one
radio station reported it. I therefore feel an
obligation to say a few words in the Senate.
The Baltic people were commemorating the
deportation from their country in 1940 by the
Soviet Union of these numbers of peoplefrom Estonia, 53,541 men and 6,420 women;
from Latvia, 23,116 men and 7,218 women;
from Lithuania, 16,633 men and 13,852 women.
They were deported in cattle-cars by the
Soviet Union because they wanted to uphold
the independence and freedom of their own
nations. Who were they? They were persons
such as we who sit in this chamber-professors, lawyers, public-spirited citizens, who,
suddenly, in the night, received a knock on
the door and were herded into the cattle-cars.
They suffered a terrible and total brutality.
Many of them have since died.
These are very decent, loving people. They
had, like us, studied reforms of the Senate.
Konstantin Pats, the President of Estonia, had
many ideas about reforming the Estonian
House. He believed in Parliament. These
small nations brought in medical insurance
and co-operatives. But because the Soviet
Union wanted this area, later to add to the
many millions of people, including, as we

recall, 116 million which had been taken over
in Eastern Europe, the communists swept into
those countries.
Last week the Baltie people met, even
though the commemoration opens up scars of
harsh memory for them, because they felt
two obligations. One was to their compatriots,
that the memory of their plight would be a
flame of hope that one day the Baltic nations
would be free again. Secondly, they met in
the hope that the Canadian people would not
become lulled, but would be ever vigilant to
the dangers to our democracy.
Even though the press has not reported this
commemorative event, I was sure that in this
chamber, with its sensitivity to minority
groups across Canada and with its strong
roots in the belief of freedom for peoples,
honourable senators would wish to hear of it.
NORTHERN INLAND WATERS BILL
CONCURRENCE

BY COMMONS IN SENATE
AMENDMENT

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
Senate that a message had been received
from the House of Commons to acquaint the
Senate that they have agreed to the amendment made by the Senate to Bill C-187, respecting inland water resources in the Yukon
Territory and Northwest Territories, without
any amendment.
NUCLEAR LIABILITY BILL
FIRST READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed
the Senate that a message had been received
from the House of Commons with Bill C-158,
respecting civil liability for nuclear damage.
Bill read first time.
Hon. Paul Martin moved, with leave of the
Senate, and notwithstanding Rule 44(1)(f),
that the bill be placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.
NATIONAL ENERGY BOARD ACT
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST

READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed
the Senate that a message had been received
from the House of Commons with Bill C-190,
to amend the National Energy Board Act.
Bill read first time.
Hon. Paul Martin moved, with leave of the
Senate, and notwithstanding Rule 44(l)(f),

SENATE DEBATES

June 22, 1970

that the bill be placed on the Orders of the supply bill for the fiscal year 1970-71. The
Day for second reading at the next sitting. bill, as approved, was based on the 1970-71
Estimates, tabled in the Senate on February
Motion agreed to.
12, 1970, and referred to the Standing Senate
Committee on National Finance the same day.
BILLS OF EXCHANGE ACT
These Estimates were discussed in committee
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST READING
with Treasury Board officials on February 18.
The Estimates, as tabled, total $13,752,294,The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
Senate that a message had been received 436, consisting of budgetary expenditures of
from the House of Commons with Bill C-208, $12,909,786,336 and Loans, Investments and
Advances of $842,508,100.
to amend the Bills of Exchange Act.
Bill read first time.
The bill now before us provides for full
Hon. David A. Croll moved, with leave of
the Senate, and notwithstanding Rule 44(1)(f),
that the bill be placed on the Orders of the
Day for second reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.

supply for the balance of the 1970-71

Esti-

mates. The first interim supply bill provided
for the expenditures for the months of April,
May and June. Appropriation Act No. 2, 1970,
granted Interim Supply for the months of
April, May and June, in the amount of
$1,916,293,691.67.
AERONAUTICS ACT
The bill presently before us is in the same
form as similar bills passed in previous years.
BILL RESPECTING REGULATIONS-FIRST
No additional borrowing authority is requestREADING
ed within this bill.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
I refer honourable senators to the comSenate that a message had been received
prehensive report tabled in this bouse and
frm the House of Commons with Bill C-218
respecting regulations made pursuant to sec- reproduced in the Minutes of the Proceedings
of Tuesday, June 16. It reflects the excellent
tion 4 of the Aeronautics Act.
work done, as usual, by the Standing Senate
Bill read first time.
Committee on National Finance.
I also refer honourable senators to the exHon. Paul Martin moved, with leave of the
Senate, and notwithstanding Rule 44(1)(f), cellent exposé of last Tuesday by our
that the bill be placed on the Orders of the colleague the honourable Senator Everett on
Day for second reading at the next sitting. moving the adoption of the report of the
Finance Committee, which exposé is to be
Motion agreed to.
found in Hansard of June 17, pages 1268 to

APPROPRIATION BILL NO. 3, 1970
FIRST READING

1271.
I also refer honourable senators to the
remarks made on March 25 by the honour-

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
Senate that a message had been received
from the House of Commons with Bill -224,
for granting to Her Majesty certain sums of
money for the public service for the financial
year ending 31st March, 1971.
Bill read first time.

able Senator Leonard on presenting Appropriation Bill No. 2, which provided for
interim supply for the first three months of
the fiscal year, in which he noted the great
change that has taken place during the last
two years since the rules of the other place

SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, when shall this bill be read the

were amended to provide for the examination
of the Estimates by various of its committees,
with the deadline for reporting to that house
set at May 31.
I also draw your attention to the study

second time?

undertaken by our National Finance Committee, at the meetings of which officials

Hon. Leopold Langlois: Honourable senators, with leave of the Senate, and notwithstanding Rule 44(1)(f), I move that this bill be
now read the second time.
Honourable senators, on March 25 last
approval was given for the first interim
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

of the various departments are called to
answer questions, as was done in this case.
Tis new procedure is reflected in the Report
of the National Finance Committee which was
printed, as I said a few moments ago, as an
appendix to the Minutes of the Proceedings of
this chamber of last Tuesday.

June 22, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Lastly, I draw honourable senators' attention to the excellent remarks made on
this subject by our colleague Senator Grosart
on the occasion of the presentation of the first
interin supply bill this session, on March 25
last.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Would Senator Langlois
be good enough to repeat the total figure? I
think it was in excess of $13 million.
Hon. Mr. Langlois: The total of the Estimates is $13,752,294,436.
Hon. Mr. Grosarit: Can the honourable
senator reconcile that with the statement in
the report of the Standing Senate Committee
on National Finance, that the total of the
main Estimates for 1970-71 is $12.9 billion?

Report of the Dominion Coal Board for
the fiscal year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 15 of the Dominion Coal
Board Act, chapter 86, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of the Army Benevolent Fund
Board for the fiscal year ended March 31,
1970, pursuant to section 13 of the Army
Benevolent Fund Act, chapter 10, R.S.C.,
1952, including its Accounts and Financial Statements certified by the Auditor
General.
Report by the Minister of Manpower
and Immigration on the results of training under the Canada Manpower Training Program, for the period January 1 to
September 30, 1969.

Hon. Mr. Langlois: The figure that my
BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
honourable colleague bas just mentioned is
COMMITTEE
the total of the budgetary expenditures. In
addition to that, as I explained a few minutes AUTHORITY TO MEET DURING SITTING OF THE
ago, there are Loans, Investments and
SENATE
Advances which total $842,508,100. If my
Hon. Donald Smith, with leave of the
honourable colleague would add those two
figures together he will arrive at the total of Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(a),
the moved:
that answer
Does
$13,752,294,436.
question?
That the Standing Senate Committee
on Banking, Trade and Commerce have
thought that that was
Hon. Mr. Grosarit: I
power to sit while the Senate is sitting
the answer, but I wanted to be sure.
tomorrow, Tuesday, June 23, 1970, and
Flynn, debate
On motion of Hon. Mr.
that Rule 76(4) be suspended in relation
adjourned.
thereto.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Motion agreed to.
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Copies of Interim Report of the ComDRUGS
mission of Inquiry into the Non-Medical
Use of Drugs (Mr. Gerald Le Dain, Chair- TABLING OF INTERIM REPORT OF LE DAIN
man), dated May 15, 1970, together with a
COMMISSION ON NON-MEDICAL USEQUESTION
list of programs in process as a result of
the said Report.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
Report of the Agriculture Products
31, following the tabling of the interim report of
Board for the fiscal year ended March
1970, pursuant to section 7 of the the Le Dain Commission, I should like to ask
Agricultural Products Board Act, chap- the honourable Leader of the Government
whether it is the intention of the Government
ter 4, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of the Agricultural Stabilization to introduce legislation respecting this matter
Board for the fiscal year ended March 31, at this session.
1970, pursuant to section 14 of the
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
Agricultural Stabilization Act, chapter 22,
would not think that the Government could
of Canada, 1957-58.
Statutes
be expected to be that omniscient, or be able
Report of operations under the Coal to deal that quickly with matters which reProduction Assistance Act for the fiscal quire careful consideration.
year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Do all those words mean,
section 9 of the said Act, chapter 173,
"No"?
R.S.C., 1952, as amended 1959.

1302

1302
CANADA-UNITED STATES
INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP

~SENATE
DEBATESJue2,17

June 22, 1970

effects of varying international relationsbips.
1 have therefore come to believe that the
meetings of the Canada-United States InterTHIRTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING
parliamentary Group, held March 10 to 15 last,
Leave having been given to proceed with provided excellent examples of international
Order No. 7:
relatioýnships in undertaking the immense
Hon. Paul Dearuisseaux: Honourable sena- task of discussing these many mutual and
tors, with leave of the Senate and by the controversial problems of considerable magnicourtesy of the Leader of the Government, 1 tude and basic importance to both our
have been invited to address the Senate on countries.
I would first like to compliment our
the Thirteenth Meeting of the Canada-United
States Interparliamentary Group. I do so f ully Canadian delegates on the obviously excellent
conscious that we have a very long agenda work they accomplished within a limited
this evening. I do flot intend to take more time. I appreciate and I support, among
others, Senator Grosart's complimentary
time than is necessary in the circumstances.
Although I had flot intended to speak on remarks as to the important contributory
this subject, after having heard the discus- work done on many major issues, which bears
sions regarding the report I feit that perhaps, far-reaching consequences for our future
witb your indulgence, I could usefully add my growth, our planned development and our
observations. I must say now that I was a general progress. The development of good
and warm relationships between the Ameniparticipant at these meetings.
cans and the Canadians, with
Before their departure our Canadian dele- exchanges, makes these meetings their frank
efficient
gates were given twelve briefings by officiais productive. Even though the delegates and
bave
of these departments of government: External no power to commit themselves
or their counAffairs, Industry, Trade and Commerce, try, or the ability to settle
any of the issues
Finance, National Defence, Manpower and discussed, their
participation is most imporImmigration, Energy, Mines and Resources, tant for Canada,
and their recommendations
and by the Bank of Canada.
are highly valued by both countries.
As we know, an impressive list of major
Canada, although
items was discussed, embracing the following and colonized about large in territorial size,
the
subi ects: energy, including water, oil and gas; country of our southern saine time as the
neighbours, remains
pollution problems and controls; foreign with a sinaller
economic and population
investment and related Government policies, growth. Our
general developinent bas been
about which I will later expand; automotive slower and
more
agreements; economic relations with commu- so that today we highly dependent on others,
are about one-tenth of the
nist countries; immigration; problems arising United
States in our realized developments,
from
Arctic
development;
NATO
and economy and
NORAD: east-west relations and the proposed in our relative population, and one-fourteenth
gross national product. NeyerEuropean security conference; and policies theless,
we bave managed to become third or
related to Latin America and the Caribbean.
fourth in wonld prestige, in world stature, in
The news of the last few months points up world exports and in the standard of living of
the vital importance of any and ail of those our people.
subi ects for Canadians. It points up also the
Tbis success of Canada, in spite of its
seriousness of these meetings as they apply to population, has often been attributed small
to the
our country.
intelligent Canadian policies, the good relaWitbin the time I have allowed myself, I tionsbip that Canadians were able to estabshall attempt to discuss one or two subjects, lisb, and to our ability to develop good
which appear to be of major importance.
exporting positions for our products, our minI need not repeat here my appreciation of erais, our cereals and foods, and our services.
the excellent speeches made by those senators
Economic history will rate highly the relawho preceded me in this debate. Over the tionsbip, the support and the help frorn Great
years I have noted the trends in international Britain in our figbting years for a better
relations between Canada and the developing Canada for Canadians to live in. Great Britcountries of the world, and between Canada ain's large and controlled capital investments
and its neighbour, the United States. As an in transportation, mining, natural resources
amateur student of world history I sometimes and services were responsible for a great deal
have tried to understand the causes and of our Canadian success.

June 22, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

As Canada grew and developed its friendly
relationships with the countries of the world,
these foreign-controlled capital investments
and foreign-controlled companies supported
our rapid growth. When misfortunes, wars
and adverse economic conditions forced the
gradual recalling by England of its foreign
investments in Canada, we felt the severe
economic blow and we witnessed a noticeable
slowing up of our development. It was about
this time that Canadians noted a gradual
escalation here of capital investments by citizens of the United States, and in the last few
decades there has been a tremendous inflow
of foreign risk capital, plus a drift to work in
Canada. It reflected the confidence, the hope
and the friendship that was being offered to
all Canadians.
Today we are about to retake, if we have
not yet done so, the third position in our
world markets. Today we have been able to
resume an envious position for our dollar.
Today, however, we find this is far from
enough to meet our needs, actual or projected. As I see it, today we find a Canada heading for a crisis. We have the ugliness of
in
especially
unemployment,
wholesale
Quebec and our eastern provinces; the surplus of grains in our Prairie provinces, for
which we are as yet unable to find markets,
and the dire poverty of a great many of our
farmers, again especially in Quebec and in
the eastern provinces, where the farm income
average is, I believe, a mere $1,680 in the
Maritimes and only slightly higher in Quebec;
and the inexcusable and shameful wide disparity of wages from province to province, as
though each was a different country.
Now, because of new policy attitudes, dangerous hesitancy to provide Canadian ventures with foreign risk capital is appearing,
and it is possible that this new thinking will
continue to grow for some time in the future.
This will hurt deeply many of the provinces,
and also Canada as a whole. This trend in a
young country such as ours, where there is
natural
unlimited
almost
abundance,
resources, and untapped high education
values in its individuals, too many of whorn
are presently unemployed, seems to me unacceptable for Canada.
[Translation]
We have here a nation which wants
employment for as many Canadians as possible, a nation which is prepared to meet the
daily challenge and which bas noble qualities
and an aggressive, progressive and creative
spirit but which, by and large, lacks the

1303

necessary resources for investment in Canadian industrial ventures that do not promise
immediate returns.
In this respect, may I say that our people,
especially our youths, have a true Canadian
need, that we have huge Canadian open
spaces that are available, that our people
hunger for Canadian achievements and feel
particularly the urgent need for new developments, by Canadians, through foreign partners in Canadian undertakings or through
Canadian companies with foreign capital, so as
to enable Canada to catch up with her competitors and especially to provide for workers
and for the many youths who have completed
their education and are forced to remain idle
the full employment opportunities which they
legitimately expect in Canada.
It is up to us to assume the responsibility of
giving our teenagers-rightfully worriedand all Canadian workers-unfortunately too
numerous and too often idle-the assurance
of stable and rewarding employment and the
guarantee of a decent and independent life,
unblemished by public assistance.
[English]
It is said that there is at present an evident
nationalistic Canadian school of thought
making headway in our departments which
philosophizes that to be "à la mode" things in
Canada must be Canadian, owned by Canadians, and that as wealth-or, in my book, productive capital-is accumulated by thrifty
Canadians through savings, work, industry
and commerce, this wealth must be forced
back periodically and rapidly to the Canadian
Government for redistribution.
In practice, these are dangerous sophisms.
They should be immediately rejected by
Canadians as having an evil and pervading
effect on our future Canadian economic
growth.
I am sure no one wants to acquire the
individual status of those living, for instance,
in some of our poor Latin-American countries. Yet this would be quite possible here
within just a few decades if we now carried
through, as planned, the proposed policy on
taxes, for instance.
In my opinion, such an economic philosophy, if applied in Canada, would also create
here the same unhappiness, the same troubles
as we are unfortunately witnessing in the
socialistic countries. It seems to me that no
responsible Canadian, wanting the welfare
and prosperity of his people, can stand silent
and passive on this issue.

1304

SENATE DEBATES

The report states in part as follows:
Reference was made to the feeling of
some Canadians that the rate of acquisition by United States citizens of Canadian equity is reaching such proportions
that economic servitude may become a
permanent status.
I am not one of those who fears such economic happenings for Canada.
A few days ago there was a statement
made that oil companies in Canada were
almost totally foreign owned. The implication
was also that they were owned by United
States controlled companies, although in reality the following countries were competing
against one another here in some different
projects-the United States, England, Holland, Belgium, France, Italy and others.
Is there any one in the Senate who in the
last decade ever for a moment doubted that?
It was common knowledge. And if it was
common knowledge, then did we not go for
the policy of accepting foreign-controlled
companies in Canada for our development to
the point of providing these companies with
incentives and generous depletion allowances
for the continuation of their interests in
Canada?
Furthermore, where could Canadians then
be found to risk capital in chemical ventures
and their developments? Canada does not
have here today in these fields a worse position than most nations of the rest of the
world.
Did we not witness recently the unrestricted sale by the Canadian Government of millions of Canadian acres in the northwest for
oil exploration, as we have for years witnessed these unrestricted sales by successive
Canadian Governments.
This was with our approval. There was no
protest. On the contrary, I dare say there was
then, as there is now, general approval by
Canadians.
I believe most of us realized that foreign
companies would not hesitate, as we surely
would, to venture risk capital in such developments. We cared not to share such risks,
knowing full well, however, its great importance to the growth, and development of the
Canadian economy, and for the benefit of
Canadians workers. And yes, we knew of the
great profits and rewards for the fortunate
ones.
We welcomed the proposals of our foreign
friends to invest controlled risk capital
instead of us. As I once mentioned, we even
[Hon. Mr. Desruisseaux.]

June 22, 1970

seduced them with generous incentives for
their risks, and with attractive and advantageous depletion allowances.
I, for one, do not condemn our actions and
our policies. We were only competing with
other important nations, and these developments had to be realized. In my opinion,
Canada's policies were right. They were and
still are wise and constructive.
Up to now, Canada's benefits deriving from
these ventures have rewarded Canadians in
the order of tens of billions of dollars. The
Canadian Government thus received billions
in taxes which has spurred ahead a beneficial
Canadian economic growth. Through great
export sales our balance of payments was
helped and our trade was greatly stimulated.
We have lived well by it. We saw little or
no strikes among hundreds of thousands of
satisfied employees involved in the fields,
engaged in the refining or in the marketing of
these products.
These foreigners-as some now want to call
them-these people who came from the
United States, England, Holland, France, Italy
and from other countries, they were and are
our good and true partners. They provided us
with a good share of their profits in taxes to
all our governments, federal, provincial and
municipal. They paid their royalties where
they were due. They shared with us the
burden of our civil and welfare duties; they
were and are in the forefront of Canadian
planning in our expansions for a better and
greater Canada.
Honourable senators, I am conscious I have
used some considerable time on this particular problem, but I have done so because of its
relevance and importance. It is connected
with a subject that was discussed at some of
the interparliamentary group meetings. I feel
the views I expressed are shared by many
here today.
There is no reason to regret our actions of
the past. There is no reason to regret our past
partnerships, and our past responsibility in
these ventures in which most Canadians never
cared to risk themselves. There is no reason
to think that had none of this happened we
would have anything approaching the economy we are now fortunate to enjoy. I believe
we Canadians still have a message to all
countries in our small world.
There are limitless resources awaiting
Canadians and all those who wish to become
Canadians, and have a desire to make their
wealth Canadian. We welcome foreigners
from any nation of the world who want to

June 22, 1970

1305

SENATE DEBATES

establish foreign-controlled operating companies in Canada. They will be welcomed here
by almost all Canadians if they wish to share
with us the risk in the future of this great
country.
It is good to note we have not given away
or sold even a scratch of what Canada has to
offer, and we have not lost the control of our
governmental policies, our goals or our guidelines to our Canadian destiny.
Foreign risk capital and foreign investments should continue to be welcomed here to
work for the future of Canada, more so at a
time when we have high unemployment,
shaky projections in some areas, evident economic hesitations that can no longer be considered as short breathing spells, and the
problem of placing our graduating students in
our productive economy.
I must say I am concerned about the new,
narrow, parochial thinking of some in this
country. I am concerned about the damage it
may do to Canada. I have expressed it here
because I too want a strong Canada for my
family, for my descendants. Certainly I do not
agree that Canada should try untested and
maverick policies for full and total concentration of wealth in our Canadian Government,
leaving but little or no capital for pioneering
and for investment in Canadian ventures.
Let me quote Daniel S.R. Leighton, a
professor at the School of Business Administration of the University of Western Ontario,
who bas acquired international renown, and
for whom so many of us have acquired great
respect, in his article "The Nature of American Challenge" which appeared in the Business Quarterly, Volume 35, No. 1:
The nature of the American Challenge
is clear. It is a challenge to natural
independence of action. It will not be met
with defensive measures or by withdrawal. It will only be met by going out to
meet the world of the 1970's on its terms,
and its terms are performance against
tough competitors and according to rigorous standards in an increasingly international environment.
Seen this way, it is not primarily a
question of American ownership or even
of conflicting national sovereignties. It is
basically a challenge to Canadian management in both the public and private
sectors.
The challenge cannot be met by either
government or industry alone. National
planning will not solve our problems,
although more effective planning of gov-

ernment activities is obviously necessary.
It will not be met by businessmen operating on their own, although better performance here will go a long way to ensuring our national autonomy. It must be
done by both government and industry,
acting in concert and performing at high
level of effectiveness. In the final analysis
the challenge is a human one. It involves
our striking the proper balance between
planning and direction on the one hand,
and individual drive and ability on the
other. In it, our entire society is facing
what is perhaps its most critical test.
For the next 15 years or so, Canada will be
in need of capital for expansion in every field
of endeavour. This need will be, in my opinion, of such magnitude as to absorb the
obtainable Canadian funds, plus the available
large foreign investments, plus any reserves
of capital of our major American and Canadian foreign controlled companies to assure
even a normal projection in the plans of
expansion of tomorrow's Canada.
Need we fear? There will be place for all,
old and new Canadians, for Canadian and
foreign partnerships and for foreign participants. Yet Canadians old and new will, in my
opinion, remain in full control of our Canadian economic and political destinies, no matter
what outside influences may be exercised.
The increasingly important role of the
Canadian delegates can be clearly foreseen
in all of this. Their role will not be minimal in
building necessary constructive approaches
and in the establishment of the rules of the
games to be played.
I am sure they have our blessings.
EXCISE ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING
Hon. W. M. Benidickson moved the third
reading of Bill C-209, to amend the Excise
Act.
He said: When this bill received second
reading on Wednesday, June 17, honourable
Senator Macdonald, speaking in the debate,
raised one or two questions. He agreed with
the sponsor, that the amendments to the bill
were largely housekeeping amendments. He
agreed that it was not necessary to refer the
bill to a committee. However, as certain questions were raised, particularly on definitions, I
agreed to provide some explanation concerning them when the bill came up for third
reading.

1306

SENATE DEBATES

With respect to the change in the definition
of cigarettes, referred to in clause 3(c) of the
amending bill, Senator Macdonald questioned
the necessity for adding to the former definition the reference to some synthetic contents
or vegetable matter that would be included
when cigarettes were under the statute for
taxation. I am told that some cigarettes, under
import, have contained other than what one
would normally call tobacco and they would
be subject to taxation when added to this
item.
The senator also raised a question, under
clause 38, as to why the words "reconstituting
or converting" were referred to, with respect
to cigars. I am told that there is some remainder after the normal manufacturing process
with respect to cigars, and that what is left
from the cigar itself is reconstituted or converted into something equivalent to a paper
plate, which becomes the covering of the
cigar. That, therefore, will be included in the
definition.
The senator also asked why it was necessary to change the definition of "druggist" to
"pharmacist". I am told that this is at the
request of the Pharmaceutical Association
itself, and will bring the definition into conformity with the definition in other statutes,
such as the Narcotics Act and the Food and
Drugs Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read the third
time and passed.
CANADA WATER BILL
THIRD READING
Hon. Keith Laird moved third reading of
Bill C-144, to provide for the management of
the water resources of Canada including
research and the planning and implementation of programs relating to the conservation,
development
and
utilization
of water
resources.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time
and passed.
CANADA LABOUR (STANDARDS) CODE
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING

Hon. John J. Connolly moved the third
reading of Bill C-214, to amend the Canada
Labour (Standards) Code.
Hon. David A. Croll: Honourable senators, I
am sorry I was not here when Bill C-214 was
debated on second reading. Therefore, I would
now like to say a few words on the motion
for third reading. I do so for two reasons.
[Hon. Mr. Benidickson.]

June 22. 1970

First, I was personally involved in the introduction of the first minimum wage legislation
for men in the Province of Ontario in 1937.
Secondly, I was involved when, in 1965, we
dealt with the minimum wage laws here in
the Senate.
I shall vote for the passage of this bill
because it provides for a long overdue
increase in the minimum wage payable at the
federal level. I am, however, satisfied, and I
think the house to some extent shares my
view, that the minimum should be at a higher
level, and that the Government, if it is not
going backwards, is at least not going forward at any rapid rate.
When the federal minimum wage of $1.25
an hour was introduced in 1965, 6.4 per cent
of the labour force were then earning less
than that amount. The new minimum of $1.65
an hour will affect only about 4 per cent of
the labour force. I understand that further
legislation in this field will be forthcoming in
the fall. This I gather from the statement
made by the Minister of Labour in the other
place. That legislation will be provided inter
alia for periodic adjustments in the minimum
wage related to the cost of living and to
national productivity. Having heard those
words, I would vote for almost any bill in
order to make sure that this situation comes
about. If that principle is established, one can
realize what it will mean to minimum wage
earners and to social security. It will mean
that we will have made very long strides. I
am naturally hopeful that this will take
place.
The minimum wage in its present context
has not kept pace with the increased cost of
living, which in the last two years has
increased by almost 8 per cent. So, if this is
intended to be an attack upon poverty, the
minimum wage must be revised not every
five years, as we have had it up until now,
but with far greater frequency. It seems to
me that a barometer that might well be used
when looking at this is the rise in the wages
paid in the manufacturing sector. If it is
intended that this should assist in the redistribution of wealth-and there bas been no
redistribution in this country for 20 years,
except insofar as social security payments
have made it possible by about 2 per centthen it is far more efficient and meaningful to
introduce a negative income tax geared to
provide a guaranteed minimum income. What
we do with this is simply make some contribution to alleviating poverty among the
employed poor, since actually all we are
doing is giving the worker who is not organ-

June 22, 1970

DEBATES
June1970SENATE
22,

ized protection ta some extent; in avaiding the
cut-throat competition that may corne in a
market involving declining wages.
Even thaugh it is oniy at this late stage
that the federal Government has involved
itself in the business of specifying minimum
wages for employees under federal jurisdiction, it is stiil a federni responsibility ta set
an example by showing an equal respansibility ta those workers who are not protected by
collective bargaining, and who in the main
corne under provincial jurisdiction.
So, honourable senators, the present minimum wage is not an anti-poverty tool; in fact,
it is not an nnti.-poverty weapon at ail. If you
examine the recommendations of the Economic Council and bring the poverty line statistics up ta date by increasing them 8 per cent,
you will find that the $2 per hour minimum
which has been proposed is bnreiy enough to
close the poverty lime for a family of two.
We have spoken of the disincentive effect
of $2 per hour. In marginal industries that is
absolutely true. But when we think of bnnks,
raiiroads, airlines and communications companies, and when we realize that 40 per cent
of the 20,000 people involved earning less
than $1.65 an hour are employed by the
banks of this country, it does not appear ta
give very much hope that the situation is
likely ta be correoted any toa soon.
The federal Governent daes make construction companies which obtain federal contracts pay the federal minimum wage; sa it is
difficult ta understand why companies which
obtain grants from the Department of Regionai Economic Expansion ta locate in disadvantaged areas shouid not pay at least the federai minimum, which they do not pay at the
present time. Sometimes it is hard ta understand why the same lever is not used ta
ensure that emplayees of companies with federai Goverrnent service cantrncts--the dleaning ladies, wnitresses, catering help-receive
the minimum wage, as has now been estabiished by the federal Governinent and as is
the case in some federal contracts. I arn hopefui that the minister will soon take a hard
look at the basic minimum so as ta ensure
that periodic adjustments wlll be made, keeping in mind not only the cast of living but
aiso national productivlty, so that we cnn proeeed on a fair and realistic base.
That is the cavent I have in so far as this
bill is concerned. I will support the bill.
Motion agreed toannd bll rend third time
nnd passed.

1307
10

FEDERAL PENITENTIARIES
FACILIIES FOR WOMEN PRISONERSDEBATE CONTINUED

The Senate resumed fromn Thursday,
June 18, the adjourned debate on the inquiry
of Honourable Mrs. Fergusson, calling the
attention of the Senate ta the facilities provided by the federal Government for women
prisoners.
Hon. David A. Croli: Honourable senators,
first let me say that Senator Fergusson's move
ta bring this matter ta the attention of the
Senate for the purpose of discussion, is most
significant. This is a much neglected areaeverybody tends ta forget about it. Some feel
that women's prisons are flot very important,
compnred ta other problems that beset us
with the resuit that they are forgotten. Senator Fergusson has brought this matter ta aur
attention by delivering an extrnordinnrily
well-thought-out speech. She was followed by
Senators Inman, Kinnear and McGrnnd, ail of
whom spoke very effectively. My ovin view is
that it is important that we relate ourselves
ta these various social measures.
I have been interested in this subject far a
very long Urne. When I first came to Parliament 1 read the Archnmbault Report, which I
think is one of this country's great documents. Then I made some speeches on the
subi ect, being encouraged to by the Hanaurable James Ilsley. I recail that penitentinries
came under the jurisdiction of his department, and he wanted someone ta d.iscuss
them.
Honourable senators may remember that
soan after my nppointment ta the Senate I
put some 44 questions on the Order Paper
with respect ta the Archnmbault and Fauteux
reports. In June 1964, 44 answers were furnished as ta what had been done with regard
ta the recommendations.
It is ta add nothing new when I say that we
have neglected and have been indifferent ta
the future of thase in prison. When we put a
persan in prison we undertake the burden of
giving him or her a chance ta change. If we
deny him or her the status of a human being,
we diminish aur own humanity.
We have develaped a system of correction
which daes not correct. When we send a
persan ta prison we have a collective
responsibflity ta do samething about it. The
reni evil under aur penal system. is not
whether we fail ta rehabilitate the prisaner,
but the lack of an agreed concept, the absence
of a plan or purpose, indifference and neglect.

SENATE DEBATES

The number of prison repeaters, often
called recidivists, is considerable in this country. As of December 31, 1968, 51 per cent of
the male inmates had previous penitentiary
sentences, and 81 per cent had served previous sentences in various kinds of jails or
reformatories, including penitentiaries. As of
December 31, 1967, 50 per cent of the male
inmates had previous penitentiary sentences,
and 81 per cent had served previous sentences
in different kinds of jails or reformatories,
including penitentiaries. In so far as women
are concerned, the recidivist figure at one
time was 7 per cent, but now it has been
reduced to 3.5 per cent, indicating that they
are not the kind who are in and out of prison.
The previous speakers
have already
indicated that women generally do not
commit violent or organized crimes. Shoplifting is often one of the offences of which they
are convicted. Others are theft under $50,
vagrancy, alcoholism, child neglect, drug
addition-with which I will deal in a
moment-and prostitution. Recently I have
been reading a great deal of history and
information the Library has furnished. I could
not find a case wherein a prostitute who had
been in prison had been saved as a result of
her prison sentence.
The characteristics of the woman prisoner
are a little different from those of the male.
There is actually a history of juvenile delinquency, broken homes and poverty. Adult
women also have to face divorce and
desertion.
We have in Canada two prisons for women,
one at Kingston and the other at Matsqui,
British Columbia. The latter is really an institute, not a prison. The Kingston prison was
built in 1925 at what was for those days an
enormous cost. It was opened in 1934. All
females from all parts of Canada sentenced to
imprisonment for two years or more must
serve their terms in the Kingston Penitentiary, unless they are alcoholics or drug
addicts, in which case they are sent to the
Matsqui Institute in British Columbia, which
was built in 1966.
Honourable senators, I cannot imagine anything more harsh than to have women from
British Columbia or any part of western
Canada, or from eastern Canada, serve their
terms of imprisonment at Kingston, far away
from their families and their homes and
familiar surroundings, with little likelihood of
seeing friends and visitors. By any measure,
the Prison for Women at Kingston is the
[Hon. Mr. Croll.]

June 22, 1970

worst possible prison that we have at the
present time, with the possible exception of
the one in Montreal, although I am not too
sure.
If a woman's offence concerns drugs, then
she is sent to the Matsqui Institute, which has
facilities for 150 inmates, but less than onethird of it is occupied at the present time.
It is freely admitted that the Kingston
prison does not rehabilitate women-it
degrades them. I can understand the need for
a lock-up for women in which they may be
kept overnight in order that they may appear
in court the next morning, and also the need
for reformatories, but prisons are something
different. I shall tell you something more
about them in a few minutes.
I understand that at present there are 74

prisoners in the Prison for Women at Kingston. I used to wonder where they got the
idea of building a special prison for Hess, but
here we have a prison, the cost of which is
horrendous, for less than 100 inmates.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): Does the
honourable senator mean that the maintenance costs are very high?
Hon. Mr. Croll: The total costs. The maintenance is not great, but the total costs are
enormous. The original cost was $10,000 per
capita.
The question that troubles those who have
given the matter some thought is this: What
is the purpose of sending these women to
Kingston in the first place? Judges do not like
to impose sentences of two years, particularly
the judges in Quebec, when these persons can
be placed in provincial reformatories with
greater facilities for rehabilitation than in the
Kingston penitentiary. At one time our reformatories consisted of very little beyond a
lock-up, but we must not forget that in this
day and age the reformatories in Canadaand I speak particularly of those in Ontarioare the equal of any prison anywhere. These
women can well be left in the reformatories
for as long as necessary. This recommendation has been made time and again. Here is
one made by a royal commission...
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): Is the
honourable senator going to read from the
report of the Archambault Commission?
Hon. Mr. Croll: Yes. The Archambault
Commission said:
Your Commissioners are strongly of the
opinion that the number of female prisoners confined in Kingston Penitentiary

June 22, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

did not justify the erection of the new
Women's Prison and that its further continuance is unjustified, particularly if
arrangements can be made with the provincial authorities to provide custody and
maintenance for such prisoners in their
respective provinces. Enquiries in the
various provinces lead us to believe that
there would be no great difficulty in
making such arrangements.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): That
was said many years ago.
Hon. Mr. Burchill: What is the date?
Hon. Mr. Croll: The report of the Archambault Commission was issued in 1938. Since
then we have had the Fauteux Report, and
the Ouimet Report, and then we had the report
of the Special Joint Committee of the Senate
and the House of Commons that was chaired
by Senator Benidickson and Mr. Watson.
These reports have been coming in, and
shelves have been built on which to store
them, and nothing has happened. The result
is that we have to take some time out to
discuss these matters that are so vital-vital
not only for women, but for all of us.
I should like to quote from the report of the
Canadian Committee on Corrections:
The Committee has stressed the advantages of relatively small institutions over
large institutions in another part of this
report. Practical considerations, however,
do not permit this principle to be carried
to extremes. Adequate correctional services can be provided only where the
group for whom the services are intended
is sufficiently large to utilize those services. This means the services must be
provided by administrative units of reasonable size.
The most effective way of accomplishing this, in the opinion of the Committee,
would be for the Government of Canada
to purchase service in respect to women
sentenced to two years or more from the
larger provinces-Ontario, Quebec, British Columbia and, probably, Alberta-so
that women from those provinces serving
a sentence of over two years would be
held in provincial institutions.

1309

Hon. Mr. Croll: On a per capita basis, we
jail more people than does the Government of
Great Britain.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: Did the honourable
senator not say that there were 60 women
from all of Canada in penitentiary?
Hon. Mr. Croll: Yes.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: Is that more per capita
than in England? I do not think so. It is 60
women out of a total population of 21 million.
Hon. Mr. Croll: I am speaking of jails generally, and in particular about sending
women to jail. My argument, in the first
place, is that there is seldom any need to send
them to jail, unless they are repeaters. Even
if they are repeaters, they can be sent to a
reformatory in their own province.
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: But if there are only 60
out of 21 million...
Hon. Mr. Croll: If there are only 60, then
why keep up that institution?
Hon. Mr. Beaubien: Then, close it down,
but do not say that we jail more per capita
than England.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: The report of the
committee of the United Nations on the
requirements for the reformation of offenders
indicated that Canada, in its treatment not
only of women but also of men, ranks low
with respect to efficiency, humanity, and
welfare services.
Hon. Mr. Croll: Is the honourable senator
asking if I said that?
Hon. Mr. Thompson: No. I am asking if that
is the case, and I shall answer the question-I
say that is the case.
Hon. Mr. Croll: If you know, then go ahead.
I do not know the answer to that.

Hon. Mr. Thompson: It is your speech. I
only observed that with respect to Canada's
treatment of offenders I agree with you, we
are jail happy. There has been an enlightened
approach throughout the world by people
who understand these questions. They set certain standards to which each country gave
their approval, but unhappily Canada has
meeting them.
These are the recommendations, but, hon- been very slow in
ourable senators, the trouble with us in this
Hon. Mr. Croll: You are not hurting my
case at all.
country is that we are jail happy.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: I am supporting it.
Hon. Mr. Smith: Stir-crazy.

SENATE DEBATES
Hon. Mr. Croll: I said we are jail happy. I
refer to an article from the Ottawa Citizen of
June 16, under the title "War hero and family
man jailed."
A man whose past life would mean a
suspended sentence on almost any criminal offence was sent to jail for three
years Monday because of the court's view
on deterrence.
Then the man is identified as the father of six
children,
-pleaded guilty several weeks ago to the
armed robbery of the Scott's Chicken
VillaIt was the money he was going after, not the
chicken.
-restaurant on Bank Street at Carling
on May 8.
He was arrested the next day, pleaded guilty
and the judge is reported as being
-satisfied from reading a pre-sentence
report on this man that he would never
commit another offence. He added, however, that deterrence is the principal
factor when dealing with serious crimes
against society.
Reference is made to the fact that the
number of armed robbery cases has risen.
That is the sort of thing one talks about.
Let me raise another point. We have been
talking here about buying services from the
provincial government. It has been recommended time and time again, and they are
available. The trouble is that no one is pushing it.
In the Province of Ontario, the very able
Minister of Education, William Davis, has
introduced new legislation allowing separate
and public schools to sell each other services.
I remember when I went to school we were
across the way from the separate school. The
only thing we Protestants did during the
winter time was put bricks in snowballs we
threw their way-and they did the same to us.
This editorial in the Toronto Daily Star of
June 18 states:
Under the new law, in areas where the
largest schools are public, separate school
boards will be able to enrol their students
in public school courses for a tuition fee.
The same principle will apply for separate schools renting places for students to
public schools.
We have gone a long way to attempt to
understand one another and take advantage
of the facilities available in provinces.
[Hon. Mr. Thompson.]

June 22, 1970

By the way, one of the great benefits accruing to Newfoundland-and I just thought
about as I looked over at Senator Carter-was
that when they joined Confederation they
were wise enough to specify that women who
were sentenced to imprisonment of more than
two years were not to be sent away from the
island. They were to be provided for and
serve their sentences within Newfoundland;
whereas other provinces, as I indicated,
almost exile their people when they are sent
to a Canadian penitentiary.
In view of all the recommendations that
have been made from time to time by very
competent and able people, I have been trying
to think of some way to arouse Canadian
public opinion. Close down Kingston penitentiary! Throw away the key! Yes, somebody
will try to use it for a warehouse, or some
other purpose in order to keep it going. I
thought that next January it might not be a
bad idea, since Kingston is not the only institution that we are grieved about in this country, to proclaim a national bonfire day to
burn down this prison. We do not have to
worry about insurance-we carry our own
anyway.
Hon. L. P. Beaubien: Bastille Day.
Hon. Mr. Croll: Then we could make it a
sort of bilingual contribution to culture. We
could do the same thing for St. Vincent de
Paul. We would then have completed two
really useful acts and probably aroused the
Canadian people.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Ottawa West): Why
January?
Hon. Mr. Croll: To make a celebration of it
by starting the new year off right.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: I do not think we
should rush it, because the communists plan
to do that when they take over this country.
They will just empty the jails and let them
go to it.
Hon Mr. Croll: I thought we would put the
show on national television. We could sit
back, view the spectacle, and assert burn,
baby, burn! Something has to be done in order
to bring an end to this sort of non-prison
reform.
Hon. Mr. Aseltine: Your countenance indicates something pretty serious.
Hon. Mr. Croll: I hope the sense of humour
has not left all you people on the other side. I

June 22, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

when one reads the bill itself that one has
doubts whether it really says what the minister hopes it says.
Lawyers are certainly a wonderful breed.
Half of them make laws, while the rest find
ways to tear them apart, make them inoperative, or do something they were never intended to do.
CANADA CORPORATIONS ACT
Honourable senators, the minister stated
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READINGthat the Government and the public needed
DEBATE CONTINUED
to know more about the affairs of large priThe Senate resurned from yesterday the vate companies. Personal corporations are
adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mr. excluded, and so are small private companies.
Urquhart for the second reading of Bill C-4, Companies economically significant, with
to amend the Canada Corporations Act and assets or gross annual revenues greater than
other statutory provisions related to the sub- $3 million, are the ones he refers to.
The Task Force report indicated that of 743
ject matter of certain of those amendments.
of the largest Canadian corporations, 60 per
Hon. L. P. Beaubien: Honourable senators, I cent were private companies. Of the 375 largam sorry I was not in the Senate last Wednes- est non-financial Canadian corporations, 43
day when our able colleague, Senator per cent were private, and 75 per cent of
Urquhart, moved second reading of Bill C-4. them were controlled by non-residents. It is
However, I have read his excellent speech obviously an important matter.
carefully. I also went over several times the
I can understand the Government insisting
speech of the Minister of Consumer and Coron full disclosure to protect shareholders, but
porate Affairs, delivered in the other place why should the public be entitled to know the
last November.
details of a private company's business, any
Bill C-4 attempts to translate into law some more than a law firm should be forced to
of the principal recommendations of the disclose its profits and a list of its clients?
Porter Commission of 1964, the Kimber Con- The Department of National Revenue has the
mittee of Ontario, 1967, the Task Force on the information the Government needs on its
Structure of Canadian industry, 1968, togeth- files. It should be kept there and not made
er with a few suggestions made long ago by public.
the 1935 Royal Commission on Price
The bill covers take-over bids adequately,
Spreads, known as the Stevens Commission, except in the case of, as is described by the
and the Royal Commission on Price Spreads
"offers made by way of private
under Dr. Andrew Stewart. I also refer- minister, with individual shareholders". A
to the proceedings of the Joint Com- agreement ago a telephone company was sold
red
years
mittee of the Senate and the House of Con- few American company. One family owned
mons on Consumer Credit, headed by our to an cent of the voting stock. They sold out
per
distinguished colleague Senator Croll. I did 55
a share. The stock was selling on
he was going to discuss penitentiar- at about $33 at the time at something under
not know
the exchange
ies this evening.
$20, and it is now selling at $10.50. No offer
The main points of the bill to amend the was made to the owners of 45 per cent of the
Canada Corporations Act, as summed up by stock. In other words, this was a private deal
the Minister of Consumer and Corporate made by an American company with some of
Affairs, are to give effect to the following: the shareholders, who happen to own 55 per
(1) important disclosure provisions; (2) regu- cent of the stock.
lations to supervise inside trading; (3) take
When this bill is referred to committee, I
over bids; (4) proxy solicitations; and (5) think this particular point should be studied
Government investigations and inquiries.
carefully, along with the discretionary powers
There is no question that Bill C-4 is put which the bill grants the minister in so far as
forward with the very best of intentions investigations and inquiries are concerned.
Although I want to comment on the subject oi
Hon. Harry A. Willis: Honourable senators,
disclosure in the case of private companies
foi I am sorry to have to disagree with my coland take-over bids, and the provisions
inspection and investigation, I feel that the league the honourable Senator Beaubien
bill is a step in the right direction. It is onl3 immediately after he bas spoken. If legislators

thought I made it pretty clear that we want it
as a national celebration. In that sense, it is
about the only suggestion I can make under
the circumstances.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Burchill, debate
adjourned.

SENATE DEBATES

in Canada would listen to the lawyers and
their advice about companies, and how they
should be run, there would be no need for a
bill such as we have before us tonight. I say
that sincerely.
This bill comprises 105 pages. How is one
supposed to come to the Senate and make a
speech about a bill of that length? Also, there
were, I think, 17 hearings of the Finance,
Trade and Economic Affairs Committee of the
other place, all well attended, with miles and
miles of typewritten copy of questions,
answers and speeches, and about ten different
companies appeared to make their representations.
I think this bill is eyewash, for this reason.
The bill is practically built upon the legislation enacted by the Province of Ontario following the report of the Kimber Commission.
Mr. Kimber now holds a very responsible
position on the stock exchange in Ontario,
and in all kinds of companies-small, personal and public companies. This bill is almost a
replica of his bill.
The minister himself says, "We are going to
keep on amending it until we get it where we
want it." Why did they not sit down from
1934 to 1970, 36 years, and make a real study,
instead of now saying they are going to
amend it next year or the year after? Why
did they not make a real study of the whole
subject?
I am a director of many companies in
Ontario, where we are subject to the act
based on the Kimber Report. All I can see it
does is to make a lot more paper work for
those who are employed by the companies,
and a lot more printing sales for the printers
who supply the paper. On Friday next I am
attending two annual meetings of companies
of which I happen to be a director.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Next Friday?
Hon. Mr. Willis: Next Friday, yes.
Hon. Mr. Martin: We will be sitting then.
Hon. Mr. Willis: I prefer to make my
money somewhere else that day.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): Watch the
market next Friday too!
Hon. Mr. Willis: I shall be attending two
annual meetings of companies whose office
staffs have had to do double the work they
did prior to the Ontario act. I am the last one
to disagree that shareholders should have all
the information they want and are entitled to,
but I say they can get that in another way. As
[Hon. Mr. Willis.]

June 22, 1970

my good friends Senators Hayden, Connolly,
Martin and Croll know, all they have to do is
go to the registrar of the corporation and buy
one share, or buy a share somewhere else,
present the certificate, say, "I am a shareholder". In this way they can find out who are the
directors and almost everything else about
the company; then can demand the last audit
sheet at any time they desire.
I have never seen a group of people at an
annual meeting or anywhere else make any
complaint about the information they were
receiving regularly before the Ontario act
came into force. In Toronto there used to be a
man acting on his own who held one share in
each company ever incorporated. His name
was Sweeney, and fie came to be known as
"one-share Sweeney," because he attended
every corporate meeting, asked the most
embarrassing questions he could think of, and
sought out all the information.
Honourable senators, if this bill goes as far
as they say it will in the next year or two,
then I would support it wholeheartedly as I
am not opposed to shareholders receiving proper information. I am opposed to passing restrictions on information that they say is required to be given to shareholders at an
annual meeting or at any other time, or in the
proxy form which now must be filled out and
sent to them.
In my opinion, the committee in the other
place, the minister and his assistants, should
have taken more time with this bill and
incorporated the amendments they expect to
enact in the near future, because they know
what those amendments are going to bo now.
Do not tell me they do not. More people
spoke on this particular bill in committee
than I think I have ever seen in a report of
committees in the other place. That shows
their interest. They were there speaking in
much the same vein as I am. They were not
opposing the bill, but they thought that the
Government should wait until these other
amendments are available.
Senator Urquhart took 45 minutes to
introduce the bill in the Senate, which is the
same time it took for its introduction in the
other place. I congratulate Senator Urquhart
for his endeavours, because fie made a good
case out of bad material.
That is all I wish to say concerning this bill
itself. However, I would like to say something
else. There has been a certain practice going
on in Canada, particularly in Ontario, of
which I am cognizant. I have briefs on my
desk now for five law suits. They pertain to

June 22, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

land speculators who a year ago went through
the country offering very high prices for old
homestead farm property. They would incorporate a company and then buy property
from unsuspecting farmers, putting $10,000 ta
$15,000 down on a $400,000 ta $450,000 deal.
Last July money became tight, as we all
know. They could not complete their commitments and the deals fell through. They say
they will sue us for specific performance or
for damages and they do not have anything,
just a bare shell of a company.
I personally checked at the Company's
Branch of the Ontario Legislature and three
out of four of the companies were incorporated in the same law office, and their provisional directors were law partners of that office.
That is something that the Government of
Ontario and the federal Government should
take a hard look at. As I said, I have personal
experience with these four or five law suits.
Farmers are very impressed by Chauffeurdriven Cadillacs which drive up ta their
farms, but they never think ta ask for proper
credentials. They get the signature of the
president or the vice-president on a document, and think they have sold their farm for
$450,000 and that the deal will close in a few
months. In the meantime they sell their cattle,
equipment and everything else so that they
can move ta a nice new place. The deal then
falls through and they are left holding the
bag, except for the deposit which they
received. Sometimes they are challenged that
it should be returned, but likely they will be
able ta keep it if they have the advice of a
good lawyer.
Someone may say that this matter comes
under constitutional law. Senator Hayden
may say that according ta the British North
America Act it comes under provincial jurisdiction-property and civil rights. I think it
might ta a certain extent. But it is fraud, and
as such it should be covered in an act such as
we have before us, or it should come under
the Criminal Code, sa that these unethical
speculators will be prosecuted. They leave the
poor farmers high and dry. He has sold his
cattle and equipment, and does not know how
ta start again or what ta do. This sort of thing
should be incorporated in the Ontario Companies Act, the Criminal Code, and in the legislation now before us.
As far as Bill C-4 is concerned, I support it
but I would like ta hear what will be said in
committee. It is almost an affront for honourable senators ta be faced with a 205-page bill
containing provisions never heard before-at
least by me-except in the Kimber Report.

On motion of Hon. Mr. Hayden, debate
adjourned.
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS
INQUIRIES NOS. 3, 6 AND 7 ANSWERED

Leave having been given to revert to
Inquiries:
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
earlier in the sitting I indicated that Inquiries
numbered 1 ta 13 al stood. I am happy to tell
Senator Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche)
that I want now to make an amendment to
that, because during the course of the evening
I have learned that answers are available ta
Nos. 3, 6 and 7.
REVENUE AND OPERATING COSTS ON DISCONTINUED PASSENGER SERVICEINQUIRY ANSWERED

Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Government, pursuant to notice:
(1) On how many lines has passenger
service been discontinued by the Canadian National Railways during the last
ten years?
(2) On which lines has passenger service been discontinued and what is the
mileage of each line?
(3) What was the annual revenue and
the annual operating cost of passenger
service on each of these lines?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
The Canadian National Railways advise as
follows:
1. During the past ten years Canadian
National received permission from the
Canadian Transport Commission (formerly the Board of Transport Commissioners) to discontinue passenger service over
six lines. This excludes the discontinuance of some mixed trains which became
solely freight trains when passenger traffic declined ta a point that continued
operation of a coach on these trains was
no longer warranted.
2. The Lines over which these services
operated were between
(a) The Pas and Flin Flon, a distance of
91.7 miles;
(b) Winnipeg and Saskatoon, (via Dauphin and Humboldt), a distance of 502.7
miles;
(c) Saskatoon and Calgary (via Kindersley), a distance of 399.5 miles;

1314

SENATE DEBATES
(d) Winnipeg and Regina (via Kipling) a
distance of 356.6 miles;
(3) St. John's and Port aux Basques, a
distance of 547.8 miles;
(f) Montreal and Cantic, a distance of
43.6 miles.

In addition, Canadian National has over
the years implemented many changes in
service on other lines which in some
instances have resulted in increased service frequency and at other times a
reduction in train operations, depending
on the economics and market potential of
the particular service being reviewed.
Before a service is reduced the railway
notifies the Canadian Transport Commission of its intention and provides the
Commission, on a confidential basis, with
any pertinent data that may be required.

3. The revenue and expense figures
submitted by the Company in support of
its applications and which were at that
time made public for those services other
than in Newfoundland are as follows:
Revenue

$

23,679

$

Expense

121,206

$ 1,024,100 $ 1,931,000
$ 657,300 $ 1,361,800
$ 626,000 $ 1,213,000
$

See below
13,734 $

183,387

Period of study
Oct. 1961 - Sept. 1962
Year 1961
Year 1961
Year 1962
May 1965 - Apr. 1966

e) With the coming into force of the
National Transportation Act in 1967 the
Railway Act was amended and pursuant
to Section 314 1, Subsection 3 of the Railway Act, the Railway is required to
submit, on a confidential basis, concurrently with the filing of an application to
discontinue a passenger train service, a
statement of costs and revenues of the
Company attributable to the carriage of
passengers by the service as the Commission may prescribe. The foregoing
requirement was met by the Company
in connection with its application for
authority to discontinue passenger train
service between Port aux Basques and St.
John's, and by Order No. R-507 dated
November 6, 1967, the Railway Transport
Committee gave notice that it had determined the said passenger train service
had incurred an actual loss of $918,000 in
the year ended December 31, 1966.

AUTOMATIC

Matapedia to Campbellton
Newcastle to Nelson Jet.
Moncton to Painsec Jet.
Belmont to Hyde (Truro)
Windsor Jet. to Halifax

June 22, 1970

USE OF CENTRALIZED TRAFFIC CONTROL
SYSTEM IN ATLANTIC REGION-INQUIRY
ANSWERED
Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Government, pursuant to notice:
1. How many miles of railway line in
the Atlantic region do the Canadian
National Railways operate under a C.T.C.
(centralized traffic control) system?
2. How many miles of railway line in
the Atlantic region are not operated
under a C.T.C. system, and where are
these lines located?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.

BLOCK

The Canadian
advise as follows:

National

Railways

1. 614.2 miles
2. Canadian National Railways operate
50.0 miles of railway line in its Atlantic
Region under Automatic Block Signals
and 3,030.1 miles under Train Orders.
Included in the figure 3,030.1 miles
operated under Train Orders are 702.7
miles in Newfoundland. Details of Lines
involved are attached.
SIGNALS

12.8M
4.1
7.2
10.1
15.8
50. 0 Miles

June 22, 1970

DEBATES
Juii 22,1970SENATE
TRAIN ORDERS

Chaleur Area
Riviere du Loup to Matapedia
Campbellton ta Newcastle
Nelson Jct. to Catamaunt via Campbellton
Matapedia to Gaspe
Kent Jet. to Richibucto
Nelson Jet. to Longgieville
DJerby Jet. to McGivney
Bartibog to Heath Steele
Gloucester Jet. to Tracadie
Nepisiguit ta Brunswick Mines
Dalhousie Jet. to Dalhousie
Tide Head to I.W.R. Jet.
Jet. with Montmagny Sub. ta Fraser Jet.

176. OM
107.1
62.0
202.2
26.5
13.5
75.1
23.1
72.7
14.7
6.2
105.8
81.9
966.8/Miles

Maritime Area
2. OM
230.1
25.5
55.6
79.4
81.8
109.1
136.6
21.9
66.9
11.5
35.4
84.1
24.4
12.3
33.8
70.5
27.7

Moncton ta West End
Sydney ta Trura
St. Peters Jet. ta St. Peters
Part Hastings Jet. ta Inverness
Stellartan ta Oxford Jct.
Upper Musquadabaut ta Windsar Jet.
Sauthwestern Jet. ta Bridgetawn
Liverpoal ta Yarmauth
Caledonia Jet. ta Caledania
Bridgewater Jet. ta Bridgetawn
Paint du Chene ta Painsec Jet.
Sackville ta Cape Tarmentine
Saint Jahn ta Fundy
Salisbury ta Hillsbara
Petitcadiac ta Havelock
MeGivney ta South Devon
Westfield Beach ta South Devan
Valley ta Centreville

1108.6/Miles
P.E.I.
Charlottetawn ta Barden
Emerald Jet, ta Tignish
Royalty Jet. to Sauris
Mt. Stewart Jet. ta Mantague
Maple Hill ta Murray Harbar

42. M
84.6
55.0
25.6
44.4
252.0O/Miles

22481-33

1316

1316

~SENATE
DEBATESJue2,17

June 22, 1970

Newfoundland Area
St. Jahn's ta Clarenville
Clarenville ta Bishaps Falls
Bishaps Falls ta Camner Braak
Camner Braok ta Part aux Basques
Placentia Jet. ta Argentia
Jet. with Clarenville Sub. ta Bonavista
Brigus Jct. ta Carbanear
White's Raad ta Stephenville

131. lm
136.2
138.0
142.5
20.7
87.9
38.5
7.8
702.7/Miles
3030.1I/Miles

DIESEL OIL USED IN ATLANTIC REGIONSOURCE AN)) COST-INQUIRY ANSWERED

Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Government, pursuant ta notice:
1. What firm supplies the diesel fuel ail
for the Canadian National Railways in
the Atlantic region?
2. Is the fuel baught by tender?
3. If sa, what firms submitted tenders
and what were their quotatians?
Hon. Paul Martin: Answered.
The
Canadian National
Railways
advise as follaws:
1, 2, and 3. Tenders for the supply af
diesel fuel ail are invited annually. It is
flot the practice of the Company ta, dis-

close names of firms or persans submitting tenders for ta disclose information
respecting proposais received. Contracts
for the supply of diesel ail during 1970
have been awarded ta the following:
Golden Eagle Canada Ltd.
Gulf Oil Canada Ltd.
Harney Petroleum.
Imperial Oil Ltd.
Irving 011 Ca.
Nepca Petraleum Ltd.
Petrofina Canada Ltd.
Sheil Canada Ltd.
Texaca Canada Ltd.
The Senate adjaurned until tomarrow at 2
p.m.

June 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE

[Translation]
The birthday of the Leader of the Government is the proper occasion to recall all he
has done for the Senate, but since he seems to
Tuesday, June 23, 1970
be in such great physical and mental shape,
The Senate met at 2 p.m., Honourable Mau- perhaps it could be said that the Senate has
rice Bourget, P.C., Speaker pro tem, in the done something for him. Anyhow,
we extend
Chair.
our best wishes to him on the eve of another
year in a life already well spent but still very
Prayers.
promising.
HON. PAUL MARTIN
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
sincerely thank my colleague and deputy, the
BIRTHDAY FELICITATIONS
*honourable
Senator
Macdonald
(Cape
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable Breton), and the Leader of the Opposition
for
senators, before we proceed with our regular their good wishes on my birthday.
I appreciate
business today, may I take this opportunity to it but I would ask them not to mention
next
draw your attention to the fact that this is year this important day in my life.
the birthday of the Leader of the Government
in the Senate. I am sure all honourable sena- [English]
I am grateful for the congratulations and
tors would like to join with me in wishing
him a happy birthday and many happy good wishes expressed on the occasion of my
birthday anniversary. I sincerely hope that
returns of the day.
this will be the last time that there will be
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, any mention of the fact that I am older than I
honourable Senator McDonald bas beaten me was yesterday. I hope that next year honourto it. I was prepared to speak first, and I even able senators will refer to someone else's
have a text prepared, which is not my usual birthday and not to mine. I believe that as one
practice. I would not want to risk improvising gets older these are occasions one prefers to
on such an important matter; therefore, I note within the precincts of one's study and
shall read.
not in public where one is apt to be shown
When a man trades in his basic black for what one is in point of time.
limousine for a sportier model, when his sarTo the honourable Leader of the Opposition
torial summer finery can be most accurately I want to say that I have profited from my
described as "restrained mod," when his hair two-year membership in this bouse. I agree
instead of greying seems to get darker, and that it takes some time to loosen oneself from
when the same man seems younger, more the traditions of the other place, but in my
relaxed and healthier than he ever bas, it is case I hope to bring to bear the best qualities
difficult to believe that he too regularly cele- of the Canadian Parliament and not those of
brates birthdays.
merely one of its bouses.
Yet, that is the case of the Leader of the
ANNIVERSARIES
Government today.
ST-JEAN-BAPTISTE DAY
I should like to take this opportunity
honourable senators, to wish the Government
DISCOVERY OF NEwFOUNDLAND
Leader longevity and good health. May he
[Translation]
continue to enjoy for a long time the saluHon. Paul Martin: As honourable senators
brious climate which reigns in the Senate, and
may he continue to learn more and more know, French Canadians will celebrate Stabout the differences between this place and Jean-Baptiste Day tomorrow. Since Parliament will adjourn for the occasion, I should
the other place!
like to extend best wishes to all our FrenchHon. Senators: Hear, hear.
speaking fellow citizens on behalf of all members in this bouse. On the occasion of this
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Let him not worry in the national holiday for
one of the two great races
least about the results of the recent British which presided
over the beginning of Conelection and on which side of the chamber he federation,
it is only fair, I think, to point out
will sit after the next general election, for I that
it is diversity in origins and cultures, not
am told that the polls here in Canada put the uniformity,
which constitutes the essential and
Liberal Party ahead of the Conservatives in
fundamental characteristic of Canada.
popularity-and we all know how reliable
poll-takers are!
*See p. 1401.
22481-33à

1318

SENATE DEBATES

Throughout our history, French Canadians,
drawing from their deep resources of courage,
faith, self-sacrifice and vitality, have played a
key role in the development of our country,
yet remained true to their own rights and
traditions.
For some years now, extraordinary changes
have been evident in all fields in the Province
of Quebec. We want Confederation to progress in accordance with the principle of
equality between Canada's two founding
nations, taking those changes into account
and paying tribute to the other ethnic groups
that have contributed to the cultural wealth
of our country.
I hope that the existing understanding will
continue to prevail in the best interest of all
Canadians.
[English]
Honourable senators, I should like to
observe in the other official language that
on the occasion tomorrow of the feast of St.
John the Baptist, Canadians all over this
country are given an opportunity to pay
special attention to means of furthering
national unity.
In the Province of Quebec, le foyer de la
population française, there will be special
attention paid to the problems of that province and to the desirable and understandable
ambition of furthering their language and
culture within the context of Confederation.
This is the wish of most people in Quebec
and of most people in Canada.
I would also like to mention that tomorrow the people of Newfoundland will
celebrate an important anniversary of their
discovery. It was 473 years ago tomorrow
that the great explorer, John Cabot, discovered Newfoundland.

June 23, 1970

[Translation]
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Honourables senators, the
feast of St. John the Baptist is the national
day of all French Canadians. The vitality of
that small group of 60,000 individuals in 1760,
now over 6,000,000 strong, has been growing
constantly. They make up a community which
is increasingly conscious of its resources, of
its destiny. This community, let us not forget
it, is truly a distinctive factor in Canada.
Without it, our country would only be a copy
of the United States or would be part of it.
Undoubtedly, a certain number of French
Canadians would apparently like to create
their own state and thereby show their lack
of faith in a united Canada. As for myself,
I see in it a mere phenomenon of normal
growth which enables both main language
groups to know and understand one another
better.
Since Champlain and La Vérendrye, most
French-speaking Canadians have always considered that their country extended a mari
usque ad mare. I trust that it will continue
to be so for a long time.
[English]
Honourable senators, I join the Leader of
the Government in his remarks concerning the
473rd anniversary of the discovery of Newfoundland. By joining Canada in 1949 they
completed the dream of the Fathers of Confederation. As I have just mentioned, it is
truly since then that Canada bas become this
immense country, a mari usque ad mare.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I notice that the Leader of
the Opposition successfully evaded the reference to John Cabot!

Hon. Mr. Flynn: I had other reasons, but
Hon. John M. Macdonald: May I rise on a just as important as those mentioned by the
question of privilege, Mr. Speaker? There is honourable Senator Macdonald.
considerable doubt that John Cabot landed
in Newfoundland at that time.
THE SENATE
Hon. Mr. Martin: I am aware of this important difference of history, but I say to my SIMULTANEOUS INTERPRETATION-PROPOSED
INSTALLATION OF BOOTHS IN
genial friend, Senator Macdonald, that I do
SOUTH GALLERY
not propose to take sides in that jurisdictional
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
dispute.
However, we do recognize the founding of senators will recall the incident of May 26
Newfoundland, one of the important prov- when closed circuit television cameras relatinces of our country, with the discovery 473 ing to simultaneous interpretation were
years ago. I am sure that I express the senti- installed in the south gallery. Honourable
ments of all senators when I say that we Senator Molson properly suggested that the
extend to that province our warmest con- Senate should be informed of innovations
gratulations and join with them in our com- within the chamber prior to installation
thereof.
mon pride in Canada.
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

The problem of simultaneous interpretation
is still very much the concern of Mr. Speaker
Deschatelets, who feels that it is in the interest
of the Senate to consider a solution to the
existing difficulties. Since Mr. Speaker Deschatelets will not return before the Senate
adjourns for the summer, I thought that
honourable senators should be told of the
steps that are envisaged to bring about an
improved interpretation system that would
function when the Senate reconvenes in the
fall.
The crux of the problem lies in the
inadequacy of the interpreters' booths, which
are now located in the corners of the antechamber. An investigation by officials of the
Translations Bureau and of the Department
of Public Works reveals that it is impossible
to enlarge these two booths without disturbing the aesthetics of the chamber.
A proposal bas been made to officials of the
Senate to locate the interpreters' booth in the
rear of the centre section of seats in the south
gallery. This would mean eliminating two
partial rows of seats in the centre section-a
total of 12 seats. This plan would provide
sufficient space to bouse the necessary facilities to enable the interpreters to provide a
better service for the chamber, and to eliminate the time-gap now existing when a speaker changes from one language to the other. I
am informed that the manner in which this
booth would be constructed would not upset
the very impressive and exquisite aesthetic
balance of the chamber.
Since al the work necessary for this installation will have to be done this summer,
may I ask honourable senators if they would
agree to have the design work carried out
immediately and submitted to Mr. Speaker on
his return from his trip. If the Senate is
agreeable, Mr. Speaker could then arrange to
have the subcommittee on Internal Economy
and Contingent Accounts, composed of the
honourable the Leader of the Government
(Hon. Mr. Martin) and two senators to be
named by him, consider the proposal and,
should they approve, the work will be carried
out.
The subcomnittee to which I have just
referred was appointed by the Standing Committee on Internal Economy and Contingent
Accounts at its meeting on June 26, 1969, and
is authorized to act for and on behalf of the
committee in all matters pertaining W tbe
internal economy of the Senate during any
adjournment of the present Parliament of
more than one week.

1319

Honourable senators, I would be happy to
obtain some views on this very important
subject.
[Translation]
I do not believe it is necessary to repeat
in French everything I have just said in
English. What matters is that we must consider ways to improve the simultaneous interpretation booths which are at the present
time in the Senate antechamber.
It bas been suggested to set up a booth at
the back of the central aisle of the south
gallery, the one which I am facing at the
present time, and this booth would be built
in such a way as not to mar the beauty of
the Senate chamber. Two rows of seats would
of course have to be removed from the
central aisle, but I do not believe that this
would cause any serious inconvenience.
If some bonourable senators have some
comments to offer, I will be most pleased to
hear them, because if we want our simultaneous interpretation system to be ready in
the fall, plans have to be prepared, approved
and reviewed by a subcommittee of the Senate
Committee on Internal Economy and Contingent Accounts, composed, as I was just
saying, of the Government Leader and two
senators appointed by hin during the summer recess. Therefore if you have remarks to
voice, I will be pleased to hear them.
[English]
Hon. John J. Connolly: Honourable senators,
I am not sure whether one can with decorum
ask the honourable the Speaker a question,
but perhaps I may ask the honourable leader
a question. Suppose the subcommittee that
deals with this problem in the course of the
summer has to consider an alternative to the
one in the message which the honourable
the Speaker bas given to us, will that subcommittee have authority to deal with such
an alternative?
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, I
would think that if the suggested change were
an extensive one, the matter should be
brought back to the Senate for consideration.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, may I answer the question asked,
even though, in the strict sense, questions
are not put to the Speaker. If we have
unanimous consent from the Senate, perhaps
I could deal with the point raised by honourable Senator Connolly (Ottawa West).
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

SENATE DEBATES

1320

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: This situation bas been fully investigated by the Chairman of the Internal Economy Committee,
by Mr. Speaker and I think also by the Clerk
of the Senate who had occasion to talk with
people from the Public Works Department
and from the Translations Branch. From the
information I have and from what I have
heard, they feel that this is the best possible
solution available; however, I presume that
even if we accept the proposal made, this
would not prevent the subcommittee from
considering a better solution if one is brought
forward.
Therefore, honourable senators, if it is
agreeable, we will leave it to the honourable
leader and the subcommittee set up a year
ago.
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

June 23, 1970

The Hon.

the Speaker pro tem: Honourable

senators, when shall this bill be read the
second time?

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding
Rule 44(l)(f), I move that the bill be placed
on the Orders of the Day for second reading
later this day.
Motion agreed to.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CANADIAN-CARIBBEAN RELATIONS PRESENTED AND
PRINTED AS APPENDIX

Hon. John B. Aird, Chairman of the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs,
presented the report of the committee, and
asked that it be printed as an appendix to

the Debates of the Senate and the Minutes
[Later:l
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS IN
SENATE GALLERY
OFFICIALS FROM REPUBLIC OF THE
IVORY COAST
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, we
have some distinguished visitors in the gallery-in the person of Mr. Philippe Yacé, the
President of the National Assembly of the
Republic of the Ivory Coast, accompanied by
His Excellency Mr. Timothée Ahoua, the
Ambassador of the Ivory Coast accredited to
Canada, by His Excellency Mr. Aké, the
Ambassador of the Ivory Coast to the United
Nations, and by three other officials.
I had occasion today, in the absence of the
Secretary of State for External Affairs, to
welcome at luncheon the President of the
National Assembly of the Republic of the
Ivory Coast, the Ambassador of that coun-

try accredited to Canada, and the Ambassador of the Ivory Coast at the United
Nations. We are honoured to have them in
the Senate Chamber today.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
YUKON ACT, NORTHWEST TERRITORIES
ACT AND TERRITORIAL LANDS ACT
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST READING

The Hon.

the Speaker pro tem informed

the Senate that a message had been received
from the House of Commons with Bill C-212
to amend the Yukon Act, the Northwest Territories Act and the Territorial Lands Act.
Bill read first time.

[The Hon. the Speaker pro tem.]

of the Proceedings of today and form part of

the permanent record of this house.
The Hon.

the Speaker pro tem: Honourable

senators, is it agreed that this report be
printed as an appendix to the Debates of the

Senate and the Minutes of the Proceedings of
today and form part of the permanent record
of this house?

Hon. Senators: Agreed.
(For text of report, see appendix to today's
Hansard)

The Hon.
senators,

the Speaker pro tem: Honourable

when

shall this report

be taken

into consideration?
Hon. Mr. Aird moved that the report be
placed on the Orders of the Day for consideration at the next sitting of the Senate.
He said: Honourable senators, it is with
some pride that I wish to place on the record
my personal appreciation of the unfailing and
sustained effort made by all members of the
committee, and in particular the great contribution made by the Deputy Chairman, Senator Allister Grosart, and by Senator Hédard
Robichaud, both members of the steering

committee. The committee also wishes to
acknowledge the fine work of its clerk, Mr.
Eric Innes and the very material assistance to
its deliberations made by Mr. Peter Dobell
and Mr. Bernard Wood of the Parliamentary

Centre for Foreign Aff airs and Foreign Trade.
In recognition of the fact that the honourable the Leader of the Government is today

celebrating his birthday, I think I should indicate and record that he, in his capacity as

June 23. 1970

DEBATES
June23, 970SENATE

Leader of the Goverament and as a member
of the Administration, quite properly took no
part in the preparation of this report.
This report is the culmination of an extensive and, I believe, thorough study by the
committee. Our hearings with many expert
and eminent witnesses have deepened the
concern of ail oui members for this area
which is close to Canada in so many ways.
While these hearings have been going on,
many Canadians have become increasingly
aware of the arduous struggle of these countries to meet the rising expectations of their
people. A series of widely-publicized events
have also made it clear that there has been a
deterioration of the remarkable goodwill
which Canada has traditionally enjoyed in
the Caribbean countries.
The committee has devoted much attention
to these trends and has concluded frankly
that "Canada can expect continuing and even
growing criticism. and hostility from some
sectors of opinion in the Caribbean."
This is not simply a pessimistic prediction.
It is a warning, which is made explicit in the
report, that "many of the comfortable
assuxnptions of the past are dangeîously inappropriate in the current Caribbean context."
Essentially, what this report recommends is
that these outdated assumptions be discarded.
Canada's "special relationship" with the
Caribbean countries can no longer be taken
for granted. A great deal of re-thinking and
re-appraisal are obviously required.
The committee has rejected any suggestion
that this leads to a conclusion that the "special relationship" is now unimportant; or
unworkable. I wish to emphasize this: the
conclusion is quite the contrary! Now, more
than ever, the Canada-Caiibbean link must
forma a bridge of understanding between a
developed country and a developing aiea.
The committee has been very conscious
that last year Canada's former Prime Minister and his colleagues on the World Bank
Commission issued an urgent challenge to ahl
developed countries to join in a real "partnership for development."
off ers
Caribbean
Commonwealth
The
Canada one of its best opportunities to realize
such a partnership. If we do not; succeed
there-where the potential is so great-there
can be little hope for success anywhere else.
The committee is convinced that this partnership can only be achieved through continuous consultation and dialogue, and through
close co-operative planning. The report recalîs

the success of the 1966 Heads of Government
Conference, and cails for a series of new
measures in multilateral consultation, including the convening of a new conference at
elther the heads of government or ministerial
level. In stressing this need for consultation,
the committee also points to the danger of a
lopsided relationship. Few Canadians seem to
realize that, in the eyes of the small nations
of the Caribbean, Canada can appear to be a
major and potentially threatening power.
Canadian policy must take account of this
sensitivity and, as the report says,
Paternalism and unilateral decisions and
actions must be avoided at ail costs.
The report also stresses that Canada, like
other outside powers, must recognize the
diversity of the area and respect the distinct
identity and aspirations of the different countries and territories.
Another general recommuendation is that
Canada adopt a much broader and more consistent strategy in its development assistance
to the area. This, the committee believes, wîll
involve dloser ca-ordination of the many different areas of Canadian policy which can
have a bearing on Caribbean development.
It also leads to a specific proposai. for direct
assistance to these countries in their attempts
to dîversify and expand their exports. The
report recomrnends the establishment of a
joint Canada-Caribbean marketing agency
and suggests a number of possible options for
implementing the proposai. Much further
study and multilateral planning will obviously be needed before joint action can be taken.
This remains, however, one of the committee's most forceful recommendations: it could
be a basic key to lasting economic development ln a number of these countries.
The report directs a great deal of attention
to development assistance, as well as to general issues in the areas of trade and political
relations. There are also sections on private
investment, immigration, tourism, the work of
voluntary agencies, and transport and communications. In each case, the committee has
reviewed progress made since the 1966 conference and has attempted to project future
needs. Many of the suggested guidelines apply
to Canadian private involvement as well as to
officiai policies.
The format of the report is designed for
easy reference. The conclusions and recommendations for each section are highlighted
and ail are consolidated in a brief summary
which appears, in raised type, as the report's
first section.

SENATE DEBATES

June 23, 1970

Honourable senators, this report makes no
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Honourable senators, I
claim to be a definitive guide for Canada- was saying that Senator Langlois has given us
Caribbean relations in the 1970's. However, the basic breakdown of the figures in this bill
the committee does believe that the general of $5.5 billion which the Government seeks to
approach suggested here will be the minimum appropriate. If we add that to the approxinecessary to maintain good relations in the mately $2 billion we voted in Appropriation
coming decade and to attempt to build a real Act No. 2, it brings the total of the budgetary
"partnership in development."
items required by the Government for expenMotion agreed to.
ditures this year to $7.4 billion. To this we
must of course add the statutory expenditures-that is, expenditures under acts
ADJOURNMENT
already in existence, which are sometimes
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable referred to as the "uncontrollable" items in
senators, with leave of the Senate and not- the budget. It is an unfortunate word because,
withstanding Rule 45(1)(g), I move that when surely, no items in any budget should be
the Senate adjourns today it is to stand regarded as "uncontrollable" by Parliament.
adjourned until Thursday next, June 25, at 2 If we add the $6.3 billion of statutory items,
we get a grand total of $13.7 billion as the
o'clock in the afternoon.
expenditures by the federal Government this
Motion agreed to.
year.
I have on other occasions expressed regret
APPROPRIATION BILL NO. 3, 1970
that these bills requiring consideration of
very large sums of money come to us invariaSECOND READING
bly in the clean-up week of a sitting of ParThe Senate resumed from yesterday the liament. I say "Parliament" deliberately
adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mr. because our colleagues in the other bouse
Langlois, for the second reading of Bill C-224, seem to be no better off than we are. This bill
for granting to Her Majesty certain sums of which, as I say, involves the expenditure of
money for the public service for the financial $5.5 billion of public money, came before
year ending 31st March, 1971.
them last Thursday, and was disposed of on
first and second readings, in committee of the
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, whole, and on
third reading in a proceeding
may I yield to Senator Grosart?
that takes up but a scant page of Hansard. I
do not know whether we can take credit for
Hon. Senalors: Agreed.
it, but the fact is that in this house we shall
Hon. Allister Grosart: Honourable senators, have spent considerably more time than that
Senator Langlois has given us the customary on this bill before we vote for or against it.
succinct and brief explanation of the bill. Its
We shall be hearing that
peremptory
purpose is to authorize the spending of some treatment of the Estimates this these
in
$5.5 billion of public funds, in addition to the plays" is justified by the fact that they "end
have
$2 billion which we have already voted in been considered by committees of the other
Appropriation Act No. 2. This brings toplace. It is truc that recently some very specThe Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Order, tacular and critical examination has been
given to the spending of certain individual
please!
departments. However, it seems to me that
Honourable senators, we must realize that Parliament needs
to devise a better mechit is always difficult for a senator who has the anism for the
examination of public spending
floor to speak when some other senators are before the
money is spent.
holding private conversations. Even when a
Honourable senators who recall the recent
senator is speaking loudly, at times I cannot
examples to which I referred-some of them
hear him from the Chair.
were in the headlines for a good many daysOnce again, I ask all honourable senators to will agree with
me, I think, that every
co-operate with the Chair. If an honourable case concerned
senator has a brief exchange with his neigh- after the money an examination of spending
was spent. What we need, it
bour, I would ask that he please speak in a seems to
me, is some kind of over-view mechlow voice. Alternatively, if you wish to hold a
long conversation, please retire to the ante- anism so that parliamentarians with some
expertise could relate the total Government
chamber for that purpose.
spending to the spending in other years, to
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
the rise or fall in GNP in any particular year,
[Hon. Mr. Aird.]

June 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1323

examination of the current economic
situation in Canada as it pertains to government expenditures.
It has already been explained, and perhaps it
is worth repeating, that this procedure
involves appearances by senior officials, usually of the Treasury Board, to put the proposed Estimates in the context of public
spending in Canada-that is, in the context of
federal and provincial spending. It so happens
that at the present time federal spending is
about half of the total public spending, and
over the years it has been declining as a
the total, rather than
percentage of
increasing.
Having done that, the committee looked at
the Estimates, picked out a few particular
items, and made a kind of pilot study of
them. It would be better, of course, if we had
time in which to make thoroughgoing studies
of one or two departments. This has been
contemplated, and it may in the future be the
course that the committee will take.
In this particular case the committee looked
at the main Estimates, which involved
increases in expenditures this year over last
year, and noted that there was a total
increase of $293 million in budgetary items,
and that a substantial percentage of this was
accounted for by three programs in three
departments. Those three departments came
before the committee, and were closely examined as to the reasons for these increases.
At this time, perhaps I should point out to
the honourable Leader of the Government
that the bill before us is retroactive. Clause 3
asks us to say once again that the items that
we may pass, if this bill is passed, are deemed
to have been approved by Parliament as of
April 1. This is a regrettable situation. I am
sure there is a better answer than to just say,
"Well, we could not get the bill to Parliament
in time." Surely, Parliament should not be
asked to pass an appropriation of $5J billion,
and then to say, "Any part of that spent so
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Hear, hear.
far is properly spent." Surely we can get
these bills to Parliament before the money is
Hon. Mr. Grosart: The pattern established
with spent. It seems to me to be an essential prinby Senator Leonard, and carried on
get approval to
great efficiency by Senator Everett, is ciple of budgeting, that you
of the committee on spend the money before you spend it.
described in the report
the
I suggest to
In that respect
the Estimates contained in the bill now before
honourable Leader of the Government in the
us, as follows:
As was the case in past examinations Senate that the terms of reference of the
until
of the Estimates, your Committee made committee should be temporarily altered
(a) a general examination; (b) a detailed such a change comes about. The terns of
to
examination of certain matters arising reference of the committee require it
in
out of the general examination; (c) an examine and report upon expenditures,

and as to who would examine the spending of
departments on a multi-departmental basis.
At the present time the examination in the
other place is, of course, based on the Estimates of individual departments being sent to
the appropriate committees. There seems to
be no mechanism whatsoever in our parliamentary system at the present time for an
over-view examination of the spending we
are asked to approve before the money is
spent.
It will be said that there are bodies who
undertake some part of such an examination,
the Treasury Board being one. But, the
Treasury Board's examination, while necessary
and useful, is in the last analysis really an
examination by ministers and public officials
responding with a good deal of sympathy to
requests to spend from other ministers and
public officials. I suggest that in the past the
Treasury Board has not proved to be the kind
of objective examiner of proposed spending
-one which examines from the public point
of view rather than the inside point of viewto which the public is entitled.
The former Standing Committee on Finance
made a small start, but I think a very important start, on this kind of examination. Over
the last few years a format was developed by
Senator Leonard, as chairman of the committee; that was continued by Senator Deschatelets, and then again by Senator Leonard when
he resumed the chairmanship of the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance.
I am sure honourable senators will understand when I say that we on the
committee miss Senator Leonard. We miss the
guidance and the instruction he gave us over
the years. However, we are most fortunate in
his being replaced by Senator Everett. I can
speak for every member of the committee in
saying that we are confident that the Standing Senate Committee on National Finance
has another chairman who will live up to the
traditions already established.

22481-34

SENATE DEBATES

this case for 1970-71, "in advance of bills
based on the said Estimates reaching the Senate." I do not think it is the committee's fault
that it was unable to beat the rush to spend
in this case.
Of course, we have already had many bills
whose purpose was to obtain authorization for
the spending of money in the bill before us.
The committee has now reported on those
Estimates, but perhaps we should be a little
more realistic and make sure that when the
terms of reference are given to the committee
next year they are brought into line with
reality.
It is not my purpose today to deal at any
great length with the large number of items
in this bill. Senator Everett in his report,
however, placed considerable stress on one
particular area of spending, that of regional
economic development. In the bill before us
we are asked to appropriate more than $350
million for regional economic expansion. This
was one of the departments that was before
us. It accounted for some $75 million of the
total increase of $293 million in budgetary
items this year over last year.
I have suggested the necessity for some
kind of over-view other than that given by
the Treasury Board. I am about to quote from
some evidence given before the committee in
the hearings on the Estimates contained in
this bill by Professor Neufeld, a distinguished
professor of economics at the University of
Toronto, on the Treasury Board matter.
Speaking at page 6:20 of the proceedings of
the committee for April 16, he said:
I think that one would have to say that
over the years the Treasury Board has
failed in its role of appraising properly
the quality of government spending
programs.
His reference there is largely to appraisal of
the quality rather than the quantity. However, I think honourable senators will agree
that there is not very much difference.
To illustrate my suggestion that we need an
over-view of the Estimates before the money
is spent rather than afterwards, I quote the
following, referring to the regional development expenditures, again from Professor
Neufeld's evidence before the committee. At
page 6:22 of the same proceedings, he said:
At present regional development is in the
nature of a sacred cow and I myself have
no unkind feelings to any region of the
country. At the same time, it is quite
conceivable that within the context of
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

June 23. 1970

this new-found enthusiasm we will proceed to waste a lot of the nation's funds
and resources. Why? Because I question
whether the new regional development
programs are going to in fact receive the
cold eyed scrutiny that they should
receive.
I would be happier with these new
experimentations in regional development
as well as other policies if I could sit
back and feel that the projects, one by
one, are going to, when they are under
way, receive the closest possible scrutiny
and analysis.
I suggest to honourable senators that this is
merely one area. I am not picking it out to
place undue emphasis on the program of
regional development, which I fully support
and consider in general to be necessary in our
present economic climate in Canada. I use it
merely to illustrate the general point that our
proposed spending is not at the moment
receiving the kind of careful scrutiny in
advance that I think the public would expect.
The bill, of course, is more than an appropriation bill. We continually refer to these
bills as appropriation bills, as though they
merely ask Parliament to sanction certain
spending. It is also an authorization bill. As a
matter of fact, it is the legal authority for the
establishment of Information Canada. I will
not go into that. The propriety or otherwise
of that particular structure bas been gone
into. I merely say that this bill is much more
than an appropriation bill. It asks authority to
set that up. It also asks Parliament to grant
authority to various departments to retain
revenue.
This is nothing to do with the amounts
before us. It is an ancillary authority that is
asked in this bill. I mention these matters to
indicate that perhaps we should not assume
that an appropriation bill coming at this late
stage is quite the casual item it is sometimes
thought to be.
Then again in this bill there are the usual
loans, investments and advances. Once again,
for example, we are asked to appropriate
money for the C.B.C., to pay back interest on
the money that we gave them last year, the
year before and the year before that-surely
an absurd piece of accounting. We keep on
every year saying you owe us money; there is
a payment on principal due; there is a payment on interest due. You do not have the
money; we will appropriate some more
money so that you can pay us back.

June 23, 1970

DEBATES
1970SENATE
23,
June

12
1325

Hon. Mr. Grosart: The taxing power is the
There are examples of this kind of accounting in the autbority we are asked to give matter the committee will be discussing
under this bill whicb. again, I suggest, menit today.
In conclusion, honourable senators, I repeat
far more examination than tbey bave bad,
that we are in a better position than we have
and certainly some remedial action.
The Governmnent is to be complimented on been in some years to pass this bil witb a
tbe fact that it bas held down the increase in reasonably good conscience. At least it bas
the total budget fromn the increase last year by been before a committee; it has been reasonaabout 2 per cent. Tbis is perbaps a greater bly well examined, at least in broad outline
I think the Senate
achievement than it appears on the surface, and in some particulars.
considerable assurance, proceed to
f actors enter. Tbe popula- can, witb bill in due course, on the basis of
because other cost
pass this
tion and the demands on Government are the report of the Standing Senate Committee
It is an achievement to bold the on National Finance made by Senator
increasing.
increase down to this level, altbougb tbe Gov- Everett.
erment bas not yet found it possible to match
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable senathe recommençlation of the samne committee of
wben we recommended tors, I wisb to take advantage of tbe latitude
tbe Senate last year,
that tbe increase in federal Government offered by a supply bill to discuss for a f ew
wbich bas given me a great
spending in any one year over tbe previous minutes a matter It affects only one person,
deal of concern.
year sbould neyer exceed tbe increase in the and relates to the treatment, if I may so
gross national product.
describe it, given to a former governmnent
We did not in tbat report, as I recaîl, make employee on bis retirement, bis bonourable
it clear whetber we were referring to current retirement, from the public service.
dollar or to real increase. The expenditures
George Benac, wbom I have known from
bave not met that criterion i the ternis of cbildbood, joined the public service in May
the one but not tbe other. It might be said, as 1952, and was employed continuously by the
I mentioned earlier, that by and large the Department of National Defence at the Point
federal Government bas already witbdrawn Edward Naval Base in Nova Scotia until September 1965, when the base was closed. If be
to a consîderable extent its taxing power.
had then been classified as a lay-off, wbîcb he
senators may be interested in
Honourable
could bave been, be would bave received a
some figures that bave just become available. gratuity of one week's pay for every year of
The federal Government revenues in a proservice. Wishing to continue in the public
jection for 1971 by the tax structures commit- service and to avoid a break in bis service, be
tee will be 52 per cent of tbe total; in 1952
entered a competition for a clerk's position at
the figure was 73 per cent. So, the federal
the Department of Transport's Coastguard
share of public revenues is decreasing. Ini the
College at Point Edward, whicb college was
saine period the provincial "take'"-if you like
then being opened, althougb be realized be
to use that word-will bave risen from 15 per
might not be fully qualified for that position.
cent in 1952 to 35 per cent next year. MuniciHowever, he was accepted on a probationary
pal tax revenues stay about even-12 per cent
basis, but at the end of tbat period be was flot
ini 1952, and 13 per cent in 1971.
offered permanent employment. The director
I mention this, bonourable senators, because of the college made it very clear tbat the
tbe question of tbe use of the federal spend- reason for this was only because the man's
ing power, whicb, of course, is closely allied previous experience did not fit him for the
to tbe use of the federal taxing power, iLs duties involved.
perhaps at tbe heart of tbe discussion now
We corne now to the matter of my comngoing on about the future of tbe Constitution plaint. On bis retirement in September 1966,
of Canada. This afternoon some of us wull be Mr. Benac was granted an annuity for seven
absent from this cbamber for a while because weeks-in otber words, one-haif of the
we will be attending a meeting of the Joint amount he would bave received if he had
Committee on the Constitution of Canada taken a lay-off status in 1965. In other words,
dealing witb this same subject.
in My opinion be was penalized for baving
H-on. Mr. Martin: Tbey will discuss the the ambition, drive and desire to obtain other
work inunediately.
spending power today?
22481-341

SENATE DEBATES

Now, honourable senators, there is a provision in the regulations governing such matters, which states:
An employee on rejection from probation
may be declared to be a lay-off if the
circumstances of the case warrant.
This would appear to be a case where one
would expect the discretion to have been
exercised in favour of the man involved, but
his application for such status was rejected
without explanation. An explanation was
given much later, which to my mind was not
an explanation but a weak defence of a
regrettable decision-an explanation without
real merit.
Honourable senators, the amount involved
was not large-about $600-but an important
sum to the person involved. A further consideration was that if he had been granted layoff status he would have continued under the
medical insurance policies of the Civil Service
for a year, and in that year, which was a year
of ill-health for him-from which he has
never recovered-his medical bills came to
about $900.
Honourable senators, since 1966 there have
been many letters exchanged on the matter
between the person involved and various
departments. The Public Service Alliance
tried to assist him, but without success. So,
honourable senators, I am asking the Leader
of the Government in this chamber to take an
interest in this case. I will be pleased to give
him further details so that he may look into it
when the Senate rises and he has the time to
do so. I ask him to do so because it is well
known that in his long political career he has
always shown concern for the underprivileged
and the unfortunate. Indeed, it is well known
that he has not only shown concern but also
anxiety to help the unfortunate. So, I ask the
leader to help in this case.
I feel that the treatment given to this man,
while legal, bas been very harsh, and I do not
believe it would ever be the intention of government to treat a good, fine and loyal
employee in this way. I would hope this case
can be re-opened and the decision reversed so
that lay-off status can be granted.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I will certainly be glad to
discuss with the honourable Senator Macdonald the full facts of this case, if he would
be good enough to bring them to my
attention.
Hon. Leopold Langlois: Honourable senators[Hon. Mr. Macdonald (Cape Breton).]

June 23, 1970

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: I must
inform honourable senators that if the honourable Senator Langlois speaks now it will
have the effect of closing the debate.
Hon. Mr. Langlois: Honourable senators, I
wish to make but a few remarks following
the address which the honourable Senator
Grosart made on the measure now before us.
I am sure I speak on behalf of all honourable
senators when I express to Senator Grosart
our gratitude for his timely remarks. At the
same time, I would point out that when he
referred to the fact that a measure of this
kind was being introduced in this chamber
in the dying days of the session, he should
also note the tremendous improvement in this
regard as compared with the situation which
existed some years ago, when we used to get
such measures not only in the dying days of
the session, but in the dying days of the fiscal
year.
Since the rules of the other place were
changed two years ago, as I mentioned last
evening, the Estimates are now studied by
various committees of the other place at a
much earlier stage. This year the study of the
Estimates there commenced in February, and
this study by various committees has continued until the last week or so.
By an order of reference of this house, the
Estimates were referred to our Standing
Committee on National Finance on February
12. In obedience to that order of reference,
the committee bas had seven meetings and
has heard evidence from Mr. S. Cloutier,
Deputy Secretary, Program Branch, Treasury
Board; Dr. A. J. R. Smith, Chairman of the
Economic Council of Canada; Mr. Tom Kent,
Deputy Minister of Regional Economic
Expansion; Professor E. P. Neufeld of the
University of Toronto; Mr. Jules Léger,
Under-Secretary of State; Mr. H. B. Robinson,
Deputy Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development; and, in camera, Mr. L. Rasminsky, Governor of the Bank of Canada.
If one cares to look at the extensive and
very comprehensive report of this committee,
which, as I stated last evening, forms part of
the Minutes of Proceedings of the Senate of
June 16, having been printed as an appendix
thereto, one has to realize that the work of
the Standing Senate Committee on National
Finance is continuously improving to the
extent that now we must say in all fairness to
the members of that committee that they are
discharging their duties in a very commendable way, and we must be very grateful to
them.

June 23, 1970

June
23,
1970SENATE
DEBATES

I know that some of the suggestions made
this afternoon by honourable Senator Grosart
are timely and should be considered, and I ami
sure the Senate will li the future look at his
suggestions to modify, perhaps, the order of
reference to our own Standing Committee on
National Finance. But 1 must stress the point
that we are constantly improving our method
of scrutîny, and we are heading in the right
direction.
I also wish to remark on the statement
made by the honourable senator to the effect
that Government expenditures are increasing
out of proportion to the gross national product, and that there is quite a gap. We must
note that, as has been stated by Dr. Neufeld
of the University of Toronto in his testimony
before the committee, this gap is decreasing
and now stands at 33 per cent as compareci to
21 per cent. The gap is closing, and this shows
that here again we are headed i the right
direction. I think this fact is worthy of note at
this stage.
It is also worth noting that the expenditures are given a much more careful scru-tiny
than they useci to be given by both bouses,
and we intend that the trend in this direction
be continued.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, when shail this bill be read the
third time?
Hon. Mr. Langlois moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreeci to.
NUCLEAR LIABILITY BILL
SECOND READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED
Hon. Daniel A. Lang moved the second
reading of Bill C-158, respecting civil llability
for nuclear damnage.
He said: Honourable senators, with the flrst
unit of the large Pickering Thermonuclear
Station going critical at the endi of next year,
we are now li Canada i reality moving into
the commercial nuclear age. This bill, therefore, is very appropriate at this ie.
1 tbink: all honourable senators will recognize that the peaceful use of nuclear power
andi the revolutionary concept flowing from
that use 'involve two very important prerequisites in any civiized country. Firstiy, the

1321
12

safety standards of these machines must be
rigorous in the extreme, both during the construction of the plants themselves and thereafter during their operation.
In Canada, this responsibility for setting
and imposing these standards rests with the
Atomic Energy Contrai Board and with vaniou.s federai and provincial government
departments. But besides the regard for
safety standards, a civilized country must
recognize the need to provide for financiai,
compensation to the public i the event of a
nuclear accident. Therefore, honourable sena-tors, the bill we have now before us, Bil
C-158, is to provide for that latter necessity,.
naniely, the provision of financial compensation to members of the public in the event of
a nuclear accident.
I imagine ail honourable senators are thinking now and have li the past thought of how
to assess the hazards involved li the peaceful
use of nuclear power. I might remind honourable senators that the first nuclear reactor to
go into operation was one buit li the United
States i 1942. The first one that went on
power in Canada was li 1945 at Chalk River,
but that, of course, was not to produce commercial electric power. But in the western
world and according to the best knowledge
available to physiclats and scientists, there
have been no accidents in the proliferation of
plants now in various countries. There has
been one known accident, but it was a relatively minor one.
I think this record might mitigate to some
extent the various doubts whiich mention of
nuclear power and its commercial use raises
in the minds of many people.
Apart from the danger of direct physical
accidents to people, we have to consider the
danger from pollution. Scientific knowledge to
date attributes littie, if any, pollution to our
lakes, rivers or atniosphere from commercial
nuclear power generation. However, I would
be less than frank if I did not say tliat in the
scientific conumunity there is a good deal of
controversy in this area, and it is incumbent
upon any country using this form of power
continually to monitor and re-exanuine the
possibility of pollution occurring from the
operation of these plants.
0f course, with a nuclear reactor an accident would most likely arise from the release
of fissionable or radio-active material, bringing about a hazard to health and contamination of the environnient. I am told that it is
physically impossible for these reactors to
explode, in any sense, with the violence of an

SENATE DEBATES
atomic bomb, but the greatest danger lies in
possible contamination.
Honourable senators, if I may turn briefly
to the bill itself, I will quickly examine with
you the machinery which it is intended will
deal with this problem.
The main feature of the bill is contained in
Part I, section 4. Lawyers will recognize
immediately the legal concept. There imposes
on the operator of a nuclear plant absolute
liability. In other words, he bas no defence
whatsoever to an action brought against him
by a member of the public for injury due to
or arising from the operation of that plant.
So, in one sweep this bill takes away from
the operator of a nuclear station any defence
to an action in damages for injury.
Also the following few sections make him
basically the only person liable-there are a
few exceptions-and deny him recourse
against any other party for contribution in
connection with his own liability. These sections are basically designed to prevent a multiplicity of actions and the prolongation of
litigation.
Section 15 of the bill, which is the next
most important one, provides that the operator of a nuclear plant, having thus been
deprived of his defence and being actionable
and liable to damages, must carry insurance.
This insurance takes two forms: firstly, basic
insurance, wherein the risk is placed with a
private carrier or carriers; and, secondly, supplementary insurance wherein the Crown is
prepared to reinsure that portion of the risk.
Putting these two forms of insurance on top
of one another, total insurance protection is
required in an amount not greater than $75
million. However, the mix as between the
Government re-insured portion and the basic
private carrier portion will be different in
each case, depending largely on the degree of
the risk, which would relate, in part at least,
to the size of the reactor, whether it be a test
reactor, a reactor in an aircraft or ship, or a
large electricity-generating reactor like the
one at Pickering.
Part II of this bill, honourable senators,
provides for a procedure in the event of what
would be a disaster. If damages resulting
from a nuclear accident exceed in amount the
$75 million provided for under the insurance
provisions I have just mentioned, then the
Governor in Council may proclaim Part Il of
this act in force. This proclamation then
limits the operator's liability to the $75 mil[Hon. Mr. Lang.]

June 23, 1970

lion to which I have referred, and the Crown
takes on the liability over and above that
amount.
The Governor in Council must thereupon
set up a board or commission known as the
Nuclear Damage Claims Commission to hear
and adjudicate upon claims. Many of the sections of the bill in Part II deal with the
establishment of such a commission, its rules
of practice and procedure and the persons
who may be named to it, if set up.
Under section 28, honourable senators,
when a commission makes an award the Government is required to make payment in
accordance with that award. However, the
total liability of the Government under this
bill is a further $75 million; and thereafter
any additional payments to be made would
require the sanction of Parliament. There are
provisions for interim payment by the commission pending adjudication of claims. Finally, there is also a provision whereby payment
out, for injuries sustained by persons other
than Canadians because of such an accident,
is precluded unless the country of that person's origin has a reciprocal agreement covering Canadians who might be injured as a
result of a nuclear accident in that other
country.
Honourable senators, in self-defence and to
forestall any of my learned colleagues who
are members of the legal profession, I would
like to draw your attention to subsections 2
and 3 of section 26 of the bill.
In subsection 2 the Exchequer Court of
Canada is designated as having original jurisdiction to hear and determine applications for
prerogative writs-that is, writs of certiorari,
prohibition, mandamus and injunction.
Thereafter, subsection 3 states that:
A decision or order of a Commission is
not subject to review or to be restrained,
removed or set aside by certiorari, prohibition, mandamus or injunction or any
other process or proceedings in the
Exchequer Court on the ground that
(a) a question of law or fact was erroneously decided by the Commission or
that the Commission erred as to its
jurisdiction; or
(b) that the Commission had no jurisdiction to entertain the proceedings in
which the decision or order was made
or to make the decision or order.
Honourable senators, it would seem that
the provisions of subsection 3 make subsec-

June 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

tion 2, in fact, useless. I do not believe there
are any other grounds for the obtaining of a
writ than those excluded by subsection 3.
I understand that these two subsections are
dealt with in the bill that will be coming
before us to constitute the new Federal Court,
and that they are therein specifically dealt
with and repealed all in conformity with
today's new philosophy, as that is reflected in
that act itself, by the report on statutory
instruments made by the special Commons
committee and by the Law Reform Commission
bill. I merely mention those subsections to
forestall any remarks by my honourable colleagues opposite which may bear upon my
legal competence in this area.
Honourable senators, in conclusion I should
like to say that this bill is an essential piece
of legislation today. We are entering the commercial nuclear age, and without such law we
will be in a very bad way. I might add that
other countries, such as Great Britain and the
United States, have comparable legislation
that wisely anticipates the problems that
would arise in the unlikely event of a nuclear
accident.
I commend this bill to your favourable
consideration.
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable senators, on behalf of Senator Haig, I move that
this debate be adjourned until later this day.
Motion agreed to.
NATIONAL ENERGY BOARD ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND

READING

Hon. Hédard Robichaud, moved the second
reading of Bill C-190, to amend the National
Energy Board Act.
He said: Honourable senators, the bill now
before this bouse for second reading contains
a number of necessary and desirable amendments to the National Energy Board Act. I do
not believe the bill to be a contentious one. It
has been reviewed and well received by the
industry under the board's jurisdiction and
other related associations.
The National Energy Board Act was passed
in 1959 and has not been amended since 1963,
except for matters consequential to the enactment of other legislation by Parliament.
The amendments contained in Bill C-190
reflect changing circumstances, and the
experience of the National Energy Board in
discharging its important responsibilities
since the last amendments in 1963. I think it

would be of assistance to honourable senators
if, before reviewing the more important
amendments proposed, I reminded them very
briefly of what the board does.
The National Energy Board is responsible
for adjudicating upon applications for
licences to export and import natural gas,
applications
to import motor gasoline,
applications to construct and operate interprovincial and international pipelines for the
transportation of oil and its products and of
natural gas, and applications for licences to
export electrical power and the attendant
construction and operation of the international power lines required to transmit such
power.
The National Energy Board also bears the
responsibility for regulating the rates, tolls
and tariffs of pipe lines under its jurisdiction,
a field into which it is just now entering and
which will require a great deal of careful
attention in coming years.
The Board, in addition to its regulatory
responsibilities, bas an advisory role, an
example of which is its implementation of the
national oil policy. It is required to study and
keep under review all energy matters within
the federal jurisdiction, and to report to and
recommend to the minister measures that it
considers necessary or advisable in the public
interest for the control, supervision, conservation, use, marketing and development of
energy and sources of energy.
I now direct the attention of honourable
senators to the substantive amendments proposed by the bill, the first of which relates to
international power lines.
Both Canadian and United States power
utilities are now placing increasing reliance
upon transmission interconnections with other
utilities to achieve additional security of
supply, economy of operation and earnings
from surplus energy. The high voltage interconnections existing between power systems
on each side of the boundary between Canada
and the United States are seldom used only
for a one-way flow of power, whether import
or export, but rather are used for both as the
occasion warrants. Under the present National Energy Board Act, a Canadian electrical
utility intending to construct an international
power line for the purpose of exporting electrical power must first obtain from the
National Energy Board a certificate of public
convenience and necessity. However, no such
authority is required where the facilities are
to be constructed with the initial intention of
importing power.

1330

SENATE DEBATES

Because of the importance of international
power line interconnections which may be
used for the dual purpose of both export and
import of power, the Government believes it
would be in the public interest to provide the
board with jurisdiction over international
power lines constructed and operated for the
purpose of importing power into Canada on a
basis comparable to that jurisdiction it now
possesses over export power lines. Thus the
effect of the amendment would be to require
that power lines to be used for importing
power, as well as those to be used for exporting power, could be constructed and operated
only under the authority of a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued by
the board.
Turning to another area, under the National Energy Board Act as it now stands, the
importation into Canada of liquefied natural
gas by means other than through a pipe line
does not require the issuance of a licence by
the National Energy Board. Plans for the
importation of liquefied natural gas into eastern Canada by tanker or other non-pipe line
methods are being developed. It would seem
to be as undesirable to allow an area or community to become dependent upon tankerborne liquefied natural gas as it would be to
allow the same community to become dependent upon this product moved internationally
or interprovincially by pipe line, unless it
has been demonstrated that such service was
reliable, economic and consistent with the
public interest. Thus it is proposed in this bill
that the licensing authority of the National
Energy Board be extended to include the
importation of gas, including liquefied natural
gas, by railway tank car, tank truck or by
tanker, as well as by pipe line.
Honourable senators, it has been brought to
the attention of the board in public hearings
and through representations made in Parliament and to ministers of the Crown that dissatisfaction exists among farmers because of
the interference with and impairment of both
municipal and private farm drainage systems
which may be created by the construction of
pipe lines. This, of course, is particularly so
in those areas where the installation of tile or
other types of drainage is necessary to carry
out efficient agricultural operations.
With respect to new pipe line construction,
the board applies the concept that gravity
land drainage systems should take precedence
over pressure pipe lines. To ensure that the
same concept may be applied to existing pipe
lines, Bill C-190 authorizes the board, where
[Hon. Mr. Robichaud.]

June 23, 1970

it finds that such pipe lines interfere with or
otherwise impair the proper operation of
public or private drainage systems, either
existing or proposed, to require a pipe line
company upon such terms and conditions as
the board considers proper, including the specific power to direct by whom the costs
should be paid, to divert, relocate or otherwise reconstruct the appropriate portions of
the pipe line so as to remove the interference
or to otherwise facilitate the reconstruction or
relocation of drainage systems.
A further amendment, which is somewhat
related to the amendment I have just
described, would empower the board to
impose requirements respecting the preservation and restoration of land through which a
pipe line is being constructed.
In the years since 1959, the year the board
was established, its workload has increased
substantially. For example in October 1969
the board found it advisable and in the public
interest to implement its authority over the
regulation of the rates, tols and tariffs of
certain oil and gas pipe lines not previously
subject to the board's jurisdiction. A major
rate application by Trans Canada Pipelines
Limited has already been filed. Thus, because
of the substantial increase in the board's
activities and its responsibilities arising out of
both its regulatory and advisory functions,
and indeed in recognition of the increased
responsibilities which would be placed upon
the board by the amendments set forth in Bill
C-190, the Government is of the opinion that
membership of the National Energy Board
should be increased from five to seven with
provision for the appointment of an associate
vice-chairman
from
among the board
members.
The increase in membership would enable
the board to conduct two public hearings
upon applications at the same time which it is
not able to do at present and, moreover, to
reach decisions upon such applications in
shorter time than has been possible under
existing circumstances.
I should also remind honourable senators of
the energy advisory function the board is
called upon to perform, which requires an
increasing proportion of the board's time.
This is particularly so against the background
of the existing concern respecting energy
matters between Canada and the United
States.
For all these reasons the increase in the
board's membership appears to be most desirable and necessary.

June 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

I am a little confused, because I am of the
opinion that electrical energy can only be
carried by lines of cable. What is meant by
"other conductor power produced in Canada"? We are not discussing microwaves. This
is electrical energy, and as far as I know the
only possible means of transmitting it is by
wires or cables. Perhaps someone will answer
this at a later date.
Honourable senators, we have another bill,
to which Senator Lang spoke, respecting civil
liability for nuclear damage. This bill also
relates to electrical energy and I wish to
speak on the possibility of nuclear power in
the future.
It has always been my intention, as it was
when I was in the New Brunswick Power
Commission, that the Maritime provinces
should take advantage of the expansion and
growth of nuclear power by having a nuclear
power plant in Moncton, New Brunswick, to
serve the Maritime provinces. That was 15
years ago and, as many people had no confidence in the introduction of nuclear electricity, I did not get very far. I still believe that
the plan has much merit and will be effected
some day. New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and
Prince Edward Island have a shortage of
power, although at the moment the development of the Saint John River has remedied
Hon. Edgar Fournier: Honourable senators, the situation. However, the remedy will not
I am very pleased to say for once that I agree last very long. A source of atomic power in
entirely with my colleague, Senator Robi- the centre of the Maritime provinces to give
chaud. There is one question I would like to continuous power around the clock will
ask with respect to this bill. However, before relieve this situation.
I do so, I wish to say that it will remove
I do not think it will be entirely out of
many obstacles and eliminate many costs order if I discuss uranium briefly, because
involving importers and exporters. In this case uranium is the basic of nuclear fission. I wish
both importers and exporters may be the to say, honourable senators, that it is always
a pleasure to speak of a subject about which I
same.
know nothing, as I can implore the indulgence
I remember the difficulties encountered of the Senate, who may with justification say,
years ago by the New Brunswick Power Com- "Let him carry on, he does not know what he
mission when trying to obtain a permit from is talking about." To me in this situation that
Ottawa to export a surplus of power and to is quite a consolation.
import power from the United States needed
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restifor our people. This bill will eliminate those
Thank you, sir. I wish to discuss
problems and I am sure will be well received gouche):
uranium from a layman's point of view.
by all.
Clause 1 reads:
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigou(1) Paragraphs (d) and (e) of section 2 of che): Thank you, sir. I wish to discuss uranithe National Energy Board Act are repealed um from a layman's point of view.
and the following substituted therefor:
When I went to school we were not
"(d) 'export' means
acquainted with molecules and accepted them
(i) with reference to power, to send as the smallest particles obtainable, containfrom Canada by a line of wire or other ing thousands of atoms. At that time it was
conductor power produced in Canada, known that the secret of the success of
nuclear power would be the splitting of the
and. ..

One final amendment of a procedural
nature consists of a proposal to the effect that
where a board member hearing an application dies or becomes otherwise incapacitated
during a hearing or prior to the reaching of a
final judgment, the board, in the circumstances set forth in the amendment, will have
the authority to render a decision without a
rehearing of the whole matter.
In conclusion, while there are a number of
other amendments included in Bill C-190,
none of which are unimportant, I have, I
believe, explained to you the more important
proposals. They have all been discussed with
knowledgeable segments of the industry, such
as the members of the legislative committee
of the Canadian Petroleun Association and
executives of both the Canadian and Ontario
Federations of Agriculture.
If there are any questions that I can answer
I shall be happy to do so. Should honourable
senators express the desirability of sending
this bill to a standing committee of the
Senate I will, after second reading, move that
it be referred to the Standing Senate Committee on Transport and Communications.
Honourable senators, I commend this bill
for your approval.

1332

SENATE DEBATES

atom, but then it was almost impossible.
Today it is possible. The atom is also invisible. For the last six months it bas been possible, through an electronic miscroscope with a
magnifying capacity of 760,000 times, to see
an atom, to see its action, and to see it in
motion. If atoms were spread out one by one
in a straight line, one million atoms one after
the other, they would cover a quarter of an
inch. So, it can be appreciated that they are
very small.
The system cannot be destroyed. One can
merely rearrange its composition. Today there
are 280 species of atoms known, comprising
80 different physical elements.
The basis of all this is, naturally, uranium.
Uranium is a mineral the heaviest in the
world, being 10 per cent heavier than lead.
For example, a piece five inches long, two
inches wide and one inch thick weighs 101
pounds. It is widely scattered over the earth,
but not usually found in large and pure concentrations. A one square inch block of uranium can produce the equivalent in energy of
1,500 tons of coal.
Uranium bas been known to the world for
over 125 years, yet its history goes back to
420 B.C., when the Greeks discovered that the
only existing things were atoms and empty
space; all else was mere opinion. The Greeks
also discovered that atoms were in ceaseless
motion, infinitely numerous and indestructible. Unused atoms were strictly materialistic.
In 1789 a Cerman chemist by the name of
Klaproth found that uranium had a strikingly
different chemical prospectus from those of
any other element then known to men. This
strange substance remained unknown to
scientists until 1896, when a French scientist,
Henri Bequerel, made startling discoveries
about uranium when he was investigating the
ability of some substance to glow in the dark
after being exposed to light. The investigation
revealed an almost incredible power of giving
energy spontaneously without previously
having been exposed to light. From there on
it was almost a half a century, up until 1930,
before any news was revealed about this
mineral.
Perhaps it was not until 1939 that nuclear
fission attracted the attention of the world.
However, again one may go back to 1895,
when a scientist by the name of Röntgen
discovered the X-ray. In those days there
were two discoveries of an entirely different
practical nature. One was the X-ray as an
assistance to surgery, and the second was the
great possibilities of a large amount of
[Hon. Mr. Fournier.]

June 23, 1970

energy, possibly in the form of an explosive
nature, by scientists Hahn and Strassman. It
is said that the latter was more of an accidental nature, and no one seems to be sure
whether it was the work of Providence or a
perversion by the devil.
As the science and technique of nuclear
fission progressed, many scientists made history. For instance, Rutherford, Bohr, Frish
and Meitner were trying to define an atom to
a group of laymen and they called it a great
empty space. On one occasion a scientist gave
an example of an atom, which to me is the
best explanation that can be understood by a
layman. He used a bicycle wheel as the
proton and neutron, the rim being the proton
and the spokes the neutron. By spinning the
wheel as fast as possible, the atom could split
at a very specific point to remove the spokes
of the spinning wheel, one by one. This is
exactly what we do when we split the atom.
This is done by electricity. It was accepted
that the splitting of the atom would take
place in the near future.
Protons and neutrons were known to exist,
and great energy was caused by the repulsion
of their positive charges, also emitting a few
neutrons, which in turn may produce fission
or more neutrons, causing successive generation, and so on, called the chain reaction. This
was all known, but many mysteries were
unsolved. It was an Italian by the name of
Fermi who received the Nobel Prize for
arriving at a certain control of the fission by
using U-235 and U-238, a product of uranium.
From that time many books were written
and much water ran under the bridge. Many
problems were solved, such as slowing down
of the neutrons and the disposal of radioactive fragments known as the ashes of the
nuclear fission process, the handling of radioactive material. This is what is taking place
at the Chalk River Research Centre.
In 1940, during the Second World War, all
efforts were directed towards explosive reaction, and a committee was established
(MAUD) for that purpose. University and
institutional research centres were created,
including Chalk River, to develop ways and
means of producing and handling atomic
energy, not solely for explosive power, but
for its use in peacetime for general utilities.
Many scientists and countries had different
ways and means of producing energy by
nuclear fission.
Our Canadian plant in Canada, known as
Chalk River, investigated the possibilities of
using heavy water as a moderator and cooling

June 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

from the words Canadian Deuterium
agent. It proved many advantages, such as the CANDU,
a capacity of 200,000
construction of steamless steel heat exchang- Uranium, and has
500°F., the manufacturing kilowatts.
ers for operation at
Chalk River has five experimental reactors
of leak-tight pressure pumps for heavy water,
pressure vessels which must be leak-tight at called the ZEEP-NRX-PTR-ZED-Z. In 1947 a
of 42,000
2,000 pounds per square inch, and the dispos- reactor, the NRX, with a capacity 1957 the
al of radioactive residue, not overlooking the kilowatts went into action, and in
NRU, a 200,000 kilowatt reactor, was added to
shield.
and Chalk the family of reactors. I had the opportunity
This process bas continued,
occasions to visit this estabRiver bas never changed its process, although on two different
pretty well everything. It
throughout the world many nations have lishment and to see to see how these reacAtomic Energy of was most interesting
changed their processes.
first cne built is still in
Canada remain with the heavy water process, tors operate. The years and is still boiling
although there are some disadvantages. operation after 20
day and night and turning
Heavy water is what laymen would call non- water, operating quantities of power. They
to about out tremendous
boiling water; it can be heated
the first method of refuelling
700°F. and it will not boil. It looks harmless, have changed
rods to short rods, to
is so hot that if you put your finger the reactor from long
but it
left. A stick put make it much more efficient.
into it there will be nothing
In the meantime, research experiment with
into it will catch fire. It can be heated to
of
700°F. but does not compare to a high pres- radioactive isotopes, which are a product
dry steam at 1,400 pounds uranium, in medicine and agriculture has
sure boiler using
six
per square inch up to 1,000°F. These figures been carried out. The division produces and
are two years old, and are subject to different models of cobalt therapy units,
today over 300 of these cancer treatment
correction.
units have been installed in clinics and hospiIn Canada there are three nuclear power tals in 40 countries. The AECL has worked in
Point. Pickering,
plants. One is at Douglas
close liaison with the United Kingdom Atomic
which was mentioned a while ago, is the larg- Energy Authority, the O.S.A., Germany,
est one in the world, now having four units Switzerland, Japan, Australia, Pakistan,
capable of producing two million kilowatts of France, Sweden and other smaller countries.
power. There are three under construction
A reactor school bas been established at
now. They are still in the research stage. The Chalk River for both Canadian and foreign
United States has 19, the United Kingdom 11, scientists, involving 24-week courses. The
is now
Belgium one, France two, West Germany two, number of employees at Chalk River made
two, in the region of 4,000, this figure being
Sweden one, the U.S.S.R. five and Japan
1,238 technicians, 997 administrators,
for a total of 46 power plants with a total up of
1,400 hourly-paid labourers, and 971 profescapacity of 6,972,000 kilowatts.
sionals and experts in these lines.
We have in Canada a Government-owned
The price of electricity coming from
Crown corporation known as the Atomic nuclear power is now competitive with that
Energy of Canada Limited. The Company bas from conventional power plants. Energy proits head office in Ottawa, with the Nuclear duction is continuous, and, as I said a while
Power Plant Division in Toronto and the ago, there are now 46 plants in full operation
Atomic Research and Development Centre at around the world.
Today we have a surplus of uranium in raw
Chalk River, Ontario, and a research centre
at Whiteshell, Manitoba, sixty miles north- material form and we have the institutions to
a fission state.
east of Winnipeg. AECL bas two nuclear pro- transform the uranium into
programs are overloaded with their
jects of the prototype nuclear power demon- Defence
both in Canada and the United
stration station called NPD. They are both requirement
States, and, indeed, all over the world.
fuelled with natural uranium moderated and
It is my hope to see some day a national
cooled by heavy water and have an electrical
extending from coast to
of 20,000 kilowatts. The first one is on power grid system
output
Chalk River, coast, a combined project of hydro power,
the Ottawa River, 16 miles from
and nuclear power, using the
and the second one is at Douglas Point on the thermal power
half-way water hydraulic resources of B.C. and
eastern shore of Lake Huron,
coal of the Maritimes and the
between Port Elgin and Kincardine. This is Quebec, the
called the Prairies, and the nuclear fission of central
one of the NPD design and is

SENATE DEBATES
Canada, which would give us the world's
largest and most effective electric power grid.
But, honourable senators, we must always
keep in mind that to be effective, all three
systems are needed and must operate jointly.
Honourable senators, I think this is a
straightforward bill, and as far as I am concerned, and I am sure I speak for my party, I
see no necessity to send this bill to a
committee.
Hon. Mr.
speech.

Martin:

Hon.
Hédard
senators-

D'accord. Very

Robichaud:

good

Honourable

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, I must inform all honourable senators that if honourable Senator Robichaud
speaks now, it will have the effect of closing
the debate.
Hon. Mr. Robichaud: Honourable senators,
all I intend to do is assure Senator Fournier
(Madawaska-Restigouche) that I shall undertake to provide him with a description of a
conductor other than wire which might be
used to transmit power.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigouche): Thank you.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, when shall this bill be read the third
time?
Hon. Mr. Robichaud moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting.
Motion agreed to.
BILLS OF EXCHANGE ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING

Hon. David A. Croll moved the second
reading of Bill C-208, to amend the Bills of
Exchange Act.
He said: Honourable senators, this is a
bread and butter bill. It will be understood
and approved in every home in Canada
where goods are bought on time and where
there is difficulty in paying on time. The bill
seeks to amend the Bills of Exchange Act and
is intended to remedy a difficulty in the existing law which has created serious injustice
for many consumers.
Merchants who deal with promissory notes
and similar negotiable instruments are completely aware of their significance. Those in
[Hon. Mr. Fournier.]

June 23, 1970

the commercial world are conscious of the
obligations they assume when they sign a
promissory note. But the same cannot be said
of the great bulk of consumers who are often
not fully aware of the legal obligations they
are assuming when they sign a promissory
note which is collateral to a conditional sales
agreement.
It is standard practice of vendors to assign
such promissory notes to third parties, usually
finance companies or banks, in order that
they may be able to finance their business. If
the assignee of the note qualifies as a holder,
in due course for value he is legally entitled
to collect the note without regard to any
defects that might arise between the buyer
and the seller. Performance of the sales contract may be unsatisfactory for many different reasons, the most flagrant one of which is
non-delivery; in other cases the goods may
have been misrepresented or defective, and
sometimes the vendor becomes bankrupt and
fails to fulfill his part of the contract. Sometimes the sales contract calls for service of
the articles which the vendor does not
perform.
From the files of the Consumer Affairs
Department I have plucked four examples for
you which I will read. There are hundreds of
similar ones in the files.
1. Mr. and Mrs. D bought a freezer for
$777, part of the deal being that they
would be able to buy frozen food at
wholesale prices. After paying $280 of the
total they wanted to call the arrangement
off, the food being unsatisfactory. They
found the promissory note had been sold
to a finance company. Their lawyer
observed the rate of interest was in
excess of 20 per cent but they were
obhiged to pay.
2. Mr. and Mrs. B. bought a colour TV
set on a time payment plan which included a promissory note. The set does not
work. The seller has gone bankrupt but
the owners are required to pay a finance
company $1,300 for the useless set.
3. Mr. C. bought $4,500 worth of building supplies which were never delivered.
The company went out of business, after
assigning the promissory note and contract to a finance firm which sued and
was given a judgrnent of $4,500 against
the consumer.
4. Mr. E. bought a vacuum cleaner
which proved unsatisfactory. He was
sued successfully by a finance company

June 23, 1970

DEBATES
June23, 970SENATE

which obtained a garnishee order against
him. He lost lis job because his employer
did not like garnishments.
As I have indicated to you in these exampies, the purchaser does not escape lis obligation to pay the finance company or other
third party which is holding the note. In due
course, the holder is by law insulated from
any defects in the performance of the contract and can enforce payments through the
courts, and does.
Most consumers do not understand the
process of assigning promissory notes. Some
believe they can force a vendor to performi
properly on a contract by withholding their
periodic payments. It is a fact that unscrupulous and fly-by-night; operators have taken
advantage of the "hoider i due course" doctrine. That is not to say that credit is wrong,
nor that those engaged ini the industry are
dishonest.
Everyone knows the tremendous growth i
the use of consumer credit since World War
II. So large is this growth that we have begun
caiiing ourselves a credit society and are talking of the day of a cashless society. Whether
or not this cornes about, there are important
elements in this growth which deeply refiect
11f e in our society today. Obviously underlying this growth is an increase in the magnitude of consumer spending which, ti turn, is
a measure of the growth i the economy as a
whoie.
Consumer credit growth is first of al
revealed by the increases ti dollar volume.
Between 1948 and 1967 there was an almost
tenfold increase in the balance outstanding
on ail forms of consumer credit. It went from
something less than $1 billion ta something
well over $8 billion.
It was not too long ago that the only business firms of any size involved in lending
were banks, and they did not deal heavily ti
consumer or personal boans, other than on a
fully-secured basis. What credit the consumer
received was largely limited to that which he
could obtain fromn a seller or, perhaps, the
occasional boan from a very small lender.
Now the field is represented by large firms
that are organized in complex ways, wit
representatives across the nation. They operate in every sphere of consumer sales, from
durable goods to the most mundane and
every day services.
At the samne time as the facilities for purchasing on credit have grown, the pressure on
the consumer to buy has vastly increased.

Today millions of dollars go into advertising
and sales promotion. Beyond this, the consumer faces a proliferation of goods and service that are enticing to buy. One might say
that buying now and paying later is ti the
national interest, for our economics today are
said to depend upon a constant rise in the
Gross National Product, from which. the consumer can expect an ever larger share as bis
personal income.
Ail i ail, the consumer faces a highlyorganized and well-tooled sales and credit
industry that cornes into operation even in
the case of such minor purchases as a night
out for dinner-if that is still a minor
purchase.
The use of credit allows many of us to own
things which otherwise we could not possess,
and thus to live better than otherwise would
be possible. Too glib and persuasive salesmen,
operating from door to door, can and do take
advantage of the unsophisticated and gullibie
consumer. Once the consumer signs the note
and it is sold to a third party, hie cannot
escape.
This problem has been studied frequently.
One of the earliest studies was made in Nova
Scotia when Arthur R. Moreira headed a
royal commission to study titis problem and
made an excellent report.
There was a select committee ini the
-Ontario Legisiature that made a study of consumer credit, and in their final report they
said:
Cases were brought to the committee's
attention where the seller in an instalment sales transaction misrepresented to
the purchaser, ti some cases dishonestly
and fraudulently, the ternis of the contract. Yet the purchaser was compelled to
pay the whole debt because the discounter of the promissory note (the finance
company) which. formed part of the contract was a holder in due course with no
knowledge, or provable knowledge, of the
representations made.
We in this Senate chamber have had something to do with this problem. As a matter of
fact, we were the originators of a study
having to do with consumer credit. There was
a report tabled in the Senate when we had a
joint committee on consumer credit. I will
read fromn page il of that report.
Because of the situation peculiar to the
sale of goods, which. is olten further coinpiicated by re-sale of the agreement to
pay for them, the bargaining position of

1336

SENATE DEBATES

the consumer is, generally speaking,
extremely weak. He commonly undertakes a water-tight obligation to make
payments to an impersonal company
which accepts no responsibility to him.
The finance company claims to be neither
merchant nor money-lender and abdicates all responsibility for the transaction
with the consumer. This is hardly cricket
when, as a rule, conditional sale agreements contain clauses which are unfair to
the consumer. Examples of those in
common use are clauses:
1. excluding all warranties
and
conditions;
2. permitting the seller to assign the
agreement to a third person who takes
free of all defences that might be urged
against the seller;

3. including a promissory note which
can be endorsed to a third person, giving
him the status of a holder in due course.
Conditions of this kind should not be
permitted, whether or not the consumer
is presumed to be able to take care of
himself in the market place.
Many people of modest means have
little or no understanding of business,
and they are the ones who are in special
need of protection. For them, the temptation of being able to obtain rather easily
what is desired now, with a promise to
pay later, can be too great, especially if,
as is so often the case, they do not understand their commitment. Their need for
education in consumer credit is urgent.
As in other areas, it takes time for official
policies to adapt to social changes, but in
our judgment the time bas come to take
account of the virtual revolution in methods of paying for consumer goods that
has taken place since the end of World
War II.
This report of the Special Joint Committee
on Consumer Credit is one of the real contributions that has been made by the Senate in
recent years. Honourable senators will recall
that I chaired that committee, with the
Honourable Ron Basford, who is now the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. The
whole report was endorsed by the Consumers'
Association of Canada, and by the Canadian
Consumers' Council.
In a welcome way there has been a growth
in the efforts of governments to regulate the
mass consumer selling industry so as to keep
the interests of the individual consumer in
mind. More legislation on consumer credit has
[Hon. Mr. Croll.]

June 23, 1970

been adopted in the past four or five years in
this country than in the preceding fifty years.
This has stemmed from the growth of consumer credit itself, the recurring and rising
complaints about certain types of lending
abuses, and the concern first expressed by
social workers, but now by the low income
people themselves, over the plight of overcommitted debtors.
Certainly the Special Joint Committee of
the Senate and the House of Commons on
Consumer Credit has done much to spawn
new legislation in the consumer field. It dealt
with many concerns that faced the public,
and were being raised by various politicians
and experts. It will be remembered that in
the House of Commons, before the committee
was established, there were ten or twelve
bills proposed by all parties dealing with this
particular problem. The committee's report
helped to create the new Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs, and aided the
cause for truth in lending.
Other pieces of legislation that were recommended by the report are also now being put
before Parliament and the provincial legislatures. The Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs, the Honourable Ron Basford,
with whom I had the pleasure of working as
co-chairman of the Special Joint Committee
on Consumer Credit, bas become one of the
leaders in the field of consumer protection.
His department, in my view, is one of the
most important in the Government at the
present time. Mr. Basford is building for himself a great reputation as a defender of consumers.
It is indeed with considerable pleasure that
I introduce in this house today these amendments to the Bills of Exchange Act. They
were recommended in the committee's report,
and are an important element within the
overall framework of consumer protection
and credit regulation.
The present act is not a complete answer to
faulty performance of time payment contracts. It needs to be supplemented by
remedial action by the provincial governments. Regulations with respect to such contracts are clearly within provincial jurisdiction, and co-operative action by provincial
governments is essential to our having the
effect we desire. There can be no question but
that the provinces will take the necessary
action. As a matter of fact, they have been
pressing for it for some time.
This bill remedies a defect in the law that
has created an injustice to the consumer, and
has made the courts a party to this injustice

June 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

because their hands are tied by the provisions
of the present Bills of Exchange Act. At present, when a consumer purchases goods or
services on credit, he is frequently required
to sign a promissory note. The seller or
vendor then sells that note, at a discount
price, to a finance company.
If a consumer buys an article on credit by
signing a promissory note and giving it to the
dealer, then the dealer in turn sells that note
to a finance company; if the consumer never
receives the goods he has ordered and decides
not to pay on his iote, the finance company,
under the present law, can sue the consumer
for non-payment. If the matter goes to court
it will be decided in favour of the finance
company, and the court will order the consumer to pay regardless of whether he has
the goods. The consumer is left to negotiate
with, or litigate against, the dealer on his
own.
The proposed amendments change this by
simply requiring that the equities or defences
that the consumer has against the dealer will
follow the promissory note. The purchaser of
the note will be, in effect, in the same position as the original seller of the article.
The provisions of this amendment are
simple. First, it requires any consumer bill to
be marked as a consumer purchase. The
second and chief feature of the amendment is
that the holder of the bill is subject to any
defence that the purchaser would have had in
an action by the seller. In short, the equities
in the original transaction between the seller
and the purchaser travel with the note, and
the third party holder-for example, a sales
finance company-will no longer be able to
claim the special status it has had hitherto.
Many innovations have been introduced in
respect of the selling of consumer goods, and
yet the laws and legal concepts have not kept
pace. This bill corrects a gross oversight. The
Federated Council of Sales Finance Companies has observed that the proposed amendments would affect less than 6 per cent of the
total consumer market, and thus would have
extremely limited impact. This is really
beside the point. The point is that promissory
notes are still used for consumer credit. For
this reason, consumers using this means of
obtaining credit should have the same protection and equity that they would have if their
purchases were paid for by cash. It does not
matter how small the number of consumers
so affected is. The protection that is rightfully
theirs should be available to them through
the legislation that governs consumer pur-

1337

chases. We are now modernizing the law,
making it fairer and more simple. It may be a
death blow to some crooked and irresponsible
merchants, but that is as it should be. I ask
the house to support this bill.
Hon. Fred M. Blois: Honourable senators, I
had intended to speak at some length on this
bill, but the explanation given by Senator
Croll was so thorough that there is not much
left for anyone to say. I know of no one better
able to speak on this legislation than Senator
Croll, because as has been stated he was cochairman of the Special Committee of the
Senate and House of Commons on Consumer
Credit. I am sure that every member of the
Opposition in the Senate, as well as those on
the Government side, supports this bill
wholeheartedly.
There are two items upon which I might
enlarge, but not to the extent I had originally
planned. Senator Croll mentioned the very
important point that this bill will have no
effect until the provinces pass supporting
legislation.
Unfortunately some, if not most, provincial
legislatures will not be in session until next
year. However, even though it is a little late,
this bill will do much good in the near future.
I am very proud of the fact, as was mentioned by Senator Croll, that the first province to take any action in connection with
consumer credit and consumer affairs was my
native Province of Nova Scotia. It appointed a
royal commission to study consumer credit and
consumer affairs, which reported to the legislature on February 22, 1965. Certain action
was proclaimed during that session of the
legislature. It is to be hoped that it will be followed by changes in all provinces so that we
can have a much better law protecting people
who need credit. I know there are some who
say that credit is too easy. It may be easy, but
on the other hand if it were not for credit
many people in moderate circumstances
would not be able to derive the enjoyment
from life to which they are entitled. In addition, if they were not able to borrow money
to make their purchases, various manufacturing industries would have to slow down, putting a number of people out of work.
All in all, this bill not only protects the
consumer, but creates much employment for
our work force.
There are several points in the bill that are
rather outstanding. One which I think will
have considerable bearing is that all notes or
bills of exchange are to be marked across the

1338

SENATE DEBATES

face in order that the signatories will know
exactly what they are doing. A person purchasing credit notes will have to share the
responsibility with the dealer who sold the
goods.
Some examples were given by Senator
Croll, and I think many of us know or have
heard of incidents in our own localities where
people have been badly gypped by unscrupulous dealers and dishonest finance groups.
However, we are thankful that the proportion
of people who are dishonest in this or in any
other way is very small. We are proud of the
type of people we have in Canada, but it is
the old story of one rotten apple spoiling the
whole barrel, and unfortunately this is true
with respect to consumer financing.
Generally speaking, under this bill consumers will have more protection. I am only a
little disappointed that the bill does not provide for stipulating the amount of interest to
be charged on notes. I realize that this has
been covered elsewhere and perhaps there is
no need for it here. Recently I talked with
some people who have made use of credit all
their lives, and they informed me that today
they are paying very high interest rates, running between 12 and 18 per cent. Many think
this is much too high.
While making inquiries during the last few
weeks I was informed by one large car dealer
that il was the exception, perhaps not once a
year, when he sold a car for cash. This points
up the need for the credit system we have, so
that people can take advantage of these
terms.
I was rather amazed when speaking to a
couple recently who have raised their family
and are financially well off. Even today they
will not pay cash for anything they buy. They
have savings in the bank but rather than use
it they buy on lime and pay high rates of
interest. We cannot change this sort of thing,
because it is up to the individual how he pays
for his goods and services, but we can ensure
that they are protected, which I think will be
done under this bill.
Honourable senators, I have much pleasure
in endorsing this bill in every way, and I
trust that every member of this chamber will
do likewise.
Hon. George S. White: Honourable senators, I wish to make only a few brief remarks
in support of this bill, which has been so well
explained by Senator Croll. I am sure it will
have the support of all senators. It will certainly be of valuable assistance to Canadian
[Hon. Mr. Blois.]

June 23, 1970

citizens who buy on credit. In particular it
will be of special importance to Canadians
who reside in the country and are subject to
continual pressure by vendors who go from
door to door.
As a country lawyer over the years, I have
had many cases brought to my attention.
Husband and wife have come to my office and
shown me a contract and copies of promissory
notes they had signed to buy various articles
such as kitchen utensils, dishes, furniture,
building materials, knitting machines, silverware, and so on. When I explained these
papers to them, for the first time they realized that in some cases they had signed for an
amount much larger than they had understood they were paying, with a very high rate
of interest. They had already been notified
that the contract and the notes had been
turned over to a finance company, but did not
understand the legal implications.
So often it has turned out, as explained by
Senator Croll, that the finance company, as a
holder in due course has sued the purchaser,
and the court has been obliged to give judgment for the full amount of principal, including a very high rate of interest. In many cases
the goods were defective and in others not
delivered. The purchaser often did not receive
the services which were promised by the
vendor.
I do not think this includes all finance companies, but one of the unfortunate aspects of
this is that some of them make a threat that
if the purchaser does not pay they will issue
a garnishee. As all lawyers know, many companies do not look with favour on any
employee who is subject to and receives a
garnishee. In many cases, if the vendor is
sued it is found that he has disappeared or
gone bankrupt.
The sponsor of this bill (Honourable Mr.
Croil) did not mention that the purchaser
should have the right to select the finance
company that would finance the deal. In so
many cases the purchaser must accept and
deal with the finance company recommended
and suggested by the vendor.
The penalties in this bill are substantial. It
says an offender shall be liable to a fine not
exceeding $5,000. I would suggest to Senator
Croll that he introduce an amendment to omit
the words "not exceeding," so that when
anyone is prosecuted the court would have no
option but to impose a fine of $5,000.
I appreciate the remarks by Senator Croll
concerning the need for co-operation by the
provinces. I notice from the record in the

June 23, 1970

DEBATES
June23, 970SENATE

In 1960 the saine thing happened when the
new regulations of that year, by order in
council, purported to have the Governor in
Council make the air regulations instead of
having the regulations made by the Minister
of Transport with the approval of the Governor in Council. In other words, instead of
ministerial regulations we ended up with
Governor in Council regulations. In a recent
prosecution for low flying in western Canada
court raised the question of the validity
The Han. the Speaker: Honourable senators thethese regulations made by the Governor in
of
read the third time?
when shall this bill be
Council instead of by the Minister of TransHon. Mr. Croil moved that the bll be port, with the resuit that the prosecution was
placed on the Orders of the Day for third dismissed.
reading at the next sitting.
At this point I should stress the fact that
the air regulations under section 4 of the
Motion agreed to.
Aeronautics Act provide for the registration
of aircraft, the certification of aircraft as to
air worthiness, the licensing of aerodromes,
AEBONAUTICS ACT
the licensing of air pilots and members of air
BiLL RESPECTING REGULATIONS-SECOND
crews, and also for the rules of the air.
READING-DEBATE ADJOURNED
In a nutshell, tis bill would provide for the
were made in 1954, and
the second air regulations that
Hon. Earl W. Urquhart moved
again in 1960, to be considered as having been
reading of Bill C-218, respecting regulations made, as they should have been, by the Minmade pursuant to section 4 of the Aeronautics ister of Transport and not by the Governor ini
Act.
Council. The passage of this bill is absolutely
He said: Honourable senators, the necessity necessary for the proper administration by
for tis legislation resuits from errors that the Department of Transport of our air reguwere made in certain orders in coundcil passed lations, and if the bill is not passed there is
in 1954 and in 1960 under the Aeronautics certain to he a breakdown in the whole set-up
of the Department of Transport, which is
Act.
Section 4 of the Aeronautics Act authorizes governed by these regulations.
It will be clearly seen that this bill bas
the Minister of Transport as follows:
times not
4.(l) Subject to the approval of the retroactive provisions, which is at
but
Governor in Council the Minister may completely palatable to parliamentarians,
to control. and regulate there is no other way to give legal signifimake regulations
cance and enforcement provisions to the air
air navigation over Canada.
regulations made in 1960.
It can readily be seen that this section of
Again let me say that unless the bul is
the act provides for ministerial regulations passed, everything that was done under the
which have to be approved by the Governor 1960 regulations, every certificate and every
in Council. Other statutes of Canada provide licence that was issued then, would not be
for regulations to be made by the Governor considered to be valid certificates or valid
the
in Council and not the minister of the depart- licences. Although this bill will validate not
i 1960, it will
or the minister who is new regulations made of Transport to review
ment concerned,
*enable the Department
administering the act. Other statutes make incidents that have happened prior to the
both ministerial. regulations and >passing of this bill, and will not make it
provision for
Governor in Council regulations, such as thE possible for the department to effect prosecuRadio Act and the Shipping Act.
tions which were unsuccessful prior to the
Coming back to section 4 of the Aeronau- *passage of this bill, nor will it affect proceedtics Act, certain regulations were made iii iings now before the courts.
1954, and the orders in coundil purported tc > That, honourable senators, is the bull. I do
have the Governor in Council make the aih not see any real purpose to refer this bill
Transregulations instead of having the regulationm to the Standing Senate Committee on
thx port and Communications, because the whole
made by the Minister of Transport with
question of "statutory instruments" is now
approval of the Governor in Coundil.

other place that the ndnister seemed very
hopeful that in the near future hie would have
this co-operation from the provinces.
I note that by section 3 tis bil will corne
into force by proclamation, and I hope that
time will be in the near future.
Honourable senators, I support the bill in
every way.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.

SENATE DEBATES
before the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Macdonald, for Hon.
Mr. Yuzyk, debate adjourned.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators,
may I take this opportunity to indicate that
the Leader of the Government now feels that
it is necessary for us to resume our sitting
this evening to deal with Bill C-212 to amend
the Yukon Act, the Northwest Territories Act
and the Territorial Lands Act. We will then
proceed with an item which was stood earlier
this day in the name of honourable Senator
Hayden in connection with an Act to amend
the Canadian Corporations Act.
May I therefore suggest that the Speaker do
now see the dlock standing at 6 o'clock which
will permit him, with agreement, to leave the
Chair until 8 o'clock this evening.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Is it agreed,
honourable senators, that the Senate do now
adjourn during pleasure to reassemble at the
call of the bell at approximately 8 o'clock this
evening?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.
At 8 p.m. the sitting was resumed.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Leave having been given to revert to Presentation of Petitions:
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Copies of a Report entitled "A Review
the Public Message Telegraph Service in
Canada", prepared by the Department of
Communications.
Copies of a letter, dated April 16, 1970,
from the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs to Mr. R. C. Meech, Q.C.,
of Toronto, concerning the creation of a
central depository for securities in
Canada, together with copies of the Minister's statement thereon to the House of
Commons.
[Hon. Mr. Urquhart.]

June 23, 1970

YUKON ACT, NORTHWEST TERRITORIES
ACT AND TERRITORIAL LANDS ACT
BILL TO AMEND-SECOND

READING

Hon. J. Harper Prowse moved the second
reading of Bill C-212, to amend the Yukon
Act, the Northwest Territories Act and the
Territorial Lands Act.
He said: Honourable senators, Bill C-212
has been slightly amended from its original
form, and I will make reference to those
amendments as I proceed. It covers two rather
important points. One has to do with the
Government of the Yukon and the Northwest
Territories, and makes provision for the
extension of self-government to their local
affairs. The second has to do with an amendment to the Territorial Lands Act, which
affords some continuing control over the environment, and this must be considered along
with the other bills we have recently considered with regard to the inland waters of the
Yukon and the Northwest Territories and
Arctic pollution.
With the development that is taking place,
there has been an increase in the population
of the Northwest Territories, but even with
this increase its population still represents a
small percentage of the country's total. For
example, the Northwest Territories accounts
for 40 per cent of the land area of Canada,
but bas a population of something less than 1
per cent of the total.
The population of the Yukon has roughly
doubled since 1951, and now totals 16,000. The
population of the Northwest Territories is
32,000, which again represents roughly a doubling of the population since 1951.
In the Yukon 16 per cent of the population,
or 2,500 persons-and that is all-are Indians.
This represents .07 per cent of Canada's total
population. The whites and others would constitute the balance of 13,500, and they tend to
be concentrated in the mining communities.
Since 1898, when the gold rush began in the
Yukon, government and the public service
have developed; and since 1908 in the Yukon
they have had an element of self-government.
In other words, they have elected their own
governmental representatives, but under a
commissioner appointed by Ottawa, and the
executive has been appointed and administered under directions from Ottawa.
The situation is different with regard to the
Northwest Territories because of the tremendous area covered. In the Yukon the concentration of population was in a few mining
communities, notably around Whitehorse and

June 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Dawson, spreading out from there with the
advent of trappers coming into trading communities; in the Northwest Territories, certainly up until 1936, the economy revolved
around trapping. Trappers, fur traders, and
the Hudson's Bay Company were there, but
that was the sum total of development. From
the west in the summer months there came
fishermen, who were mostly whalers. There
was that contact with the white man, and it
was mainly with the Eskimo population.
In the Northwest Territories there are
10,500 Eskimos and approximately 6,000
Indians. The Indians are concentrated along
the British Columbia and Alberta borders, and
the population of the North is largely Eskimo.
The confrontation between the white man
and the Eskimo was particularly disastrous
for the Eskimo. For example, in the winter of
1912-13 a Norwegian whaler was caught in
the ice and had to spend the winter at what
is now known as Coppermine, where there
was a small community of about 120 Eskimos.
By the spring the Eskimos were al dead. The
Eskimos are a very hospitable people. I think
everybody knows the extent of their hospitality without my explaining it. Those Eskimos
died because they had no resistance whatever
to syphilis which they got from the men of
the ship. That disease went through the whole
community and destroyed it.
We do not have quite the same responsibility today, but as we go into the North we
certainly do have a responsibility to our
native people. The things that have been happening on this continent and on other continents where the white man has taken his
civilization or his greed-and perhaps the two
terms are synonymous-have been disastrous
for the native peoples. The Government today
realizes and recognizes its responsibility, not
just to permit the development of the
resources of the Northwest Territories but
primarily to protect and to help in every way
possible the people who are indigenous to the
area, namely, the Eskimo and Indian.
In many instances the Indian does not
suffer' today from the adverse things that
happened in earlier days when the white
man, driven by greed, entered a new area. It
is our hope that we can move into the area
slowly, and extend the right of self-government in a way that wil not result in the
native people being completely subordinated to
the more sophisticated whites, but will develop self-government and assist the natives so
that they will be able to take their ful part

and become equal and self-respecting partners of the rest of us in this country of
Canada.
So we will have combined two things: first,
the gradual extension of the right of self-government, which is covered by the amendments to the Yukon Act and the Northwest
Territories Act; second, the protection of the
environment, which is included in the very
short but important amendment to the Territorial Lands Act.
To break these down into their component
parts, it is proposed that while we have had
since 1908 the elected council in the Yukon,
they have been purely legislative and did not
have until 1960 the right to establish an advisory council on financial affairs. They have
not had any real control over their finances
or their local government affairs, other than
in an advisory capacity. The advisory council
on financial aff airs has been established there.
We are waiting to see how it works, because
this is intended to give their elected representatives experience in dealing with financial
aff airs.
The Northwest Territories have had a
partly elected and partly appointed council
since 1956. The dates are unimportant and
can be checked. I do not think you wish me to
take the time to look them up. However
slowly it evolved, there has been since then
an increase in the number of elected and a
decrease in the number of appointed
representatives.
In 1965 the government of the day appointed the Carruthers Commission, which went
up, made a survey and analysis of the situation, came back and submitted their report in
1966. As a result there have been some substantial changes.
Of the recommendations made by the Carruthers Report as to how to effectively establish self-government in the very extended
Northwest Territories, which extend over as
wide an area almost as Canada itself, being
40 per cent of its size in area, where there is
no regular air service and no other kind of
service, and where communication between
the areas is practically impossible, 19 recommendations have been fully implemented, five
partially implemented and only four have not
been accepted. I have the details of these, if
anyone wishes to ask questions.
However, there has certainly been a movement to give these people in the North
experience and responsibility in running their
own local affairs. On the other hand, the northern part of Canada, the Northwest Territories

1342

SENATE DEBATES

and the Yukon, have an importance to al
Canada which I believe supersedes even the
normal and legitimate aspirations of the local
people to run their own affairs. For example,
this year the Yukon budget will run to $12
million; the Northwest Territories budget will
go to $72 million, of which less than 20 per
cent will be received from local sources,
including the fees and income taxes that will
be received from companies operating in that
area. In other words, the operations and the
cost of the development at this stage have
been financed and supported largely by contributions from the rest of the people of
Canada.
This is not a new development in Canada.
The three Prairie Provinces became provinces
of Canada and got their legislative assemblies
complete, with one exception, in 1905. The
exception was the control of the natural
resources, which was retained by Ottawa
until it was agreed to relinquish it between
1930 and 1935. I think agreement in principle
was reached in 1930 and the actual change
over came in 1935. It took 30 years for the
three Prairie Provinces, as provinces, to
achieve control over their resources, and by
that time there was a very substantial concentration of population, long experience
with self-government, and complete access to
communications with the rest of the country.
Now we are dealing with the Yukon and
the Northwest Territories. It is particularly
true of the Northwest Territories that recently public attention has been focused on this
development. They were fortunate in the
North that nobody cried about baby foxes in
the way they cried elsewhere about baby
seals. Furs were the basis of the whole economy for a long time, and let us not forget it.
Then slowly minerals were discovered. Gold
was discovered out of Yellowknife, as it had
been found up in the Yukon; tungsten was
found on the border of the Yukon and the
Northwest Territories; uranium was also
found. Scientifically, we know that that whole
big rocky desert is probably the richest storebouse of minerals in the world. The question
is how to get at them.
The Manhattan has gone round the North,
and this has brought us some new problems.
However, the Manhattan was not as important as the Torrey Canyon and its effect on
the beaches of southern England, the blowout of the well off the beaches of Santa Barbara in California, or the Arrow in Chedabucto Bay. Those things made us realize that in
our search for and desire to wrest new
resources from wherever they might be, there
[Hon. Mr. Prowse.]

June 23, 1970

was a danger that we could do tremendous
harm to things that were perhaps more
important.
Along with those spectacular things was the
quiet development by the scientists, who realized that every time the ecosystem was upset,
or the system by which all life is related to
the environment, no one is sure where we
will end up.
For example, I am sure this is one of the
interesting things. If we take the records of
more recent periods of England, Scotland,
Austria, Iceland, Sweden and Norway, we
find that the mean temperature for these latitudes has risen for over a period of 50 years
of increasing combustion, by 1 to 2 per
cent Fahrenheit. Already there is evidence of
substantial fish migration following the
warming of the seas northward and an
increase in the growth of phytoplankton and
zooplankton in which they feed. On land the
snow is retreating northward. In Scandinavia,
land which has been perenially under snow
and ice is thawing, and arrowheads of over
1,000 years ago, when in the natural cycle the
black soils were last exposed, have been
found. The same thing is happening in North
America. The snow line is slowly retreating.
When Arctic Sea ice melts it does not
matter. Ail it does is replace its own volume,
but if we allow the tundra and the permafrost to melt, it then starts to flow in. As the
water flows, black soil is exposed, and this
creates a continuing cycle. What we are actually doing is triggering off the situation which
will result in melting our ice caps which in
time results in an increase in the amount of
moisture. Whether the end result will be that
we will have an ice age or we will flood out
all our sea coasts, is something that is worrying the ecoscientists at the present time.
When we started to put tracked vehicles
across the Arctic we found that the tracks
stayed. If you go across in the winter they
will be followed by a blizzard and will be
covered up. But if they go across in the
summer we do not know what damage may
result.
Because of the tremendous effect that this
may have, not only on the Arctic but on the
whole of the population of the world, there is
a second factor, and this is where the Territorial Lands Act provides that we set up
land-use areas where nobody will be able to
go or do specific things without permits. We
hope that we know what we are doing when
we let them go.
The Government, in addition to the provisions for the land protection areas which are

June 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

provided in this act and the permits, bas set
up a special committee of academics and men
from industry who will go in and set up three
areas. One is on the Yukon-Northwest Territories border. Another is on the Mackenzie,
and another on the east, between Great Bear
Lake and the Arctic. They will make a study
as to what the effect of our entry into this
area may have on our ecosystem. In addition
to that, they are this year providing for field
trials of all the types of vehicles which companies think they want to use in order to find
out what effect the vehicles will have.
In other words, we are doing two things.
We are going to the scientists, who may be
over-cautious, and asking them to tell us what
we have to be afraid of. We are also going to
the developer, who may be under-cautious,
and asking him how he thinks we can operate
and how we can find a course which both
groups can agree to. Somewhere between the
two cases, we hope we can find the truth. This
is the purpose of the legislation that we have.
As far as the bill is concerned, specifically
dealing with the Northwest Territories, the
duration of the council is being extended
from three to four years to bring it into line
with the system of the provincial governments generally, but the Governor in Council
may terminate it.
This provision was put in by the other
place before the bill came to us. It says the
Governor in Council may at any time, after
consultation, where he deems such consultation to be practicable, or after consultation
with each of the members of council with
whom consultation can be effected, dissolve
the council. In other words, if he cannot talk
to the coundil he can talk to each one of the
members; and he can do that, of course,
because they do not have 264 members.
I will mention clause 4 of the bill, which
refers to section 14 of the Northwest Territories Act. The commissioner in council may
prescribe the qualifications of voters. The
whole section merely provides for them to
adjust the age of the voting to council with
whatever decisions Parliament may make
with regard to that age.
The next clause gives them the right to set
their own special indemnity, which they did
not have before but which the majority of
provincial goverinments have.
There is a provision about judges, but
really it is almost inconsequential as far as
we are concerned. At present the judges are
provided under the Parliament of Canada. It
is provided that once the council take over

the rights which are given thema here, of setting up their own courts, then we will continue to appoint the judges the same as we do
for the provinces. This brings them into line,
and again is merely consequential.
There is provision also for the reduction of
the number of appointed members without
-coming back and getting an act of Parliament. The Governor in Coundil at any time
can reduce the number of appointed members. In other words, the Government of
Canada can reduce the number of people on
the council, after consulting with the council
as a whole.
The next important amendment deals with
the land management provisions. It provides
that, where it is deemed necessary for the
protection of the ecological balance or physical characteristics of a named area in the
Yukon Territory or Northwest Territories, the
Governor in Council, after consultation with
the council of the Northwest Territories or of
the Yukon Territory-that has been added,
incidentally-as the case may be, where he
deems such consultation to be practicable,
may promulgate regulations respecting land
uses.
Honourable senators, it seems to me that
these amendments give effect to the respect
we have for the principle that people ought to
be able to govern themselves and should not
be governed from elsewhere.
In clause 24 of the bill, dealing with section
3B of the act, it is provided that where they
grant permits they have the right to set up
regulations covering the exercise of the rights
granted by such permits.
Clause 26, which deals with section 18(a)
provides that a copy of the regulation must
be filed with the Gazette, even after it is
passed, so that people who may object to it
will have the right to complain.
Now insofar as one can try to be all things
to aill men, I think this bill tries to achieve
just that within its limitations. I do not think
it will meet the demands of some of the members of the Northwest Territories Council.
This has been expanded to 14 members, 10 of
whom will be elected and four of whom will
be appointed, as against the former situation
where there were 12 members, seven of
whom were elected and five of whom were
appointed. But I think it must be realized that
in the Northwest Territories as opposed to the
Yukon, 16 per cent of the population are
Indian, 33 per cent are Eskimos who have

1344

SENATE DEBATES

June 23, 1970

lived in the remote areas, and 48 per cent are
I remember speaking in this chamber a few
interlopers like ourselves. It is desirable that years ago on a bill of this kind, and I remindwe should bring these native peoples in and ed honourable senators that the northern
let them take full part in their government. boundary of the Province of Quebec had been
But when 13,000 of them are scattered from extended northward to take in Ungava; and
Baffinland to Tuktoyuktuk, right across the that the northern boundary of the Province of
whole length and breadth of the Arctie, and Ontario had also been extended northward to
where we are bringing to them a system with take in quite a large area of territory
along
which they have had little experience, it James Bay and Hudson Bay. Then I went on
seems to me the better part of justice not to to say that, in my opinion, with regard to the
permit too quickly the set-up of a system of problem of the Northwest Territories and the
local government which would meet the Yukon Territory, and the money it was costneeds of the white man but might exclude ing the rest of Canada to administer them,
forever the Indians and native people from the solution would be to extend the northern
participation.
boundary of the provinces of British
This legislation is designed to give our Columbia,
Alberta,
Saskatchewan
and
native people an opportunity to gain experi- Manitoba northward, and then among them
ence so that they can play their full, equal those provinces would have control over these
and fair role as partners with us in the devel- territories, and it would not cost the rest of
opment of this country. It is designed further Canada any money at all. However, my
to permit the rational development of our remarks were not received with much favour.
natural resources without completely destroy- I was told that the people of the Yukon and
ing them and our environment, and doing the Northwest Territories had aspirations to
irreplaceable and irreversible damage not become provinces at some time in the near
only to a generation not yet born but even to future. But from the figures I have here it
does not look as though that will be possible
those who are alive today.
Honourable senators, I commend this legis- for a long time to come.
According to the Dominion Bureau of Stalation to you for your support.
tistics, on June 1, 1966, the population
Hon. Walter M. Aselline: Honourable sena- Yukon Territory was 14,382, and of the
of the
tors, I have listened with much interest to the Northwest Territories 28,738.
Three years
remarks of the sponsor of the bill. We have later, on June 1, 1969, which is the date of the
been told that this bill has two objects, first, latest available figures, the population
of the
that of promoting the constitutional develop- Yukon had increased by a few hundred and
ment of the two territories, which is more or was then 15,000. The population of
the Northless giving them a little more home rule and
giving the people there a little more responsi- west Territories had increased to 32,000, an
bility in governing themselves. These territo- increase of a little over 3,000 in that threeries represent about 40 per cent of the total year period.
So, honourable senators, the population of
area of Canada but contain only a very, very
small percentage of the population.
these territories is not increasing very rapidIt is said, that the second object of the bill ly, but we hope that with the development
is to protect the environment of the north by that is taking place there will result in a big
taking immediate steps for the development increase in population within the next 10, 15
of the natural resources while keeping things or 20 years, and that the aspirations of these
in proper balance along with the Water people who want their territories to become
Resources Act and the provisions of the provinces will be achieved.
Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention Act.
Honourable senators, there is one thing
These two things have been said in a differ- about the printing of this bill to which I
ent way by the sponsor of the bill, and I am object. The bill as presented for first reading
just repeating them in my own language.
contains explanatory notes, which I found of
Whether Bill C-212 will do what it is hoped considerable help. The printed copy of the
and expected it will do remains to be seen. bill as passed by the other place contains no
Personally, I do not think its passing will explanatory notes at all.
accomplish a great deal, but it is a step in the
I protest also the receiving of such an
right direction and further amendments can important bill as this a very short time before
be made, if required, when the very small the summer recess, which allows the Senate
population increases.
little time in which to consider it.
[Hon. Mr. Prowse.]

June 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Honourable senators, nine speeches were
delivered in the debate on the motion for
second reading in the other place. I have read
all of them. After the bill was read the
second time it was referred to the Standing
Committee on Indian Affairs and Northern
Development, which fully considered it on
May 27 and 28, and June 2, 4, 9, and 11. I
have here the printed proceedings of the committee on those days, but I cannot claim to
have read them because I have not had the
time. All this goes to show that a great deal
of attention was paid to this bill in the other
place.
Hon. Mr. Martin: With all your experience
you will know much of what is in the evidence, anyway.
Hon. Mr. Aseltine: There are six volumes of
the committee's proceedings. Many amendments were considered in committee, and its
report was tabled in the Commons on June
12, where it was considered at length on June
19. Voting on the 13 or so amending motions
took place yesterday, and I must give the
other house full credit for a job well done.
I received a printed copy of the bill as
passed by the House of Commons just an
hour or so ago and, as I have stated, it contains no explanatory notes. Therefore, in preparing my brief remarks it has been necessary for me to keep at hand a copy of the bill
as presented for first reading containing the
explanatory notes, and the report of the committee containing the amendments, the bill as
passed by the House of Commons, and also
the Statutes of Canada, there being no pamphle't copies available of the three statutes
involved.
Honourable senators, those are my introductory remarks. There are eight points that I
wish to mention briefly in connection with
the bill in so far as it affects the Yukon Act.
There is to be a new subsection 2 of section 9
which provides for an increase in the duration of each Council from three to four years,
but the Governor in Council may at any time
dissolve the coundil and cause a new council
to be elected. I strongly object to that.
Seven members of the Yukon Council are
all elected by the people; none are appointed.
The Council should hold that power of continuing until their time expires if they see fit.
The council represents the people and the
people should speak through the coundil and
not through the Governor in Council. By this
amendment the Governor in Council holds a
club over the council. With a stroke of the

pen he can wipe it out and call a new election. That, in my opinion, is going much too
f ar.
A great deal of attention was paid to this
point in the other place, and many speeches
were made on it. I agree substantially with
what was said on this point.
The Commissioner in Council is given
power to prescribe the qualifications of electors and candidates as to age and other matters. I have no quarrel with that. The new
rule as to qualifications applies in any election after November 1970.
An effort was made by the Yukon members
to have the Yukon Council increased to 15
elected members from the present seven, but
without success. The question arose as to
whether or not they had the consent of the
Governor General to go to the additional
expense that would be incurred if the number
of elected members was increased as
requested.
An effort was also made to gain more
power, similar to that of the provinces, over
money bills. No money bills can appear
before the council unless the minister
approves through the Commissioner. There
was no success and the motion in that connection was defeated.
The next point has to do with sessional
indemnities. Under the old act, as was stated
by Senator Prowse, the indemnities were
fixed as to amount, but Bill C-212 changes all
that and provides for the fixing of the amount
of the annual indemnities, travelling and
living expenses for each session by the Commissioner in Council. It also provides for the
payment of the indemnities out of the Yukon
consolidated revenue fund. The Commissioner
in Council is to prescribe the terms and conditions of payment thereof. I do not think
there is anything wrong with that either.
Another point is disallowance of ordinances
by the Governor in Council within one year
instead of two years as it stands presently in
the act. I think that was a good point and I
am in favour of the amendment.
There are provisions with respect to submission to council of territorial accounts at
the end of each fiscal year, the council to fix
the date.
There are certain provisions for appointment of judges and their tenure of office. The
purpose of this amendment is to preserve the
power in the Governor in Council to appoint
judges of the different courts.
Next I should like to deal very briefly with
the amendments to the Northwest Territories

1346

SENATE DEBATES

Act, which were so well explained by Senator
Prowse. The amendments are similar to, and
for the same purposes as, the amendments
already referred to with respect to the Yukon
Act. If you read them you will see that there
is scarcely any difference. The only real difference is that the Council of the Territories
is increased from 12 members to 14 members,
of which 10 are elected and four appointed by
the Governor in Council, whereas in the
Yukon, under the Yukon Act, all seven are
elected, and are therefore responsible to those
who elect them.
The amendments go on to deal with the
duration of the council, as in the amendments
to the Yukon Act, qualifications of electors
and candidates, sessional indemnities, payment of same and expenses, disallowance of
ordinances, submission of accounts and the
appointment of judges.
In referring to amendments to the Territorial Land Act I will be very brief, because
Senator Prowse took a great deal of time in
giving his opinions on these amendments and
what they were supposed to accomplish.
These amendments provide for the setting up
of land management zones-and I thought the
explanation of why that was very necessary
was extremely good-and the making of
regulations by the Governor in Council covering land use of surface land, granting of
licences and permits for exploration, prospectors and mineral claims, providing penalties
for violation of land use, and offences against
the provisions of the act, all of which are, in
my opinion, necessary.
In many respects this bill is a difficult piece
of legislation. It has been given long and careful attention in the other place, where many
amendments were moved in committee and
fully discussed. Five amendments were
moved by the minister, and eventually adopted. Also, quite a number of other amendments were moved by certain Members of
Parliament, but were not adopted. Last night
there were three votes on amendments in the
other place. Obviously, honourable senators,
this is a bill that can be better dealt with in a
Senate committee, and it should be referred
to our Standing Senate Committee on Legal
and
Constitutional Aff airs for further
consideration.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE
On motion of Hon. Mr. Prowse, bill referred
to the Standing Senate Committee on Legal
and Constitutional Aff airs.
[Hon. Mr. Aseltine.]

June 23, 1970

CANADA CORPORATIONS ACT

BILL TO AMEND-SECOND READING
The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of Honourable Mr. Urquhart, for the second reading of
Bill C-4, to amend the Canada Corporations
Act and other statutory provisions related to
the subject matter of certain of those
amendments.
Hon. Sal±er A. Hayden: Honourable senators, in prospect, looking at the very bulk of
Bill C-4, one might well seek some way of
avoiding having to go through it. It is terrifying in its thickness, but the subject matter is
a very important one in the business life of
Canada, dealing with federally incorporated
companies. Having regard to its bulk and the
subject matters covered in the bill, it is one
which should be very carefully reviewed in
committee. I do not propose to refer to it by
sections. There are, however, about five or six
points, a number of them being new points as
far as federal legislation is concerned, which I
propose to call to your attention.
The first point is that the bill does provide
machinery and procedures by which a company that was heretofore incorporated by Act of
Parliament may now under the law be incorporated under the Canada Corporations Act.
This also applies to a company which has
been incorporated by Act of Parliament and
decides now to apply by supplementary letters patent to bring itself under the provisions of the Canada Corporations Act. The
procedures and machinery were necessary,
and these are provided in the bill.
Secondly, the bill provides for a species of
a company called a "constrained share company", which is a new expression. You will
find this shown on page 9 of the bill. It
describes a certain kind of a company, and it
gives certain authority in relation to such a
company so that certain purposes might be
served.
I have difficulty trying to decide what is the
concept of a constrained share company, but
presumably it is an attempt to facilitate such
matters as the policy of the Canadian Radio
and Television Commission with respect to
foreign ownership of radio and television
stations. I think the concept of a constrained
share company may also have some application to companies seeking permits to carry
out oil and gas exploration in the Northwest
Terrhories.
We then move on to a subject matter which
I want to say a few words about, and this

June 23, 1970

June1970SENATE
23,
DEBATES

concerns an "insider". Insider is a termi which
is well known by people who have had anything to do with securities law. It is defined ini
the securities acts of the various provinces.
The Ontario Securities Act defines "minsider'"
and this definition has been more or less foliowed by Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta
and British Columbia. I mnay also tell you that
ail sections of this bill which deai with insiders are practically word for word the provisions which occur in the provincial securities
law, with three exceptions. I will deal with
those in a moment.
It is a safe general statement to, make that
the provisions start with section 98 of the bill
on page 12 through to, page 24. There, if you
refer to the Ontario Securities Act, in
tis bill you wil find the sixnilarity in ianguage. An 'insider" is defined, at page 13 of
the bill, as meaning
(i) any director or officer of a public
company,
(i) any person who beneficially owns,
directly or indirectly, equity shares of the
company, carrying more than 10 per cent
of the voting rights attached to ail equity
shares of the company for the tinie being
outstanding.
It then goes on with certain qualifications
and exclusions. Then, there is provision for a
person who exercises control or modification
over the equity shares of a public company
carrying more than 10 per cent of the voting
rights attached to, ail equity shares.
Hlonourable senators, will see, therefore,
that an insider is somebody who bas this
relationsbip as a director, or by reason of
quantity of votîng shares which. le holds in
relation to, a company. But it means "shares
that are issued"ý-and, therefore, it is intruding into the field of trading in securities. Tis
is the simple titie and purpose of the securities legisiation in Ontario and ini every province. That is the subject matter of trading in
securities.
The next question, therefore-and the question that is bothering me--is that I see no
purpose to be served in incorporating the "insider", provisions ini the federal legislation
known as the Canada Corporations Act.
Under section 91 of the British North Amenica Act the federal Goverrment bas the
authority to incorporate companies which
may operate in any province in Canada and,
having that authority to incorporate, of
course they have the necessary authority to
give it ahl the machinery and equipment by
which it can carry on the objeets which are
given to it.
22481--35

1347
14

When you come to trading in securities, in
my submission, and to provincial legislation
dealing with the subjeet, tis is flot; what one
might cail infringing or encroaching on the
domain of company law, which. is included in
the exclusive junisdiction which the federal
Governiment bas in the incorporation of federal companies. Therefore, it belongs more
properly under the heading of section 92,
Property and Civil Rights in the Provinces.
In these circunistances one might pose
another question. The Ontario statute, the
Securities Act, deais with trading in securities
and is confined to such operations as are carried on in Ontario or by people who are
resident in Ontario, but it is a distinct subject
matter, trading in securities, and therefore
does not fail under the powers which may be
said necessarily to go with the incorporation
of a federal company. This is more a matter
of civil rights-that is, the relationship among
people who are trading in securities that are
already issued-because the moment the company issues its shares, then it does not have
control over those shares. They beiong to the
people who purchased them. So I say that the
Ontario Securities Act, which applies to ail
companies, whether they happen to, be incorporated by the federal authority or by the
provincial authority, in their operations in
Ontario they are subject to the Securities Act
of Ontario, the same as a company in Manitoba wouid be subject to the Securities Act of
Manitoba. Therefore, it seems to me that
what we should be thinking about is a uniform statute which would gather in and put
in a standard or uniform fashion our securities law, applying to the whole of Canada.
It may be that the federal authority cannot
do that on its own, but we have had numbers
of instances where the federal authority and
the provincial authorities have got together in
relation to legislation and have worked out a
method by which there can be a uniform. act.
It seems to me that it is in the laterests of
the public that this should be done, instead of
perpetuatlag in a federal statute, the Canada
Corporations Act, practicaily the same provisions in relation to "insider trading", as there
is in the existing securities acts of these vanious provinces.
Certainly, even if tis becomes law and
even if there is a feeling that it is on the
federal statute book, and that you as a federal
company are complying with it, you wiil also
have to compiy with the securities law of the
province. Therefore, we should have in mind
efforts at uniformn legislation and not envis-

1348

SENATE DEBATES

age a duplication of legislation in relation to
insider trading, when we have adequate law
in the various provinces of Canada.
It would assist, as far as the provinces are
concerned, to be able to have one central
body which would be the securities body governing the trading in securities in Canada. It
may take some effort to do that, but it is a
subject that surely is worth the effort-rather
than simply perpetuating in practice the same
thing as we have in the present securities
laws of Canada, which, by the way, operate
substantially well.
Having said that about insider transactions,
there is another provision in the bill-which
you will find in clauses 69 to 78-to establish
a new section 127A, which runs through for
perhaps as many as 25 or 30 subsections.
This is on the question of what is called
"take-over bids". Take-over bids mean exactly what the words suggest; that is, where an
offer is made by a person to a company, or by
one company to another company, setting out
terms, or a cash consideration on which they
are prepared to acquire the outstanding
shares, or a percentage of the shares of the
other company. This is surely in the field of
trading in securities, because it relates to
securities that are outstanding, which are
held by the general public.
What I said in relation to insider transactions applies with equal force to take-over
bids.
We have a whole series of sections in the
securities acts of the various provinces, dealing with the manner in which such an offer
must be presented, dealing with the material
which must accompany that offer, and providing for a cash offer on a certain basis, the
time limit and the deposit of shares, according to what happens in relation to the deposit,
and how the person who deposits may, within
a certain length of time, change his mind and
withdraw from the deposit.
Then you have an additional series of sections in the Ontario and other provincial
securities acts, where the proposal for takeover involves an exchange of shares. That
clause has additional material to be furnished
to the shareholders of the company to which
the offer is being made.
In my opinion, this is obviously in the field
of trading in securities. Again, instead of perpetuating in the Canada Corporations Act the
language that is practically the sane as the
language dealing with insider transactions, I
think the effort should be to let the provin[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

June 23, 1970

cial securities acts carry on as they have
up to this moment. Why the sudden
impetus, or the sudden rush, now to incorporate exactly the same provisions in the federal statute? I say again that the aim should be
to establish uniforn legislation in this field,
and an effort should be made to carry out
whatever negotiations or whatever arrangements are necessary, to simplify the procedures, the paper work and the responsibilities
that must be attended to when you are trying
to make a take-over bid.
I forgot when speaking in connection with
insider transactions to mention that they have
in the federal act a few extensions of the
provisions in the provincial Securities Act,
and it is difficult to follow them or to see why
they are necessary. They are of the following
kind. In new clause 98D of the Canada Corporations Act, added by this bill, which you
will find at page 20 of the bill, the liability of
an insider is imposed on certain people if it is
established that they have made use of any
information which they have gathered by
virtue of their position in relation to the company and have taken some advantage of that.
Under the term "insider"-and I have already
read the definition to you-is included every
person employed or retained by the company.
Now if one were to carry this to its logical
extreme, the expression "every person
employed or retained by a company" could
include even the janitor of the building in
which the company is carrying on its business, and I am sure that was not intended.
But then, honourable senators, the auditor of
the company and every associate of the insider and every affiliate of the insider is included. That is a difference.
Then there is another difference which I
have great difficulty in following. This you
will find in clause 98F. which is added at
page 23 of the bill.
This new clause provides in effect that an
insider may not make a short sale. It also
provides that an insider may not buy a put or
call option. In the provincial statutes there is
no such prohibition. In the provincial statute
if an insider desires to sell short-that is to
sell shares he does not have-he must inform
his broker that it is a short sale, and the
broker in turn in executing the transaction
must report on the exchange that this is a
short sale. As I say, that is required under the
provincial statute. But that is as far as the
provincial statutes go. Honourable senators,
why this prohibition and this difference is
made in the federal statute, I just do not
understand.

June 23, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

I would say this, however, that if there was
some attempt to justify the insider legislation
proposed in this bill on the basis that it comes
under the heading of section 91 of the regulations to trade and commerce, then it cannot
be supported under that heading because the
courts have held time after time that prohibition is not regulation, and this is a prohibition. The suggestion may be made that it is
criminal law, but in the light of the nature of
the transactions sought to be dealt with, and
the description of the procedures that one
must take, I would think that it might very
well be held by the courts, if an attempt were
made to justify this on the basis of criminal
law, that it was a colourable effort to acquire
jurisdiction which properly belonged to the
provmces.
I remember in that regard the famous oleomargarine case-and I have mentioned it here
before-where we had a statute of 1885 which
prohibited the sale, manufacture or importation of oleomargarine. Finally, in 1952 we got
to the Supreme Court of Canada and by a
majority decision, they decided that statute
was ultra vires of the Canadian Parliament.
Several of the judges wrote judgments to the
effect that it was criminal law, but the
majority decided that it could not be supported as being criminal law because that was
just a colourable effort to acquire jurisdiction,
and that it was really a provincial matter.
The Privy Coundil judgment simply supported the majority judgment of the Supreme
Court of Canada and dismissed the argument
that it was criminal law.
So I say that, in my view, these provisions
are not supportable as criminal law and these
prohibitions are not supportable as being the
regulation of trade and commerce. Therefore,
on the constitutional side there would be a
very serious question as to the jurisdiction of
the federal authority to enact this kind of
legislation. But, quite apart from that, insider
transactions and take-over bids are being so
well regulated by provincial securities laws,
and seem to fit so closely into the pattern of
provincial jurisdiction as property and civil
rights, that this is where the matter should be
left.
I do not intend to weary you with a lot of
cases on the point, but may I mention just
one? There is an excellent book called
CanadianCompany Law written by a Professor Ziegel of McGill University. At page 192
he says:
The proper characterization of provincial legislation which purports to apply to
22481--35J

1349

extra-provincial
companies poses as
many problems in this area as it does in
the area of federal-provincial relations.
But he goes on to say:
A few additional observations
therefore not be out of place.

may

And he refers in this connection to the "insider trading" provisions of the Ontario Securities Act of 1966, and then says this:
In the first place, since a province is
not obliged to permit the sale within its
borders of extra-provincial securities
there would appear to be no constitutional objections to its attaching conditions to
the granting of such permission, including compliance with requirements of a
company law character.
This is a pretty broad and clear statement.
There is law behind it. If you will remember,
in early constitutional law at one time you
had the federal authority incorporating a
company with the objects of dealing in and
selling alcoholic beverages, and in the Province of Ontario you had a temperance law
which prohibited the sale of alcoholic beverages. The prevailing legislation was held by
the Privy Coundil to be the provincial statute.
Therefore, as long as the legislation is not
trenching on the dominant company law, a
feature which the federal authority enjoys,
but is legislation in respect to another subject
matter, such as prohibition of the sale of
alcoholic beverages in Ontario, then it is intra
vires for the province to enact that, even
though the effect is to prevent a federal company carrying out its objects in that particular province.
This is all I have to say at this time,
because I did not intend to deliver a lecture
on constitutional law, and I am sure you did
not expect or want me to. However, I
thought that I would mention what I consider
the serious objections to the attempt now
being made to incorporate these two provisions, in language parallelling that in which
provincial securities laws are couched, in the
Canada Corporations Act, when the trading in
securities provision has been functioning very
well in its application to dominion companies
as well as to provincial companies, certainly
since 1966. There is no need for this provision
on the score that it is required in order that
the trading in securities may be properly carried on.
Secondly, if it were urged that there was a
need, then you would not suspect there was
when you see that the language that is used

SENATE DEBATES
to cover insider transactions and take-over
bids in Bill C-4 is practically the same as the
language used in the provincial statutes,
unless there is going to be some suggestion
that Ottawa can administer it better. I am not
prepared to accept that because the provincial
securities act has been in existence since 1966,
and the administration by and large has been
good, and business has been well served in
the areas covered by these provisions.
There is something else to which I have
very serious objection. There is a provision in
the Canada Corporations Act to provide that
a shareholder who is dissatisfied with the
operation of a federal company may apply to
the Secretary of State for an order appointing
an inspector to investigate the affairs of the
company. There is a whole series of procedures as to what has to be done, and what the
inspector may do. I am reasonably familiar
with that because I have tried to do it once or
twice, but have never succeeded. In other
words, no inspector was appointed, so obviously I did not make out a case. But, here this
section in the Canada Corporations Act is
repealed, and a whole series of sections, sections 112 to 112D, which are found at pages
42 to 53, are added.
It is proposed that a group of five or more
shareholders may make an application to the
Restrictive Trade Practices Commission. Section 112(1) reads:
Five or more shareholders holding
shares representing in the aggregate not
less than one-tenth of the issued capital of
the company or one-tenth of the issued
shares of any class of shares of the company, or the Minister on his own initiative, may apply to the Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission established under
the Combines Investigation Act, (hereinafter in this section called the "Commission") ex parte or upon such notice to
such persons as the Commission may
require, for an order directing an investigation of the company in respect of
which the application is made.
I have serious objection to the insertion of
the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission
into this field of investigation. My reasons are
very simple. This commission is established
under the combines investigation law, and it
has specific functions under that law. The
training and experience of the members of
that commission are in that process. The Director of Investigation and Research, having
investigated a situation to determine whether
there have been violations of the anti-comtHon. Mr. Hayden.]

June 23, 1970

bines law, prepares a statement of evidence,
which he submits to the commission. The job
of the commission is to study this, to hold a
hearing, and to make a report as to whether
in their opinion there is a conspiracy or a
combination in violation of the anti-combines
law. Having come to the conclusion that there
is, they make a report to the minister, which
must be tabled within a certain length of
time, and which ultimately may lead to a
prosecution.
Another function of the commission is that
one of its members presides at inquiries that
may go on in the course of the gathering of
the evidence which the department feels it
needs in order to determine whether there is
a combination in restraint of trade. The
person presiding has al the authority of a
commissioner under the Public Inquiries Act,
which is very broad power. If a person
refuses to answer a question the Commissioner has not the power to cite him for contempt, but he can refer the matter to a justice
of the Exchequer Court, who may do so.
As far as evidence is concerned, in my
experience-and I have been through quite a
number of them-it is difficult to raise the
question that certain evidence which is being
adduced is not relevant. There is always the
answer that there is more evidence to be
adduced, so that you really do not accomplish
anything by saying that any particular evidence is not relevant.
In these circumstances and with that training, this is not the function that this kind of
commission should be asked to perform.
Let me give you an additional reason by
reading the subject matters in respect of
which these shareholders may make an
application. You will then see the force of
what I am saying. Subclause 2 of new clause
112 on page 42 states:
(2) Where it is shown to the Commission by the applicant shareholders or the
Minister that there are reasonable
grounds for believing that, in respect of
the company concerned,
(a) its business or the business of a
company affiliated therewith is being
conducted with intent to defraud any
person;
(b) in the course of carrying on its
affairs or the affairs of a company
affiliated therewith, one or more acts
have been performed in a manner
unfairly prejudicial to the interests of
any shareholder;

June 23, 1970

DEEATES
Juxi 23,1970SENATE

(c) it or a company affiliated therewith the right to complain should be given only if
was formed for any fraudulent or you can gather Up enough shareholders,
unlawful purpose or is ta be dissolved together with your own shareholding, to
in any manner for a fraudulent or represent 10 per cent of the voting shares,
otherwise you have to go to the minister and
unlawful purpose; or
persuade hlm to move. Any shareholder
The last one, is really the pièce de should have a right; and this 15 what is said
résistance:
in the Business Corporations Act of Ontario:
(d) the persans conoerned with its forUpon application by a shareholder of a
mation, aifairs or management, or the
corporation, the court, if satisfied that the
formation, aifairs or management of a
application is made in good faith and that
company affiliated therewith, have in
it is prima Sacie in the interests of the
connection therewith been gullty of
corporation or the holders of its securities
fraud, misfeasance or misconduct,...
to, do so, may make an order, upon such
terms as to the costs of the investigation
I say ta you with ail the force that I can
or audit or otherwise as ta the court
command, that ta have an inspector appainted
seems fit, appointing an inspector ta,
ta investigate a charge that the applicants
investigate the aif airs and management
and sa in cannection with the
make that sa
of the corporation or any affiliate of the
company has been guilty of fraud, misfeascorporation, or both, and to audit the
ance or mîscanduct, should not be for the
accounts and records of the corporation
Commission.
Trade Practices
Restrictive
or any affiliate thereof named in the
matter of many proviFraud is the subi ect
order.
sions in the Criminal Code. If there are ta be
allegations of fraud, an infarmation can be In my submission, this is the fair, reasonable
sworn out and there may be some investiga- and proper way ta, handie a situation of this
tion by the Attorney General bef are it is kind.
There are difficulties because of the way
acce'pted. This position was recognized in
Ontario.
Bill C-4 is drawn on this point, because whfle
My view is that the court is the place the authority to apply for an order ta have an
where the application shauld be made when inspector appointed is granted on request of a
the matters ta be investigated are of the type defined number of shareholders ta the campawhich I just read ta you, ail invalving the ny, the authority to investigate is said to
question of fraud. Such an investigation extend ta the company and any affliate comshould nat be allowed ta start ex parte. Such pany. An affiliate company may be a provinallegations of fraud are tao impartant ta the cial company, and there immediately arises
company concerned. The people who are the problem of jurisdictian. It may be an
identified with the company are tao involved affiliate situated in the United States or some
in those charges ta have an ex parte applica- other country. In my view, the procedure
tion made and have an inspector came in on needs revision.
It will be noted that the Provincial Secrethem as their first intimation that there has
tary does not; have any authority under the
been any allegatian.
I say the application shauld be made ta the provincial statute to initiate proceedings of
court. There shauid be a hearing where the this kind; only a shareholder can, because he
parties can be heard and the people who is a persan aifected. I can tell honourable senamake their allegations in the farm of an tors, however, that when the bill was arigiapplication are available ta, be cross-exam- nally drafted it did cantain the words "Provincial Secretary", and they were taken out.
ined.
It was felt that the person entitled to this
The Ontario Business Corporations Act,
demand an investigation was a share1970, which is an act that has been in the right ta who was the one wha may be suiffercourse of preparation for several years, and holder, the Provincial Secretary, and not the
ing-not
which at the present moment has had second minister in the case of Bil C-4, because he
reading and is at the stage of consideration in daes nat have the kind of interest neoessary
their legal aiffairs comniittee, deals with in aider ta bring about an investigation of
investigations provided in the f ashion I have these matters.
described ta you- That is, in the proposed
Allegatians of fraud shauid be brought ta
section 186 they say, "Upon application by a the attention of the Attorney Generai, espeshareholder". I do not understand why in cially when an applicant may, under Bill C-4,
such seriaus matters as ailegations of fraud, say that the president of the company has

SENATE DEBATES
been guilty of fraud, misfeasance or misconduct. I know what fraud is, and I think I
know what misfeasance is, but I am not sure
how wide and how far the boundaries extend
to cover the word "misconduct".
I stress this at this time because I think
these are things we should look at very carefully in committee. I am not reflecting on
the Restrictive Practices Commission at all,
but I do not think their training, experience
and the orientation of the work they are
doing are such that this is the kind of work
that should be turned over to them. I think
the court is the place where this should
apply.
Hon. Mr. Benidickson: Would the honourable Senator Hayden permit a question? He is
apparently contemplating that this bill will go
to committee.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: That is right.
Hon. Mr. Benidickson: We are all aware
that there is some shortage of time to consider a very extensive bill. Would he indicate to
this chamber the extent to which previous
draft bills relating to this have been before
the committee of which he is chairman?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: I can tell my friend that
if this bill is referred to our Banking, Trade
and Commerce Committee it will not be dealt
with between now and June 26. The expectation, as far as I am concerned, is that the
committee will convene at some date in September, as early as we can make it, and complete a study of this bill before the session is
resumed. That deals with one question.
Hon. Mr. Benidickson: So that would avoid
another debate in the House of Commons in
the subsequent session?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: That is right; and that is
the purpose of it.
This bill has not heretofore been before the
Senate. A similar bill was introduced and
given first reading in the House of Commons
at the last session and it died on the Order
Paper. It was reintroduced this session, and
the committee of the other place considered it
for two months, and the amendments made to
the various sections were very extensive.
There can be no suggestion that we are
delaying the consideration of this very important bill, because we will deal with it at the
earliest possible moment consistent with
the time for giving proper consideration to the bill. I doubt that we will take as
long to consider it as it took in the other
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

June 23, 1970

place. All I am doing now is focusing your
attention on specific points which I think are
major and ones which we should deal with
very carefully.
I think it is very important in connection with the investigation provisions that
there should be the opportunity for a hearing
at the earliest possible moment. This would
come more quickly and more conveniently if
the shareholder has to apply to the court,
because there will be the opportunity right
away for a hearing and for cross-examination
on his material. We all know that over-zealous
people sometimes incorporate material in an
application, and when cross-exanination is
made on that material the support for these
statements is lacking very considerably in
substance. Yet, to have allegations that officers of the company have been guilty of
fraud or that there have been fraudulent
practices and to have that information available to the public before there is an opportunity to meet it and counter it, is a very serious
matter to contemplate. Therefore, the procedures should be directed towards the end that
in allegations of this kind only a shareholder
may apply for an investigation. Yet, under
the original section in the Canada Corporations Act there was a broad authority to
apply for an investigation, not limited to just
these particular subject matters, if a case
could be made.
May I repeat that I am not attempting to
reflect in any way on the Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission. I know the membership and I have appeared before them, but I
do not think that the commission is oriented
for purposes of doing this kind of a job.
Notwithstanding that fact, if any other
commission had been named, or if the commissioner had been set up to do this job, I
would still be opposed to it, because I think
this is something that should go to the courts.
There you have trained minds, ready to sift
and determine whether there are fraudulent
practices, to weigh evidence, test the credibility of witnesses. This is part of the training of
judges, and this should be done in the courts.
Honourable senators, there is only one
other thing I wish to mention. There is much
more which could be said, but I do not intend
to take up more of your time this evening.
This bill proposes at page 62 that private
companies whose gross revenue exceeds
$10 million in any period, ending in
or after the year in which this section comes

June 23. 1970

DEBATES
June23, 970SENATE

into force, in respect of which a financial
statemnent is required by tis act to be prepared, or whose total assets on the hast day of
any such period exceed $5 million, be
required under this bull to file their full financial statements with the Departmen't of Consumer Affairs. This is new.
May I take a moment to tell you that a
private company, under the law, under the
Canada Corporations Act, is a company which
consists of not more than 50 shareholders, in
respect of which there may not be any offer
to the public of its shares.
In those circumstances, one is indllned to say
to himnself-as I am-why? Is it ini the public
interest that the financial statements of the
operations of such a private company should
be exposed to the public? What purposes are
to be served by that, other than curiosity?
There is a llmited number of shareholders;
the public are not affected, in the sense that
they cannot buy into tis company, in any
event.
This is a provision which I think should be
hooked at and any reasons that are offered
should be weighed very carefuily.
A suggestion was made that it would
enable the department to determine the
extent to wich there were foreign holdings,
or shares were held for non-residents. If that
is the information wich is needed, it would
have been very simple to require a statement
of shareholders and their shareholdings to be
filed once a year.
So, what the purpose is, I do not know. On
any rationalization that I make, I do not
corne up with an answer which to me appears
a satisfactory explanation. So I thînk it is
something that we should look into very caref ully.
Motion agreed to and bill read the second
timne.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators,
when shali tis bill be read the third time?
Hon. Mr. Urquhart: Honourable senators, I
move that this bill be referred to the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce.
Hon. Mr. Benidickson: Honourable senators,
on the motion made by Senator Urquhart, ha
there some indication as to when there wrnl
be a meeting of the committee to which he

proposes to refer this bil, which has been the
subi ect of a great number of hearings by the
other place?
Hon. Mr. Urquhart: Honourable senators, the
chairman of the comrmittee is Senator
Hayden, and he may be able to advise the
house. In the course of his remarks, I believe
he mentioned that the committee would meet
early in September.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Early in September.
Hon. Mr. Urquhar±: The committee would
deal with tis bill at that time.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Urquhart, bill
referred to the Standing Senate Committee on
Banking, Trade and Commerce.
NUCLEAR LIABILITY BILL
SECOND READING-ORDER STANDS

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the motion of
Hon. Mr. Lang for second reading of Bil
C-158, respecting civil liablity for
nuclear damage.
Hon. John M. Macdonald: On behaif of
Senator Haig, I ask that this order stand until
the next sitting of the Senate.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I understand that we will
proceed on Thursday and that there will be
no delay in dealing with this matter on that
day.
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: My understanding is
that Senator Haig wil proceed on Thursday,
the next sitting day for the Senate, and since
he does not believe that it wlll be necessary
for this bull to go to committee, we will be
able to pass it through its varieus stages at
that time.
Order stands.
BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators,
notices have been sent out concerning a meeting of the Legal and Constitutional Ailairs
Committee which will be held tomorrow at 10
a.m., and the Acting Chairman of that cornmittee has asked me to emphasize this point.
The meeting will be held in roomn 356-S, to
deal with Bill C-212.

1354

SENATE DEBATES

I amn also reminded by Senator Benidickson
that the Standing Senate Commiittee on Banking, Trade and Commnerce will meet to consider further the White Paper on Tax Reform
at 9 a.m., in Room 256-S.

June 23, 1970

Hon. Mr. Benidickson: And possibly also in
the afternoon, under the authority of the
chairmfan.
The Senate adjourned until Thursday, June
25, at 2 p.m.

Report of
Thie Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs
on

CANADACARIBBEAN
RELATIONS
Chairman
The Honourable John B. Aird, Q.C.
Deputy Chairman
The Honourable Allister Grosart
0

,970

22481-36

QUEEN'S PRINTER FOR CANADA
OTTAWA, 1970
YC23-282/1-0

MEMBERSHIP 0F COMMITTEE
(As of June 16, 1970)
THE STANDING SENATE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS
The Honourable John B. Aird, Chairman
The Honourable Allister Grosart, Deputy Chairman
and
The Honourable Senators:
Belisie
Cameron
Carter
Choquette
Connolly (Ottawa West)
Croil
Eudes
Fergusson
Gouin

Haig
Hastings
Laird
Lang
Macnaughton
McElman
McLean
Nichol
O'Leary (Carleton)

Pearson
Phillips (Rigaud)
Quart
Rattenbury
Robichaud
Sparrow
Sullivan
White
Yuzyk-( 30)

Ex OfJicio Members: Flynn and Martin
(Quorum 7)

Notes:
Honourable Senators Thorvaldson, Savoie and Davey served on the Committee during the First Session of the 28th Parliament-Senators Savoie and
Davey were replaced by Senators Nichol and Connolly (Ottawa West),
respectively, during the Second Session.
**The Honourable Senator Thorvaldson-deceased August 2, 1969.
*The

iii
22481-36A

ORDERS 0F REFERENCE
First Session-28th Parliament (1969)
Extract from the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Senate, Tuesday, November 19th, 1968:
The Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, composed of thirty members, seven of whom shal constitute a quorum, to which shail be referred
on motion ail bis, messages, petitions, inquiries, papers, and other matters
relating to foreign and commonwealth relations generaily, including:
(i) Treaties and International Agreements.
(ül) External Trade.
(iii) Foreign Aid.
(iv) Defence.
(y) Immigration.
(vi) Territorial and Offshore matters.

Extract from the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Senate, Thursday,
December l9th, 1968:
THE SENATE COMMIITE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS
The Honourable Senators Aird, Bélisie, Cameron, Carter, Choquette, Croll,
Davey, Eudes, Fergusson, *Flynn, Gouin, Grosart, Haig, Hastings, Laird, Lang,
Macnaughton, *Martin, McElman, MeLean, O'Leary (Carleton), Pearson, Philips
(Rigaud), Quart, Rattenbury, Robichaud, Savoie, Sparrow, Sullivan, Thorvaldson,
White and Yuzyk-(30).
*Ex officio members

Extract from, the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Senate, Tuesday, February
4th, 1969:
With leave of the Senate,
The Honourable Senator Martin, P.C., moved, seconded by the Honourable
Senator McDonald:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Aiffairs be authorized to
examine and report to, the Senate front time to, time on any matter relating to
foreign and Commonwealth affairs generaily, on any matter assigned to the said
Committee by the Rules of the Senate, and, in particular, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, on any matter concerning the Caribbean area; and

That the said Committee be empowered to engage the services of such counsel
and technical, clerical and other personnel as may be required for the foregoing
purposes, at such rates of remuneration and reimbursement as the Committee may
determine, and to compensate witnesses by reimbursement of travelling and living
expenses, if required, in such amount as the Committee may determine.
After debate, andThe question being put on the motion, it wasResolved in the affirmative.
*

*

*

Extract from the Minutes of Proceedings of the Senate of Canada-Thursday,
13th February, 1969:
With leave of the Senate,
The Honourable Senator McDonald moved, seconded by the Honourable
Senator Langlois:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Standing
Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs have power to sit during
adjournments of the Senate.
After debate, andThe question being put on the motion, it wasResolved in the affirmative.
*

*

*

Extract from the Minutes of Proceedings of the Senate of Canada--Wednesday, 18th June, 1969:
With leave of the Senate,
The Honourable Senator McDonald moved, seconded by the Honourable
Senator Langlois:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs have power to sit
while the Senate is sitting today.
After debate, andThe question being put on the motion, it wasResolved in the affirmative.
*

*

*

Extract from the Minutes of Proceedings of the Senate of Canada-Thursday,
19th June, 1969:
With leave of the Senate,
The Honourable Senator McDonald moved, seconded by the Honourable
Senator Langlois:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs have power to sit
while the Senate is sitting on Wednesday next, 25th June, 1969.
After debate, andThe question being put on the motion, it wasResolved in the affirmative.

Second Session-28th Parliament (1969-70)
Extract from. the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Senate, Wednesday,
October 29th, 1969:
With leave of the Senate,
The Honourable McDonald moved, seconded by the Honourable
Senator Smith:
That the Standing Senate Committec on Foreign Affairs be authorized
to examine and report to the Senate from time to time on any matter
relating to foreign and Commonwealth aiffairs generally, on any matter
assigned to the said Committee by the Rules of the Senate, and in particular, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, on any matter concerning the Caribbean area;
That the said Committee be empowered to engage the services of such
counsel and technical, clerical and other personnel as may be required for
the foregoing purposes, at such rates of remuneration and reimbursement
as the Committee may determine, and to, compensate witnesses by reimbursement of travelling and living expenses, if required, in such amount
as the Committee may determine; and
That the papers and evidence received and taken on the subject in
the preceding session be referred to the Committee.
The question being put on the motion, it wasResolved in the affirmative.
Extract from the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Senate, October 30, 1969:
With leave of the Senate,
The Honourable Senator McDonald moved, seconded by the Honourable Senator Gouin:
That the name of the Honourable Senator Nichol bc substituted for
that of the Honourable Senator Savoie on the list of Senators serving on
the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs.
The question being put on the motion, it wasResolved in the affirmative.
Extract from the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Senate, November 18,
1969:
With leave of the Senate,
The Honourable Senator McDonald moved, seconded by the Honourable Senator Smnith:

That the name of the Honourable Senator Connolly (Ottawa West)
be substituted for that of the Honourable Senator Davey on the list of
Senators serving on the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Aiffairs.
The question being put on the motion, it wasResolved in the affirmative.
Extract from the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Senate, Wednesday,
February 18th, 1970.
With leave of the Senate,
The Honourable Senator McDonald moved, seconded by the Honourable Senator Bourget, P.C.:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs have power
to sit during adjournments of the Senate.
The question being put on the motion, it wasResolved in the affirmative.
ROBERT FORTIER,
Clerk of the Senate.

REPORT
of the
SENATE COMMflTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS
Respecting
CANADIAN RELATIONS WITH THE CARIBREAN AREA

TABLE 0F CONTENTS
Pages
Foreword
A Summary of Conclusions and Recommendations..............
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X

Introduction........................................
The Caribbean Area in Canadian Foreign Policy ............
Canadian Government Machinery.......................
Trade Relations.....................................
Development Assistance..............................
Private Investment ..................................
The Work of Voluntary Agencies.......................
Immigration .......................................
Tourism ..........................................
Transport and Communications ........................

xiii

-

xxiii

1 39 13 23 35 41 43 47 51 -

2
7
12
21
34
40
42
45
49
52

53
55
57
59
61

54
56
58
60
62

Appendices:
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

A List of Witnesses Heard by the Committee..................
Basic Trade Statistics.....................................
Canadian Imports of Bananas and Citrus Products ..............
Comments on Traditional Canadian Exports ...................
Immigration Statistics....................................

-

FOREWORD
Under its Terms of Reference of February 4th, 1969, the Committee on
Foreign Affairs has undertaken an extensive study of Canadian relations with
the Caribbean area.
This Report of the Committee's findings is based closely on the testimony
received at the hearings held during the First and Second Sessions of the Twentyeighth Parliament. The Report should be read in conjunction with the accumulated
Proceedings of those hearings. The dates of meetings and witnesses heard are listed
in Appendix "A" of titis Report. An Index to these Proceedings will be included
in issue No. 12 of the Comm-ittee's printed Proceedings for titis session.
The Cominittee wishes to record here its thanks to its witnesses, and to the
many other individuals and organizations whose assistance and co-operation have
made a major contribution to this inquiry.

STANDING SENATE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS
FINAL REPORT ON CANADA-CARIRBEAN RELATIONS
A Summary of Conclusions and Recommendations
In retrospect, it is evident that the 1966 Commonwealth CaribbeanCanada Heads of Goverument Conference embodied the hope of "partnership in development", three years before the Pearson Commission
brought that phrase into general use. Iu many ways the countries participating in that Conference had a unique opportunity to realize thue
ideal of partnership, and yet the subsequent experience has been on
the whole disappointing.
On many fronts there has been tangible and encouraging progress,
but it is umistakably clear that the full and frank exchange of views
essential to real partnership, has not been achieved. This general diagnosis leads directly to the Committee's most fundamental overali recommendation. The expectations of 1966 can stil be realized and the Canada-Caribbean partnership can function if all concerned now show a
readiness to continue the kind of close consultation initiated at that time.
Unquestionably, there are important diliculties and complications
involved, but the Committee remains convinced that a policy of close
and continuing consultation is not only feasible, but is essential to, a
concentratedl Canadian effort to assist the countries of the area i their
developusent.
General
1. The Senate Comnmittee concludes that Canadian policy toward the APoilcy or
Speclal
Commonwealth Caribbean has lacked consistency. Canada should decide Concern
to mauifest special concern for the area and such a policy would be
valid, valuable and in the best interest of ali concerned. There is now
an urgent need for a clear deterinination by the Canadian Goverument
of its future strategy toward the area.
The Committee recommends that Canadian policy, while placing
increased value on relations with all countries of the area, continue to,
reflect this country's special links with thue Commonwealth countries of
thue region.

The Need for
Dialogue

2. A consistent poiicy of special concern implies a partnership that
can only be maintained through continuns consultation and co-operative planning. Paternalism and unilateral decisions and actions must
be avoided at ail costs.

Round-table

3. The time has corne to resume multilateral discussions at the political level betiveen Canada and the Commonwealth Caribbean countries.
This would allow the participants to foliow up on the projects undertaken at the 1966 Conference, engage ini frank exehanges on current
issues, ani set directions for the future. The Canadian Government
should, therefore, discuss with the Commonwealth Caribbean Governments the re-convening of a conference at either the Heads-of-Government or Ministerial level.

Discussions

Diversity of
Area

4. Canadian policy must recognize and respect the distinct character
and diverse aspirations of the countries and territories in the Commonwealth Caribbean. Canadian encouragement of regional co-operation
must therefore be undertaken with great care, so as not to infringe upon
the sovereignty of seif-determination of the counfries concerned.

Constitu-

5.
The possibiiity of constitutional links between Canada and the
countries of the Caribbean area should be re-appraised by the Canadian
Govemnment. This prospect now seems remote, but the Canadian Goverument should be prepared to discuss proposais for dloser economic and
political association between Canada and countries of the area.
6. ln view of the distinct trends within the area Canada can expect
continuing, and even growing criticism and hostility from some sectors of
opinion in the Caribbean. Persistent efforts wili be required to keep this
situation in perspective and forestail excessive reactions on the part of
the Canadian public or other damaging effects on good mutual relations.
It is important to demonstrate that Canada, while interested in stability
in the Caribbean, is flot committed to, the status quo and recognizes the
case for progressive change.

tional Lmnks

Uurest and

Hostility

Canadian Goverument Machinery
A Higher
Priority

1. The Senate Committee bas concluded that a consistent policy of
special concern will require more sustained attention and improved administrative arrangements by ail departments and agencies prirnariiy
concerned with Caribbean relations. The development needs of the area
must be a-constant guiding consideration in the formulation and application of ail relevant policies.

Co-ordination

2.
There is urgent need for improved co-ordination of the policies and
actions of varions departments bearing on Canada-Caribbean relations.
One department should be charged with clear responsibility for co-

of Policy

ordination. The mnter-departmental committee on Canada-Commonwealth Caribbean relations should be given a clear and precise mandate
to maintain a continuing overview of current and long-termn issues. It
must meet regularly and more frequently.
3. There are important advantages to be gaîned from a re-allocation The Herniof responsibilities Within individual departments so that relations witll Fraerk
the Commonwealth Caribbean countries would be handled on a regional,
hemispheric basis rather than under the general Commonwealth jurisdiction. The Committee has been encouraged by the recent re-organization of the Department of Industry, Trade and Commerce to effect this
change.
4. Effective Canadian representation in the Caribbean area must be Criterla for
given higher priority than it has so f ar received. Decisions regarding tepntarepresentational services sbould take account of the important impact Services
of tourism and investment activity on the volume of official. business. As
soon as budgetary considerations permit, the Canadian Government
should establish a mission i Barbados and re-open a mission i the
Dominican Republic. Steps should also be taken to improve the arrangements for Canadian representation i the "Little Seven".
5. The quality of Canadian representation i the Caribbean area will Staff and
have a crucial impact on future Canada-Caribbean relations. All depart- Postings
ments should therefore up-grade the degree of importance of Caribbean
postings, including technical assistance and other short-term appointments, to reflect the challenging and sensitive nature of the tasks.
Trade Relations
1. The Senate Committe bas conclnded that, despite inevitable nhe Level
changes i the traditional. pattern of Canada-Caribbean trade, there is ofTrade
scope for beneficial expansion in the two-way flow. A planned programme of multilateral co-operation and action wili be required to
reverse the present trend which involves a decline i mutual trade relative to both Canadian and Caribbean total trade.
2. Any strategy o! Canadian assistance for the long-tenu develop- coon.
ment of the Caribbean should emphasize Caribbean export potential. "eJ,
The Canadian Government can render mucb more assistance in over- Exports to
Cnd
coming both official and non-officiai obstacles to increased Canadian
imports fromn the region.
3. The Canadian Goverument sbould suggest the establisbment of marketing
a joint Canada-Caribbean marketing agency to be funded initially as sitac
required by Canada. Sncb an agency could coiiduct market snrveys,
establish distribution contracts, advertize and generaliy promote coin-

plementary two-way trade. This could be a relatively low cost assistance
pro ject yielding substantial and lasting resuits for the Caribbean
countries. By selecting promising export products, (examples at this
lime would include bananas, rum, and certain cifrus products), the
agency could have a highly beneficiai impact.
Suzar
Exports

4. Serions misunderstandings have recently arisen, due in part to
the manner in which the 1966 tarifi!-rebate assistance scheme for sugar
was withdrawn. Full understandimg of this step by the sugar-producmng
countries involved does flot appear to have been established. In future,
full consultation, on a political level, should precede any major change
in Canadian policies involving Caribbean countries.
The agricultural assistance fund, which replaces the rebate scheme,
can be of great benefit if it is managed on a basis of close co-operation.
It 15 important that there be no net loss of benefit to sugar-producing
countries.
Canada should take full account of the dilemma of the sugarproducing countries and recognize the difliculties involved in diversification efforts. Buying Caribbean sugar at prices below the cost of
production obviously does flot engender good will.

Rom
Exports

5.
The excellent and highly competitive rums of the Commonwealth
Caribbean should receive as much assistance as possible ini the
Canadian market. The 1966 agreement to implement labelling regulations went into effect on July lst, 1969, but does not appear to have
led to any dramatic increase in imports. The Committee recommends
that the Canadian Government re-assess the effectiveness of this measure
and that the mutual Avantages to Canada and the Caribbean countries
concerned be discussed at the ministerial level with the respective
Canadian provinces.

Manufactures 6.
and Semi-

ol

Increased Canadian investment, under the appropriate conditions,
rvd

o

ny

aia
u
manufactureswudpridnoonycptlbtmcneddmneraadmrk-

uhneedmngra

n

akt

ing expertise for secondary export industries in the Caribbean. Such
export enterprises should be, where possible, labour-intensive and
preferably jointly undertaken with local investors. The provision of
incentives to such industries should be a main priority of the new
Regional Development Bank and the Canadian assistance programme.
Canadian
Exports

7.
In general Canadian exporters have not kept pace with their
competitors in responding to the growing and changing import needs
of the Carihbean countries. Most fraditional exports (except wheat and
flour) have remained fairly constant but much more concerted effort

wili be required to maintain a balanced Canadian share of the overail
Caribbean market.
8. The export-insurance and export-financing operations of the Export
Export Development Corporation should have a more important and Promotion
Activltles
increasing impact on the present and future flow of competitive
Canadian exporta to, the Canibbean. The 1969 changes should permit
expanded and more dynamic activity by the E.D.C.
9. The possîbility of a Commonwealth Caribbean-Canada Free A Free Trade
Trade Area, which was discussed at the 1966 Conference, has now Ame wlth
Cnda
been studied i a report commissioned by the Canadian Government.
The report, while inconclusive in some aspects, indicates a limited
potential for such a scheme. Hf Commonwealth Caribbean goveruments express interest in further exploration of this subject, the report
will formi a useful basis for discussion.
Development Assistance
1. The Senate Committee notes that the Commonwealth Caribbean caribbean
is currently the area of highest per capita allocation of Canadian PdriOy
development assistance funds-an important recognition of flic region's
"6special status"l i Canadian external policy.
The Canadian Government should continue the present intensive
concentration of C.I.D.A. funds i the Commonwealth Caribbean.
There is also great scope for new forms of assistance appropriate to
the present needs of the region.
2. AU Canadian assistance policies should be based on a recognitioni Seif-help
of thie predominance of self-generated resources i development efforts. and Coordiination
Canada's supporting role can be made much more effective by
co-ordiation and harmonization of Goverument policies in several
departments which can vitally affect development prospects.
3. The present C.I.D.A. policy of special concentration in the smaller programme
islands of the Eastern Caribbean is weli-founded. The flve-year hibbeast
planning principle in this programme is also a step in the right
direction, but the Committee is concerned about too great a reiance
on the development of tourismn. The programme should remain flexible,
and C.I.D.A. should respond favourably to requests for increased
assistance to the agricultural sector.

4.

The Committee recommends continuing support of projects and
Carlbba
programmes leading to regional co-operation and integration. The
Co-oi>eration present assistance to the University of the West Indies and the Regional
Development Bank is highly effective for this purpose. ARl co-operative
projeets must proceed, however, at the pace agreed upon by the
governments of the area and no regional institution should become too
dependent on outside support.
Encouragement of

General
Assistance
1'oicles

5.

The Senate Committee recommends the foliowing changes in
Canadian assistance policies to increase the effectiveness of the aid
and improve the climate of Canada-Caribbean relations:
(a) "Programme" assistance-Direct financial support of the
development programmes of the Caribbean countries in order to
eliminate a number of inefficiencies and frustrations, and as an
important and effective demonstration of confidence and partuership by Canada.
(b) "Tying" of aid-A continued policy of "untying" aid which
is in the best long-term interests of ail concernied and would be
greatly welcomed by the Caribbean governments.
C.I.D.A. should also explore the possibility for permitting
"tied" aid funds to be utilized for procurement in other developing countries. Within the Caribbean region this could have an
important impact on industrial development and economic
integration.
(c) Local Costs-Further liberalization of the Canadian policy on
the payment of "local costs" to take account of "indirect foreigu
exchaage costs" (e.g., the cost of imported componients), and to
exciade shippiag costs from the "local" compontent.

Future
Assistance

planning

6.

Future Canadian assistance should concentrate more on direct

eeomnofaporaeepr

etrofteCrbeuenmis

deepenofaroraeeprsetrofteCrbeneomes
The marketing agency proposed i section 3 of "Trade Relations" above,
conld be a highly effective vehicle for such assistance. At the saute time,
Canada's technical assistance in the area should increasingly stress
business and public administration, with flexible schemes for relevant
extension work and on-the-job training.

A "Canadian 7.

A "Canadian Overseas Development Corporation" might be able
Developinent to play an important part in stimulating local activity in the private
Corporation" sector in the Caribbean, complementing Canada's present bilateral
assistance and the work of the Regional Development Bank. The
possible establishment of such a corporation merits further study by
the Canadian Govemnment.
Overseas

xviii

8. The Report's sections on "Tonrism",. "Immigration", "Private Other
Assistance
Investinent", and "The Work of Voluntary Agencies" contain specific Polics
recommendations for assistance measures i those fields.
Private Investment
1. The Senate Comnuttee is convinced that Canad"a private invest- Place lu
Canadament has contributed substantially to Caribbean development. It has Caribbean
been encouraged by the governments of the area and welcomed by Relations
the vast majority of thefr people. As i Canada, however, there have
been basic changes i the conditions under which outside investmnent is
expected to operate. There is an urgent need for increased awareness
of these changing conditions if Canadian investmeut is to continue to
play a useful role in Caribbean development and to have a beneficial
effect on Canada-Caribbean relations.
2. The Canadian Government should give vigorous encouragement to Canadian
Govemnment
Canadian investors who are sensitive to the needs and conditions of the Co-operation
area.
The new investment-insurance operation of the Export Development Corporation should help to increase productive investment and
can serve to encourage appropriate corporate policies. The Corporation's advocacy of joint ventures with local ivestors is an example of
the kçind of progressive action reqmired.
Withi C.I.D.A., the Committee recommends that the Business
and Industry Division assume an expanding role as a "1clearing bouse"
for information on investment opportunities i developing countries.
C.I.D.A.'s work i infrastructural and pre-investment assistance
provides vital "1seed money"l for activity i the private sector. Canada
should continue to provide this kind of help, which is likely to be
icreasingly requested by Caribbean governments.
3. Because of the intrinsic ivolvement of Canada's national interests Inforination
onPrivate
and reputation, the Committee believes that Canadian GovernmentlInivestnient
policy should take full account of the location and extent of Canadian
private investment in the Caribbean. The Committee has been surprised
to learu as a result of exhaustive research that some information on
Canadian private investment is coliected and collated by the Dominion
Bureau of Statistics, but that the existence cf even this material is not
apparently known within. the policy-making departmnents. This data is
essential to an overview of Canadian involvement, and to the accurate

planning of officiai development assistance and representational services.
Personnel within these departments should be made aware of this
information and should have access to it when required.
Local

Particip>ation

4. It is vital that Canadian investors recognize and accept the
growing local interest in ownership of Caribbean resources and industry.
With regard to existing investment, some Canadian firms have initiated
the policy of local sales of shares with very enconraging results.
Share-purchase plans for employees wifl be a very useful vehicle in
this endeavour.
In future investmeuts, demand for larger local participation cale
be expected and there will be increasing emphasis on joint ventures
and management contracts. If Canadian investors can adapt satisfactorily to these new conditions, they wiIl continue to operate profitably
and make an even more useful contribution to the Caribbean economies.

5. The countries of the area are firmly committed to phasiug ont
of Resources thefr current level of dependence on raw materials production and
gainiug a greater share of the economic benefits from the end-prodncts
of Caribbeau resources. The primary Canadian involvemeut in a
resource industry is in bauxite and alumina. While the Canadian
company's record is considered relatively good, growing local pressure
can be expected for increased processing of the materials within the
area.
Extending

the Benefits

Financdal
Inlstitutions

Economic
"'SpiUovers"

Personnel

Policies

6. The other main sector of Canadian corporate activity, financial
institutions, is an intrinsically sensitive one. It will be increasingly
important for these firmns to continue policies of encouragiug local
equity participation and developing local personnel resources. They
wil also be required to meet growing demands that their operations
be closely geared to the development needs of the Caribbean communities.
7. Ail Canadian investors in the Caribbeau must become increas-i
ingly conscious of the need to stimulate ancillary ecouomic activity
by maximiziug local purchases of goods and services. There is a
pressing need for more local benefits from the tourist industry and
manufacturiug enterprises.
8. AIl companies operating in the Caribbean should recognize the
need to recruit locally for staff positions at all levels. Canadian com-

panies should flot on]y adhere te the requirements of local governmnents, but eau greatly increase the effectiveness of their operations by
energetically recruiting local personnel, particularly for managerial and
supervisory positions. The practice of recruiting Commonwealth Caribbeau students and other expatriates i Canada is an excellent one
which should be expanded.
The Work of Voluntary Agencies
1. The Senate Committee considers that the "matching grants"l pro- cana"ia
SNIc
vided to voluntary agencies, through C.I.D.A.'s Special Programs Divi. Government
sion, have been a very effective use of official development assistance
funds i the Caribbean. The programme should bie expanded further
and, i certain circnmstances, C.I.D.A. conld legitimately contribute an
even larger proportion of project costs.
Immigration
1. The Senate Committee has noted the large increases i Caribbean Immigration
imigration and has been encouraged by the fact that recent chne naCanbada
Canadian immigration policy have removed former sources of friction. Relations
2. The seasonal movement of farm workers to Canada since 1967 has Agriculturai
Workers'
heen very useful i providing short-terni employment te several thousand p.
workers fromn Commonwealth Caribbean countries. The arrangement
appears te have been satisfactory to ail concerned, and further growth
i this and similar plans should be encouraged.
The question of the "brai drain" from, the Caribbeau, which is Iniiaation
reconizd asoneof the area's main problems, bas been one of the and the
major concerus of the Committee. While it has concluded that the mai Drain"
responsibility for alleviating this problem must remai with the home
countries of skiiled immigrants, the Committee strongly recommends
that the Canadian Goverument co-operate i ail such efforts.
3.

4. The initiatives being taken by C.I.D.A. te reduce the immigration Educational
of Caribbean students brought te Canadian istitutions are very useful. Assistance
By providing scholarships for study at the University of the West Indies,
particularly at the undergraduate level, equally effective bellp is provided at lower cost, without idncig emigration. The Committee was
encouraged by the improvement in the proportion of Caribbean students
returning to work i their home countries. The recruiting programmes of
companies active i the area helpi te bring back students and other
expatriates, and the Committee recommends that the Department of
Manpower and Immigration offer ail possible assistance with this
recruiting.

Tourism
Social and
Economic
Effects

1.
While recognizing the crucial importance of the tourist industry to
many Caribbean countries, the Senate Committee has become concerned
about the overail impact of tourism on those countries and on CanadaCaribbean relations i general.
Evidence given before the Committee indicated that tourism has
hadl a number of undesirable social side-effects without necessarily bringing ail the expected economic benefits. The Committee recognizes that
the responsibility for solving these problems rests primarily with the
local goveruments, but bas several specific proposais to make.

2.
If the tourist industry is to have any broad and Iasting impact,
many more of its material requirements, from consumables to construcBeneits tion materials, must be procured Iocally, rather than imported (as
is now
the general mile). While this wili involve mainly local grovemnment
action in encouraging local production and purchasing and in educating
tourists about local products, Canada could assist significantly by
directing more of its assistance to production reiated to, tourism, and
by adopting co-operative policies in other fields.

Economlc
Side

Duty-Free
Exemption
for Canadian
TourLsts

3. The possibility of enlarged duty-free exemptions for Canadian
tourists returning front the Caribbean was discussed at the 1966 Conference. While acknowledging the merit of the Canadian Government's
reservations about discriminatory measures of this kind, the Senate
Committee considers that it would be desirable to extend especiaily
favourable treatment to developing countries i general. The Committee recommends that special consideration be given to thîs proposai,
which could be of great ixumediate benefit to deveiopig areas sncb as
the Caribbean.
Transport and Communications

General
Progress

1.
The Senate Committee bas been encouraged by the progress made
on a number of issues relating to transport and communications sice
the 1966 Conference and considers that this sector wilI continue to be
an important focus for Canadian development assistance to, the Caribbean.

Canada-

2.

Carlbbean
Trans-

portation

Tbe question of direct Canada-Caribbean sbippig, a concern of

tbe 1966 Conference, bas been examined i some depth by the Com-

mittee. Recause of its crucial reiationsbip to trade possibilities, the

Committee believes tbat the whole question of direct transportation
could be discussed very usefully i new multilaterai talks witb the Caribbeau governments.

While such discussions could deal with the shipping study prepared
by the Canadian Government, they should also emphasize the potential
for air-freight services. The prospects for ail forms of air transportation
between Canada and the Caribbean wili improve rapidly as innovation
proceeds i the field.

ixili

I INTRODUCTION
The Committee's decision to embark on a close and full study of Canadian
relations with the Caribbean area was based on the belief that the region has a
special importance and significance to Canada. As the Caribbean was not one of
the areas to be given particular attention in the Government's foreign policy
review, the Committee felt that there was need for a separate study of trends
in the relationship. Subsequent events have demonstrated that the study was a
timely one, with changes of great significance for Canada underway in the region.
The Committee's approach to the inquiry was conceived within the framework of Canada's traditional concern for the area's problems and development
prospects. The first phase of the programme was therefore devoted to a number
of hearings with expert witnesses on the Caribbean area, who focussed on
different aspects of the current situation and future trends in several countries
and territories. In the second phase, the Committee concentrated on the policies
and operations of the various Departments of the Canadian Government which
are involved in Caribbean relations. After this examination of official Canadian
policy, the focus moved to private activities, with hearings on the operations of
private Canadian firms, and the work of voluntary assistance agencies. In its
concluding phase the Committee heard several witnesses who proferred projections
of the future relationship with both the Commonwealth and non-Commonwealth
areas, and speculated on the future economic framework of Canada-Caribbean
relations.
The Committee's inquiry has necessarily been undertaken from a Canadian
point of view. While particular efforts have been made to study Caribbean perspectives on the issues involved, for several reasons, the Committee has not solicited the views of Caribbean political leaders or government officials. Similarly,
the Committee has not in general felt it appropriate to recommend courses of
action to other governments, but their attitudes and policies will obviously have a
fundamental bearing on the implementation of any of the Committee's recommendations to Canadian governmental bodies, exporters, investors, etc.
The scope of the inquiry has been very broad. In addition to official relations,
the Committee has considered the many important institutional, commercial, and
personal connections involved in the overall Canada-Caribbean relationship. The
geographic scope has also been inclusive, covering the whole Caribbean region.
In practice, the main focus has remained on the Commonwealth Caribbean countries and territories, where Canadian ties have traditionally been strongest. Con22481-37

siderable attention has also been given, however, to Canadian relations with the
non-Commonwealth islands and countries bordering on the Caribbean Sea. The
Committee has concluded that Canada's special concentration in the Commonwealth countries should continue to prevail. Expanding Canadian involvement is
likely and desirable, however, in many of the non-Commonwealth countries, and
there will be broadening areas of close co-operation among all the countries of
the region.
The Committee's approach has also been long-range; attempting to project
present trends and assess the likely future directions of the relationship. The Committee has, therefore, been concerned with the anti-Canadian aspects of the recent
disturbances in the region, while viewing them in the perspective of the long-term
relationship. This is not to under-estimate the urgent importance of these demonstrations. The Committee believes they are a clear warning that many of the
comfortable assumptions of the past are dangerously inappropriate in the current
Caribbean context. These disturbances have alerted Canadians generally to rapidly
changing conditions with important implications for Canada. To this Committee,
they have pointed up the urgent need for an official re-assessment of CanadaCaribbean relations. The hearings upon which this report is based have taken place
in an atmosphere of re-thinking and re-appraisal, with expert witnesses giving
freely of their insights into many complex dilemmas. As a forum for discussion,
the Committee has provided an outlet for widely-differing viewpoints. A strong
common theme, however, has been the continuing importance of the CanadaCaribbean link.

II THE CARIBREAN AREA IN CANADIAN FOREIGN POLICY
The current phase in Canadian relations with the Caribbean area dates from
July, 1966, when the Commonwealth Caribbean-Canada Heads of Governent
Conference was held in Ottawa. This unique and imaginative multilateral Conference was convened for a general review of relations at a time when Most of the
former British West Indian territories were adjusting to new, post-Federation
constitutional patterns.
The painstaking preparation for the Conference enabled the participants to
cover a very extensive agenda lin an atmosphere of close and cordial consultation.
At the conclusion of the meetings a number of dramatic new co-operative measures
were announced. Agreement was reached on a Protocol to the 1925 Canada-West
Indies Trade Agreement; the Canadian Government announced a long-terni commitment to vastly-expanded development assistance; and there were specific agreements on other economic questions, migration, transport and communications,
international questions of common interest, and cultural relations. The Canadian
Governmnt also made an important proposal regarding sugar inports from the
area.
The Conference generated a great deal of mutual good-will and general
optimism regarding the future course of Canada-Caribbean relations. The Final
Communiqué conveyed this mood in the following words:
During the past three days substantial progress has been made on the
process of dloser consultation and co-operation among the Commonwealth
countries of the Western Hemisphere. This development holds great
promise for the future and will bring early practical benefits to all the
participants. The Heads of Goverrument participating in the present Conference are determined to continue and strengthen the fruitful collaboration
among them. which has been begun in Ottawa this week.
In keeping with this statement, it was agreed that the governnxents represented
should re-convene (at a date to be fixed) for a general discussion of relationships
and to review progress. A number of other mechanisms were set up "to ensure that
effective follow-up action is taken on the matters discussed at this Conference".
The first concern of this Committee has been to ascertain whether or not
Canada-Caribbean relations have subsequently developed along the close consultative limes envisaged in 1966. Regrettably, the conclusion is that they have not.
The dranxatic success of that Conference may have created unwarranted expectations of future results. The fundamental difficulties involved in producing agree22481-37à

ment among the different Caribbean countries may have been under-estimated.
The capacity for a continuing dialogue may have been taken for granted.
Whatever the reasons, it is now clear that the consultative momentum of 1966
has not been maintained. In the open dispute surrounding Canada's recent decision
to terminate the sugar-tariff rebate granted in 1966, it has been evident that
Canada-Caribbean communications, rather than being close and continuous, are
sometimes quite deficient.
The consultative machinery agreed upon to follow up on the 1966 talks has
not operated as consistently or effectively as was hoped. A new Conference has not
been called and the Trade and Economic Committee has met only once, in
February, 1967. The Canadian Government's interdepartmental committee on
Canada-Commonwealth Caribbean relations appears to have functioned only intermittently.
In making these comments, the Committee does recognize that progress has
been made on almost all of the specific projects agreed upon at the Conference.
A number of the tangible commitments made by Canada in 1966 have been followed up completely-in the area of development assistance, for example, Canada
has far exceeded the five-year target announced at the Conference, and the Commonwealth Caribbean receives many times as much Canadian aid, on a per capita
basis, as any other area in the world. In many other cases, however, this progress
has been slow and fairly minor. Several of the proposed joint projects, furthermore,
have proceeded separately or only on the Canadian side.
The Committee believes that Canadian policy toward the area has lacked
coherence and consistency, and urgently requires clarification. The Committee is
also convinced that, in a framework of close co-operation and consultation, Canada
should adhere to a consistent policy of manifesting special concern for the area.
Most of the factors supporting such a policy are well known: geographic, linguistic
and cultural proximity; historic and current trade connections; extensive two-way
movements of individuals; long-standing investment and other non-official involvement. In the Committee's view, most of these factors still have a compelling
validity, and the Canadian Government should make a clear determination to
adopt a policy of special concern for the region and its development.
In urging a policy of regional concentration and multi-lateral consultation,
the Committee is not overlooking the difficulty involved because of the multiplicity
of political jurisdictions in the Commonwealth Caribbean area. Canada, like all
other outside powers, must respect the individuality of these countries and accept
the complications and duplication involved in dealing with them.
One of the stated objectives of Canadian policy in the region is to encourage
movements towards integration in the Commonwealth Caribbean. While economic
co-operation (and a measure of political union) are possibly the only keys to the
long-term viability of the area, historical experience clearly demonstrates that they

must grow up naturally and from within the region itself. Pressure exerted by
Canada or any other outside power could easily prove counter-productive. Canadian encouragement should, then, take the form of support for regional institutions
and projects established by the area governments themselves.
In this connection, however, it is noteworthy that the 1966 Conference served
as a significant stimulus to intra-regional co-operation. In preparing "regional"
positions for discussion with Canada, the Commonwealth Caribbean countries
made a good deal of progress among themselves on a number of issues. Since
that time, there lias been substantial advance in several areas of co-operation
(e.g. CARIFTA and the Regional Development Bank) and the machinery for
intra-regional consultation lias been mucli improved. A new Commonwealth Caribbean-Canada Conference might, as in the past, have a useful impact on cooperative projects within the region.
From the Canadian point of view there are many other arguments for
re-convening a higli-level multilateral Conference for a general review of relations.
The progress made on the 1966 proposals could be discussed, and a number of
projects could be either carried further or discontinued. A large number of topical
issues present themselves, including the whole planning of many aspects of future
Canadian development assistance. Finally, the opportunity for open, round-table
communication would be invaluable in dealing with current tensions and in setting
future terras of reference for the relationship.
In the Committee's opinion, the Canadian Goverrunent should, as a matter
of urgent concern, discuss with the Caribbean governments the re-convening of
the Heads of Governmnent Conference, or perhaps one or more preliminary
meetings at the Ministerial level.
Another consideration is also, of the utmost importance. It is now clear that
there is an essential inbalance in the Canada-Commonwealth Caribbean relationship. Differences in size and economic power magnify the Canadian impact in
these small countries. Racial differences tend to widen the gap. The existing
Canadian presence, in ternis of investment, trade, tourism and even development
assistance, raises Canada to the relative stature of a major power in the area.
Regardless of Canadian intentions or policies, this position will automatically
give rise to a certain amount of unpopularity and even hostility. Accusations of
&6neo-colonialism" will continue to be made against Canada. Canadians can no
longer expect to find li the area the uncritical and almost unlimited good will
of former years.
A Canadian policy of special concern for the area will probably carry the cost
of growing criticism, and hostility of this kind. Canadians have not been exposed to,
it in the past, and particular efforts will be needed to keep it li perspective and
avert damaging reactions.
Unreasonable apprehensions on the part of West Indians can also be much;
reduced. Without resorting to invidious comparisons, it can be demonstrated that
the Canadian record in the area is a relatively good one. Moreover, a large number

of specifie measures recommended in this report could contribute to the improvement of relations on ail levels.
In recommending the adoption of a policy of special concern, the Committee
considered the possibility of direct political tics between Canada and countries
of the Commonwealth Caribbean. This possibility, which has been discussed
intermittently for many decades, appears to have been more remote in recent
years, particularly as several Commonwealth Caribbean countries have achieved
fuil independence.
In view of the failure of the West Indies Federation, the restoration of a
measure of political union within the area itself appears to be a distant prospect.
However, it remains a long-terma objective for many of the countries, and must be
considered in any assessment of future possibilities. In the interim, the constitutional position of the "Little Seven" remains basically unsettled, and current
discussion of Canadian political involvement usuaily relates to these islands. The
dependent territories and those in "associated status" with Britain are, to, diflering
extents, gravitating away fromn their close constitutional ties with that country
giving rise to some speculation about new forms of political connection with
Canada.
In thîs matter the Committee is in basic concurrence with the appraisal of
the Canadian Government, as expressed to the Committee, that constitutional
links are improbable in the foreseeable future. The Carîbbean territories concerned
are unlikely to be attracted to an inherently lopsided relationship which might be
widely feit to have neo-colonial characteristics. There are also certain obvious
difficulties on the Canadian side.
The Committee recommends that the Canadian Goverrnent adopt a flexible
approach to this issue and be prepared to discuss proposais for dloser political and
economic association between Canada and countries of the Caribbean.
Conclusions and Recommendations (11)
A PoIicy of

Special
Concern

1. The Senate Committee concludes that Canadian policy toward
the Commonwealth Caribbean bas Iacked consistency. Canada should
decide to manifest special concern for the area and such a policy would
be valid, valuable and in the best interests of ail concerned. There is
now an urgent need for a clear determination by the Canadian
Government of its future strategy toward the area.
The Committee recommends that Canadian pollcy, while placing
increased value on relations with ail countries of the area, continue to
reflect this country's special links with the Commonwealth countries
of the region.

The Need
for Dialogue

2.
A consistent policy of special concern implies a partnership that
can only be maintamned through continuons consultation and
co-operative planning. Paternalismn and unilateral decisions and actions
miust be avoided at ail costs.

3. The lime has corne to, resume multilateral discussions at thle R-ound-table
political level between Canada and the Commonwealth Canibbean Discussions
countries. This would allow the participants to foliow up on the
projecfs undertaken at thle 1966 Conference, engage in frank exchanges
on current issues, and set directions for file future. The Canadian
Government silould, tilerefore, discuss with fthe Commonwealth Caribbeau Governments fthe re-convening of a conference at either file
Heads-of-Government or Ministerial level.
4. Canadian policy must recognize and respect the distinct cilaracter Di'versty of
and diverse aspirations of thle countries and territories in file Common- Area
wealth Caribbean. Canadian encouragement of regional co-operation
must therefore be undertaken wifh great care, so as nof f0, infringe
upon file sovereiguty or seli-determination of the countries concerned.
5. The possibility of constitutional links befween Canada and the Constitucounfries of file Caribbean area should be re-appraised by the Canadian donai Links
Government. This prospect now seems remofe, but the Canadian
Government silould be prepared f0 discuss proposais for dloser economic
and political association between Canada and countries of file area.
6. In view of distinct trends within file area Canada can expect unrest and
continuing, and even growing criticism and ilostility from some sectors Hostlilty
of opinion in file Caribbean. Persistent efforts wiil be required f0, keep
this situation in perspective and forestali excessive reaction on the part
of file Canadian public or other damaging effects on good mutual
relations. If is important f0, demonstrate thaf Canada, while interested
in stabilify in file Caribbean, is not comniitted f0 file statu$ quo and
recognizes file case for progressive change.

III

CANADIAN GOVERNMENT MACHINERY

The Committee has concluded that an important source of difficulty in
maintaining close consultation with the Caribbean governments if the fact that
Caribbean relations appear to be given a relatively low priority within some of the
Canadian Government departments concerned, and that there seems to be a lack
of co-ordination among them.
The Committee considers that there is a need in all departments concerned,
for increased awareness of the developmental implications of government policies
in many diflerent fields. Too often, the benefit of development assistance is offset
by decisions in other areas of policy which may flot at first sight have obvious
relevance to Caribbean development or to Canada-Caribbean relations. (An
example, which is considered in a later section of this report, is some aspects of
Canadian immigration policy.) A concerted Canadian assistance effort will therefore also require improved communication and co-ordination among the various
departments involved. The Committee recommends that one department be given
clear responsibility for co-ordination of official policies relating to the Caribbean
area.
The Inter-Departmental Committee on Canada-Commonwealth Caribbean
Relations should be made a more effective mechanism for communication and
co-ordination. If it is to be useful in future it must meet more regularly and
frequently. In this way it could detect inconsistencies in policy at the early planning stage and recommend needed adjustments. It would also be a very useful
forum for the discussion of current and long-term issues in the relationship, allowing the officials concerned to keep abreast of developments and better anticipate
the future needs of Canadian policy.
Within individual departments, the Committee believes that relations with the
Commonwealth Caribbean would be most effectively dealt with in a regional
hemispheric framework rather than under the broad Commonwealth jurisdiction
where they are now handled. This re-organization would augment the effectiveness
of Canada's new hemispheric policy and would encourage a general approach
more relevant to the future direction of relations. While the Commonwealth itself
represents an important linlc in Canadian relations with the Caribbean members,
the Committee believes that it should be distinguished from the purely bilateral
relationships which will become increasingly important. The Commonwealth
grouping is becoming a less cohesive factor in the organization of political relations
in this region, and its economie rationale will necessarily diminish as Britain pursues its economic re-orientation toward Europe. At the saine time, the Commonwealth Caribbean countrieft are forging important new ties with their Latin Ameni22481-38

can neighbours and are evaluating the possible merits of economic associations
within the hemisphere. This proposed administrative re-organization would, in the
Committee's view, encourage a more coherent and increasingly realistic treatment
of Canadian policy toward the entire region.
The Cominittee has learned that a change of this kind was made in a reorganization of the Department of Industry, Trade and Commerce in May of this
year, and hopes that this pattern will be followed by the other departments concerned.
Consultation with the Commonwealth Caribbean governments on hemispheric
affairs was apparently very productive at the 1966 Conference, and the Committee believes that it should continue to be an important aspect of relations.
Here, as in other international arenas and organizations, (e.g. the United Nations
and its specialized agencies), Canada and the Caribbean countries will on occasion
hold similar viewpoints, and in such cases they can co-operate very effectively.
This is especially useful, in the Committee's view, as a bridge of understanding
between a developed country and a developing region.
The Committee has given some consideration to the scope of representational
services maintained in the area by the Canadian Government. Noting the increasing
volume of official business resulting from extensive tourism, investment, trade,
development assistance and immigration, the Committee has concluded that the
Caribbean area should have a higher priority in any future expansion of representational services than it has so far enjoyed. Effective local missions will have an
important role in implementing a Canadian policy of special concern and in dealing
with possible sources of friction. The Committee considers that it would be highly
desirable, on this basis, to establish a permanent Canadian mission in Barbados,
which maintains a High Commission in Ottawa. Special consideration should also
be given to the improvement of arrangements for Canadian representation in the
"Little Seven".
While the Committee's study did not emphasize Canadian relations with the
countries of the non-Commonwealth Caribbean, considerable attention was given
to relations with the Dominican Republic and to the Government's decision to close
the mission in that country. The Committee has concluded that this step was,, on
balance, an unfortunate one which illustrates the need for a more sensitive overall
strategy toward the region.
The circumstances at the time of the announcement were regrettable-the
Dominican Government had just appointed a new ambassador to Canada and the
decision was made known to the Dominican public abruptly and with inadequate
explanation. The decision to close this mission was inevitably viewed by many
Dominicans as a reflection of Canadian priorities unfavourable to their country.
A further factor involves broad questions about Canada's overall
development assistance in the region. Canadian investment in the
Republic has traditionally been substantial, and the mission-closing
days after the conclusion (following protracted negotiations) of an

strategy of
Dominican
came only
agreement

between a Canadian company and the Dominican Goverument on an immense
investment project in the nickel industry. This project will be of such dimensions
as to involve a major increase in officiai business, which will be much more difficuit
to conduct without a resident mission. The Committee believes that if the
Canadian Goverrnent is going to, encourage private investment as a means of
assisting development, investment activity must be treated as one of the major
criteria in providing representational facilities. The Committee recommends that the
Governiment re-open a mission in the Dominican Republic as soon as budgetary
considerations permit.
For many of the same reasons that expanded representation is required in the
Caribbean area, the Committee considers that great efforts should be made to
ensure that the highest calibre of representation is maintained. Caribbean postings
should be recognized by ail departments concerned as sensitive and demanding,
and their degree of importance should be raised. The Committee considers that
the challenges will probably increase in the future. Great care should therefore be
taken to ensure that ail personnel associated directiy or indirectly (e.g. through
technical assistance projects) with the Canadian Goverament possess the professional and personal capabilities required.
Conclusions and Recommendations (111)
1. The Senate Committee bas concluded that a consistent policy AHigber
of special concern will require more sustained attention and improved Prlority
administrative arrangements by ali departments and agencies primarily
concerned with Caribbean relations. The development needs of the
area must be a constant guiding consideration in the formulation and
application of ail relevant policies.
2. There is urgent need for inproved co-ordination of the policies co-ordinaand actions of varions departments bearing on Canada-Caribbeaun 0'o
relations. One departinent should be charged with clear responsibility Plc
for co-ordination. The inter-departmental committee on CanadaCommonwealth Caribbean relations should be given a clear and precise
mandate to maintain a continuing overview of current and long-terni
issues. It must meet regularly and more frequently.
3. There are important advantages to be gained from. a re-allocation Ihe
of responsibilities within individual departinents so that relations With Hemispherie
Framework
the Commonwealth Caribbean countries would be handled on a regional,
hemispheric basis rather than under the general Commonwealth jurisdiction. The Committee bas been encouraged by the recent re-organization o! the Departinent of Industry, Trade and Commerce to effect this
change.
4. Effective Canadian representation in the Caribbean area must be Criteria for
given higher priority than it bas so far received. Decisions regarding Rep>resentarepresentational services should take account of the important impact servies
of tourismn and investment activity on the volume of officiai business.
22481-38A

12
As soon as budgetary considerations permit, the Canadian Governent
should establlsh a mission ini Barbados and re-open a mission in the
Dominican Republic. Steps should also be taken to improve the arrangements for Canadian representation ini the "Little Seven".
Staff and
POStmngs

5. The quality of Canadian representation i the Caribbean area will
have a crucial impact on future Canada-Caribbean relations. Ail departments should therefore up-grade the degree of importance of Caribbean postings, including technical assistance and other short-tern
appointments, te, reflect the challenging and sensitive nature of the
tasks.

IV

TRADE RELATIONS

1. General
The Comniittee has been impressed by the changing patterni of trade between
Canada and the Caribbean countries. The total volume of trade remains stable
and substantial, with the two-way flow amounting to about $200 million annually,
but the historic economic complementarity between the two areas is quickly
declining in importance.
Patternis of production and demand are rapidly changing and Canada-Caribbean trade has flot kept pace-this trade lias diniinished in relative importance
to both areas. If the present trends continue, the prospect is for further declines
in relative, and perhaps even in absolute, terms. The Committee is convinced,
however, that under a planned programme of multilateral co-operation and action
these trends can be reversed, and Canada-Caribbean trade can be expanded
considerably. Sucli an expansion will require energetic measures to identify new
products with export potential and then to market and promote them. On the
officiai level, a large measure of reciprocal co-operation will be required to help
open these new limes of mutual trade.
The Committee noted that in recent years the total trade balance lias shifted
to favour Canadian exports and that 1969 statistics reflect a healthy increase of
trade in both directions. (Statistics on country totals and leading commodities
are included in Appendix "B" of this report.) The Committee also believes that
the deterioration of the ternis of trade for Caribbean exports will continue in the
future-a factor which must be borne ini mind in any discussion of trade relations.
The Committee bas noted with satisfaction the improvements in world sugar prices
brought about by the International Sugar Agreement of 1968.
2. Caribbean Exports
a. General
The economies of the Caribbean countries are heavily dependent on trade
and the growth of their exports will be a critical factor in their future development. The Comniittee believes therefore that Canada's strategy of development
assistance to the region should empliasize the potential for self-generated growth
through increased trade.
b. Marketing Assistance
The Canadian market is of differing importance to the various Caribbean
countries, but it is a significant outlet for ail of them. The Committee strongly
recommends that the Canadian Goverument, as part of a policy of special con-

cern for the area, give ail possible forms of direct and indirect assistance to Caribbean exports in Canadian markets.
A major innovation, which the Committee believes could be of immense
value, would be the establishment of a joint Canada-Caribbean marketing agency.
The Committee is convinced that such an agency, which could survey markets,
negotiate contracts, assure supplies and generally advertize and promote promising
Caribbean exports, could show rapid resuits in sales of a number of produets.
There appears to be immediate potential for imports of bananas, rum. and citrus
products. * The agency could also greatly assist Caribbean exporters of manufactured and senii-manufactured produets.
The Committee believes that it would not only be legitimate for the Canadian aid programme to help finance such a marketing agency, but that the programme is incomplete without it. There is a strong likelihood, in the Committee's
view, that the relatively low cost of this projeet could yield very high retumns and
bring lasting development in the Caribbean. The actual method of financing can
be determined by consultation-it could take the form. of normal government-togovemment aid, direct financing within Canada, or one of several other possibilities. Once such an organization was underway, continued interest by the Canadian authorities would assist its effective operation and could help to ensure
against the possibility of unfair competitive practices affecting Caribbean imports.
c. Sugar Imports
The Committee bas devoted considerable attention to the question of sugar
imports, which form an important, and often controversial, element in Canada's
relations with a number of countries in the Caribbean area. 'Me Canadian programme of tariff-rebates, undertaken after the 1966 Conference, was well received
by the governments of the area, although it did not compare with the generosity
of British and American subsidies and stili meant that Canada was buying Commonwealth Caribbean sugar at a price below the cost of production. For these
reasous, the exporting countries filled their other commitments first and neyer took
full advantage of the Canadian tariff-rebate quota. The realization of the new
International Sugar Agreement in late 1968 resulted in a general price increase
beneficial to the Caribbean producers.
The Committee believes that there was probably sound, long-termn economie
grounds for the recent decision of the Canadian Government to discontinue the
rebate scheme and replace it with a direct annual grant of $5 million to an Agricultural Assistance Fund. It remains, then, to ask why the decision was so bitterly
protested by the Caribbean goverrnents and "deprecated" in a resolution passed
by the sixth Commonwealth Caribbean Heads of Government Conference in April
of this year.
*Th situation regarding rumn imports is discussed later in this section. Appendix "C" contains
some notes on the possibilities of expanded Canadian imnports of bananas and citrus products.

The Committee lias concluded that this regrettable misunderstanding resulted
from. a very serlous f allure in communication between the Canadian and Caribbean
governents. The Committee believes that more effective consultation and dialogue
could have prevented the dispute and its damaging consequences.
The Caribbean governments feit that they were inadequately consulted on the
decision and that the new Fund was no substitute for the rebate scheme. They were
also apparently concerned by the lack of clear information about the objectives
and possible duration of the Fund. The sugar-producing countries, in particular,
were alarmed by the fact that the Fund will be under regional rather than national
control and that there was no assurance of continuing benefit 10 the ailing sugar
industry.
The Committee hopes that these problems have been resolved in subsequent
discussions and that the new Fund will be managed on a basis of close co-operation.
In addition to projects aimned at agricultural diversification, the new Fund should
extend substantial assistance directly to the sugar industry, which is in a situation
comparable in many respects 10 that of Canadian wheat producers.
These recent difficulties concerning sugar imports have impressed upon the
Committee the need for close and continuing consultation, at the political level,
ini Canada-Caribbean relations. Sugar itself will probably continue to, be a source
of friction unless Canada were to provide greatly increased subsidies. A continuing
aggravation of this basic problemn however is Canada's increasing reliance on South
African sugar which stili enjoys Commonwealth preferential treatment in the Canadian market. Discontinuance of this preference, while il would probably not be of
great material benefit to Caribbean exporters, would certainly remove a particularly
volatile irritant 10 West Indians.
d. Rum Imports
The Canadian tariff on rum has not been the primary obstacle to increased
imports of the product from the Caribbean. In the past the main problems have
resulted from the purchasing practices of provincial liquor authorities and the
inadequacy of labelling regulations on rum from different sources. The Canadian
Governent, in accordance with commitments made at the 1966 Conference, lias
pressed for new labelling regulations (brouglit into effect on July 1st, 1969) and
has used its good offices with provincial liquor boards to encourage increased purchases of West Indian rum. The impact on sales is flot yet clear, but the Committee believes that the Canadian Governxnent should maintain a continuing interest in this product and re-assess the effectiveness of this measure and other possible
formns of assistance. Provincial liquor boards could assist directly by increasing
their purchases of Caribbean rum., and the Committee recommends that the situation be discussed at the ministerial level, between Canadian federal and provincial
governnients.

The Committee is convinced that it would be damaging and regrettable if the
West Indian rum exporters continued to lose their share of the Canadian market
with their excellent and highly competitive product.
e. Manufactured and Semi-Manufactured Products
Caribbean exports of manufactured and semi-manufactured products to
Canada, while they have increased significantly in recent years, have not yet
reached major proportions. The Committee believes that the growth of secondary
export industry is vital to the future development of the region and therefore hopes
for the early realization of a generalized non-reciprocal preference scheme for
exports of developing countries which should give a major impetus to production
in the Caribbean.
The Committee is also convinced that Canadian firms can play a very useful
role in this field by increased investment in export-production in the region. The
infusion of technical and managerial expertise and familiarity with Canadian markets may be as important as the capital itself. Such investment should take account
of local needs and conditions, seek out joint-venture arrangements, and stress
labour-intensive operations with broad economic side-benefits. The Committee
believes that export industries meeting these conditions should be vigorously
encouraged, and hopes that this will be a priority of the new Regional Development
Bank. The Canadian assistance programme might include incentive schemes to
supplement the investment insurance plan of the Export Development Corporation.
f. Bauxite and Alumina
There are no obstacles to the flow of Caribbean bauxite and alumina which
constitute the main export of the area to Canada. The more pressing question now
concerns the distribution of the benefits from this trade. The origin of this industrial relationship is clear in the complementarity of Caribbean and Canadian
resources-bauxite ore and cheap hydro-electric power-and it has been of consistent mutual benefit. Increasingly, however, developing countries are sensitive
to their dependence on raw materials which are depleting (however gradually in
some cases), and they are determined to secure the maximum local benefit from
the exploitation of these resources. Continuing instability can probably be expected
as reasonable compromises are sought between the two positions. The Canadianbased company has had a very good record in comparison with its competitors in
extending its operations into processing, (mainly in Jamaica), and in contributing
to economic and community development. The company has also supported the
feasibility study of hydro-electric potential in Guyana, which could ultimately
lead to the establishment of a local smelter.
There is likely to be growing pressure on all raw-materials industries to direct
more of the value-added in finished products into the local economies. Many
West Indians tend to subscribe to views like that of one writer who estimated in

1964 that producing territories in the Caribbean in 1964 appeared to realize
about 9 cents in local incarne and government revenue from each dollar's worth
of finished aluminum. Resource-based companies in their own. self-interest will
increasingly have to take account of this pressure to extend their processing
operations. The later sections of this Report on Private Investment wiil have considerable relevance to the trade in bauxite and alumina.
3. Canadian Exports
a. General
While the absolute level of Canadian exports to the Commonwealth Caribbean has remained roughly constant over the past few years, Canada's share of
the growing market has been declining. In large part, this trend is explained by
a diminution of the basic complementarity of the two economies and import
replacement policies by local governments. At the same tine, however, it appears
that Canadian exporters have failed to compete successfully for a share of the
new and more sophisticated imxport needs of the region.
If the Canadian government were ta adopt a particularly sympathetic and
helpful attitude toward a number of West Indian exports, the Caribbean govemnments would have available various means of giving reciprocal advantages ta
Canadian exports without necessarily detracting from aggregate efficiency. In
several product-categories there have been marked declines in recent years while
others have shown significant improvements. Appendix "D" of this Report contains the Committee's comments on specific categories of traditional Canadian
exports ta, the Caribbean.
b. The Role of Investment in Expanding Exports
The most dynamic markets in the Caribbean area are for manufactured
products of ail kinds. While Canada has fairly long-established exports in various
lines, many of themn are now decreasing in the face of successful import-substitution policies. In general terms, it appears that Canada lias not kept pace with
other exporters in supplying the increasingly sophisticated manufactured goods
now in demand in the area. In these fields Britain, the U.S. and Japan have been
very aggressive and successful. A basic difficulty with many Canadian manufactured exports is the relatively higli cost of production. Lt also seems unlikely
that many Canadian producers will be willing ta adapt their products ta West
Indian conditions when the market accounts for only a small portion of total
output.
lIn addition ta these fundamental obstacles, however, there are two interrelated
f actors inhibiting the growth of Canadian manufactured exports. Very often it
appears that the flow of exports fromn supplying countries ta the Caribbean is
closely tied ta the amount of industrial investmnent by nationals of those countries.

The reasons for this relationship are clear: general product- familiarity, established
buying patterns, and, in many cases, close corporate relationships.
It appears that this investment-import link is a major cause of Canada's
lagging position in the supply of the import requirements of new and rapidly
expanding secondary industries. In these sectors American, Japanese and European
investors have been much more active, and exports of machinery, parts and materials have been drawn in increasingly from those areas. A substantial increase in
new Canadian investment, (the desirability of which must be tested on other
grounds) would thus be required to maintain any significant share for Canada in
the burgeoning Caribbean market for manufactured exports.
Another factor is the relationship of potentially-exporting Canadian corporations with those of other exporting countries. In many cases either cost differentials
or duty-free-import incentives have eliminated the margin once provided by the
Commonwealth Preference. Under such circumstances some U.S. corporations,
which formerly found it advantageous to supply West Indian imports through
Canadian subsidiaries, now apparently find it more efficient to supply these exports
from closer (and often more productive) plants in the U.S. Obviously this problem
is very difficult to quantify and cannot be viewed in isolation from other, broader
questions of foreign ownership and control of Canadian industry. Because of its
potential impact on the level of Canada's national economic output, and particularly the levels of exports and exchange-earnings, it is a matter of urgent concern.
c. Official Export Promotion Activities
Since 1945, the flow of Canadian exports has been facilitated by the export
credits insurance operations of the Export Credits Insurance Corporation. Since
1961, under section 21A of the Act, the ECIC has been actively engaged as well
in export financing, which has proved a useful form of capital assistance to many
developing countries, including those in the Caribbean.
In 1969, ECIC was succeeded by the Export Development Corporation which
has much broader powers to insure, guarantee and finance. The operations of the
EDC will have an important bearing on the future prospects for Canadian exports
to the Commonwealth Caribbean, particularly if CIDA proceeds with the policy
of "untying" Canadian aid. The Committee hopes that the EDC will be given the
resources to meet these needs and to take new initiatives in export promotion. This
work could be very effectively complemented by the operations of the joint marketing agency recommended earlier in this report.
4. A Canada-Commonwealth Caribbean Free Trade Area
The long-discussed possibility of a frce trade area, which was raised again at
the 1966 Conference, has now been studied, from the Canadian point of view,

in a report commissioned by the Canadian Government. This report, which goes
into considerable detail, does flot venture a definite conclusion as to the desirability
of such an arrangement. The main thrust of the findings indicates that: 1) both the
Canadian and Caribbean econoniies would be likely to realize some long-terma
benefit; 2) initially, and perhaps for an extended period, no full reciprocity would
be possible (i.e. the arrangements would have to include an element of Canadian
assistance to the West Indies); and 3) there is littie probability of such an arrangement being realized before the intra-regional bloc is more firnily established and
Caribbean trade relations with other blocs (e.g. EEC, LAFTA, CACM) are
clarified. The possibility of a free trade area will also have to be assessed more
generally by ail concernied in the light of their overali trade and foreign policy
priorities.
If Commonwealth Caribbean governments express interest in further exploration of tis subject, the Comniittee believes that the Canadian study would form
a useful basis for prefliinary discussions. A counterpart analysis, from the Caribbean point of view, would probably be needed, however, before any serions negotiations could begin.
Conclusions and Recommendations (V
1. The Senate Committee has concluded that, despite inevitable The Level
there is o rd
changes in the traditional pattern of Canada-Caribbean trade,
scope for beneficial expansion i the two-way flow. A planned programme of multilaterai co-operation and action wili be required to
reverse the present trend which involves a decline i mutuai trade
relative to both Canadian and Caribbean total trade.
2. Any strategy of Canadian assistance for the long-termi development ConunonThe weaibb
of the Caribbean should emphasize Caribbean export potentiai.
Canadian Goverument can render much more assistance in overcoming Exports to
Canadian imports Cnd
botb officiai and non-officiai obstacles to increased
from the region.
3. The Canadian Goverament should suggest the establishment of a Marketing
as Assac
joint Canada-Caribbean marketing agency to be funded initially
required by Canada. Such an agency could conduct market surveys,
establish distribution contracts, advertize and generally promote complementary two-way trade. This conld be a reiatively low cost assistance project yielding substantial. and lastig resuits for the Caribbean
countries. By selecting promisig export products, (examples at this
time would include bananas, rum, and certain citrus products), the
agency couid have a highly beneficial impact.
4. Serious misunderstandings have recently arisen, due in part to the Sugar
was xot
manner i which the 1966 tariff-rebate assistance scheme for sugar

withdrawn. Fult understanding of this step by the sugar-producing
countries involved does flot appear to have bec» established. In future,
full consultation, on a political level, should precede any major change
ini Canadian policies involving Caribbean countries.
The agricultural assistance fund, which replaces the rebate scheme,
can be of great benefit if it is managed on a basis of close co-operation.
It is important that there be no net loss of benefit to sugar-producing
countries.
Canada should take full account of the dilemma of the sugarproducing countries and recognize the difficulties involved in diversification efforts. Buying Caribbean sugar at prices below the cost of
production obviously does flot engender good will.
Rum Exports

5.

The excellent and highly competitive rums of the Commonwealth
Caribbean should receive as much assistance as possible i the Canadian market. The 1966 agreement to implement labelling regulations
went into effect on JuIy lst, 1969, but does not appear to have led to
any dramatic increase in imports. The Committee recommends that the
Canadian Government re-assess the effectiveness of this measure and
that the mutual advantages to Canada and the Caribbean countries concerned be discussed at the ministerial level with the respective Canadian
provinces.

Manufactures 6.

Increased Canadian investment, under the appropriate conditions,
manufactures would provide not only capital but much needed managerial and marketing expertise for secondary export industries in the Caribbean. Sncb
export enterprises sliould bie, where possible, labour-intensive and preferably jointly undertaken with local investors. The provision of incentives to such industries should be a main priority of the new Regional
Development Bank and the Canadian assistance programme.
and Semi.

Canadian
Exports

7.
Ini general Canadian exporters have not kept pace with their competitors in responding to the growing and changing import
needs of the
Caribbean countries. Most traditional exports (except wheat and flour)
have remaiaed fairly constant but much more concerted effort will be
reqnired to maintain a balanced Canadian share of the overaîl Caribbean market.

Export
Promotion

Activities

8.

The export-insurance

and export-financing

operations

of the
Export Development Corporation should have a more important and
increasing impact on the present and future flow of competitive Cana-

21
dian exports to the Caribbean. The 1969 changes should permit expanded and more dynamic activity by the E.D.C.
9. The possibility of a Commonwealth Caribbeau-Canada Free Trade AFree Trade
Area wlth
Area, which was discussed at the 1966 Conference, huis now been Cmd
studied ini a report commissioned by the Canadian Government. The
report, while inconclusive in some aspects, indicates a limited potential
for such a scheme. If Commonwealth Carihbean goveruments express
interest in f nrther exploration of this subject, the report will forni a
useful basis for discussion.

V DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
1. General
Development assistance, in its broadest sense, has been the dominant theme
in the Committee's discussions of Canada-Caribbean relations. Given the commitment of the Canadian people and successive Governments to the task of international development, the Committee believes that the Caribbean presents a unique
opportunity for concentrated effort with a high probability of worthwhile results.
The factors which make the Caribbean a promising area for concentrated
Canadian assistance have been discussed in previous sections of this Report.
Clearly, they have also been recognized by the Canadian Government. While such
statistics can be slightly misleading, the per-capita figures on CIDA allocations
to various areas reveal a unique emphasis on the Commonwealth Caribbean.
The same factors which favour such intensive focussing of aid allocationslimited size, a rising level of development, proximity, and familiarity-also permit
broader types of development assistance and the use of new techniques and
approaches. Increasingly, in the course of this inquiry, it has become apparent to
this Committee that the kind of help needed by the Caribbean countries extends
beyond the traditional, narrow definition of "aid" activities.
The Committee is convinced that development assistance is an activity which
has important and integral ramifications in the operations of all government departments concerned with the area. It is a frequent and bitter complaint of recipient
countries that donor-governments are inconsistent, extending assistance on one
hand and at the same time frustrating development efforts through other areas of
government policy.
One of the Committee's main conclusions is that much can and should be
done to harmonize and co-ordinate government policies toward developing areas
like the Commonwealth Caribbean. The need is probably particularly acute in the
case of the Commonwealth Caribbean owing to the extent and relative importance
of the Canadian involvement and perhaps also to the great diversity of the region
itself. Because of the special need and the special potential, the Committee has
proposed a number of new forms of development assistance to the Caribbean.
In many cases, the Committee believes, these measures could greatly augment
development prospects, often at relatively low cost.
The Committee recognizes that co-ordination of the policies of the many
departments and agencies involved in external relationships is an intrinsically complex and difficult task. This is particularly the case in the Canadian Government
where the Canadian International Development Agency, which has responsibility
for initiating and executing assistance programmes, does not enjoy departmental
status and therefore has limited co-ordinating authority. Under the present structure, the Committee believes that there is an urgent need for one Department,

probably the Department of External Affairs, to be given firm co-ordinating responsibility for Canada-Caribbean relations.
It would also be important for all Departments involved to adopt a developmental perspective as a governing consideration in the conduct of those relations.
The interdepartmental Committee on Canada-Commonwealth Caribbean relations
should be directed on a continuing basis to apply this criterion to relevant policies
of all departments concerned, detecting possible inconsistencies and pointing out
possible supporting measures in the planning stage.
2. Levels and Directions of Assistance
Mention of per-capita aid levels had indicated the high priority placed on the
Commonwealth Caribbean in CIDA allocations. Even in absolute terms, at more
than twenty-four million dollars per annum, the area is a very substantial recipient
of Canada's aid expenditures. The rate of growth is illustrated by the fact that in
the 1958-60 period the total Canadian assistance to the area amounted to $261,100.00.
The Committee has noted that Canadian assistance for the first four
years after 1966 has already (at $76.6 million) surpassed the five-year target of
$75 million announced at the 1966 Ottawa Conference. Canadian allocations have
now grown to the point where this country provides 60% of the total per capita aid
receipts in Guyana; 54% in Jamaica; 54% in Barbados, the Little Seven and
British Honduras; and 30% in Trinidad and Tobago. Even among other areas
of aid concentration, there is no region where the relative strength of the Canadian
aid presence is even distantly comparable.
The Committee recognizes, of course, that external assistance forms only
a small fraction of the total resources being harnessed by these countries for their
development, with the vast majority being generated by internal efforts and sacrifices. The Committee believes, however, that Canada's present assistance role is of
great importance and should be continued at its present general level.
The Committee believes that the spectacular expansion of Canadian assistance to the Caribbean over the past few years had led to a number of serious
problems which should now be given concerted attention by the Canadian Government.
Because of the rapidity and extent of the programme's growth, the aid volume
(at least under existing terms and conditions) appears to have reached the
present limit of administrative and absorptive capacity. At the Canadian end,
CIDA's facilities for evaluating, approving and administering Caribbean projects
have probably been strained by the Plan's expansion. The resources of the
Caribbean governments have been similarly stretched in selecting projects to fit
the Canadian terms and conditions and finding the additional funds to finance the
local costs of such projects.
A possible indication of over-extension in the Caribbean assistance programme
is the rate at which the funds allocated have been disbursed. The Committee
recognizes that a certain time-lag in disbursement is normal and that there have
been general delays because of CIDA's rapid expansion and re-organization in the

past few years. It is also aware that there has been steady improvement in the
rate of disbursement and that the back-log is now constantly decreasing. However,
the Committee considers it significant that the statistics for the fiscal year 1968-69
show that the Commonwealth Caribbean Assistance Plan had the lowest ratio of
disbursements to expenditures among all CIDA's bilateral area programmes. Out of
an allocation of $22,110,000.00 the actual expenditure was only $9,103,160.00.
While the gap appears to be lower for the current year, it will still be quite substantial. The Committee believes that a number of policy changes by CIDA
(which are proposed later in this section) would enable the Caribbean countries
effectively to absorb larger amounts of assistance in the future.
The Committee has concluded that there are further grounds for caution
because of the role of the development assistance programme in overall CanadaCaribbean relations. The growth of the aid plan has contributed to a rapidly expanding Canadian presence in the region. This, in turn, appears to have raised
apprehensions, outside official circles, abount the nature of Canada's interests and
motives. In some quarters Canada has been accused of paternalism and neocolonialism. Canadian policy should take into account the danger that local distrust and animosity could seriously jeopardize the value of development efforts undertaken by Canada.
Another real danger is that the activities and pronouncements of antiCanadian groups in the Caribbean countries could give rise to a mood of resentment in Canadian public opinion leading to pressure for a reduction in assistance
and involvement.
The Committee has concluded, however, that there are valid grounds for
maintaining the present aid concentration in the region. Furthermore, many of
the new assistance activities proposed in this Report would involve a re-direction
of funds which should lead to more flexible and effective use of the total expenditure.
3. Intra-regionalconcentration

In recent years there has been a strong trend of concentration of Canadian
assistance in the smaller islands of the Eastern Caribbean. The Little Seven
islands have lower per-capita incomes than the larger countries and generally have
very little industrial development. At the sane time, their governments and
peoples are very interested in cooperation with Canada and Canadian assistance
to date has had tangible and very worthwhile results.
Per-capita aid statistics illustrate CIDA's particular emphasis on Barbados,
the Little Seven and British Honduras, which together received $8.80 (U.S.)
per capita in Canadian assistance in 1969-70 compared to $6.30 for Guyana,
$4.89 in Trinidad and Tobago, and $2.64 in Jamaica. (The next most intensive
concentration in the world-wide CIDA programme, was in Ghana, which received $0.84 per capita).
Canada can provide assistance which is especially appropriate to the needs
of these areas and there appear to be excellent prospects for continued effective
cooperation. The Committee is, therefore, in full support of maintaining the

special aid emphasis in the Little Seven, Barbados and British Honduras. A later
section of this report will contain a number of observations on the planning of the
programmes in these areas.
4. Support of Caribbean Integration
Early in this report the Committee recommended Canadian support for
regional integration projects in the Caribbean, but cautioned that they can only
progress at the pace agreed upon by the area governments themselves.
The Committee endorses Canada's policy of providing separate support to
the University of the West Indies, an institution, with a highly impressive record
which continues to serve the whole area. The Canadian role in supporting the
Regional Development Bank is also a very useful and important one. The Bank
should serve to harmonize and co-ordinate regional development and thus effectively promote eventual economic integration. Inevitably, however, frictions will
develop in the Bank's operations. It is therefore important that the institution not
become, or even appear to become, overly dependent on outside resources and thus
jeopardize its base of concerted local support.
5. General Types of Assistance
The nature of Canadian assistance to the larger and more developed countries
seems generally well-suited to their requirements at their present level of development. The only aspect of the present programme on which the Committee wishes
to make specific comments here is educational assistance. In addition to its
contributions to the University of the West Indies, CIDA bas concentrated on
the provision of technical and vocational school equipment and buildings and
teacher and student exchanges (with particular attention to teacher-training).
Education, particularly in technical and commercial fields, continues to be
one of the region's main problem areas. The shortage of teachers, aggravated by
emigration to countries like Canada, is a persistent problem. The stress on teachertraining in the Canadian programme, with particular attention to the staffing
needs of new technical and vocational schools, is thus helping to fill an important
gap.
The Committee has been concerned by the relationship between educational
assistance and the "brain-drain" from the area. In this connection, the Minister of
Manpower and Immigration indicated that a very high proportion of students
brought to Canada from developing countries are now returning to work in their
home countries. The Committee was also heartened by the measures now being
used by CIDA to avoid aggravating the "brain-drain". The initiation of in-area
scholarships; general encouragement of third-country training; and the granting
of exchange scholarships only in fields not offered at the University of the West
Indies-all of these are valuable methods of alleviating one of the area's most
serious concerns.

A field i which further Canadian technical assistance appears to be urgently
required is the whole area of administration, particularly business administration.
Through CIDA auspices, the Committee understands, cooperative arrangements
have now been worked out between Canadian universities and the responsible
faculties of the University of the West Indies in Trinidad and Jamaica. The
specific requirements of the region should be taken into account in sucli programmes, which will have to be flexible, possibly stressing extension work and onthe-job training for middle-level personnel, especially in the areas of marketing and
entrepreneurship.
These fields are only partially amenable to academic approaches, however,
and reconimendations elsewhere in this section point out other possible methods of
assistance.
6. Development Strategy in the Eastern Caribbean

The Canadian programme of development assistance to the Little Seven is
part of a five year plan (1967-68 to 1971-72) based on the broad sectoral prioridies derived from the findings of the Tripartite Economic Survey of the Little Eight
i 1966. The Tripartite Survey concluded that tourism is the likely key growth
industry in these islands and recommended that official development assistance
focus on the provision of infrastructure for private investment in tourism. This is
the basic rationale for CIDA's present concentration in the sectors of air transport,
water resources, and education, with lesser empliasis on agriculture.
This report's section on Tourism. outlines some of the reservations of the
Committee about the social and economnic desirability of tourist-based development. It should inimediately be added that the Committee recognizes the major
differences in this respect among the different islands-some can absorb a great
deal of further expansion without serious problems. In general, however, the Committee is concemned that too great a rellance on the tourist industry may flot promote the consistent development of these islands and the welf are of their people.
These comments do not iniply criticismn of the whole of the present programme. This kind of infrastructural aid is basic to ail development and is generally
beneficial. At the same time there appears to be growing a consensus of opinion
among economic analysts who argue that expansion in the agricultural sector is
feasible for most of these islands, offers them a more solld economic base, and
would, at the very least, enable them to supply tourist needs and thus retain a
larger proportion of tourist expenditure.
The Committee recognizes the intrinsic value of a five-year plan such as that
designed for the Eastern Caribbean. A certain amounit of flexibility is, however,
essential to, allow for changing priorities. In the view of the Committee, therefore,
the Canadian Government should be sympathetically receptive to, requests from,

Eastern Caribbean governments for different types of assistance, and particularly
for expanded aid to the agricultural sector.
7. Other Policies
It is well-known that a number of general assistance policies of donor countries have been bitterly resented by recipients and have been repudiated by international organizations and commissions of enquiry. In the Canadian assistance
programme to the Commonwealth Caribbean there are three main areas in which
policy changes would bring about considerably improved relations and more effective development assistance.
a. Programme Assistance
Early in this inquiry, an eminent witness from the Caribbean area strongly
recommended that Canada experiment with more "programme" assistance in its
allocations to the Caribbean countries. In this context the term "programme"
assistance means general, long-term financial support of the recipient government's
development plan rather than aid specifically tied to designated sectors or projects.
It was argued that this policy would result in a "technical improvement" of the
aid effort by eliminating costly and time-consuming paperwork and supervision
at both donor and recipient ends.
In addition to the technical considerations, the Committee believes that this
suggestion has a very important political and psychological dimension. For reasons
of self-respect and independence there is a strong desire on the part of West
Indians to decide for themselves which projects should receive assistance and the
manner in which it should be applied.
The Committee does not believe that this proposal is necessarily incompatible
with the responsibility of the Canadian Government to ensure that assistance funds
are efficiently utilized. The extension of programme assistance would be a major
gesture of Canadian confidence in the planning and administrative capabilities of
these countries. CIDA could offer supplementary advisory and administrative support which would almost certainly be gratefully accepted when required. The
responsibility of the Canadian Government to its taxpayers could be well discharged by overall reviews toward the conclusion of the "programme" period
(probably five years at a time).
The Committee urges that the Government discuss the possibility of extending
some "programme" assistance with the Caribbean governments and respond generously to interest on their part. This is not advanced as a rigid global policy, but
as a flexible assistance strategy of the kind proposed by the Pearson Commission:
Aid-givers should adapt the forms of aid to the needs and level of development of the receiving country and recognize the great value, in many cases,
of more program aid.

The Committee is aware of possible difficulties in reconciling this recommendation with the tying policy maintained by Canada. These problems are not
insuperable, however, and the following section will include a number of specific
suggestions for helping to overcome them.
b. The "Tying" of Aid

Despite the reduction of the Canadian-content-requirement in the development assistance programme from 80% to 66f%, the tying policy is still a subject
of heated criticism and is used by some critics to call into question both the motivations for Canadian assistance and its effectiveness.
Undoubtedly the tying of Canadian aid has substantially reduced the effective
impact of the resources involved. It requires increased delays and administrative
expenditure at both donor and recipient ends; results in a distortion of development
priorities in project-design and selection; and sometimes involves the purchasing
of inferior and/or over-priced goods and services. These considerations were
among those behind the Pearson Commission's proposal of a scheme for the total
elimination of tying. As the Commission points out, the best prospect for accomplishing this without excessive dislocation lies in concerted multilateral action.
In the meantime, however, the Committee believes that further substantial
reductions in the tying requirement are both feasible and desirable. A certain
minimum level of tying will probably be necessary for some time, but it can be
phased out as other donor-countries ease their tying policies. If the required proportion of Canadian purchases were reduced to a more reasonable level, it would
also permit CIDA to negotiate flexible overall purchasing arrangements on allocations of "programme" or sectoral assistance to Caribbean governments. The Committee is convinced that changes of this kind would be received with enthusiasm
by the Caribbean countries.
The Committee also recommends that CIDA explore the possibility of changing Canada's tying requirement to allow recipients to use tied aid funds for procurement in other developing countries as well as in Canada. This policy has been
adopted by a number of other donor-governments, apparently with excellent
results. In the Caribbean region this change could have important additional effects
in promoting regional trade and industrial development.
c. Policies on Local Costs

Another widespread donor-practice which is often criticized is the stipulation
that aid be used to finance only the foreign-exchange costs of development projects,
with all local costs being the responsibility of the recipient government. This often
had the effect of putting worthwhile projects beyond the means of recipient countries. In recognition of these problems Canadian policy has now been changed to
permit, under certain circumstances, up to 25% of the Canadian contribution to
a development project to be used to cover local costs.
Even after this liberalization, the local cost requirement imposes a severe
limitation on the capacity of several of the Commonwealth Caribbean governments

to absorb and effectively utilize development assistance. One reason is that the
requirement fails to account for "indirect foreign exchange costs", (that is, the cost
of imported materials which are used in the provision of support services, e.g.
gasoline, vehicles and spare parts, lumber and building tools, etc.). These added
costs can be substantial for countries with narrow industrial and resource bases.
The other main problem results from the inclusion of the shipping cost of aid
materials as a local cost. Since much of the material received by these countries
is bulky, the shipping expense alone can sometimes take up a large part of the
25% margin.
The Committee recommends that the Government consider relaxing further
the restrictions on the use of the Canadian contribution to cover local costs and
adopt the practice of treating shipping costs as a non-local component.
8. Encouragement of Private Activity
a. General
In recent years, the Canadian Government has shown an increasing interest
in the stimulation of non-official activities to complement the work of official
international development assistance in promoting economic and social development. These new activities have resulted in the establishment, within CIDA,
of a Business and Industry Division and a Special Programs Division, with the
latter having responsibility for encouraging and supporting development-oriented
projects undertaken by voluntary groups and agencies. As part of the overall
review of aid policy, the Government also commissioned a study of ways of increasing Canadian private involvement in developing countries.
The Committee is convinced of the particular value of using official development assistance funds as "seed money" to stimulate perhaps much larger
efforts and outlays in the private sector. The Committee believes that the Canadian Government can do a great deal in the "profit-seeking" sector (both Canadian
and Caribbean) and in co-operation with voluntary agencies. The latter will be
discussed in the separate section on "the Work of Voluntary Agencies".
b. The "Profit-Seeking" Sector
i) Canadian Exports and Investments
The financing of Canadian exports to developing countries has been undertaken since 1961 by the Export Credits Insurance Corporation which was succeeded in 1969 by the Export Development Corporation. Since the export-development operation is intended primarily as a trade-promotional service to the

Canadian exporter, rather than as development assistance, it is discussed in the
section on "Canadian Exports".
The new facility of the Export Development Corporation is more directly
development-oriented. This is the insurance of Canadian private investment ini
less-developed countries against broad non-commercial risks of loss from expropriation or confiscation, war or revolution, or the inability to repatriate capital
or earnings. Since the programme is of such recent origin, there is no record of
performance on which the committee can comment. The broad lines of policy
have, however, been set. The Committee does, then, have a number of views on
the potential of this plan for increasing the beneficial involvement of Canadian
investors in the Caribbean area.
In comparison with the investment guarantee programme of the United States
Government, the Canadian scheme is, at this stage, almost experimental in scale.
Thus, while further growth is probable if the programme operates well, it cannot
be expected to have a major short-terni impact on development in any one area.
Because of the overail ceiling and the limits on liability in any one investment,
the programme wîll be oriented primarily toward medium-sized investment projects.
The Committee hopes that, in the Caribbean, this orientation will resuit in a stress
on manufacturing, processing, or assembly operations with wide economic sidebenefits. The provision for the insurance of reinvested earnings up to a value of
50% of the initial investment is also considered a useful stimulus to investors
to solidify their commitment to the local economy.
The Committee also suggests that the investment insurance scheme offers
a valuable opportunity to the Canadian Government to encourage Canadian investors in developing countries to adhere to standards of corporate behaviour
which will promote Canada's overail good relations with those countries. The
scheme is restricted to investments that will either provide economic advantages
to Canada or contribute to the economic growth and development of the country
in which they are made. In the latter case, the Corporation presumably has an
interest in ensuring that while the insurance is in force, the investment continues to
make a real economic contribution to the host country. In the area of non-commercial risks, the Committee believes, the insurer also, has a definite interest in the
good corporate citizenship and good community relations of the investor insured.
It would therefore be fully legitimate and very valuable for the Export Development Corporation to impose certain conditions on insured investors which would
maximize the developmental impact of the investment and, at the same time, provide a model for other Canadian investors in developing countries. TMe Committee

believes that the Corporation's stated policy of encouragement of joint ventures
with local investors will prove highly beneficial. Other kinds of conditions involved
are suggested in this Report's section on "Private Investment".
Other than investment insurance, there are a number of mechanisms for investment-promotion in developing countries which could be initiated or expanded
by the Canadian Government. Pre-investment studies (e.g. resource surveys, etc.)
have been part of Canadian official assistance in the past. These, and perhaps even
specific feasibility studies, could increasingly be performed at the request of
recipient govemments.
CIDA's Business and Industry Division will, hopefully, have an expanding
role in serving as a "clearing house" for information on investment opportunitiessoliciting and collecting data from developing countries and making them available
to potential investors in Canada.
If CIDA, as suggested earlier in this section, were in future to provide "programme" assistance to the Caribbean governments, it would have the useful sideeffect of offsetting the cost of incentives provided to investors and would thus assist
in the expansion of this activity.
ii) A "Canadian Overseas Development Corporation"
One of the Committee's early witnesses, suggested that a Canadian financing
corporation (along the lines of Britain's Commonwealth Development Corporation) could play an important part in stimulating local activity in the private sector
in the Caribbean. This role, he felt, would effectively complement Canada's development assistance through the bilateral programme and through the Regional
Development Bank.
The Committee recognizes that the establishment of such a corporation would
involve a very substantial new outlay in budgetary and administrative resources.
It does seem, however, to be a promising proposal which merits further study by
the Canadian Government, and one which should possibly be given high priority if
the Government continues to expand its overall development assistance effort.
The corporate form itself probably would have a number of important advantages
in terms of securing finances, attracting personnel, and operating a flexible administration.
The utility of such a development corporation would probably be highest in
areas like the Commonwealth Caribbean, where there is a fairly well-developed
physical and administrative infra-structure and a suitable labour force. The corporation would contribute not only needed capital, but also entrepreneurial and
marketing skills. In the Commonwealth Caribbean it could also fill a particularly
urgent need by serving as a vehicle for the increasing involvement of local investors
in joint ventures.
The development corporation could also be a mechanism for providing new
types of development assistance. The Committee's proposal, (in the section on

"Trade Relations") for the establishment of a joint Canada-Caribbean marketing
agency, might perhaps best be implemented through a separate corporation of
this kind.
Conclusions and Recommendations (y)
1. The Senate Committee notes that the Commonwealth Caribbean carlbbean
is currently the area of highest per capita allocation of Canadian de Piodi3'
velopment assistance funds-an important recognition of the region's
"6special status"l i Canadien external policy.
The Canadien Government should continue the present intensive
concentration of C.I.D.A. funds in the Commonwealth Caribbean.
There is also great scope for new forms of assistance appropriate to
the present needs of the region.
2. Ail Canadian assistance policies should be based on a recognition SeIf-help
and Coof the predominance of self-generated resources i development efforts. orinat.on
Canada's supporting role can be made much more effective by coordination and harmonization of Government policies in several departments which can vitally affect development prospects.
3. The present C.I.D.A. policy of special concentration in the smalier Programme
i Enstera
islands of the Eastern Caribbean is weli-founded. The five year plan- Caribbean
ning principle in this programme is also a step in the right direction,
but the Committee is coucerned about too great a reliance on the
development of tourism. The programme should remain flexible, and
C.I.D.A. should respond favourably to requests for increased assistance
to the agricultural sector.
4.

The Committee recommends continuing support of projects and Encouragetoregonalco-pertionandintgraton.TheMent of
progamms reionl c-opraton
progamms ladin
t
Iadig
nd nteraton.TheCadbean
present assistance to the University of the West Indies and the Regional Co-operation
Developmeut Bank is highly effective for this purpose. Ail co-operative
projects must proceed, however, at the pace agreed upon by the governments of the area and no regional institution should become too
dependent on outside support.
5. The Senate Committee recommends the following changes in General
Canadien assistance policies to, increase the effectiveness of the aid and Assisance
Pfce
improve the climate of Canada-Caribbean relations:
(a) "Programme" assistance-Direct financial support of the developmeut programmes of the Caribbean countries in order to,
eliminate a number of inefficiencies and frustrations, and as an
important and effective demonstration of confidence and partnership by Canada.
22481-39

(b) "Tying" of aid-A continued policy of "untyiug" aid which is
the best long-term. interests of ail concerned and would be greatly
welcomed by the Caribbean governments.
C.I.D.A. shonld also explore the possibility of permitting
"tied" aid funds f0, be utilized for procurement in other developing
countries. Within the Canibbean region this could have an important impact on industrial development and economic integration.
(c) Local Costs-Further liberalization of the Canadian policy on
the payment of "local costs" to take account of "indirect foreign
exchange costs" (e.g., the cost of imported components), and to
excinde shipping costs from the "local" component.
Future
,Assistance
Planning

6. Future Canadian assistance should concentrate more on direct
development of appropriate export sectors of the Caribbean economies.
The marketing agency proposed in section 3 of "Trade Relations"
above, could be a highly effective vebicle for sncb assistance. At the
same time, Canada's technical assistance in the area shonld increasingly stress business and public administration, with flexible schemes
for relevant extension work and on-the-job training.

7. A "Canadian Overseas Development Corporation" migbt be able
Dvelopent to play an iporatpr
in stimulating local activity in the private
corporation" sector in the Caribbean, complementing Canada's preseut bilateral
assistance and the work of the Regional Development Bank. The
possible establishment of sncb a corporation merits furtber stndy by
the Canadian Goverument.
A "'Canadian

8. The Report's sections on "Tourism", "Immigration", "Private
Investment", and "The Work of Volnntary Ageucies" contamn specific
Poliies recommendations for assistance measures in those fields.

Other

Assistance

VI PRIVATE INVESTMENT
1. General
Canadian private investment forms one of the oldest links with the Caribbean
area. The flow of capital has been very considerable and lias undoubtedly contributed a great deal to the aggregate output of the local economies. It continues to
be encouraged by the govemnments of the area and welcomed by the vast majority
of their people.
The operation of international companies in the Caribbean has probably also,
served, througli movements of personnel and general corporate transactions, as a
beneficial force for the further economic integration of the area.
The role of foreign investment in developing countries is now a subject of
heated world-wide debate. The debate in tlie Caribbean lias been intense and lias
sometimes focussed on the role of firms based in Canada. It lias become clear tliat
the performance of Canadian-owned or Canadian-domiciled companies in the
Caribbean area lias an important bearing on thie public image of thie country, and on
Canada-Caribbean relations in general. It is therefore vital that the subject be discussed here witli realisma and candour.
2. Information on Private Capital
Because of the intrinsic involvement of Canada's interests and reputation, the
Committee believes that tlie Canadian governnient lias a need and a riglit to know
the location and extent of investment by Canadian-owned or Canadian-domidlled
corporations in tliis region.
Detailed and current information of this kind is, in thie Committee's view, an
absolute pre-requisite for effective planning of official development assistance and
representational services in thie area. It is also vital to enable the Government to
evaluate the effect of private activity on overail relations.
The Committee was surprised to be informed, during its hearings, that the
departmnents concernied were flot aware of any source for this information, In
subsequent research, the Committee lias ascertained that extensive data on Canadian private investment abroad is collected and collated by the Dominion Bureau
of Statistics, aithougli it is flot made public. The Committee recommends that personnel in the policy-making departments be made aware of this information and
have access to it when required.
22481-391

3. Incentives and Returns to Private Capital
Perhaps the most important problem relating to foreign investment concerns
the distribution of the economic benefits derived. On the assumption that operation in a developing country involves substantial starting-up cost and an additional
degree of economic and non-economic risk, investors have demanded major concessional incentives and extra margins of profit. Because of the competition among
various developing countries for scarce capital resources, the cost of these concessions has risen steadily.
Extended tax holidays and very high rates of profit repatriation will inevitably
lead to local frustration and resentment. This is particularly the case in resource
industries where the resource in question is believed to have a fairly limited lifespan. The absence of reliable public information leaves room for exaggerated
estimates of the actual rates of profit realized. All of these effects can be observed
in the Caribbean. They have created a less favourable climate for Canadian investment and have diminished general goodwill toward Canada.
The basic justification for foreign enterprise is its risk-taking capacity. Foreign
companies must recognize that excessive demands for concessions and guarantees
will ultimately undermine and endanger their own position. It is possible for firms
to enter under moderate guarantees, operate at reasonable rates of return and, in
the process, provide more long-term security for their investments.

4. Local Participation
The need for foreign investment in developing countries grows out of a basic
capital shortage. By definition, under these conditions, it will be impossible for
nationals to retain ownership over many sectors of the economy while meeting the
need for capital. As Canadians are fully aware, this situation can give rise to widespred apprehensions and resentment.
As the local capacity for capital formation grows, there is increasing pressure
to supply more new capital from local sources and "buy back" at least a share of
,existing investment. This pressure is now very strong in the Caribbean.
With regard to new investment, it seems clear that a larger proportion will in
future be provided locally, either by govemments or private investors. There will
be increasing emphasis on joint ventures and management contracts, mechanisms
which combine local capital with the resources of international companies, and
which, in many countries, are proving highly satisfactory.
The growth of development financing facilities will permit an acceleration of
the rate of local investment and the regime of outright ownership by foreign

investors will diminish. In many cases local governments wlll foster this process by
regulation. Investors will be forced to recognize the rights of sovereign economic
control and the legitimacy of many local interests. It goes without saying that local
goverruments which wish to secure the benefits of foreign capital in competitive
world markets must permit reasonable returus and reasonable freedom for flexible
operation.
With regard to existing investment, it is now clearly in the interest of foreignowned companies to, secure local equity participation. This will further national
development by distributing more widely the benefits of econoinic activity. To the
extent that local capital is available, its participation will also provide goodwill and
a secure place in the local community.
Some Canadian companies in the area have already energetically pursued this
policy with salutory results. Others face difficulties involving integrated international
operations, share-listing, and currency controls. Such problems can, however, be
overcome. Increasing local ownership is a matter of urgent concern to the host
communities, the companies involved, and Canada. It would seema that an excellent
starting-place in spreading local participation will be for companies to offer to their
Caribbean employees the kinds of stock-purchase plans common in North America
and elsewhere.
5. Extending the Benefits
Another general trend amnong developing countries is the determination to
industrialize. Recognizing that secondary industries bave been the engine of growth
in the rich countries, goverrnents of developing countries are intent upon reducing
their present level of dependence on primary production.
A large proportion of the Caribbean investment of Canadian-based companies
has been in the bauxite and alumina industries. The situation regarding these products is discussed in this report's section on Canadian imports from the area. In summary, it is evident that while this production lias contributed a great deal to national
output and to the development of ancillary economic activity, local pressure for
increased refining, smelting and manufacturing will intensify in the future. This
demand for greater local economic benefit from the end-products of Caribbean
resources must be met if resource-based companies are to operate successfully in
the future.
The other traditional. area for Canadian-based investment lias been in financial
institutions where several companies have occupied a commanding position for,
many years. In most countries this is a vital and intrinsically sensitive sector of the
economy and the Committee bas concluded that it will be increasingly important

for these companies to "Caribbeanize" their operations. This wiil involve continuation of the policies of encouraging local equity participation and maximum development of local personnel resources. They will also be required to meet growing
dem ands that their activities be closely geared to the development needs of the
Caribbean communities.
Ail Canadian-based companies operating in the Caribbean are aware of the
need to recruit locally for staff positions at ail Jevels. In many cases there are
officiai regulations requiring such policies. Recognizing the unique advantages of
local personnel, ail companies should now be energetically recruiting them, particularly for managerial and supervisory positions. In many cases, this recruitment
can be carried on very effectively among West Indian students and expatriates in
Canada. Companies must also place a high priority on the training of Caribbean
personnel to fil senior positions in their home countries, elsewhere in the area,
and in the international organizations.
The present and future needs of the region for foreign investment wiil be
mainly in manufacturing industries. In this sector advanced managerial and technical skiils, marketing techniques and contacts, as weil as needed capital can ail
be provided by Canadian firms. Such investments, undertaken in full cooperation
with, the local community, recognizing the need for labour-intensive operation and
the stimulation of local markets, can be highly successful and a source of improved
Canada-Carîbbean relations.
6. Canadian Officiai Encouragement

The policies of the Canadian govemment regarding the flow of private investment from Canada to the Caribbean are discussed in this report's section on
"Development Assistance"
Conclusions and Recommendations (VI)
Place in
Canada-

Caribbean
Relations

1. The Senate Commiftee is convinced that Canadian private ivestinent bas contributed substantially to Caribbean development.
It bas been enconraged by the goveruments of the area and welcomed
by the vast majority of their people. As ini Canada, however, there
have been basic changes in the conditions under which outside investment is expected to operate. There is an urgent need for increased
awareness of these changing conditions il Canadian investment is to
continue to play a useful role i Caribbean development and to have
a beneficial effect on Canada-Caribbean relations.

2. The Canadian Government should give vigorous encouragement
Co-operation to Canadian ivestors who are sensitive to the needs and conditions
of the area.
Canadian

Goverement

The new investment-insurance operation of the Export Development Corporation should help to increase productive investment and
can serve ot encourage appropriate corporate policies. The Corporation's advocacy of joint ventures with local investors is an example of
the kind of progressive action required.
Within C.I.D.A., the Committee recommends that the Business
and Industry Division assume an expanding role as a "clearing house"
for information on investment opportunities in developing countries.
C.I.D.A.'s work in infrastructural and pre-investment assistance provides vital "seed money"l for activity in the private sector. Canada
should continue to provide this kind of help, wbich is likely to be
increasingly requested by Caribbean goveruments.
normation
3. Because of the intrinsic involvement of Canada's national inter- on Private
ests and reputation, the Commiftee believes that Canadian Govemn- invetment
ment policy should take full accoumt of the location and extent of
Canadian private investment in the Caribbean. The Committee has
been surprised to learn as a result of exhaustive research that some
information on Canadian private investment is collected and collated
by the Dominion Bureau of Statistics, but that the existence of even
this material is not apparently known within the policy-making departments. This data is essential to an overview of Canadian involvenient,
and to the accurate planning of official development assistance and
representational services. Personnel within these departments should
be made aware of this information and should have access to it when
required.

4. It is vital that Canadian investors recognize and accept the Local
growing local interest in ownership, of Caribbean resources and indus-Paldmto
try. With regard to existing investment, some Canadian firins have
initiated the policy of local sales of shares with very encouraging results. Share-purchase plans for employees wii be a very useful vehicle
in this endeavour.
In future investmnents, demand for larger local participation can
be expected and there will be increasing eniphasis on joint ventures
and management contracts. If Canadian investors can adapt satisfactorily f0 these new conditions, fhey will continue f0 operafe profitably
and make an even more useful contribution to the Caribbean economies.

Extending
the Benefits

of

Resources

5.

The countries of the area are flrmly committed to, pbasing out,
their current level of dependeace on raw materials production and
gaining a greater share of the economie benefits from the end-products
of Caribbean resources. The primary Canadian involvement in a
resource indnstry is in bauxite and alumina. While the Canadian
company's record is considered relatively good, growiug local pressure
can be expected for increased processing of the materials within the
area.

Financial
Institutions

6. The other main sector of Canadian corporate activity, financial
institutions, is an intrinsically sensitive one. It will be increasingly
important for these irms to continue policies of encouraging local
equity participation and developing local personnel resources. They
will also be required to, meet growing demands that their operations
be closely geared to the development needs of the Caribbean communities.

Economic

7. AUl Canadian investors in the Caribbean must become increasingly
conscions of the need to stimulate ancillary economic activity
by
maximiziug local purchases of goods and services. There is a pressing
need for more local benefits from the tourist industry and manufacturing enterprises.

"Spiliovers"

Personnel

Policles

8.
Ail companies operating in the Caribbean should recognize the
need to recruit locally for staff positions at ail levels. Canadian coinpanies should not only adhere to the requirements of local goveruments, but can greatly increase the effectiveness of their operations by
energetically recruiting local personnel, particularly for managerial and
supervisory positions. The practice of recruiting Commonwealth Caribbeau students and other expatriates lu Canada is an excellent one
which shonld be expanded.

VII THE WORK 0F VOLUNTARY AGENCIES
1. General
In general, the Caribbean is an area of intensive concentration for the overseas activities of the Canadian voluntary sector. In addition to the traditional. in-~
volvement of the Christian Churches, many of Canada's main voluntary agencies
are active in relief and welf are work, youth projects, education, and medical
assistance.
In its hearings, the Committee met with representatives of several churches
and the Canadian University Service Overseas (C.U.S.O.). Further attention has
been given to the work of voluntary agencies in general, and additional material has been examined. The Committee has been extremely impressed by the
knowledge and dedication of the personnel of voluntary agencies in the Caribbean,
and by the extent and value of their work.
It is clear that the changing conditions in the Caribbean countries are affecting
vitafly the methods and objectives of voluntary activities. In most cases, the objective of econoniic and social development is paramount, and the maximum involvement of the local population is an urgent priority. The emphasis is on cooperation
rather than "assistance", and the goal is to eliminate the need for outsiders as
soon as possible.
In the educational. and technical assistance fields, the qualifications required
of outside personnel are constantly rising. In some cases this lias led to difficulties
in recruiting and paying personnel at more senior levels. It is generally recognized,
however, as heartening evidence of progress in local manpower development. In
general, too, the personnel of non-goverrnental agencies appear to continue to
enjoy a large measure of public goodwill in the area despite the growing nationalism
and even blanket hostility toward foreigners in some sectors of opinion. On a
person-to-person basis, Canadian voluntary agencies make a positive and substantial contribution to Canada-Caribbean relations.
2. Canadian Officiai Cooperation
The Canadian Governmnent has recognized the invaluable and often unique
contribution of Canadian voluntary agencies in assisting developing countries.
In 1967 C.I.D.A. instituted a Special Programs Division with the objective of
assisting non-governmental agencies in development projects and programmes. kn
1969-70 the total allocation for assistance to non-governmental organizations is
$6.5 million, a substantial. increase over the 1968 level. Grants are made to volun2M48-40

tary agencies on a "matching" basis, with the agency normally supplying one-haif
to two-thirds of the funds required for the projeet or programme involved.
In 1968-69, C.I.D.A. contributed almost $200,000 to specific projects in the
Caribbean and at least the same amount again through "National" and "International" projects. lIt is noteworthy that almost hall the specific Caribbean allocation went to Haiti, to assist two Canadian missionary orders ini sehool-construction
projects. The largest single allocation is to the Canadian University Service Overseas (C.U.S.O.) which has a current annual budget of $262,000 for its Caribbean
programme with 129 personnel in the West Indies.
The Committee is convinced that the "seed money" provided to, voluntary
agencies is, in general, an extremely effective use of officiai development assistance funds and one which usefully complements officiai aid activities. If the present rigorous standards of appraisal can be maintained, the Committee believes
that the programme shouid be expanded further and that, in certain circumstances,
C.I.D.A. could legitimately contribute an even larger proportion of project-costs.
Conclusions and Recommandations (VUI)
Canadian
Government
Assistance

1.
The Senate Committee considers that the "matching grants" provided to voluntary agencies, through C.I.D.A.'s Special Programs Division, have been a very effective use of officiai development assistance
funds in the Caribbean. The programme should be expanded fnrther
and, in certain circumstances, C.I.D.A. could Iegitimately contribute an
even larger proportion of project costs.

VIII

IMMGRATION

The Committee has been particularly interested in the question of West
Indian immigration to Canada because of its close relationship to both the overpopulation and "brain drain" problems in the Caribbean.
The problem of overpopulation varies widely in its intensity. Barbados, fox'
example, lias one of the highest population densities ini the world, while Guyana
is a huge and virtually empty frontier land. In Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago,
the index of population density itself is not yet criticaL Clearly, however, the
economies of these countries are unable to absorb the available labourforce.
The resulting mass unemployment is, understandably, a source of continuing
social and political turmoil, and one which may persist and intensify with further population growth. The immediate problem in many areas has been aggravated over the past few years since Britain ceased being an outiet for large-scâle
West Indian immigration.
Within the region it is hoped that Guyana will eventually be able to absorb
large numbers of immigrants, but at present the migration to that country is not
heavy. The United States bas continued to accept large numbers of people from
the area, and Canada has received a growing number of Caribbean immigrants
for the past few years (recent statistics on immigration to Canada are included
as Appendix E of this Report).
The seasonal movement of agricultural workers from the West Indies to
Canada since 1967 has been useful in providing short-termn employment for
several thousand people. The arrangement appears to have been satisfactory to
ail concernied, and further growth in this and similar plans should be encouraged.
There are varying estimates of the gravity of the "brain drain" in the
West Indies, but several of the Comniittee's witnesses assessed it as one of thxe
most serious problems facing the area. Canada, of course, is unavoidably and
closely involved in this problem, as a major recipient of skilled emigrants from
the region. Canadlian immigration standards, with their primary reliance in skil
criteria, inevitably attract a disproportionate number of highly-skilled and professional workers. Not ail such emigration is harmful, of course. In some fields
there may be surplus trained personnel who would be unemployable and dissatisfied in their home countries. In most fields, however, skiiled manpower is
not sufficient, and emigration is a loss that fixe Caribbean countries can 111 afford.
Because non-discrimination and universality have been accepted as fixe
guiding principles of Canadian imnmigration policy, tixere are few initiatives available to Canada to help reduce the "brain drain". It must be added that the
recognition and enforcement of these principles has greatly increased immigra22481--40à

tion from the Commonwealth Caribbean countries and has substantially removed this as a source of friction.
Certain measures relating to Canada's educational assistance may help to
reduce the gravity of the "brain drain" to some extent, and they are discussed
in the chapter on "Development Assistance".
Students and other expatriates in Canada should be actively recruited for
positions in their home countries. The Department of Manpower and Immigration could assist considerably through its employment offices, and, under certain conditions, Canadian assistance funds might be used to help finance such
recruiting drives.
Beyond this, however, it seems clear that remedial action will have to be
initiated by the governments of the developing countries affected by the problem,
and, that this action will probably have to be taken multilaterally. A number
of developing countries have pressed for international controls on skilled emigration from developing areas. The prospects for success are, however, slight
in view of the difficulty involved in reconciling such measures with the principle
of the "free movement of peoples" enshrined in the United Nations Charter.
As a developed country, it would be inappropriate for Canada to lead in the
pressure for such controls. Should they gain the general backing of developing
countries, however, Canada should support such multilateral controls for as long
as skilled emigration constitutes a critical problem for these countries. The Committee strongly recommends that the Canadian Government co-operate, as fully as
possible, in all other efforts by developing countries to solve this problem.
In the absence of systems for controlling the "brain drain", Canada and other
developed countries should consider the possibility of a compensation scheme. Such
a plan would take into account the important economic transfer involved in the
immigration of a skilled worker. There are many attempts underway to arrive at a
fair and practicable formula for compenstion (CIDA in its recent policy review,
obtained some material on this subject). The Committee believes that an acceptable
scheme, involving material resources or technical assistance, could be of great
benefit.
The Committee was very interested in the question of the adjustment of West
Indian immigrants to Canadian life and was encouraged by the Minister's announcement of a departmental study into the post-arrival problems and prospects
of new Canadians. This study should permit the planning and implementation of
improved counselling and other assistance programmes for prospective and arriving
immigrants.

Conclusions and Recommendations (VIII)
1. The Senate Committee bas noted the large increases i Caribbean imnigration
immigration and has been encouraged by the fact that recent changes in andI CanadaCaribbean
Canadian immigration policy have removed former sources of friction. Relailons
2. The seasonal movement of farm workers to, Canada since 1967 Aricultnra
bas been very useful i providing short-term employment to several Workers'
Plan
thousand workers from Commonwealth Carribbean countries. The
arrangement appears to have been satisfactory to ail concernied and
further growth i this aud similar plans should be encouraged.
3. The question of the "brain drain" from the Caribbean, which is immigration
recognized as one of the area's main problems, bas been one of the and the
"Drainmajor conceras of the Committee. Wbile it bas concluded that the main Drain"
responsibility for alieviating this problem must remain with the home
countries of skilledl immigrants, the Committee stroagly recommeuds
that the Canadian Government co-operate in ail such efforts.
4. The initiatives taken by C.I.D.A. to reduce the immigration of Educationai
Caribbean students brought to Canadian institutions are very useful. Iîo
By providing scholarships for study et the University of the West
Indies, particularly at the undergraduate level, equaily effective belp
is provided et lower cost, without inducing emigration. The Committee was encouraged by the improvement in the proportion of
Caribbean students retnrning to work in their home countries. The
recruiting programmes of companies active in the area help te, bring,
back students sud other expatriates, and the Committee recommends
that the Department of Manpower and Immigration offer ail possible
assistance with this recruiting.

IX TOU1USM
While the economic impact is impossible to calculate with precision, tOurism
is obviously a major Canadian import (in the broad sense) from. the Caribbean
and one which is stiil growing very rapidly, even'after the phenomenal expansion
of the past few years. There is even a prospect of accelerated expansion with the
advent of jumnbo-jet service.
Aithougli the tourist industry is clearly an important source of revenue, and
is officiaily encouraged by ail the governments of the area, the Committee has
been given many reasons for apprehiensions about further rapid growth.
The concerns reflected ini this section almost ail fail under the powers and
responsibilities of the Caribbean governments. This discussion is undertaken for
two reasons: first, to point out broad implications for Canada-Caribbean relations
in general, and second, to assess the real economic impact of this export industry.
The massive influx of affluent white tourists to small islands populated mainly
by poor, non-white citizens with memories of European colonialism, wiil inevitably
resuit in envy and resentment. By definition, tourists will tend to monopolize the
most attractive and desirable properties, and most of the local people employed
in the industry wiil be involved in a kind of servant capacity. The irritations are
aggravated if most of the industry is foreign-owned. Basicaily these conditions prevail in the Caribbean, and a number of other undesirable social side-effects of
tourism are probably also at work.
In the public mind, Canadian tourists in the area are in many ways viewed
,as beingrepresentative of Canada. -While there is no reasonto believe that they
have engendered more resentment than other identifiable groups, nor can they
be expected to be any. more attuned to local concemts and sensitivities. As Canadian tourists establish a stronger presence, inevitably. the whole issue of public
goodwiil toward Canada becomes involved.
From the viewpoint of both Canada and the Caribbean countries, there
appears to be a definite limit on the number of. tourists that can be absorbed without damaging consequences'. In some countries, this point is close or may even
have been passed.* While the initiative is necessarlly in the hands of the responsible
Caribbe-an'goveruments, Canadian officials (and, hopefully, tourists) must apprediate the problems and be. prepared to respond with understanding to efforts to
alleviate them.
Another major, problem has been that 'too little of the economic benefit of
tourism. has accrued to the local societies. Prevalent foreign ownership has resulted

in a large outflow of repatriated profits. Almost ail of the industry's material
requirements have normaily been imported, providing no stimulus whatever to
local industries. nhe import bill has usually included machinery, construction
materials, furnishings and most consumables, including even fresh fruits and vegetables. This latter problem involves a kind of mutual adjustment: local producers
must be urged to expand into the required produet-lines; and tourists should be
encouraged to appreciate more of the local varieties of atmosphere and diet. Here
again the main burden must f ail on the local governments, but Canadian cooperation can be very valuable. Canadian assistance directed to local production for
tourist consumption my have a significant impact. Canadian trade promotion
services in the Caribbean should also avoid competition with efficient local producers.
Another possîbility, raised at the 1966 Conference, was the suggestion, by
Caribbean delegates, of enlarged duty free exemptions on local products for Canadian tourists returning from the area. It is possible that this could be an extremely
useful form of assistance to increase the immediate and long-term benefits from
tourism to the Caribbean economies.
The Conimittee understands the reluctance of the Canadian Government to
extend special measures which could be considered discriminatory. At the same
time this appears to be the ideal kind of assistance to offer to developing countries
in general, and the Committee recommends that this possibility be given special
consideration.

Conclusions and Recommendations (IX)
Social and
Economlc

Effects

1.

While recognizing the crucial importance of the tourist industry
to many Caribbean countries, the Senate Committee has become concerned about the overali impact of tourism on those countries and on
Canada-Caribbean relations i general.
Evidence given before the Committee indicated that tourism has
had a number of undesirable social side-effects without necessarily
bringing ail the expected economic benefits. The Committee recognizes
that the responsibility for solving these problems rests primarily with
the local goverumients, but bas several specific proposals to make.
2.

Economic

Side

Benueis

If the tourist industry is to have auy broad and lasting impact,
oeo
aeilrqieetfo
osmbe
mn
ocn
oeo tt
aeilrqfeetfo
osmbe ocn
struction materials, must be procnred locally, radier than imported
(as is now the general ride). While this will involve mainly local goi'mn

49
ernment action in encouraging local production and purchasing and ini
educating tourists about local produets, Canada could assist signiflcantly by directing more of its assistance to production related to
tourism, and by adopting co-operative policies ini other fields.
3.

The possibility of enlarged duty-free exemptions for Canadian Duty-Free
tourstsretrnig
frm te Cnbban ws dscusedat te 166 on-Exemption
tourstsretrnin
frm te Caibban
as dscusedat te
166
on-f.,
ference. While acknowledging the merit of the Canadien Government's Canadian
reservations about discriminatory measures of this kind, the Senate Touris
Committee considers that it would be desirable to extend especialiy
favourable treatmeut to developing countries i general. The Committee recommends that special consideration be given to this proposai,
which could be of great immediate benefit to developing areas such as
the Caribbean.

X

TRANSPORT and COMMUNICATIONS

Since the 1966 Conference, very encouraging progress has been made on a
number of concerns in the transportation sector which were discussed at that tine.
Following up onl the Canadian Government's offers of cooperation in iniproving regional air services and airport facilities, C.I.D.A. has directed a large part of
its Commonwealth Caribbean programme into this sector. Aircraft have been
provided on a grant basis and through loans or lease-loan arrangement. Aviation
communication equipment has been supplied on a substantial scale and, particularly
in the Eastern Caribbean, major improvement projects have been undertaken on
airport buildings and runways. These projects have been eflectively complemented
by teclinical assistance involving the training of specialized personnel ini Canada.
There are indications that air services and f acilities are a continuing priority of
many of the countries, and that the sector will remain an important channel of
effective Canadian assistance.
Progress has been made in negotiations on bilateral air service agreements
between Canada and the fully-independent countries. A direct commercial agreement has been made between Air Canada and Air Janiaica, involving some provision of assistance by the Canadian carrier. Air Canada has also been directly
involved in assistance on a regional scale.
The other major issue raised at the 1966 Conference involved the possibility
of the restoration of direct shipping services between Canada and the Commonwealth Caribbean. The Canadian Govemnient, having agreed that the matter should
be fully investigated in the light of its possible long term contribution to the promotion of trade, completed a study of the question in 1968. The three-volume
report was then transmitted to the Caribbean goveruments and other interested
organizations for comments.
The Committee lias had quite extensive discussions of this subject and
is fully aware of its complexity. The most important difficulty lies in ascertaining Nwhether or not there is sufficient trade potential econoniically to justify
direct shipping, when the lack of shipping itself constitutes a major obstacle to
potential trade. The Canadian Goverument study was inconclusive on this question but did see sufficient basis for further investigation. The Committee believes
that this is an issue which should rank higli on the agenda of any future Heads
of Govemnment or Ministerial Conferences.
If there is evidence of substantial interest in the part of the Caribbean
governinents, the 1968 report would formn the basis for specific feasability studies
and further action. The Committee recommends that any new tallcs on direct

transportation should also emphasize full discussion of the future potential for
air-freight services, and should be closely tied ta specifie programmes of twoway trade promotion.
Conclusions and Recommendations (X)
General

Progiress

CanadaCaribbean
Transporta-

dion

1. The Senate Committee bas been encouraged by the progress made
on a number of issues relating to, transport and communications since
the 1966 Conference and considers that this sector will continue to be
an important focus for Canadian development assistance to the Caribbean.
The question of direct Canada-Caribbean shipping, a concern of
2.
the 1966 Conference, bas been examined in some depth by the Committee. Because of its crucial relationship to trade possibilities, the
Committee believes that the whole question of direct transportation
could be discussed very usefully in new multilaterni talks with the
Carihbean governments.
While such discussions could deal with the shipping study prepared
by the Canadian Government, they should also emphasize the potential
for air-freight services. The prospects for ail forms of air transportation
between Canada and the Caribbean wili improve rapidly as innovation
proceeds in the field.

Respectfully submitted

JOHN B. AIRD,
Chairman.

APPENDIX "'A"
Issue
Number

Date of
Meeting

1

Februaiy 13/69

2

Februaiy 25 /69

3

Maich 4/69

4

Marchl11/69

5

Marchl18/69

6

May 6/69

7

June 18/69

8

June215/69

1

November 4 /69

2

November 19/69

3

November 25 /69

In Camera December 2/69

4

December 9/69

5

February 10/70

Witnesses Heard
(First Sessiont-Twenty-eighth Parliament (1969))
Mr. Willis C. Armstrong, Associate Dean, School of International
Affairs, Columbia University, New York City, U.S.A.
Mr. William G. Demas, Head of Economic Planning Division,
Office of the Prime Minister of Trinidad and Tobago, West
Indies.
Mr. John N. Plank, Senior Fellow at Brookings Institution,
Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Dr. Alexander N. Mcleod, Governor of the Central Bank of
Trinidad and Tobago, Trinidad, West Indies.
Professor George V. Doxey, Professor of Economics and of
Administrative Studies, York University, presently visiting
Professor at the University of the West Indies in Barbados,
West Indies.
Right Honourable Lester B. Pearson, P.C., Chairman, Commission on International Development (World Bank).
Department of Industry, Trade and Commerce:
Mr. T. M. Burns, General Director of Office of Area Relations;
Mr. G. Schute, Director, Industry, Trade and Traffic Branch;
Mr. R. B. Nickson, Director, Commonwealth Division;
Mr. C. L. Bland, Commonwealth Division, Office of Area
Relations.
Honourable Allan J. MacEachen, Minister of Manpower and
Immigration.
Mr. R. B. Curry, Assistant Deputy Minister (Immigration),
Department of Manpower and Immigration.
(Second Session-Twenly-eighth Parliament (1969-70))
Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency:
Mr. Maurice F. Strong, President
Mr. A. J. Darling, Head of Commonwealth Caribbean Planning Division.
Honourable Mitchell Sharp, Secretary of State for External
Affairs.
ALCAN Aluminium Ltd.:
Mr. Nathanael V. Davis, President;
Mr. Donald D. MacKay, Executive Vice-President;
Mr. E. H. Roach, Administrative Officer.
InternationalNickel Company:
J. S. Page, Assistant to Chairmnan of Board.
FalconbridgeNickel Mines Limited:
Marsh A. Cooper, President and Managing Diiector.
Mr. K. R. Patrick, President, Marigot Investmnents Limited,
Montreal, Quebec.
L'Abbé Gérard Dionne, Director, Canadian Catholic Office for
Latin America.
Reverend David Woeller, Aiea Secretary for the Caribbean and
Latin America, Anglican Church of Canada.
Doctor Garth Legge, Associate Secretary, Board of World
Mission, United Church of Canada.
Miss Mary Whale, Executive Secretaiy for Overseas Missions,
Presbyterian Women's Missionary Society, Presbyterian
Church of Canada.

APPENDIX "A" (Concluded)
issue
Number

Date of
Meeting

6

February 19/70

7

February 25/70

8

Mardi 3 /70
March 17/70
March 17/70
April 21/70

Witnesses Heard
(Second Session-Twenty-elghth Parliament(1969-70))
Resources Management Consultants:
Mr. W. M. Kudryk, Managing Partner.' Toronto, Ontario;
Mr. L. G. Wynnyckyj, Partner, Toronto, Ontario.
Canadian University Service Overseas (C. U S.O0.):
Mr. Frank Bogdasavich, Executive Director;
FatLier Harold Gardiner, Director of Caribbean Program;
Mr. Robert Sallery, Public Relations Officer.
Mr. Roy Matthews, Acting Executive Director, Private Planning
Association of Canada.
Mr. John D. Harbron, Associate Editor, The Telegram, Toronto.
Dr. George Eaton, Professor of Economics, York University,
Toronto, Canada.

Note: A number of informai meetings with visiting experts were aiso held.
* Issue Number 10 was flot related to the enquiry on Canada-Caribbean relations.

APPENDIX "B"
CANADA-COMMONWEALTH CARIBBEAN TRADE STATISTICS
$ Million

1969
1968
1967
1966
CanadianExports
40.4
34.3
39.1
33.5
Jam aica........................................................................
19.4
16.2
20.1
23.3
Trinidad........................................................................
8.3
9.1
12.1
9.9
G uyana........................................................................
8.7
10.1
8.4
8.1
B arbados....................................................................
9
7.1
7.4
7.4
Berm uda......................................................................
15.2
12.7
10.2
10.8
Baham as......................................................................
10.3
8.4
9.7
8.8
Leewards and Windwards........................................
1.7
1.3
1.2
.9
British Honduras........................................................
102.8

108.2

99.3

113
+13.79%

1966
37.3
16.0
29.1
2.3
.8
1.2
.9
1.5

1967
31.9
18.7
30.0
3.1
.3
2.2
1.4
1.9

1968
33.9
19.9
29.4
1.5
.4
3.1
1.3
2.5

1969
46. *
17.7
33.9
1.5
.3
4.4
2.4
2.5

89.1

CanadianImports
Jam aica........................................................................
Trinidad........................................................................
Guyana........................................................................
Barbados......................................................................
Berm uda.....................................................................
Baham as......................................................................
Leewards and Windwards.....................
British Honduras........................................................

89.5

92

108.7
+18.15%

What Canada is Selling to the Commonwealth Caribbean
(Cdn. $000's)
1965
Flour..................................................................11,138
7,204
Fish, Pickled, Salted..........................................
6,013
Meats....................................................................
3,734
Fish, Canned......................................................
6,371
Motor Vehicles and Trucks..............................
1,329
Drugs and Medicines........................................
1,879
Lumber................................................................
1,908
Textiles..............................................................
17
Aircraft and Parts..............................................
1,749
Newsprint............................................................
441
Insulated Wire and Cable................................
Telephone Apparatus and Equipment............

1966
10,355
8,105
5,204
4,245
5,479
2,411
2,503
2,113
122
1,774
1,458

1967
8,413
8,320
5,246
4,428
2,634
2,629
2,560
2,303
2,238
2,194
1,583

1968
6,701
5,251
5,068
3,720
2,134
2,063
3,467
2,743
1,120
2,024
1,185
3,286

Plus an Extremely Broad Range of Fully Manufactured Products.
*Substantially increased sales of alumina.

1969
5,490
8,234
4,812
4,044
2,240
2,974
2,907
2,602
2,023
2,493
1,038
6,870

56
APPENDIX "B" (Concluded)
What Canada is buying from the Commonwealth Caribbean
(Cdn. $000's)
1965

1966

1967

1968

1969

Bauxite and Alum ina.......................................
43,781
Raw Sugar.........................
.........................
17,151
Crude Petroleum ..............
..........................
8,917
M olasses.......................
.......................... . 2,359
Rum ..............................
...........................
1,052
Fruit Juices...................
.......................... . 1,126
Co ffee.............................
.......................... .
398
Nutmegs and Mace.....
.........................
375
L iqueurs..
.......................
...........................
151
Motor Gasoline............ . ................
Sex Hormones.............. ........
Fuel Oul.....................................
Lubricating Oils.....................

49,518
16,359
8,453
2,944
1,682
1,391
396
258
320

48,300
11,735

51,819
10,002
9,866
3,177
2,626
1,447
495

66,338

9,504
3,864
2,835
1,036
505

307

165

280

468
2,876

1,911

1,027
2,217
1,882

2,930

1,117

8,586
4,867
2,617

3,066
744
298

201
481
2,575

2,261
4,691
3,273

APPENDIX "C"
The Potential for Canadian Imports
of Bananas and Citrus Products.

a) Bananas - The West Indies banana producers, Jamaica and the Windward
Islands, are at present almost totally dependent on the British market. British
entry into the EEC will almost certainly involve the loss of some of the demand
now provided by British preferences. These losses could easily assume critical
proportions and it thus seems clear that alternative outiets are a high priority.
There are strong indications that West Indian bananas could compete successfully i the Canadian market. Bananas were a very important pre-war import
from the area, and the 1966 Protocol to the 1925 trade agreement included a
commitment "To endeavour to revive the banana trade and to bring about increased sales of bananas to Canada from the Commonwealth countries of the
Caribbean." The two main obstacles to expansion lie in the interrelated areas
of marketing and transportation.
At present the Canadian market for bananas is effectively consolidated
with that of the United States. The suppîy situation in this market is very
heavily concentrated, with almost the entire North American banana trade in
the hands of two giant suppliers. They have achieved strong backward and forward linkages, with independently-owned shipping facilities and tightly-organized
marketing arrangements. Extensive advertising campaigns have also established
patterns of consumer preference for the type of bananas produced in Central
America and the individual brand-names of these companies.
It is clear that there are formidable deterrents in the areas of transportation
and marketing to West Indian producers seeking a share of the Canadian
banana market. Given the basic competitiveness of their fruit, however, it should
be possible. The producers would need to earrnark and guarantee specific quantities of bananas of consistent quality for the Canadian market. A strong marketing organization would then be needed to secure contracts with Canadian
wholesalers and retail-chains and to dispose Canadian consumers; toward the new
fruit.
The Comniittee is convinced that Canada, if it is to, mount a concerted
effort of development assistance in the area could help solve these problems. A
marketing agency, of the type recommended in the Report, could mount the needed
marketing and promotion campaign.
The vigilance of the Canadian authorities could also, protect these efforts
from the possibility of unfair competitive practices on the part of present sup-

pliers. Under present conditions of production and because of the corporate connections involved, the Windward Islands producers would be more likely to benefit
than Jamaica.
The lack of transportation facilities presents a further difficulty in the possible restoration of the West Indian banana trade with Canada. Even in the
absence of a general expansion of shipping services, however, it may prove that
banana exports alone will justify separate shipping facilities. It is quite conceivable
that air freight will become a practicable mode of shipping as innovation
progresses in the field.
On balance, it appears that bananas may be one of the most promising of
the potential West Indian exports to Canada. The stimulation of trade in this
fruit should be given active consideration by all parties, and Canada should
respond quickly and positively to proposals for co-operation and assistance.
b) Citrus Fruits and Juices-The Committee has had a number of indications that
various citrus products from the Caribbean could compete effectively for a greater
share of the Canadian market. Transportation and marketing difficulties are again
important, but they do not appear insuperable. Assured contracts, continuity of
supply, uniformity of quality, promotion to consumers: all these aspects remain
to be dealt with, but it does seem that these fruits, particularly varieties like the
ortanique, offer potential for mutually-beneficial trade.
The Canadian Government should be receptive to proposals for action and
assistance in this sector. Here again a concerted marketing and promotion campaign could yield substantial results.

APPENDIX "6D"
Comments on Traditional Canadian Exports
to the Caribbean Area
a) Flour-Wheat flour remains the largest single item on the export llst but
Canadian sales have declined drastically in both absolute and relative terms.
Canadian exports have lost ground to those of the United States, France and
Australia, because of the basic inability to compete with subsidized wheat produced in those countries. In large part, this decline in sales bas also been a resuit
of import-substitution policies on the part of local goveruments. Because of the
subsequent decision of Canadian milling companies not to initiate operations
within the area, an increasing share of the market has gone to Arnerican firms,
which also tend to rely on supplies of American wheat.
There appears to be littie prospect of Canada regaining a larger share of the
West Indian market for this commodity. The importing countries ini the area
are honouring their commitment to ensure a fair opportunity for Canadian trade
in these products. The decline is, then, part of the overali adjustment problem.
confronting the Canadian wheat producer and Canadian governments.
b) Fish Products-Canada'sexports in this area have been highly competitive
and have tended to dominate the market. In very recent years there have been
some declines, however, and it is possible that more will follow. The reasons appear
to lie in three areas: changes in taste by consumers with rising incomes to which
the Canadian producers have not adapted either in terms of quality or packaging;
increasing competition in certain product-lines by other exporters; and, to some
extent, growing domestic production.
Flexible and aggressive marketing should enable Canadian suppliers to adapt
to changes in patterns or consumption and to maintain a commanding market
position in the f ace of present competition.
c) Meats-After expanding very rapidly between 1950 and 1965, exports of
Canadian meats have now declined somewhat. Further declines can be anticipated
as most of the countries place a high priority on import replacement i this area,
and, within the CARLETA region, Guyana seeks to specialize increasingly i livestock production. A further factor is that Canadian meats (particularly fresh
meats) are very often uncompetitive with those of Australia, New Zealand and
other major suppliers.

60
d) Wood Products-Canadianexports of lumber and other wood-products have
fluctuated f airly widely over the past two decades. There is probably littie prospect
of increasing them much from present levels.
e) Other Traditional Exports-Exports of animal feeds have continued to, decline
in both absolute and relative terms. Increasing import substitution and growing
competition from the United States appear to, be the major factors. Dairy exports
have also decreased in consequence of import substitution drives in several countries and competition from other supplying countries, several of which subsidize
dairy production. Exports of Canadian fruits and vegetables will probably f ail as
plans for import-replacement progress, in some cases even specifying tropical
substitutes.

61

APPENDIX "E"
Immigration from
British Honduras, Bermuda, Guyana
and the Caribbean Islands
Country

1964

1965

1966

10
8
5
British Honduras............................
198
120
82
Bermuda..........................................
1,407
1,214
.................... 912
Jamaica
1,113
775
.................... 467
Trinidad
14
5
4
Tobago ................................
699
560
Barbados......... .......... 422
4
Anguilla....................................
50
52
35
A ntigua............................................
30
22
21
Bahama Islands..............................
Barbuda...........................................

Cayman Islands..............................
Dom inica.........................................
G renada............................................
Montserrat....................--Nevis........................
St. Kitts.....................
St. Lucia..........................................
St. Vincent......................................
Turks & Caicos Islands..................
Virgin Islands, British....................
Br. West Indies, n.e.s.................
Guyana (Br. Guiana)....................
TOTAL....................................

-

-

-

-

1
3
.
614

1
22
48
19
6
38
41
117
1
5
609

5
42
82
12
6
40
52
185
1
4
628

2,773

3,663

4,582

22
32
17
1
22
31
82

-

April 10, 1970.
Prepared by: Information Analysis Unit,
Programs & Procedures Branch,
Immigration Division.
Source: Tabulation of Landing Records.

1967

1968

33
179
3,459
2,325
15
1,181
7
114
74
2
6
105
139
25
15
107
135
250

23
192
2,886
2,393
26
821
6
148
61

1969
43
222
3,889
5,582
49
1,242
3
196
136

-

14
152
281
62
28
183
148
361

5
99
120
26
18
63
73
220

-

3
736

1
3
823

8,910

8,007

9
-

1,865
14,468

62
APPENDIX "E" (Concluded)
Migration From Countries
Bordering on the Caribbean Sea
Country

1964

1965

1966

1967

1968

1969

Costa Rica... ......... ....................
3
10
El Salvador......................................
3
1
G uatem ala........................................
9
6
Honduras ....................
9
5
N icaragua........................................
2
Panam a............................................
5
7
Cuba.....................
....................
29
23
Dominican Republic......................
7
22
Netherlands West Indies................
15
30
G uadeloupe......................................
3
1
Haiti...............................................
62
88
M artinique...................................
3
3
M exico..............................................
136
147
Venezuela...................... 310
...........
336
Colum bia..........................................
74
47

37
2
3
5
5
11
27
8
40
3
84
11
114
317
79

3
4
14
7
10
13
34
39
30
16
291
il
318
374
87

21
5
13
22
5
13
45
23
27
16
444
22
245
206
131

21
3
41
41
25
25
44
38
46
25
550
7
377
297
200

Total................

694

Prepared by: Information Analysis Unit,
Programs & Procedures Br.,
Immigration Division.
Source: Data Processing Tabulations.
May 5, 1970.

702

746

1,251

1,238

1,740

DEBATES
Juil 25,1970SENATE

June 25, 1970

THE SENATE
Thursday, June 25, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., Honourable Maurice Bourget, P.C., Speaker pro tem, in the
Chair.
Prayers.
YUKCON ACT, NORTHWEST TERRITORIES
ACT AND TERRITORIAL LANDS ACT
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT

OF COMMITTEil

Hon. Earl W. Urquhart, Acting Chairman
of the Standing Senate Comnmittee on Legal
and Constitutional Aif airs reported that the
committee had considered Bill C-212, to
amend the Yukon Act, the Northwest Teriitories Act and the Territorial Lands Act, and
had directed that thre bill be reported without
amendment.
THIRD READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, when shail this bil be read the
third time?
Hon. Mr. Urquhart: With leave, and notwithstanding Rule 45(l)(b), I move that the
bill be read the third time now.
Motion agreed to and bull read third time
and passed.
POVERTY
INTERIM REPORT OF SPECIAL C0OMMITTEE

Hon. David A. Croil: Honourable senators, I
would ask leave to make a report now on the
progress of the work of the Senate Special
Committee on Poverty.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, is it unanimously agreed that thre
honourable Senator Croil have leave to speak
on this subi ect now?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

decision has been made by the committee on
any of the principles which in due course it
wiil have to enunciate.
The commnittee was established on January
23, 1969 and the hearings commenced on
April 22, 1969. Mr. Fred Joyce was appointed
director; brief s were solicited, and a smail,
competent staff was recruited. I shail say
something about the staff on another occasion-soxnething complimentary. They did
some housekeeping, the organization was
undertaken and ground rules were laid down.
The committee has been sitting in Ottawa
every Tuesday and Thursday, without a
break, since April of last year. We have
heard 65 briefs. The committee has also had
hearings in Halifax, Charlottetown, Winnipeg,
Vancouver and in Toronto, where we received
47 briefs. In ail, we have received a total of
112 briefs.
We were the first government body to
reach out to the poor in their own locale and
in their own environiment. We went there and
said, "Tell us your troubles." It was a precedent. Last week the Canadian Welfare Council followed that precedent and held a meeting i Toronto to which they invited quite a
number of poor people. As a matter of fact,
they brought in a number of people from
various parts of the country, and you will
probably have noticed that, according to the
newspapers, there was some commotion
because of some of the people present. When I
read the report I realized that there were
somne there from oui own alumnae, whom we
had met on another occasion. It seemed that
they had learned a few things since they
appeared before us.
Before we made oui trip, many of us were
told that it was an unusual thing to do and
that we would have some difficulties to face.
Nevertheless, we decided to face the wrath.
There were some rough days ahead and we
took oui lumps-but we kept oui cool.
Duiing the summer recess the committee
wii visit Newfoundland, Alberta, Whitehorse,
New Brunswick, Saskatchewan, Quebec and
the Gaspé-Rimouski aiea. I shail give you
fuither details of that later.
Early in October when we return-it
appeais that the house wrnl return on
October 5, and as usual, I suppose we wifl
retuin a week later. At least, I hope so!

Hon. Mr. Crail: Honourable senators, originally I had intended ta speak on the committee's summer project, but I think more needs
to be said than just that.
In the time available today, I wish to give a
short, perhaps incomplete, bird's-eye view of
Hon. Mr. Martin: Maybe earlier.
what iras transpired before tire committee,
with some broad general observations. These
Han. Mr. Croli: If you return earlier, you
will not b>e in deptir; I will touch merely some
of the highlights. To this date, no definitive will return alone!

1356

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Croll: When we returnHon. Mr. Martin: We will be returning
earlier!
Hon. Mr. Croll: -we
shall hear from
Quebec, British Columbia, Manitoba, the
Canadian Congress of Labour and six important groups that have not been able to appear
up to the present time.
We look forward to completing our formal
hearings by the end of October. Then, of
course, the most trying part of our undertaking will be ahead of us, to make a total and
meaningful report in accordance with our
terms of reference. The reference directed us:
-to
investigate and report upon all
aspects of poverty in Canada, whether
urban, rural, regional or otherwise, to
define and elucidate the problem of poverty in Canada, and to recommend appropriate action to ensure the establishment
of a more effective structure of remedial
measures.
So, we on the committee realize that the
report must articulate the nation's values; it
must define its goals; and it must marshal its
will-to the end that the Government will
take such steps as are necessary for the
implementation of the report, so as to give
meaning and purpose, and hope to the poverty stricken, as well as a challenge to the rest
of us to eradicate a social plague which is
unworthy of a great people in a great
country.
The report can and must lead to the most
progressive social advancement in the second
part of the century. To do that it must break
new ground and it must reach for new
horizons.
Today I will speak in generalities and will
neither define nor refine principles. I shall
deal rather with the matters that were raised
before the committee and repeated time and
again. It is a consensus that I have in mind.
Let me speak first about the welfare
system. The welfare system is a mess. Billions
of dollars have been spent on social services
which are failing their clients. There is an
almost total loss of confidence in the system.
Program has been piled upon program without evaluation to determine whether they are
meeting the original objectives, or whether
the original objectives are still valid.
Programs contain serious gaps. There has
been a build-up of hostilities and frustrations.
The sense of being on the dole, the lining up
[Hon. Mr. Croll.]

June 25, 1970

for a weekly or monthly cheque is demeaning. People prize their dignity. Recipients, by
reason perhaps of the administration or otherwise, fight the system. They try to beat the
game. They resent their lot in life, and they
blame the system and the establishment.
The welfare system at best does not provide a decent living for the recipients. The
system is limited in coverage. The Canada
Assistance Act does not exclude the working
poor, yet it has only just begun to be used by
some of the provinces, and even they are
using it in a most reluctant fashion. The
insecurities built within the system tend to
perpetuate poverty.
One of the great evils is unevenness of
level of assistance. I have here an example
which I think will make an impression upon
you.
We took a family in Hull and a family in
Ottawa of approximately the same age, with
the same number of children, living in the
same circumstances and paying approximately the same rent. One family lived on one
side of the river, one on the other. The man
in Ottawa received $100 a month more from
welfare than did the man in Hull, and has
been receiving it for some time. That unevenness persists across the whole country, and
we have documented it. It is one of the evils
that persists within the systen.
There is unfair financial burden upon the
poor provinces. The Provinces of Ontario,
Alberta, and British Columbia can take
advantage of a fifty-fifty deal and put up
dollar-for-dollar under the Canada Assistance
Act, and use some of their equalization
money for the building of bridges or for
whatever else they may want to use it, while
the poor provinces are unable to do that. The
result is that in the final analysis the beneficiaries of the Canada Assistance Act are the
treasuries of the rich provinces. The poor
provinces can give their people very little.
There is an unfairness about it. There is a
total loss of confidence in the administration,
and the system is, in my view, distrusted.
In addition, other Canadians, those who pay
the piper, have lost confidence in the system,
but for different reasons. Many of them think
that the vast majority of welfare recipients
are cheaters and bums who will not work.
Time and again we have proved that not to
be true, and it could not apply to more than
one per cent of the people who are receiving
assistance. But these misguided opinions do
not die. They are there and believed. There
are others just as bad.

June 25, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

It is well to note that as against the welfare
system the people welcome old age security,
family and youth allowances, despite their
inadequacy at the present time. They feel
they come to them as an earned right by a
method and delivery which has dignity,
which they respect.
During the course of the hearings a great
deal of awareness was sparked with respect
to the plight of the poor. This resulted in the
improvement of important administrative
procedures and some increases to and adjustments of allowances.
A more important aspect was raised by the
lady senators during the appearance before
the committee of the Minister of Social and
Family Services of the Province of Ontario.
Welfare recipients in Ontario give the
authorities the right to enter their homes
under any circumstances. The practice is followed whereby many female heads of families experience a midnight knock on the door
accompanied by a visit frorn the welfare
investigator. He is not checking on the cleanliness of the house or how the children are
cared for, but for the presence of a man. The
investigator has a habit of visiting at various
hours.
The point was raised that this is an invasion of privacy. The investigator should be
allowed to visit only during the daytime.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: There would probably
be no man present during the daytime.
Hon. Mr. Croll: Perhaps that is correct. The
Honourable John Yaremko, Minister of Social
and Family Services of the Province of
Ontario, yesterday announced that this practice would be abolished and so advised the
Toronto City Coundil.
Honourable senators may ask, how important is that? It is important to the people
concerned and it is important to us. These
people have their rights and dignity. If that
practice does not apply to us it should not be
allowed to apply to them. It is as simple as
that. We may as well make our understanding
of these matters clear.
It is important that we have activated the
poor. They have become aware not only of
their rights, but their responsibility. Instead
of being part of the problem, they are beginning to become part of the solution. Therein
lies our hope for a new beginning. If we
succeed in bringing them into the fold and
the decision-making process, we shall have
attained much.
22481-41

1357

It is my opinion that the day of quiet losers
is coming to an end. They are not going to
continue taking it in the way they have done
in other days. They will want to be heard,
and they want things done in a way they can
appreciate so that their lot in life will be
improved. We have tried to instil into them
confidence that they can affect the system by
more active participation. If we do that, we
will have achieved considerable success.
Now let me define poverty. Honourable
senators know what it is as well as I do, but
it is well to hear how the experts define it. I
can take honourable senators back almost 75
years in history, but as they have not yet
decided on a definition, we must take our
choice. The definition of the Economic Council of Canada is:
Insufficient access to certain goods, services, and conditions of life which are
available to everyone else and have come
to be accepted as basic to a decent, minimum standard of living.
Poverty, thus defined, is not quite the same as
low income. That is the definition of the Economic Council.
The Dominion Bureau of Statistics definition is:
A basic assumption for the main set of
estimates was that any family or
individual spending more than 70 per
cent of total income on food, clothing and
shelter was in a low-income situation and
likely to be suffering from poverty.
John Kenneth Galbraith, who is worth listening to, has a different definition in The Afitent Society:
People are poverty stricken when their
income, even if adequate for survival,
falls markedly below that of the community. Then they cannot have what the
larger community regards as the minimum necessary for decency; and they
cannot wholly escape, therefore, the judgment of the larger conmunity that they
are indecent.
The poverty line fixed by the Economic Council in 1968 is no longer valid. The cost of
living since that time has risen 8 per cent,
and thus it appears more in these terms. In
1968, for a family of one, it was $1,800; in
1970 it is $1,944. In 1968, for a family of two
it was $3,000; it is now $3,240. For a family
of three, in 1968 it was $3,600; it is now
$3,888. For a family of four, in 1968 it was
$4,200; it is now $4,536. It keeps increasing

1358

SENATE DEBATES

at a rate of $600 for each child. So that, due
to inflation and unemployment the relative
position of the poor has worsened.
No matter at what figure the poverty line is
fixed, it is evident that two vital factors have
to be considered: the rise in the cost of living
and participation in the gross national product, which is the standard of living. The cost
of living escalator alone denies to individuals
and families participation in the rising standard of living. If only the cost of living escalator is used, in not too many years a situation
similar to that which prevails in the children
and youth allowances will result. The adequate use of the allowance has deteriorated,
because of the rise in the cost of living, to
make it almost meaningless at the present
time.
The Old Age Security was strengthened by
the supplement, but even it has become
inadequate in this day and age. It therefore
becomes clearly obvious that the poverty line
must rise for two reasons, increased cost of
living and increased standard of living; otherwise, it will soon become obsolete and we will
have to start again on the merry-go-round of
the question of where is the poverty line and
who is in poverty, instead of once and for all
encouraging it in such a way that it moves on
its own with the wealth of the country.
We began our hearings, as I hope you
would have expected of us, and found that
there were about four million people in
Canada below the poverty line. We started
out to try to identify them as to where they
are, who they are and why they are there. We
found that there were about 1,250,000 families-850,000 of whom are in the labour force.
We then broke them up. We first took a look
at what we call the disadvantaged, persons
who are no longer able to participate fully
in the labour force, such as the blind, the
crippled, the maimed and the aged. We
studied the females who became heads of
the families because of desertion, divorce,
death and detention, and these we called our
4-Ds. There are 160,000 of them in Canada,
with 350,000 dependent children.
We found the other disadvantaged people
to be the welfare poor. In addition, we had
the hard core and those who were unstable,
had chronic illnesses or other causes. They
represent approximately 45 to 50 per cent of
the poverty group and there was no difliculty
identifying them. We had their names,
addresses and we knew where they were and
how they got there. Our job now is to get
them out.
[Hon. Mr. Croll.]

June 25, 1970

We still have another group which total
almost 50 per cent. The percentages are not
as easy to come by, therefore you will have to
take a reasoned view of them. This group is
the working poor. You remember that I said
there are about 850,000 of them. Some work
full time, some part time and some accept
casual work but mostly they are unskilled
and lack education. We do not consider these
people to be part of the welfare group or the
syndrome of the welfare web, because they
have a different type of problem. Moreover,
within that group of four million people who
are below the poverty line, there are two
million children who share the family
fortunes.
It is interesting to know where the poor
are. These are the 1969 figures. Since I was
unable to find any figures more accurate than
these you will have to make some allowances.
This is the geographical breakdown of
Canadians living below the poverty line:
Percentage
of
Region
Population Numbers
Atlantic Provinces
240,000
15
Quebec
1,400,000
30
Ontario
1,400,000
25
Prairie Provinces
540,000
20
British Columbia
240,000
10
I should like to give you a few more facts.
There are more poor people in central
Canada, Quebec and Ontario, than in the rest
of Canada. There are roughly as many poor
in Quebec as in western Canada and more
than in any other single region, and approximately as many poor in Ontario as in the
Atlantic and Pacific coastal regions, and more
than in any other single region outside of
Quebec.
Hon. Mr. Urquhart: This is the percentage
of the population?
Hon. Mr. Croll: Yes. I took the population
of the Atlantic Provinces as two million in
1969.
Let us go back for a moment and speak
about those who are no longer able to participate in the labour force. It is evident from the
consensus of opinion that there is a need
which can be defined. These people need
income, services and opportunities. In so far
as the female head of the family is concerned,
she should have a choice to participate in the
labour force. If she is qualified and is able to
take work, it will be up to her. If she wants
to stay home and look after the children, that

June 25, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

will also be up to her. As you can see, we
consider her a little different. I repeat, the
consensus is that these people who are disadvantaged must be provided for in an obvious
fashion, with income, services and opportunities, because their problem was and is a soluble one.
The committee, of course, will take all of
these views into consideration. I state them
emphatically because they were emphatically
stated to us. We have the working poor-and
that is a hard nut to crack because it has
many ailments. They are unorganized,
unskilled and unlettered, but willing to
work-able to work and handicapped with a
lack of skills and education. They need
employment. If they are unable to obtain
employment, then we must look for the alternative which is an adequate unemployment
insurance. If an adequate unemployment
insurance runs out, then we must consider the
future alternative of a maintenance income.
That means that the Government will be the
employer of last resort.
It is necessary for us to keep in mind, as
the new unemployment act suggests, that 4
per cent will be a tolerable unemployment
figure. This means that 300,000 people will be
unemployed in this country, and that will be
tolerable. It was never that high; we always
thought of it as 2 per cent. We must keep in
mind the fact that there may not be jobs
for these people. There are some indicators
you have to read. These people need training,
retraining and various kinds of education. I
am not thinking of a formal education, in that
sense. There is education which is very useful
to people but not taken at the university
level. I hope everyone agrees with that. They
also need taxation relief and work incentives.
That is a bugbear with the Canadian peopleI shall speak about work ethics in a short
while. They need it for themselves, and they
are very anxious to have these things.
Honourable senators, the matter of maintenance icome came up before us time and
again. There was almost total agreement on
it. So we have to give consideration as to how
it should be made available. The consensus
was that income should corne from the federal Government, services should come from
the provincial government, and delivery can
be made by the Canada Assistance Act.
The Canada Assistance Act is an excellent
measure and was to be used as an umbrella
for all the social measures-with two exceptions, which I shall mention. There was not to
be a tent over the Canada Assistance Act.
22481-41&

Specifically, it was to be an umbrella. All the
various programs, 200 or more, were to be
consolidated, streamlined, examined and evaluated from the point of view of efficiency
and propriety. The suitable programs were to
be under the umbrella of the Canada Assistance Act, so that it would be in a nice neat
package. That can be done. The Unemployment Insurance and the Canada Pension legislation were not to be included.
Honourable senators, in the presentations
made before us, there was much hope
expressed regarding the raising of our sights.
There was an evaluation that we were in a
better position, in a war on poverty, than our
American cousins. We have a better chance to
win that war, and we can do se.
We have no racial problem, with a black
lash and a white lash. We have no Puerto
Rican problem. These constitute about 25 per
cent of problems in the United States.
One of the other advantages is that the
Canada Assistance Act is national and can be
applied uniformly across the country. We
have had a great deal of valuable experience
with it; it has been tried and tested, and it
can be used administratively almost immediately.
Honourable senators, in examining our
situation,
we
realized
the
difficulties
experienced in the United States, and we
heard what they were doing about this problem. That information made us realize that
our chances of success were better than
theirs. There was a further reason for this, as
you will understand as clearly as anyone in
the country. One of the great blessings in our
land is medicare and hospitalization.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Croll: Neither of these is available
in that sense in the United States. It has been
proved beyond a shadow of doubt that chronic, prolonged, irremediable illness is the
greatest pauperizer. When you touch that, you
are really touching the soft spot in poverty. It
pauperizes the individual, it pauperizes the
family, it pauperizes the generation.
The poor and the poverty stricken benefit
now, and will continue to benefit even more
from medicare and hospitalization programs
as the benefits are improved. The quality of
the medical service is good, yet when the
doctors were before us they did not disagree
on the point that there is room for improvement. Their delivery of service is not good.
There is a need for neighbourhood clinics ta

1360

SENATE DEBATES

reach the poor, at storefront access, on a
shopping-centre concept. There is a shortage
of doctors and the distribution is bad.
Hospitals are for doctors, in the main, and
the outpatient department in our hospitals
today has not changed in fifty years. They
said they were doing something about it, and
it is about time they did. That will come
about; that will improve. To the poor and the
poverty stricken, those are great benefits.
When the Americans came along with their
program, the Nixon program of a guaranteed
income of $2,400 per family of two-nothing
for a family of one-I said to them at that
time that this would not work. When we discussed it with some of the men at our
embassy, I said: "It will not work, because
you are in difficulty on your basic needs; ycu
are all right on education, but medical services and hospitalization are the big issues so
far as the poor are concerned." I was told:
"They get their medical services by the age of
65 and over, and hospitalization too."
Honourable senators will have noticed that
when the Nixon plan went to the committee
the other day, the committee examined it and
sent it back, stating that the situation would
have to be corrected. The plan has to come
back now for a further amendment of the act,
to include all those who get the benefits of
the guaranteed income as well as those persons over 65. We in Canada have already
provided for that, so there are some pluses of
which we can take advantage.
Honourable senators, another consistent
theme before our committee was that of education. Speaking for myself-and I am sure I
speak for the committee when I say thiseducation is a great equalizer. I mean education in the modern sense, not formal education; education that is environmental and
cultural; education on resources.
The poor need educating at a very early
age. Competent people told us that for the
poor we must begin at three years of age. If it
is neglected until they are four, they are
losing ground; and if we wait for kindergarten, they are handicapped. All the evidence
before us is that the poorest schools and the
poorest teachers are among the poor-the
people who need the superior schools, the
superior teachers and the superior facilities.
We are looking seriously into that situation.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: What are you going
about the educated unemployed?
Hon. Mr. Croll: They will get jobs.
always have. The educated unemployed
never been a problem in this country.
[Hon. Mr. Croll.]

June 25, 1970

Hon. Mr. Flynn: They are.
Hon. Mr. Croll: From time to time, some of
them do not get jobs at the salaries they
require. Their chances of getting jobs will be
very much better than others.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Ask them? Were your
terms of reference so vague that you could go
wandering all over the country, with all these
questions, including education? It certainly
was a wide field, was it not?
Hon. Mr. Croll: That was the intention,
that we should take a look at it in its totality.
That is what we were asked to do.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: That is what he was afraid
you were going to do, but he didn't find any
solution.
Hon. Mr. Croll: He didn't reach that conclusion at all.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: The Tower of Babel.
Hon. Mr. Croll: I am sorry, I did not hear
what you said.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You speak as if you were
around the Tower of Babel.
Hon. Mr. Croll: Again if I have not yet
penetrated with what I have said so far, one
of us is not dc.ing very well.
Speaking of education, I quote from Mr.
Galbraith, who said:
To the best of my knowledge there is no
place in the world where a well-educated
population is really poor.

And education may well turn out to be the
most potent weapon we have. I think we have
tb convince the Canadian people that education is the diploma out of poverty.
As I said, we had discussed the guaranteed
maintenance income, and to me it is an idea
whose time has come. Frcm the arguments
we heard, or at least from some of the arguments, I was reminded very much of what I
had heard on many other occasions when we
proposed some social measure. A philosopher
once said that all good ideas pass through
three stages-ridicule, discussion and adoption. Social ideas with political ramifications
pass through five stages; those opposed
always say, firstly, it is impossible; secondly,
to do it is unconstitutional; thirdly, it may bankrupt the country; fourth, it is not a bad idea
They but you are going about it in the wrong way;
have and finally, they say they were for it all the
time.

June 25, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

I think honourable senators will find that
this coincides with some of the views
expressed at the present time, because the
concept of a guaranteed income was overwhelmingly endorsed by logic, by force, by
understanding. It was discussed responsibly,
as was the work ethic about which I will have
something more to say in a few minutes.
The suggestion took these forms: a guaranteed income, which is sometimes called the
maintenance income; and the method of
delivery, either by a negative income tax
form or by the demogrant form. All these
have been discussed and studied in academic
circles for some time. They have been misunderstood in the highways and byways of this
country, and they have been mistrusted by a
great number of taxpayers. Yet, in principle,
the Government bas been practicing them
with the approval of the country. I think it is
well to recognize that if we are to win this
war on poverty, this affluent country of
Canada will have to deploy some of its
resources towards redeeming the poor and
make better use of the resources now being
spent on the poor.
From the time that we began our study,
public opinion has changed on many things.
We now have a better understanding of our
purposes, our desires and our will. The greatest detractors have admitted the inevitability
of some form of maintenance income for
people in circumstances of poverty, so far as
people appearing before the committee are
concerned. They are as responsible as any
people in this country; their view could be
summed up in the question, "How soon, how
much, and by what means do you implement
the concept?" As far as the poor themselves
are concerned, they will do anything to
become persons again.
A study of the guaranteed income has been
made by the Conservative Party and was
approved in principle. The New Democratic
Party bas also made a study, and it is
approved in principle. The Social Credit
Party has made a study and they have
approved it in principle. And, as I say, the
Government of the day bas been practicing it.
Those of you who have time on your hands
and are interested in the subject would be
interested in the presentation made before the
committee by the Department of National
Health and Welfare. It was a very healthy
one.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: It surely should be.

it had to be read. He took eight pages to
discuss the guaranteed minimum wage concept. Let me read you a quote from Dr. Willard on that concept, printed in the Montreal
Star of June 20.
Sources in Ottawa have accepted the
fact that in terms of the working poor
the Canada Assistance Plan has been a
failure. Because of this, many Ottawa
experts feel it may be only through a
guaranteed annual income (which is not
selective about what kind of poor get
help) that the working poor can receive
assistance.
Dr. Joseph Willard, deputy minister of
National Health and Welfare, stressed this
in a Toronto speech recently when he
said that "the new income-tested technique or guaranteed annual income
approach will receive greater attention"
in future.
He pointed out that it is a more efficient anti-poverty tool than either the
for
(family allowance,
"demogrant"
example) or social insurance techniques,
and that its main thrust is to help the
working poor.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Honourable senators, may I be permitted to put a
question to the honourable gentleman? Will
the honourable senator, who is just resuming
his seatHon. Mr. Choquette: He is only resuming it
because you are asking him a question.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): I
would like to ask him how much it has cost
the people of Canada-and I am not just referring to Government, because the Government is just one element-to take care of the
poor. Furthermore, I would like to know from
the honourable Senator Crol how much more
it will cost the Canadian people, and by that I
mean everybody in Canada, to follow his
suggestion?
Hon. Mr. Croll: The cost is now between
7 billion and $8 billion, in total-municipal, provincial and federal-for social services
of every kind. As to what the cost will be,
I will come to that, but you cannot fix the cost
until you fix the poverty line. Until such time
as you lay down the line where you start, it is
not possible to fix the cost; but, as I say, I
will discuss that in a few moments.

One of the things that is troubling the
Hon. Mr. Croll: An excellent presentation
Willard, and every word of Canadian people is the work ethic, the desire
was made by Dr.

1362

SENATE DEBATES

June 25, 1970

of people to work, the concept of having to
Among the many interesting findings is one
work. The question that arises is, "Will they with respect to administrative
costs. Talking
work if they are given a basic income?"
about guaranteed income, this is said:
The estimated total cost per family for
The Americans are plagued with the very
this type of administration is $72 to $96
same problem. In 1968 the Office of Economie
per year, exclusive of work training and
Opportunity initiated an experimental project
day care costs. This figure compares to
in New Jersey, the graduated work incentive
the estimated cost of $200 to $300 per
experiment, to measure the effects of a profamily per year for the existing welfare
gram that assures families a minimum income
system, also excluding the costs of trainlevel in a manner designed to protect their
ing and services.
incentives to work. We are faced with exactly
the same problem. Of course we are privy to
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): From
all their findings, and they keep us informed. where do those
figures come?
It is a program costing some $5 million; we
take a free ride, and they are glad to be
Hon. Mr. Croll: This is from a publication
helpful to us.
entitled, "Preliminary Results of the New
They are not complete, but these are the Jersey Graduated Work Incentive Experipreliminary findings that they have published ment," put out by the Office of Economic
and have been accepted. I read from page 14, Opportunity in the United States.
under the heading "Attitudes Toward Work":
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Is that
In-depth interviews with participants an official organism?
indicate that the low-income individual is
Hon. Mr. Croll: Yes, a department of
strongly motivated toward work.
As shown in Chart VI, the majority government.
The detractors of the guaranteed income
indicated that they aspire for a better job
and are willing to move to another city make two arguments: firstly, that money
or take training even if it meant a pay alone will not solve the problem and, secondcut in order to get that better job. The ly, that it will be too expensive. Let us exammajority also indicated that they are ine those arguments for a few moments.
No one appearing before the committee
willing to work two jobs to support their
families. Of all the factors influencing made any statement that money will solve the
work choice, job security was ranked problem. No member of the committee made
twice as high by participants as any any such statement or believes it. The poor
do not even believe it. Money is the first step
other job factor, including wages, work- out of poverty
but it will not solve the probing conditions, or job interest.
lem. There is much more to it than that. The
These responses from the participants most important solution to it is, as I have
indicate that supplementary income indicated, jobs or alternatives to jobs, whatassistance will not reduce their work ever they may be, along with training and so
on. If the problem could be solved by money
effort.
alone, the Americans, who began their fight
It is more than that.
against poverty by trying the "money alone"
Chart VI reads:
approach, would have solved it, but they did
not and have changed their course.
Per cent
The following is a quote from Molly
Attitudes Toward Work
Orshansky, one of the senior civil servants in
Aspire for a better job
the United States Department of Agriculture,
65
and an international authority on poverty staWould move to another city
tistics. She appeared before the Joint Ecofor a good job
56
nomic Committee in the Congress of the
Would take training with pay
United States in June 1967, and this is what
cut to get better job
she said:
55
If money alone will not solve the probWould work two jobs
60
lem of poverty it is still true that without
Job stability is twice as important
money nothing else will avail much
as any other aspect of job
either. Mathematically, it falls in the
Low income people are strongly work
category of necessary but not sufficient
motivated.
conditions. Pragmatically it is undoubted[Hon. Mr. Croll.]

June 25, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1363

Hon. Mr. Croll: The honourable leader was
out of the chamber when I indicated that the
conditions of poor people have worsened
recently.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: On which side are you?
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Despite all that we have
Hon. Mr. Croll: I am on her side.
done.
We must remember that to the poor, money
Hon. Mr. Croll: No. It worsened recently for
is coined freedom. In the future we shall have two reasons-inflation and unemployment.
they
to deal with the poor in the currency
understand. We might as well make up our
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Ahminds, if we are serious, that the Canadian
Hon. Mr. Croll: But, wait a minute. We
drean will not be tax free.
have to make some changes in our social
The second argument is that it is too
order. I remember the theory of Mackenzie
expensive, that we cannot afford it now. Must King who thought that he could get redistriin a day!
it all be "now"? Rome was not built
bution of wealth by social measures. At the
Do we not need a plan, an objective, a pur- time that appeared to me to be a good theory.
pose and some ground rules? Cannot we But, you know what it bas done in twenty
phase it in, whatever it may cost-a little years. It has made a two per cent difference
now, a little more tomorrow-so long as we in the redistribution of wealth, and nothing
know the direction in which we are travelling else has happened. So, if I now suggest some
and the objective we want to attain? Every further redistribution of wealth, I am told I
social measure we have on the statute books
am advocating a new social order, although
of this country bas been phased in. It may my honourable friend did not say it was
have had small beginnings, but we knew
or something else. Is that a new
what we wanted in the end and we attained socialism,
the "now or social order?
it. We cannot afford to take
never" approach. We cannot afford to do a
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I think we have to come to
patchwork job, or a band-aid job, or a finger- that conclusion, judging from your argument
in-the-dyke job, and think we are making up to now.
progress. We have tried all these remedies
Hon. Mr. Croll: I am giving you the consenbefore, and they have failed.
sus of those who have appeared before the
Hon. Mr. Flynn: This is a change in the committee, not that of the committee.
social order.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Very well.
Hon. Mr. Croll: Nobody is changing the
Hon. Mr. Croll: I have my views, and I am
social order.
not the sort of fellow who hides them under a
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Judging from the way you bushel. My honourable friend knows that.
speak, there is no other way out.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: No; that is obvious.
Hon. Mr. Croll: I have not said there will
Hon. Mr. Croll: And you would not want it
be no change when we make a further contribution to alleviate the conditions of people any other way, I hope.
who live in poverty. There has not been a
Hon. Mr. Flynn: You are not speaking for
change in the social order for twenty years. the committee?
For twenty years there has been no redistriHon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Well,
bution of wealth in this country. Are the
Ipeople not entitled to some change?
Hon. Mr. Croll: Just one second, senator. I
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Are you suggesting that
a
what bas been done over the past twenty-five started out by saying that I was making
avail, and has served no report on the opinions expressed before the
years has been to no
committee.
purpose?
Hon. Mr. Flynn: But you are not hiding
Hon. Mr. Croll: No, no.
your own views.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I suggest to the honourable
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Whethsenator that there are more people living in
there were, and that is er you call it the consensus of the committee
poverty today than
or something elseafter all these efforts.
ly true that the persons who declaim
loudest that "money is not everything"
are those who already have some.

1364

SENATE DEBATES

June 25, 1970
Hon. Mr. Croll: It is not the consensus of tions. But as long
as he is prepared to accept
the committee.
questions, then there should be no intervention.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): -I
would like to know in a clear-cut way whethThe Hon. the Speaker pro tem: I agree with
er the honourable gentleman is proposing a the honourable Leader of
the Opposition.
socialist state for Canada or something else. Before rising, I took
great care to note that
Hon. Mr. Croll: Are you sure that we have the remarks of the honourable Senator Fournier (De Lanaudière) did not comprise a quesnot a socialist state in Canada already?
tion. They constituted an argument more than
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): No, sir. a question. If the Chair allows this type of
discussion to continue, we will be involved in
Hon. Mr. Croll: I am happy with what we a debate.
have at the present time. I have always supI draw the attention of honourable senators
ported the Liberal party which, if not openly
socialistic, at least takes socialistie measures, to the fact that this is merely an interim
though it is not supposed to be a socialistic report of the committee. The report will be
considered in the fall, at which time all
party. I have been a member for a long time.
honourable senators will have an opportunity
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): I am of making whatever contributions they wish.
not prepared to accept that. My honourable
Hon. Mr. Flynn: If this is an interim report,
friend used to be a Liberal. I do not know to
where he has gone today. In the past I know then look out for the final report!
he was a Liberal, and in the minds of LiberHon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Honourals there is a national wealth that has to be able senators, the honourable
gentleman
distributed in an honest way, in a free way, received the unanimous consent
of the house
to those who have less from those who have to put his case. At
the proper moment I asked
more. That is why we have what was called his permission
to put a question, which he
by George Drew, a former Prime Minister of accepted.
That was quite in order. Of course,
Ontario, the baby bonus.
I had some reasons for putting my questions,
Hon. Mr. Croll: What is your question, but before I was able to explain all my reasons I was declared out of order. I was simply
senator?
asking the honourable gentleman if he is a
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Order. I do Socialist, a Tory, a Liberal, or a member of
not think the honourable Senator Fournier the N.D.P. I should like to know where he
(De Lanaudiere) is asking a question. He is stands.
making a speech.
Hon. Mr. Croll: Are there any sensible
Hon. Mr. Choquette: May I help to synop- questions? If not, I will continue. If any
honourable senator has a question, then I
size his question?
shall be pleased to try to answer it.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Order,
please. Unanimous consent was given to the
Hon. Mr. Choquelie: I should like to know
honourable Senator Croll to make an interim if the honourable senator's theory is this: not
socialism,
report of the Senate Special Committee on necessarily
but
socialism
if
Poverty. All honourable senators will agree necessary.
that this is not a time to open a debate. Some
Hon. Mr. Flynn: He is a disciple of Macof the remarks that have been made so far kenzie
King.
have not been questions, but rather argument.
Hon. Mr. Croll: I am delighted to hear these
I would ask honourable senators to assist the
Chair in dealing with this matter in an order- thoughtful observations, but I shall go on
with my speech.
ly fashion.
My purpose,
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I rise on a point of order, indicate to the as I stated originally, is to
house something of what the
Mr. Speaker. It is, of course, up to the honou- committee is
going to do this summer. The
rable senator who has the floor to accept or nembers of the
committee consider that there
refuse questions. If he accepts them, then I do i
s great urgency about the problem of povernot think it is the duty of the Chair to inter- t
y, and they have agreed to give up their
vene. If the honourable senator is tired of the ssummer in order
to visit those areas of
interruptions, he can refuse to answer ques- Canada that they have
not yet visited.
[Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière).]

June 25, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

The first visit of the committee will be to
Newfoundland and Labrador in the week of
July 5. This will be an extensive tour of the
Province of Newfoundland, to include St.
John's, Gander, Fogo Island, Corner Brook,
St. Anthony's, and Labrador.
Two weeks later, on July 19, the committee
will be visiting Calgary, Edmonton, Whitehorse, and the Northwest Terriories.
During the first week of August, the committee has an extensive tour planned of NewBrunswick, which includes Moncton, Saint
John, Fredericton, Chatham, Newcastle, and
Bathurst.
During the week of August 16, the committee will visit Saskatchewan. The areas to be
visited are Regina and Prince Albert, and
rural Saskatchewan.
During the week commencing August 30,
the committee will visit the Gaspé Peninsula
and northern New Brunswick. This visit will
include Rimouski, Edmundston, Gaspé, and
Campbellton/Restigouche.
I did not refer to housing, manpower, the
role of the social worker, legal aid, taxation,
day care centres, nursing homes, nor a
myriad of other matters that have been
brought to our attention and will have to be
considered by the committee. That will be
done on another occasion.
I have given a fair idea of the problems
which have been presented. This is the consensus of the views of people who have
appeared before the committee and the work
which we feel it is our duty and responsibility to carry out.
For the balance of this summer we will
visit various provinces which I have already
mentioned. We would very much welcome
any honourable senators who are in the provinces at that time to join us at our hearings.
We will be glad to give you a copy of the
program, if you wish.
One would go far to find a more devoted,
responsible and co-operative group of men
and women than those on the committee.
They are concerned and hard-working. It bas
been a tiring grind, but every member of the
committee feels a personal responsibility for
finding a solution.
I believe that we have established a credibility in the country and that it will have
confidence in our determination, ability and
concept to formulate plans which will remove
the curse of poverty which sears this land.
22481-42

1365
DOCUMENTS TABLED

Leave having been given to revert to Presentation of Petitions:
Hon. Paul Martin tabled:
Report of Operations under the Fisheries Improvement Loans Act for the fiscal
year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to
section 12(2) of the said Act, chapter 46,
Statutes of Canada, 1955.
Copies of a Report on the Public Service Pay System, dated April 1970, prepared by the Department of Supply and
Services.
Report of the Prices and Incomes Commission (Mr. John H. Young, Chairman)
on Duplicating Machines, Supplies and
Services, together with Report on Metal
Container Prices, both Reports being
dated June 25, 1970.
Report of Atomic Energy of Canada
Limited, including its Accounts and
Financial Statements certified by the
Auditor General, for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to sections 85(3)
and 87(3) of the Financial Administration
Act, chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952.
Copies of Volumes 5 and 6 of the Final
Report of the Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism, dated February 14, 1970, (Joint Chairmen-Messrs. A.
Jean-Louis
and
Dunton
Davidson
Gagnon) intituled: "Book V-The Federal
"Book VI-Voluntary
and
Capital"
Associations".
Copies of a series of papers on foreign
affairs prepared by the Department of
External Affairs, entitled "Foreign Policy
for Canadians".
Copies of a document entitled "Federal
Government Policies on the Development
of Bilingualism", dated June 23, 1970,
together with copies of statement thereon
made by the Prime Minister in the House
of Commons.
He said: With reference to the papers on
foreign affairs, I have requested that arrangements to be made for copies of the papers to
be delivered to each senator during the course
of the afternoon.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Is it a sort of white paper?
Hon. Mr. Martin: It is not called a white
paper, but the papers are an examination of
Canadian foreign policy in relation to these
subjects.

SENATE DEBATES

1366

Hon. Mr. Flynn: If they were bound togeth-

June 25, 1970
POVERTY

er, would it then be a white paper?
Hon. Mr. Martin: They are all white.
LABOUR
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR
FEMALE STUDENTS-QUESTION

Hon. Muriel McG. Fergusson: Honourable

senators, I have a question to ask of the
Leader of the Government. First I wish to
point out that the Minister of Manpower and
Immigration announced recently the creation
of 17,200 vacation-time jobs which will presumably be filled by students. Of these, 10,800
will be in the Department of National

QUESTION TO COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN-POINT
OF ORDER-RURAL CONDITIONS

Hon. Hazen Argue: Honourable senators, I
wish to direct a question to the chairman of
the Special Senate Committee on Poverty.
Hon. Mr. O'Leary: That is not in accordance with the rules.
Hon. Mr. Argue: With unanimous consentif I do not have unanimous consent I will not
place the question.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Has the
honourable Senator Argue unanimous consent
to asc that question?

Defence.

I presume that female students will be eligible for very few, if any, of the jobs in the
Department of National Defence. I know
there are other aspects of the program, but
unless a large proportion of the jobs other
than those in the Department of National
Defence are especially reserved for women
students, it would seem to me that this program discriminates against women students,
who have an equal need for jobs.
My question is this: What steps are being
taken by the Department of Manpower and
Immigration to provide that female students
will have an equai opportunity with male
students to fill summer jobs, such as were
mentioned by the minister in his announcement and to earn money to continue their
education?
If the leader is unable to answer this question today or before the house adjourns for
the summer, I would like to express the hope
that this matter will be carefully examined
by the Department of Manpower and Immigration from the point of view of equal
opportunity for males and females.

Hon. Allister Grosari: No. Honourable senators, sooner or later we must come to the
point where we pay attention to our rules. In
this very important matter of the Question
Period our rules make it quite clear that
questions can only be asked of the Leader of
the Government. I suggest it is a major
departure, with which I am not in disagreement, but it is not one which should be
allowed in so casual a way.
Therefore, I reluctantly withhold my
consent.
Hon. Sarto Fournier: Honourable senators,
the honourable Senator Croll spoke with
unanimous consent. I am speaking on a point
of order. Unfortunately, I do not share the
opinion of the honourable Senator Grosart,
but when an honourable senator is speaking
with unanimous consent, it follows that a
question should be allowed in the same way,
with unanimous consent. Otherwise, it would
not be fair to permit the honourable Senator
Grosart to speak with unanimous consent and
refuse consent to another honourable senator
who wishes to request an explanation.

Hon. Jacques Flynn: On this point of order,
reference to Rule 20 indicates that Senator
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, it Grosart is correct. However, I may point out
certainly is not the intention of the Govern- that in the other place it bas always been the
ment or the Department of Manpower and practice to allow a question to be put to the
Immigration to discriminate between the chairman of a committee. An amendment in
sexes.
this respect should be made to our rules.
As Senator Fergusson has said, there are
The honourable Senator Grosart is right
approximately 17,200 jobs covered by this when he says that the rules do not allow a
program, of which 10,800 will be in the question to anyone other than the Leader of
Department of National Defence. The ques- the Government unless unanimous consent is
tion is timely. I will see that it is directed to given, but I suggest that our rules are inademy colleague at once.
quate in the present circumstances.
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 25, 1970

Jini 25,1970SENATE
DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Grosari: On the point of order,
there is a way out. The phrase '"unanimous
consent" is used quite often in these discussions. Under our rules there is no provision
for unanimous consent. The referenoe is to
leave of the Senate without objection. There
is also provision under rule 27 for consent of
the Senate, which means a majority vote. If
an honourable senator asks for consent under
Rufle 27 and it is agreed, I will flot insist on it
going to a vote.
Hon. Mr. Argue: That is splitting hairs. I
would be quite prepared to ask for consent or
leave, or put the question in any other way
that rnight meet Senator Grosart's approvai.
My question was merely this. I listened to
the rernarksHon. Mr. Grosart: Has the honourable senator leave?
Hon. Mr. Argue: I take it I have consent.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: The honourable senator
is asking for consent, Your Honour.

Hon. Mr. Argue: I have it here.
Hon. Mr. Croil: We took a chapter out of
that and inserted it into aur record, so that
not only the committee members but those
who obtain our record could see it. The
answer to your question is, of course, yes.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Did
you have occasion to look at the situation in
the Province of Quebec?
Hon. Mr. Croil: Yes. Today I mentioned a
visit to the Gaspé Peninsula. We were going
to Quebec. We had arranged to go to Montreal and other places, but we were in conflict
with the election week at that time.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Montreal is not rural.
Hon. Mr. Crali: I know.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): The
question bas to do with rural poverty.

Hon. Mr. Croli: We were going to urban
areas too, but we called it off at that time.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Is it agreed? Since then we have been in touch with the
Minister of Health i Quebec, wbo I think
Hon. Senalors: Agreed.
will appear before our committee when we
Hon. Mr. Argue: I have neyer receîved this return in the f ail.
much attention in a long trne, honourable
Hon. Mr. Phillips <Prince): May I put a
senators.
question to the honourable Senator Cr011?
Hon. Mr. Martin: You have neyer attracted
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Is it agreed
it before.
with unanimous consent?
Hon. Mr. Argue: I wanted to congratulate
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Senator Croil on his comprehensive statement
this afternoon. My question is this. In the
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): I noticed that i
future deliberations of his committee, will replying to Senator Argue's question on rural
there be any particular emphasis on or inqui- poverty, Senator Croîl rnentioned Prince
ry made with regard to the vexing question of Edward Island as bis first example. I find this
rural poverty? Urban poverty is clearly with rather strange, ln view of the fact that in the
us, but rural poverty is exceedingly important last tbree years we have had a developrnent
too, and I arn wondering if the committee is plan i Prince Edward Island. What effect
in fact looking at the question of rural pover- have you found titis bas bad on the rural
ty in an adequate way.
poverty to which you referred in Prince
Edward Island?
Hon. David Croil: Yes. We looked at it ini
Hon. Mr. Croil: This is not the first we
Prince Edward Island; we are looldng at it i
New Brunswick, in Newfoundland and in have heard of the plan. When we went to
Saskatchewan. There are sorne members of Charlottetown we looked at it, however, we
the cornrittee-Senators Pearson, McGrand, made no particular study of it. We looked at
Carter, Cook and Sparrow-who are rural- what we saw and what we found there. That
rninded. We pay a great deal of attention to is ahl we know about it.
the rural aspects of poverty. We realize how
Hon. Mr. Phillips <Prince): In other words,
important it is.
you say it has had no effect.
In order to complete the record, if you have
Hon. Mr. Croil: No, I did not say that. We
seen the rnost recent study rnade by the
Departrnent of Agriculturedo not say it bas had no effect at ail. What22481-421

SENATE DEBATES

1368

June 25, 1970

ever effect it has had-and I presume if it
was put in by Liberals it must have had a
good effect-we saw it.

Majesty certain sums of money for the public
service for the financial year ending 31st
March, 1971.

Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): Like Admiral
Nelson, you are blind in one eye.

Hon. Hazen Argue: Honourable senators, I
should like to take the opportunity of this
motion for third reading of the Appropriation
Bill, containing the Estimates-

HUDSON'S BAY COMPANY BILL
CORRECTION OF STATEMENT IN DEBATE

Hon. G. Percival Burchill: Mr. Speaker,
before the Orders of the Day are called, may
I have leave of the Senate to refer to Hansard
of June 16 and 17, for the purpose of the
record? I may say in explanation that those of
us who have been involved in lengthy committee meetings have been denied the pleasure of sitting in the house and listening to the
debates, and we have had to do our homework at the weekends. This is the first opportunity I have had of mentioning this matter
and I would ask leave of the Senate to refer
to it.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Is it agreed?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

Hon. Paul Martin: I wonder if the honourable Senator Argue would mind delaying his
remarks for a short time, in view of the fact
that there is legislation on which Senator
Haig wishes to speak, which is Order No. 6,
Bill C-158. I do not believe his remarks will
be extensive, but be cannot be present when
the order is called in its proper place. I had
made arrangements with Senator Yuzyk to
transfer Order No. 4, Bill C-218, to the place
that would normally be taken by Order No. 6,
so that Senator Haig could deal with this
matter at that time.
In view of Senator Argue's intervention,
which can take place within a few moments, I
wonder whether he and other honourable
senators would agree that we might proceed
from Order No. 1 to Order No. 6 so that
Senator Haig can deal with it, after which we
can proceed with Order No. 1, and hear Senator Argue's observations.

Hon. Mr. Burchill: In Hansard of June 16,
at page 1228, when Senator Everett was introducing the Hudson's Bay Company bill, I find
this paragraph:
Hon. Mr. Argue: Honourable senators, I try
I should mention in passing that 10 per to get along. I realize that this is completely
cent of the outstanding shares are pre- against the rules of the Senate-it flies in the
sently held in Canada, 86 per cent in the face of them.
United Kingdom and four per cent in
Hon. Mr. Martin: Oh no.
other parts of the world.
Hon. Mr. Argue: However, I am happy to
On the following day, June 17, when Senator
give my consent to this extraordinary
Haig was speaking on the same subject he
made this statement at page 1249 of Hansard: procedure.
Hon. Mr. Martin: There is nothing extraorNinety-five per cent of the shares of this
company, which is known in Winnipeg as dinary about it. It is done every day. But as
this is the end of the session before recess
"The Bay", are held in Canada.
and we are dealing with legislation, I am sure
Perhaps Senator Haig would clear up this Senator Argue
will agree.
discrepancy, because I think it is necessary to
Hon. Mr. Argue: It is a little extraordinary
have the record straight.
to interrupt a senator after he starts to speak.
Hon. Mr. Haig: Honourable senators, I am However, I am quite happy
to comply with
glad that Senator Burchill bas brought this to the request.
the attention of the bouse. I was incorrect in
Hon. Mr. McDonald: You would like to
my statement.
speak later?
APPROPRIATION BILL NO. 3, 1970
Hon. Mr. Argue: Yes, of course.
THIRD READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
Hon. Léopold Langlois moved the third senators, do you agree that Order No. 1
reading of Bill C-224, for granting to Her stand?
[Hon. Mr. Croll.]

DEBATES
25.
June1970SENATE

June 25, 1970

Hon. Senalors: Agreed.
Order stands.
NUCLEAR LIABILITY BILL
SECOND READING

16
1369

absolutely liable for any breach of this
duty without the claimant having to
prove any fault or negligence. Financial
responsibllity would be channelled to one
person, the operator, and subi ect to
minor exceptions he would be the only
one fiable to third parties for injuries or
damages.

The Senate resumed from Tuesday, June
23, the adjourned debate on the motion of
Hon. Mr. Lang, for the second reading of Bill So, there is an absolute liability placed on the
C-158, respecting civil liabillty for nuclear operator, the claimant flot having to prove any
damage.
fault or negligence. To protect himself the
operator will take out insurance from private
Hon. J. Campbell Haig: Honourable sena- carriers and from the Government to a limit
tors, I do not think Senator Argue is qute of $75 million.
right, because this has happened before. 1
There is a question which I would like to,
thank the Leader of the Government for pergoing to
mitting me to proceed now with Order No. 6 ask the honourable Leader. I wasto this bill
suggest that third reading be given
because I have to leave.
today, but 1 would like an answer to my
This bill was introduced in the House of question first. Section 5 of the bill provides:
Commons on February 6 of this year and was
Where liability under this act in
introduced and fully explained in the Senate
respect of the same injury or damage is
on June 23 by Senator Lang who, as honouraincurred by two or more operators, the
ble senators know, is an expert on the subject
liability of the operators shall, to the
of nuclear power.
extent that the injury or damage
The main purpose and thrust of this bill is
attributable to a breach of the duty
for the prevention of accidents in the peaceimposed on each of them by this act is
manufacture of nuclear power. It
ful use and
not reasonably separable, be treated as
is for the protection of lives in the case of an
joint and several.
accident or blast, and it is for the prevention
of pollution. Pollution is a word that is ban- My information is that private insurers
died about quite frequently these days. In would be very reluctant to provide this insurnuclear plants the water goes ini cold at one ance. As a matter of fact, it might be impossiend and cornes out very hot at the other. This ble to obtain it from them. The Government
problem of thermal pollution has received a should find out whether this is so, because if
great deal of attention and was referred to the insurance cannot be obtained from priduring the debate on this bill in the House of vate carriers the Governiment will have to
Commons on February 6:
take over the liability, which is not its
This is a general probhem with thermal intention.
power stations but there appears to be a
This bill is a forerunner, and the Governbîgger threat from nuclear stations ment should be congratulated on presenting
because of the greater heat discharge. such legislation before an accident happens.
When water drawn from adjacent rivers According to the evidence before the commitor lakes for cooling purposes is returned, tee la the other place we have flot had a
it may disrupt the total ecology of aquat- nuclear incident and we do not intend to have
ic life. We will have progressed very one, but the Government is taking steps to
hittie, Mr. Speaker, if we simply stop kill- proteet people and prevent pollution.
ing our fish with phosphates to start killI would commend this bill to your favouraing them with heat.
ble consideration, but I would like an answer
To meet difficulties arising out of a nuclear to the question I have raised about private
accident, certain duties are imposed on the insurers. This may indeed have been covered
operator of a nuclear installation. When in the evidence given before the House of
introducing the bill in the House of Commons Commons commlttee, which I have flot read
Mr. Orange, the Parliamentary Secretary, fully, but I would think that the appropriate
said that the legisiation would impose a duty departmental officiai could supply the answer.
That is the only thing I would suggest, Mr.
on the operator:
-to ensure that no injury or damage in Leader.
I wish to thank the honourable leader for
Canada resulted from the operation of his
installation. The operator would be the courtesy extended to me, and honourable

SENATE DEBATES

Senator Argue for deferring his questions on
Order No. 1.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
may I just add a few words. I am quite satisfied that it is within the jurisdiction of Parliament to say that no one shall operate a
nuclear installation without a licence issued
by the Government or the minister, and that
no licence shall be issued unless the licencee
can obtain adequate insurance protection for
the damages that he may cause in the operation of this installation. Furthermore, I am
satisfied that Parliament can say:
An operator is not liable for injury or
damage of the kind described in section 3
if the nuclear incident resulting in such
injury or damage occurred as a direct
result of an act of armed conflict in the
course of war, invasion or insurrection.
But, I have grave doubts that Parliament
has any power to define, limit or otherwise
deal with the liability of any person operating
a nuclear installation. In my opinion this is
strictly within the province of civil rights,
and I suggest that if these provisions in the
act were submitted to the Supreme Court
they could be ruled to be entirely unconstitutional. I may be wrong. I am just expressing
an opinion.
If the Leader of the Government or anyone
else can assure me that it is within the power
of Parliament to decide on a question of liability and to say, for instance, that there
would be a joint responsibility, as has been
indicated by Senator Haig, and that the liability shall be such as described in section 4, or
that there should be such limitation as
indicated in section 10, then I would be willing to listen. However, on the surface it
appears to me that Parliament has power to
legislate here only on the question of requiring a licence and requiring the licencee to
have insurance. The problem of civil
responsibility comes under provincial jurisdiction, and I do not think that this bill, dealing with these questions, adds anything or
should change anything with respect to provisions which are in force in each and every
province under section 92 of the B.N.A. Act.
Hon. Mr. Martin: When this matter was
being discussed I raised this point, not by
way of full conviction, but I wondered as to
the implication that the federal Government
had authority in this area. This did not disturb the law officers of the Crown.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Well[Hon. Mr. Haig.]

June 25, 1970

Hon. Mr. Martin: I had my reservations. I
can very well appreciate the position the
Leader of the Opposition has taken. In any
event, if the situation is as he argues, nothing
in the act will alter that. It will be a matter
for the discretion of the court. However,
having raised it, I do say that was the reaction of the law officers of the Crown.
On the question of insurance, the matter
raised by Senator Haig, I have no immediate
answer. This matter was before the other
house and went to committee. It would seem
to me that it would be desirable that insurance be available. If it is not, I submit that
should not invalidate the important and vital
purpose of this bill. I wonder if we could not
agree to third reading now, and I will
endeavour to get some supplementary information by tomorrow.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Agreed.
Hon. Mr. Martin: If we can have third
reading now and I can get that information, I
will give it.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: The objection I raised is
not one that would cause real conflict
between two levels of government. It is
purely a legislative matter. The point raised
by Senator Haig is the same thing-it will be
a problem to solve afterwards.
Hon. Mr. Martin: That is right.
Motion agreed to and bill read the second
time.
THIRD READING

The Hon.

the

Speaker pro tem: Honourable

senators, when shall this bill be read the third
time?
Hon. Mr. Martin: With leave of the Senate,
and notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(b), I move
that the bill be read the third time now.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time
and passed.
[Later:]
Hon. A. Hamilion McDonald: Honourable
senators, in the course of Senator Haig's
address he asked a question which I understood to be whether the Government or the
Atomic Energy Control Board, which is the
agency responsible for this legislation, has
held any consultations with the private insurance industry with regard to the insurance
referred to in this bill. I can now say that the
department has been in touch and has held
preliminary discussions with the insurance

June 25, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

industry, and the insurance industry has
shown a great interest in further negotiations
and discussions with the department. However, both the department and industry felt
that until such time as this legislation was
passed by both Houses of Parliament there
was little point in concluding any definite
arrangements.
Honourable senators will note that clause
35 of the bill states:
This Act shall come into force on a day
to be fixed by proclamation.
It is not the intention to proclaim the bill
until such time as negotiations have been
completed between the industry and the
Atomic Energy Control Board.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: What would happen if in
the meantime there was some damage caused
by a nuclear installation?
Hon. Mr. McDonald: This act, despite the
fact it will get Royal Assent tomorrow, will
not be applicable until such time as it is
proclaimed. If an accident were to happen the
day after tomorrow, this act would not be in
effect.
Hon. Mr. Grosart: We could bring in some
more retroactive legislation.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: There might be opposition to that.

1371

the Government is carried away, before the
public is carried away, before the farm
organizations feel that they do not have the
expertise to stand up to this kind of report, it
would be well to consider some of the recommendations which a body of experts, perhaps
equally qualified, made in this field in the
recent past.
I have in my hand a very revealing document which came from the Department of
Agriculture in January 1967. It is "Farm
Letter, Outlook 1967". Now, three years atter
that Letter was published we are in this
situation, with huge burdens on agricultural
surplus.
Three years ago, did the experts foresee
that this situation might arise? I suggest they
did not. I should like to quote a few sentences
from this publication of the Canadian Department of Agriculture, Outlook 1967:
The year ahead looks like a good one for
Canadian farmers. For the moment, at
least, there are no serious surpluses
weighing down the farmer and, indeed,
some of our farm products are in fairly
short supply. With the world population
increasing by leaps and bounds, the position of the food producer is becoming
more vital as each day passes. Continuing
high production of wheat will be needed.
It goes on to say:
ges on to say:
Seed 30 million acres.

Now they say, "Seed 15 million acres"! The
letter concludes:
THIRD READING
That is the 1967 picture. If the predicThe Senate resumed from earlier this day
tions hit their mark, it will be another
the debate on the motion of Hon. Mr. Lanbumper year for Canadian agriculture.
glois for the third reading of Bill C-224, for
granting to Her Majesty certain sums of Everything was rosy. Use 30 million acres for
money for the public service for the finan- the production of wheat. It is going to be
another bumper year. But the Task Force on
cial year ending 31st March, 1971.
Agriculture, three years later, recommends
Hon. Hazen Argue: Honourable senators, I very serious cutbacks and very serious
should like to use this opportunity to make changes in agricultural policy. They recomsome remarks with regard to the report of the mend a so-called temporary program to cut
special Task Force on Agriculture. This is a back wheat acreage. They say that the federal
wide and revolutionary doctrine in many Government should take certain moneys from
respects. There is evidence that a positive certain programs now in effect and use these
action may be forthcoming very soon, with for this temporary-one year, or at most a
very few years-cutback in wheat production.
respect to many of its recommendations.
Honourable senators, I have been very
There has been really no discussion on this
report in the other place and I feel that, critical in this chamber of the quota provibefore Parliament recesses, I should put a few sions. I have felt the farmers would not
comply in any major degree. I have felt that
remarks on the record with regard to it.
The report was drafted and presented by a the quota provisions were coercive. Neverthegroup of experts in their field, and deals with less, I congratulate the Government on having
major policy changes for agriculture. Before taken the $100 million-or, at least, having
APPROPRIATION BILL NO. 3, 1970

1372

SENATE DEBATES

told the farmers it is there if they wish to
avail themselves of that quantity of money,
under certain circumstances.
The task force did not recommend any
additional money. They would have robbed
Peter to pay Paul. They would have taken the
money out of the pocket of the farmers in one
place and put it in the pockets of the farmers
in another.

June 25. 1970

wheat be cut from 30 million to 15 million
acres. But the farmers are cutting their production back without arbitrary procedures
being necessary. The farmer is cutting back
his production because the economics of the
situation suggest to him that this is the wise
thing to do. But, honourable senators, the
royal commission recommends a temporary
program and then a permanent program as
far as certain price support
Hon. Mr. Martin: I do not see what is cerned. In this connection policies are conI quote from
wrong in paying Paul.
Recommendation No. 9 at page 132:
9. That the Temporary Wheat Reserves
Hon. Mr. Argue: If he is worth it.
Act, The Prairie Farm Assistance Act,
Hon. Mr. Flynn: The two experts in
and the Prairie Grain Advance Payments
agriculture!
Act be discontinued and that the monies
normally used under these Acts be used
Hon. Mr. Argue: That recommendation was
to help underwrite initially the Transinot followed, in the sense that additional
tion Policy and following that the Prairie
moneys were in fact produced. So I congratuGrain Price Stabilization Program. The
late the Government for having provided
Program should make any future emerthese additional moneys and having varied
gency programs unnecessary.
this program, at least in this particular
10. That the grain delivery quota
regard.
system be used, if used at all, primarily
This is to be a comprehensive plan for
as an instrument to facilitate the moveCanadian agriculture for the next few years.
ment (within a given crop year) of grades
This very learned task force discussed the
of grain required by the market and to
question of agriculture with provincial
provide for the equitable treatment of
departments of agriculture, with a few farm
farmers unable to deliver grain during
leaders, with selected people across the counany specified period of time within a
try, not in public discussion but in private
given crop year.
discussion. Now they have presented this
report to change the whole face of farming in They are recommending
that the main legisthis country. Yet, nowhere in all of their lative support for the grain industry
of westdeliberations did they consult the farmer ern Canada should at
one fell swoop be
himself. The farmer was not consulted; his removed and discontinued.
opinion was not solicited. And I would think
May I suggest that as far as the prairie
that failing to consult the farmer before proproducers are concerned the Government
ducing this report makes this report very itself
should be very careful and tread very
questionable; and in my view, having failed cautiously
before it undertakes to bring about
to consult the farmer, they have delivered a
the discontinuation of this body of legislation
real insult to the farmer.
that has stood western producers in good
We have at the present time a commission
looking into the question of salaries in the stead for a great number of years.
The Temporary Wheat Reserves Act was
Senate and the House of Commons, and members of that commission have consulted mem- passed in 1956, being introduced by the then
bers of both chambers. But, honourable sena- Minister of Trade and Commerce, the Right
tors, what would we say if they had consulted Honourable C. D. Howe, and it provided
for
everybody but the individuals mostly affect- the payment
of special funds in the case of
ed? Yet this royal commission, or this task storage of wheat being held
on July 31 of any
force on agriculture, failed to discuss this one year in excess
of 178 million bushels.
program and these policies with the agricul- This has meant the payment
of $35 million or
tural producer.
$40 million in some years from the federal
The report is general covers every phase of Treasury to the Wheat Board funds,
from
agriculture from one end of Canada to the which they in turn have been
paid to certain
other, but I want to deal specifically with its producers in western
Canada. I think the late
particular references to Prairie agriculture C. D. Howe brought in
a very important piece
and in the main to the grain farming indus- of legislation which has
stood the test of time,
try. They recommend that production of and before this government
or any other gov[Hon. Mr. Argue.]

June 25, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

ernment tampers with this legislation it
should be exceedingly careful.
The Prairie Farm Assistance Act, which
this task force recommends should be discontinued, was placed on the statute books in
1939, being introduced by the late Right
Honourable J. G. Gardiner-he called it at
that time "rough justice"--and said that in a
time of wide-spread crop failure, certain very
moderate payments would be made to producers who have had a small crop. An
individual producer might receive up to $800
based on a certain formula whereby the maximum was reached for any farmer who cultivated 400 acres of land. This has paid out
to farmers on the average over the years $6
million, and this particular measure was
designed to give a relatively more heavily
weighted benefit to smaller farmers. In large
areas of western Canada, and particularly in
the dry areas in the Pallister triangle, this
Act is still of great importance, I submit, to
many agricultural producers and particularly
to small producers. Again the Government
should be very careful before discontinuing
this act.
The next act they wish discontinued is the
Prairie Grain Advance Payments Act, commonly known as the Interest Free Cash
Advances, introduced into Parliament by the
government of former Prime Minister J. G.
Diefenbaker. This legislation was well accepted and bas been expanded by the present
federal Government so that now farmers may
obtain twice the sum of money they could
have obtained when the act was first introduced. This is of very great importance, particularly in our present difficult times,
because it means that farmers can obtain sufficient moneys in the fall to pay some of their
operating expenses, and the federal Government carries the interest on these cash
advances to an amount of some $14 million.
So, adding it all up, there is probably a
sum of $60 million or so which the farmer
can expect to get in the ordinary course of
events. But in an emergency year, under the
Temporary Wheat Reserves Act, where there
have been particularly heavy surpluses, payments amounting to as much as $60 million
have been made to Wheat Board accounts.
But the task force says, "Tear down everything from the past; wipe it al out; no more
crop failure bonuses; no more interest free
cash advances; no more storage payments
from Wheat Board funds." If the present
Government should be so foolish as to do this,
the price paid to the producers for wheat will
drop, I suggest, by at least 10 cents a bushel,

and it is low enough at the present time
without the Government doing this kind of
thing. Mind you, I am not criticizing the Government because I have no reason to believe
that they are going to do it, but I want to say
before further consideration is given to this
problem that it would be a very grave mistake if such a course of action were followed.
To take away the crop failure bonuses or ta
remove the protection from small producers
would have very serious consequences in
western Canada, as would the removal of
interest free cash advances at a time when
interest rates are high. It would be a very
grave error.
One thing that this task force apparently
never considered is that in addition to the
welfare of the farmer, a political party bas to
consider its own welfare, and I would think
that if any government moved to take away
all of this legislation, they would destroy any
hope they might have of their candidates
returning to Parliament from that particular
area.
But what would the farmers get in return?
According to the task force report, this money
should be used to provide a guarantee to the
producer that he would get, in any year, as a
return per bushel, not less than 80 per cent of
the return he received over the past 10 years,
but the return would be only on the production of half his basic acreage. They want the
acreage cut from 30 million to 15 million.
Then the task force says, "We will support
the price equal to the 10-year average on half
the production of one half of the acres,
namely, 7j million acres." So, if the price
of wheat is dropped by 40 per cent from a net
return, on the average, of $1.40 a bushel to
the producer, namely, to 84 cents a bushel,
then I calculate the federal Government
would be prepared to pay, in effect, about 14
cents a bushel out of the 56 cents a bushel
drop.
I suggest to you that with this formula,
designed as it is, if there should be a 40 per
cent drop in the price of wheat, the Treasury
would pay only 10 per cent of that 40 per
cent, and this would place the agricultural
producers on the Prairies in an absolutely
untenable position.
The task force says, "Give up those important pieces of legislation you have on the
projection you now have, and we will give
you this very modest protection"-so modest
that, in effect, if the price of wheat dropped
by 40 per cent, the Government would allow
the net effect to be a 30 per cent drop to
producers.

1374

SENATE DEBATES

I think that if the farmers were ever foolish
enough to agree to this, they would have
traded a bulwark of important legislation,
gained over a long period of years, for something that would not maintain them-except
perhaps a very few-in the business of farming in western Canada. As I have said, the
farmers were not asked about this report.
They have not been asked about it yet, as far
as I know.
The Saskatchewan Wheat Pool has called a
meeting of its delegate body. They have had
the first two days of this week to consider
this report, and go back to the country members to ask them what they think and to get
whatever feedback they can on the basis of
the information that is supplied.
I am pleased that the Wheat Pool has gone
that far, but I do not think that is far enough,
because if the Wheat Pool takes the attitude
towards this task force that it did towards the
LIFT program, it will agree with it inmediately and try to sell it to farmer members,
instead of first asking the farmers themselves
what kind of policy they would like. So, I
hope the Saskatchewan Wheat Pool does not
engage in any progran of brainwashing, of
supersalesmanship, to endeavour to sell this
program holus-bolus to the agricultural
producers.
I think parts of the task force report are
commendable. A great deal of thought has
gone into it. There are certain proposals for
increasing markets that warrant consideration, but the central point I am really trying
to get across is that before any of these
major, revolutionary changes are introduced,
they should have, after a thorough canvass,
the support of at least the majority of the
agricultural producers who will be affected
by the implementation of that program.
I think our farmers are not particularly
well served at this time, in an authentic way,
byHon. Mr. Flynn: The present Government!
Hon. Mr. Argue: -the farm organizations
that claim to speak for them. The farm
organizations themselves are greatly divided;
each has its own separate program.
There is a new group on the Prairies which
calls itself the Palliser Wheat Growers
Association. It has been in operation since
April-initially, it was the Palliser Triangle
Wheat Growers Association. Its president
farms, but he is one of the biggest farm
implement dealers in Saskatchewan and operates a successful General Motors dealership.
[Hon. Mr. Argue.]

June 25, 1970

His main business is that of selling farm
machinery. The secretary of the organization
owns and operates a commercial feed plant
and is a commercial beef producer, doing it
on a commercial basis for himself and others.
His interest in the wheat economy itself is
not his main one; it is the processing of feed
and the finishing of beef cattle. So I think
that when organizations like that put forward
proposals, they should be questioned very
carefully in relation to them.
This organization issued a statement, as
reported in the Saskatoon Star Phoenix of
Monday of this week, in which the president
said:
We endorse the concept of using government funds, now used for subsidies, to
finance a transition period during which
farming would be placed on a more
economical base and thereafter applying
these funds to enhance sales and farm
mcome.
I think it would be a great mistake for the
Government to follow this proposal. Personally, I am much opposed to the concept of the
Government taking these funds-provided on
the statute books after a great deal of
endeavour over many years by agricultural
producers-and paying part of them out on a
so-called temporary or transition program.
The Government will be looking at this
report. The minister responsible for the
Wheat Board, the Honourable Otto Lang, is
most active in this field, as are his colleagues,
the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister
of Industry, Trade and Commerce. My first
and firm suggestion is that they should make
a survey of the opinions of the producers
themselves, who will have monies taken away
from them, who will have the price of their
products reduced by the proposals and have
their whole way of life changed. They should
ask for the opinion of the producers before
any consideration is given to implementing
this kind of approach.
I suggest that there are competent members
of Parliament, to be designated by the Government, who could undertake this kind of
survey of farm opinion. The member for
Assiniboia in the other place is an authority
in this field. I think he could make a useful
contribution, as could others.
The report recommends that much be done
to provide market research and development
over a five-year period. Here is one thing I
think should be speeded up: market research
and development should be undertaken on
the basis of a crash program. And I think that

June 25, 1970

June25, 970SENATE
DEBATES

the minister in charge of the Canadian Wheat
Board at the present time, Honourable Mr.
Lang, is doing that to a large extent ini bis
endeavour to develop a market for rapeseed
and feed barley. But, I would suggest that
other studies be made before this kind of a
program is considered.
The whole theme running through the
report of the task force is that agriculture
should be in the hands of so-called viable,
economic units, where the latest technology
can be used. This wouid obviously resuit in a
very drastic reduction in the agricultural
population of our country. Extraordinary
measures to reduce the agricultural population may flot be necessary. The ordinary
course of technological development may be
bringing this about fast enough. The labour
force engageci in agriculture dropped by 55
per cent ini the period between 1946 and 1968.
I would think that this rate of decrease i the
agricultural labour force is great enough,
without extraordinary measures being taken
by the Government and others to denude the
rural areas of their population.
I was surprised to note while reading tbis
report that there has been really no consideration given to whether there may be some
particular advantage for Canadians to lîve in
the rural parts of our country. I have been
able to, find no statement that in the rural
areas t.he question of pollution poses anywhere near the problem it does in the cities.
The whole matter of congestion is obviously
flot as severe in rural Canada as it is in our
great cities. Transportation does not pose the
insurmountable problem it does in the cities.
Are we doing a service as a nation ini bringing about such an accelerated movement of
people from the faims to the cities, when in
many respects there are no jobs for them?
These people wiIl face an almost impossible
problem of getting a good home. They will
face pollution, congestion, and perhaps slum
conditions. I suggest that there is an argument that other measures should, be taken to
help these people where they now reside.
Honourable senators, if you made a survey
and ask the agricultural producers of the
Prairies what they tbink the Government
shouýld have done instead of inaugurating the
LIFT program, the answer would be a]mnost
unanimous. You can say that they do not
know what they are talking about, or that
they are mistaken, but if you ask the farmers
themselves what the Government should have
done instead of providing $100 million to be
used to encourage them to reduoe their production of wheat, and to force them through a

coercive quota system to bring this about,
they would say: If the Government has $100
million they wish us to have, then why do
they not send it to us?
At one point of Urne a Conservative Government decided that the farmn economy
should have an injection of $40 million. They
sent every agricultural producer a cheque for
$200. That was one of the most important
political steps the Conservative Government
took in all the time it was in office, and they
are still gathering large support because of
that action.
The authorities say that that is the wrong
way to do it. Yet we have a special committee on poverty that is considering this
very problem in rural Canada, and 1 would
forecast that the report of that committee will
include a recommendation that cash payments, called guaranteed annual income,
should be made to, people in poverty, to
people who need it, whether they are in the
cities or in rural Canada.
May I make a personal observation? I was
on a faimn discussing the Government's program, and I said tbat $100 million is a lot of
money; that you have to give Prime Minister
Trudeau credit for recommending that that
money be approved by Parliament; that that
amounted to $500 per producer on the Prairies, while another government provided $200.
I said to one farm lady: $500 a year is $40 a
month, and I suppose that would go a long
way towards paying your grocery bll. Her
quick reply was that $40 would pay her grocery bill for two montbs.
If the farmers had received a little help,
that kind of help, and had been allowed to
engage in their own farming business without
rigid, coercive, and unsolicited controls, then I
do not think the production would have been
any higher, because the farmers are producing in spite of this prograxn, and the Government would have received a great deal of
credit. The people on the Prairies would have
been happy, and I would think that this
amount of money, handled in this simple way
with littie cost, would have brought about a
greater economic advantage than the so-called
LIFT program, wblch requires airplanes
flying over the faims and taking pictures to
ascertain whether the faimer bas reported
one or two acres too nlany, a program in
wbich. there wil be countless inspectors going
from f arm. to farm.
I apologize to honourable senators for
taking so much time, but I have takeni advantage of tis opportunity i the hope that my

1376

June 25, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

remarks will be studied by members of the
Government, that agricultural producers may
look at them, and that a program that has
been built through the historic efforts of farm
leaders of the past not be thrown away.
Before any changes are made greater attention will have to be given to seeing to it that
the ordinary, individual farmer will, when
the changes are made, have his economic life
improved, and be a citizen who has freer
choices rather than fewer choices in conducting his business in the way in which he sees
fit.
This is an important document. In my opinion, it contains many recommendations upon
which the Government has already acted, but
I have referred to this one in particular
because it is so important to the people of the
area from which I come.

BILLS OF EXCHANGE ACT
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD

READING

Hon. Earl W. Urquhart, for Hon. Mr. Croll,
moved the third reading of Bill C-208, to
amend the Bills of Exchange Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time
and passed.
AERONAUTICS ACT
BILL RESPECTING REGULATIONSSECOND READING

The Senate resumed from Tuesday, June
23, the adjourned debate on the motion of
Hon. Mr. Urquhart, for the second reading of
Bill C-218, respecting regulations made pursuant to section 4 of the Aeronautics Act.

Hon. Paul Yuzyk: Honourable senators,
Senator Urquhart's explanation of the amendments to the Aeronautics Act brought forth in
Bill C-218 was clear, to the point, and frank. I
would therefore like to congratulate him for
his precision and brevity.
Although the actual amendment appears to
be simple on the surface, if we look for the
story behind this bill we will see that the
Hon. Mr. Argue: I would think that a quick Government got into a mess going back 16
answer would be: Yes. As an appendix to the years.
report there is a list that shows the dates
Hon. Mr. Flynn: That is not exactly new.
upon which the task force had discussions
with certain people. These were confidential
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): That
discussions, not public discussions. To give includes another government.
the honourable senator a quick reply I would
Hon. Mr. Yuzyk: Important air regulations
say that instead of going out and discussing were made in 1954 and in 1960 which
what they might be doing with the 70,000 involved the operations of the Department of
farmers in Saskatchewan who are members Transport. It was recently discovered in court
of the Saskatchewan Wheat Pool, they had a that these regulations were in reality not
kind of short session in the central offices of valid on the basis of section 4 of the
the Saskatchewan Wheat Pool and talked to Aeronautics Act. According to this section, it
its officers. I do not think there is any officer was the Minister of Transport who was
of any organization who can speak for 70,000 authorized to "make regulations to control
members, and I do not think they did in this and regulate air navigation over Canada."
Yet, during this 16-year period the regulacase. But, they did speak to the leaders of tions were enacted by Governor in Council
these organizations in camera.
and were therefore illegal. It is obvious that
Motion agreed to and bill read third time, on the one hand past legal advisers in this
department and other law officers of the
and passed.
Crown had been negligent, while on the other
hand the Government had become so accusNATIONAL ENERGY BOARD ACT
tomed to act by Order in Council that it paid
BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING
little attention to statutes.
Hon. Hédard Robichaud moved the third
I must make it clear that I do not challenge
reading of Bill C-190, to amend the National the necessity and propriety of the regulations.
The amendments in this bill are absolutely
Energy Board Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time necessary and should be passed by the
Senate, and I am sure will be passed. Any
and passed.
Hon. Mr. Cameron: I should like to ask the
honourable senator a question. Is he saying
that there was on this task force on agriculture no representative of the wheat pools,
the farmers' unions, or the co-operatives?
Were those organizations not consulted?

[Hon. Mr. Argue.]

June 25. 1970

DEBATES
June25. 970SENATE

contrary action would cause havoc in the
tDepartment of Transport. For this reason
alone, I think that there is no useful purpose
ini sending this bill to con2mittee, as bas been
suggested by Senator Urquhart. However, I
would like to draw attention to the fact that
there are dangers in adopting this procedure.
This bill has retroactive provisions. If this
were applied in other instances, it could be
used by governments as a method of making
Parliament cover up and approve mistakes
and deficiencies of past governments, thus
shirk responsibîlity to the people.
Fortunately, the Senate is aware of the
dangers of government by Order in Council.
The excellent debate in this house on the
question of statutory instruments has made
Canadians aware that this field must be thoroughly reviewed and reforms must be enacted. The debate is now in progress in the other
house. This bill will undoubtedly serve as a
catalyst to implement in the very near future
much needed reforms regarding safeguards
and controls in the field of statutory instruments. Our paramounit objective in this chamber is to promote and support good government, responsible to Parliament and the
citizens of our democratic country.
To expedite the passage of this bill, I
recommend that, with leave of the Senate,
third reading be given now.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: In order to clarify the
record, as Senator Yuzyk implied that this is
unique, I wili have to cail the attention of the
Senate to the fact that we recently passed Bill
S-23, which had the same purpose as this bill,
to legalize another mess i the ]Jepartment of
Transport regarding orders in council dealing
with pilotage.
So this is the second time in this session
that this bas been done. I john with Senator
Yuzyk in hoping that it wîhl not become a
permanent or regular pattern with this
Government.

Hon. Mr. Martin: That is right; it is a
moment of appeasement.
Han. Allister Grosart: Honourable senators,
as my leader Senator Flynn has added a
second instance of the Governiment covermng
itself by retroactive legisiation, perhaps I may
be permitted to add a third.
I refer to the supply bill to which we gave
third reading a few minutes ago. It was a bil
in which we were asked to authorize not
merely errors of the nature already referred
to but to actually legalize the spending of
millions of dollars which. had already been
spent.
As honourable senators will perhaps
remember, I drew attention to the fact in
second reading that by the bill we authorized
expenditures as of April 1, regardless of
whether the Government had any authority
whatsoever to spend that money after that
date. Therefore we have three occasions and I
have no doubt that if one had Urne to search
the record we would find more than three.
As bas been said, Senator Urquhart was
very frank in explaining the necessity for Bill
C-128, and 1 congratulate him. on that. He
made no attempt to cover Up the errors of
omission, so we are fully aware of what we
are being asked to do. Senator Yuzyk has also
indicated the kind of objection that we should.
be making here to this request from the Government, and no doubt would be making if it
would not make the mess a worse one than
the Government has aiready made it.
Han. Mr. Choquette: That is impossible.

Hon. Mr. Grasari: This does, of course,
raise the question of the degree of scrutiny
that is given to the granting of authority to a
minister or to the Governor in Council, or, as
Senator Urquhart pointed out, on some occasions to both. The whole matter has been
referred to the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs, and I sensed
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, it at the time of the debate, and in the terms of
is not because I will not have occasion to reference, that there was a disposition to
respond, but this is not the moment to make a regard the reference to that committee as
vigorous defence of error. I simply wish to dealing only with the power exercised under
say that I have noted the statements of the the regulations once they had been passed by
Leader of the Opposition and Senator Yuzyk.
Parliament. I suggest very strongly that this
I do so with great humility.
bill is a further indication that the examinaHon. Mr. Flynn: I spoke in this way tion of the exercise of power under statutory
because I knew that the Leader of the Gov- instruments will fail short of reaching a satisernment wouid find that it is not a propitious factory objective if the committee here and in
moment for hlm to reply as adequately as he the other place fail to go behind the regulations in any act as it stands, and to examine
possibly could.

1378

SENATE DEBATES

very carefully and report on the general lack
of care and scrutiny that seems to be given
to the granting of this authority.
In this bill we have an outstanding example
of utter carelessness on the part of public
servants. Here public servants dealing with
an act, as Senator Yuzyk has said, for 16
years have never thought to examine the
authority they were given. Apparently it bas
never concerned them to ask, "What authority are we exercising?" After 16 years, and
only as the result of a decision in the courts,
they are suddenly sent back to examine the
authority they were given. Blandly and
blithely they, our public servants, have made
an assumption that there was no continuing
requirement on them to examine the authority they were exercising. I suggest that in any
examination of statutory instruments, even as
important as the examination of the exercise
of the power under that instrument, is an
examination of the reasons for and the
rationale of the granting of that power.
Hon. Mr. Martin: May I ask a question? I
am not trying to defendHon. Mr. Grosari: I hope you are not.
Hon. Mr. Martin: -those responsible for
error. An error was made, and even a government of great achievement is bound to make
mistakes. But am I not right in saying that
the mistake was made on two occasions,
under the St. Laurent Government in 1954
and under the Diefenbaker Government in
1960?
Hon. Mr. Grosari: That may well be true.
Hon. Mr. Langlois: It is.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Senator Langlois says it
is true, but that in no way affects the argument or proposition I put forward.
Hon. Mr. Martin: Of course not.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I care not under what
administration we are operating. When something is wrong we must point it out.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I agree.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: That is our function
here, to discover errors of omission and
commissionHon. Mr. Martin: I agree.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: -and to bring them as
forcibly as we can to the attention of the
government.
[Hon. Mr. Grosart.]

June 25, 1970

Hon. Mr. Flynn: If we have any excuse, it
is because the reputation of the St. Laurent
government was one of infallibility.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
THIRD READING

The Hon. the Speaker (Hon. Mr. Connolly,
Ottawa West): Honourable senators, when
shal this bill be read the third time?
Hon. Earl W. Urquhart: Honourable sena.
tors, with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(b), I move that the bill be
read the third time now.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time
and passed.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
before we proceed with Order No. 5, could I
take a few moments to deal briefly with our
program?
Hon. Senalors: Agreed.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I thought I would try to
give an indication of the program ahead of us
for the balance of today and tomorrow. I
suggest that after we have finished today's
agenda we adjourn until a quarter to six,
although we may not finish it by that time.
By that time we would have some indication
of the progress being made in the other place,
as a result of which we may possibly know
more definitely whether we are going to have
the Elections Act, in which event we could
meet at 8 o'clock tonight. It is also possible, as
I have indicated to the Leader of the Opposition, that we may have three other measures,
or perhaps only one, that we may want to
deal with likewise tonight and tomorrow. But
that too depends on the progress being made
in the other place.
The proposal would be in any event that
we would meet tomorrow morning at Il
o'clock for the purpose of dealing with whatever remains to be dealt with before the
summer recess. It could be that our legislation
will have been disposed of, although I doubt
it. In any event, we want to meet tomorrow
for some other purpose, maybe only briefly. It
is proposed that we would have Royal Assent
tomorrow afternoon some time between 4 and
4.30 o'clock. I would hope that as we are
concluding this part of the session we can
anticipate a rather unique and unprecedented
attendance by all honourable senators.

June 25, 1970

1379

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, I
thank the Leader of the Government for
giving us this information about what
remains to be done before the adjournment.
I may tell him, on behalf of this side of the
bouse, that we are prepared to deal with the
Elections Act because we know what is in it.
We have been studying it. We have already
given an opinion on the main amendment of
the act, which deals with the age of voting.
Therefore, we could probably dispose of it in
a relatively short time. However, I cannot
assure the Leader of the Government that we
would be prepared to go through al phases of
any other piece of legislation that may come
from the other place-

Hon. Mr. Flynn: With reference to this
order I understand that when Senator Aird
presented his

report

he moved that con-

sideration take place today. Then he made
some comments, indicating that he was not
actually moving concurrence or consideration
of the report. Therefore, I feel that we have
before the Senate this motion to consider the
report, and I do not think the honourable
senator has to ask leave to deal with it.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I fully agree. I think that
Senator Aird's intention was that major dis-

cussion of this report would take place when
we return later.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: At the next sitting!

Hon. Mr. Martin: I understand that.

Hon. Mr. Martin: There could be a general
at that time. Our major discussion
Hon. Mr. Flynn: -if the intention of the discussion place, as I understood it, next
would take
Government was that we deal with it before September or October when we return.
an adjournment tomorrow.
I certainly have no objection to Senator
Hon. Mr. Martin: And I would not want to Grosart speaking on it now, because be had a
impose that.
lot to do with that report. I may say that last
night I heard him on the C.B.C. on a question
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Under this reserve we are and answer program concerning this report
prepared to adjourn and pass the Elections and I thought it was valuable and useful.
Act tomorrow if it comes to us in due course.
Further than that, I cannot give any
Hon. Mr. Grosart: I thank the Leader of the
assurance.
Government for his kind observation on the
broadcast last night. Perhaps I should explain
Hon. Mr. Martin: I fully understand that. I why I asked consent. It is because the normal
am sure the Leader of the Opposition has no procedure in the Senate when considering the
objection to our introducing these measures. report of a committee is for the chairman of
They may commend themselves to honourable the committee to have the privilege of
gentlemen or not. The effort is worth making moving concurrence in the report. That is a
and that is the intention.
privilege which I think should be reserved for
Hon. Mr. Flynn: The danger in making this Senator Aird. The motion for today's consideffort sometimes is that the Government eration was, of course, disposed of on Tuesday. Therefore, honourable senators, I take it
makes a mess of the other situation.
that I may now proceed either to move that
Hon. Mr. Martin: That never happens in consideration of the report be given now or
the Senate.
that consent be given under Rule 27. Apparently there is no objection.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CANADACARIBBEAN RELATIONS

Hon. Mr. Martin: It being understood that
we will adjourn the debate at some time and
continue it in September or early October.

On the Order:
Hon. Mr. Grosari: My understanding of
Consideration of the report of the Stand- Senator Aird's intention in proceeding this
ing Committee on Foreign Affairs on way is that he felt that honourable senators
Canada-Caribbean Relations-Honourable might wish an extended debate on the report,
and-there being obviously not time available
Senator Aird).
before recess-that the motion for concurHon. Allister Grosari: Honourable senators,
rence come from him when we resume our
although there is no motion before us and the sittings. My remarks are not therefore on a
item for consideration stands in the name of motion of concurrence.
Senator Aird, with some trepidation I ask
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: I think to
consent of the Senate under Rule 27 to make
regularize the proceedings I should point out
a very brief statement.

SENATE DEBATES

to honourable senators that if Senator Grosart
is not speaking ta a motion-and there is no
motion before the chair at the moment-he
might well be speaking as a result of Senator
Aird's presentation of the report. This will
not then preclude Senator Grosart from
speaking on the motion for the adoption of
the report. He is simply following Senator
Aird.

June 25, 1970

the improvement of Canadian-Caribbean relations have taken place in the last few years at
the initiative of the Government.
I would be remiss if I did not indicate at
this time that the Leader of the Government
was the initiator of bath those important
milestones in our relations with our friends in
the Caribbean. I refer, of course, ta the Heads
of State Conference which was held here in
Ottawa in 1966, and ta the policy of greatly
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Very good.
increasing official Canadian development aid
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Honourable senators, my to the Caribbean. It has risen within the last
main reason for asking consent or permission six or seven years from $4 million or $5
of the Senate to proceed at this time for a million ta its present level of $22 million. It
few minutes is, of course, the belief, which I constitutes by far the highest per capita flow
think is shared by all members of the com- of Canadian official aid to any area in the
mittee, that the Senate would want ta be world. I say it is an anomaly that in spite of
fully informed at this particular time of the these two very great accomplishments the
very great contribution that was made ta the report should find it necessary ta urge a
work of this committee by Senator Aird. His greater degree of co-operation and communicontribution in focusing the attention of the cation.
Senate on this very important matter of
Honourable senators, as a member of the
Canada-Caribbean relations, and the skill committee I have been proud ta serve under
with which he directed the work of the com- Senator Aird. In the year or so of our hearing
mittee, is something that should be comment- and in the prepa'ration of the report, I have
ed on before recess and at a time when the learned a great deal from him about the analreport is before the public.
ysis and the assessment of information, about
Senator Aird, in his remarks, paid well- the judicious balancing of the pros and cons
deserved compliments ta Senator Robichaud of matters such as this, and about the presenas a member of the steering committee, ta the tation of the conclusions reached in a manner
clerk of the committee, Mr. Innis, and ta Mr. that will contribute ta rather than obscure
Peter Dobell and Mr. Bernard Wood of the the problem dealt with.
In closing, I may say that Senator Aird's
Parliamentary Centre for Foreign Affairs and
Foreign Aid. With that usual modesty for very great contribution ta this report is
which he is greatly distinguished, in the another indication-if any further indication
minds of all senators, he made no reference ta is needed-of the benefit that sa often accrues
the long hours that he put in in supervising ta the public interest from the experience,
the selection and examination of witnesses, ability and success in the private sector, of
and particularly in the preparation, drafting senators of the calibre of Senator John Aird.
and presentation of the report.
Hon. Donald Cameron: Honourable senaI should say that from comments of the tors,press and others there appear to be those who
The Hon. the Speaker (Hon. Mr. Connolly
have found the report critical in some aspects
of the official Canadian posture vis-a-vis our (Ottawa West)): Honourable senators, is it
interests and responsibilities in the Carib- agreed that the honourable Senator Cameron
bean. I would say, however, that a careful be heard now?
reading of the report will indicate that the
Some Hon. Senators: With leave.
criticism is not sa much of Government
policy, but rather of the lack of support,
Hon. Mr. Cameron: Honourable senators, I
back-up and follow-through at other levels appreciate the courtesy. I have two remarks
within the administration and outside of it. In on what I consider a very important report,
fact, there is an element of anomaly in the but I would be happy ta adjourn the debate
fact that, on the one hand, the report recom- now, if this would meet the convenience of
mends a much higher degree of co-operation the Senate.
and consultation between Canada and the
Caribbean, particularly the Commonwealth
The Hon. the Speaker (Hon. Mr. Connolly
Caribbean, at all levels. On the other hand, it (Ottawa West)): Honourable senators, it
emphasizes in more than one place the fact should be understood that there is no motion
that two of the greatest accomplishments for before the Senate. There will be an opportu[The Hon. the Speaker pro tem.]

June 25, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

nity for a debate on the motion to adopt the Mrs. Fergusson, calling the attention of the
report, when that motion is moved. However, Senate to the facilities provided by the federwith unanimous consent of ail honourable al Government for women prisoners.
senators if it is desired to hear Senator CamHon. G. Percival Burchill: Honourable
eron now-although it is irregular-it is possenators, I want to join with the previous
sible to do so.
speakers in commending Senator Fergusson
Hon. Donald Smith: Honourable senators for bringing to the attention of the Senate the
there is one point. I hesitate to rise on it but matter of the facilities which are provided by
it is important that it be said now.
federal Government authorities for women
When Senator Aird spoke on Tuesday, he prisoners. I endorse what has been said by
spoke with leave of the Senate, to make a few her and other speakers in describing the conremarks on the occasion of the tabling of his ditions as deplorable and as something of
report. I took it that the same procedure was which we as Canadians cannot be very proud.
being followed when leave was given to SenaI have been made aware of the conditions
tor Grosart.
existing in our women's prisons for some
I am looking at the Order Paper and I time, but I am taking the opportunity of joinnotice that Senator Burchill intends to make ing in this debate to bring as a witness the
a speech on federal penitentiaries. I know he testimony of a lady who bas devoted much of
has been thinking about it for several days, her life to assisting voluntarily in the superand that it will be an important addition to vision of women's reformatories.
the debate we have had on that subject.
Mrs. J. A. R. Mason of Toronto has given
There is a motion in my name, which I am generously of her time, energy and talents to
prepared to stand.
this most worthy work, and has helped to
We get into a little difficulty about our create a happier atmosphere in the reformaprocedure towards the end of each session. tory. At the same time, she bas had a proThere is a very important meeting of the found influence in rehabilitating the lives of
Internal Economy Committee scheduled, these unfortunate women.
In ber opinion, the idea of maximum
which will affect not only honourable senators but many members of the staff who work security for the ordinary inmate is completely
for the Senate. We are in a bind. We are unnecessary-a great waste of money and a
squeezed for time to hold this meeting. We destructive system in the rehabilitation of the
thought there might still be time before six inmates. Added to that, she emphasizes very
o'clock.
strongly-as has been stressed by more than
I draw that to the attention of Senator one speaker-the fact that they are transCameron. If he wishes his remarks to go on ported so far from home reduces them to
the record now, I would be glad to give leave. such a state of hopelessness that they feel
He understands the situation.
there is no use in their trying to repair the
The Hon. the Speaker (Hon. Mr. Connolly damage that they have done to their lives,
(Ottawa West)): Honourable senators, from and they just give up.
what Senator Smith bas said, it may suit the
Mrs. Mason stresses the importance of the
convenience of Senator Cameron if this family contact for inmates of any institution.
matter were adjourned until later this day; Writing as a volunteer working with women
and if there is an opportunity then, the and girls in the Mercer Reformatory in
debate could continue.
Toronto, she emphasizes the need for contact
Hon. Mr. Cameron: I would be quite happy by the worker with the families. Also, there is
to let it stand over until autumn.
the need to enlist their help to rebuild confiThe Hon. the Speaker (Hon. Mr. Connolly dence in the ones who have gone astray. This
(Ottawa West)): Item No. 5 will stand on the has always been one of the first things she
Order Paper in the name of Senator Aird. has done.
She adds that she has never ceased to be
Order stands.
surprised at the help this family contact has
been, both to the inmate and to the family,
FEDERAL PENITENTIARIES
and that it is something the average case
FACILITIES FOR WOMEN PRISONERS
worker does not have very much time to do,
The Senate resumed from Monday, June 22, as it involves much extra work. When women
the adjourned debate on the inquiry of Hon. are transported hundreds of miles from their

1382

SENATE DEBATES

home environment, they have little chance to
maintain contact with their familles while
serving a sentence of more than two years.
Mrs. Mason goes on to point out that the
lack of segregation in the larger institutions is
a condition that is sadly in need of change.
She recommends doing away with all maximum security prisons for women and substituting the open cottage type detention
home, such as that which the Vanier Institute
is operating outside Brampton and which
appears to be doing very well with the help
of many residents of Brampton. Many detention homes of this type can be built for much
less than it would cost to build one maximum
security prison.
I wanted to put these observations on the
record, as they come from a lady who has
had a great deal of experience in dealing with
these inmates and assisting in the work of
rehabilitating their lives. She has known a
good many inmates who have served their
terms in Kingston. I might add that six of
these former inmates have kept in touch with
Mrs. Mason for years. They are now all goodliving citizens, four of them married with
families and the other two with good jobs.
In view of all that has been said, I think
the time has arrived when we should take a
serlous look at Canada's facilities for women
prisoners, and I feel that this debate on the
subject has been well worthwhile.
At 5 p.m. the Senate adjourned during
pleasure, to resume at the call of the bell at
approximately 5.45 p.m.

At 6.15 p.m. the sitting was resumed.
DISTINGUISHED VISITOR IN SENATE
GALLERY
HONOURABLE TAKOO MIKI, FORMER FOREIGN
MINISTER OF JAPAN
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
before asking Senator McDonald to indicate
the remainder of the day's business, I would
like to point out that we have with us, in the
gallery, the Honourable Takoo Miki, the
former Foreign Minister of Japan, a distinguished member of the Japanese Parliament
and a public figure of great eminence in
Japan. I have just had the opportunity of
having an hour's chat with him. He had previously seen the Prime Minister, and I would
like to indicate to him the warmth of the
feeling we have for him and his country by
noting his presence in our gallery.
[Hon. Mr. Burchill.]

June 25, 1970

CONSTITUTION OF CANADA
JOINT COMMITTEE-CHANGE IN SENATE
MEMBERSHIP

Leave having been
Motions:

given to revert to

Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald, with leave of
the Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(l)(h),
moved:
That the names of the Honourable
Senators Cameron, Fergusson, Thompson
and Langlois be substituted for those of
the
Honourable
Senators
Connolly
(Ottawa West), Cook, Lang and Phillips
(Rigaud) on the list of senators serving
on the Special Joint Committee of the
Senate and House of Commons on the
Constitution of Canada; and
That a Message be sent to the House of
Commons to
acquaint that House
accordingly.
Motion agreed to.
ADJOURNMENT
Hon. A. Hamilion McDonald: Honourable
senators, with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45 (1) (g), I move that
when the Senate adjourns today it do stand
adjourned until tomorrow, June 26, 1970, at
11 o'clock in the forenoon.
Motion agreed to.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, there is a possibility that some work
may come to us from the other place later
today. I suggest, therefore, that we adjourn at
this time until the call of the bell at approximately 8.30 this evening. At that time we
should know whether we will be able to proceed with Government business or adjourn
until tomorrow morning at Il o'clock.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Honourable senators, I
should like to ask the Leader of the Government, should we receive the Canada Elections
Bill tonight, if it is the intention to try to
complete our work on it, and adjourn?
Hon. Mr. McDonald: No, the hope is that
we shall receive the Canada Elections Bill
and that second reading will be moved by
Senator Stanbury tonight.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: But if we pass the bill
tonight, will there be Royal Assent and the
adjournment of Parliament for the summer?

June 25, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. McDonald: No. Royal Assent
cannot be held until some time tomorrow
afternoon.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Then in those circumstances we gain nothing by returning tonight.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Not a thing.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: If the Leader of the Government considers it useful for us to come
back, then we will, but if we are not sure
that we will receive this bill and complete
our consideration of it tonight, I do not
understand why we do not adjourn now until
tomorrow.

1383

last year. Honourable senators will recall that
the other day Senator Desruisseaux expressed
the specific request that this again be done.
It was my intention to do so on the final
day, but after discussing the matter with the
Leader of the Opposition I suggested that I
might do it now and perhaps he might care to
supplement what I say.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I do not think you should
provoke me.

Hon. Mr. Martin: I assure the honourable
Leader of the Opposition that that is the last
thing I wish to do on the eve of adjournment.
Nothing I will say, I am sure, will be
Hon. Mr. Martin: I can appreciate Senator provocative.
Flynn's concern, but we have to take into
It is appropriate that at this time, certainly
account the possible reaction of all honoura- after a lengthy session, there should be a
ble senators. After a careful assessment of the review of the work of the Senate during the
situation, and in order to be on the safe side, past session. We have had a productive seswe think we should return this evening.
sion, passing 67 public bills, of which 57 were
Hon. Mr. Flynn: My suggestion is an even Government measures. From a legislative
point of view the session has been an active
safer one than that of the honourable Leader.
one.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): What
We have had vigorous and extended
about the Orders of the Day? Does Order No. debates on many of these bills such as the
Law Reform Commission Bill and the so8 stand for the time being?
called Hate Literature Bill. In addition to that
Hon. Mr. McDonald: Yes, it will be on the we had a long and useful debate on the quesOrder Paper for tomorrow.
tion of statutory instruments and delegated
legislation. The motion that stood in my name
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): If we in regard to that proposition was sent to the
are here.
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs. The Minister of Justice
Hon. Mr. McDonald: We will be here.
appeared before that committee, commended
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.
the work of the Senate in this regard and
indicated the intention of the Government to
bring forward legislation along the lines of
his general statement to the committee.
The Senate committees, as we all know,
At 8.45 p.m. the sitting was resumed.
have been increasingly active. There have
been five major committee inquiries during
THE SENATE
the session. On Tuesday last Senator Aird
RÉSUME OF ACTIVITIES
presented the report of the Standing Senate
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, the Committee on Foreign Affairs relating to
Canada-Caribbean relations. It dealt with
other place is in the final stages of the Elec- the need for more continuous consultation
tions Bill.
between Canada and the Caribbean countries
and treated the economic relations between
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Did you say final?
Canada and the Caribbean in some detail. We
Hon. Mr. Martin: Yes, it is in the final had reference to this work this afternoon by
stages. I cannot say exactly when we may the deputy chairman of the committee, Senaexpect it. I hope it will be here before too tor Grosart, who, together with Senator Aird
long, but if it is not we will have to act and other members of the committee, has
made a very worthwhile contribution to the
accordingly.
study of this important relationship. I am sure
I thought it would be useful to give a sum- that this report will be helpful to the Governmary at the end of the session of our activity ment in any consideration it might make of
during this portion of the session, as we did its policy with respect to the Caribbean

SENATE DEBATES
region. The work of the Standing Senate
Committee on Foreign Affairs on CanadianCaribbean relations provided a good example,
I believe, of the usefulness of the work of
that committee. The committee was able to
select a region which was important to
Canada, one which was not emphasized in
particular in the Government's foreign policy
review, and where Canada could make a substantial, perhaps a crucial, contribution to
economic development. In all, I believe the
committee held 15 hearings and heard 24
witnesses.
The Special Committee of the Senate on
Science Policy held a further series of in
camera meetings in the last session, and is
now engaged in the drafting of its report.
Senator Lamontagne informs me that the
committee hopes to publish the report some
time in the fall. Since November 1967, the
Special Committee of the Senate on Science
Policy has held over 200 public meetings, has
heard 400 witnesses, and has accumulated
and published thus far 10,200 pages of evidence. It has been a monumental task, and
one which has earned the praise awarded
to it by Dr. Alexander King, the Director of
Scienlific Affairs for the Organization for
Economic Co-operation and Development,
when lie recently said that in his judgment
the committee represented the most comprehensive study of science policy ever conducted in any country. That, indeed, is
generous praise, and I think is the kind of
characterization that shoulld make members
of that committee very proud of their work
to date.
I think it is fair to say that, although the
committee has not yet published its findings
and recommendations, it has already had a
significant influence on the organization for
science policy in this country. There is wide
agreement that the committee's choice of subject could not have been more timely. The
size and disposition of a country's research
and development expenditures is now generally recognized as one of the most crucial
factors in its long-term growth prospects.
The Special Committee of the Senate on
Mass Media has completed its hearings and is
now in the course of preparing its report. The
committee held 86 hearings and heard 107
witnesses. The work of the committee, partly
because of its subject nature, bas received a
great deal of coverage, and I think has contributed to public awareness of the hard work
of the Senate in the field of inquiry. The
committee has heard evidence on some of the
thornier problems in mass communications
today, including the concentration of econom[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 25, 1970

ic power in the newspaper, radio and television industries, and the desirability of a press
council. We await the committee's report with
interest.
The Special Committee of the Senate on
Poverty has held an additional 52 hearings
and heard 99 witnesses or groups of witnesses, including seven of the provincial ministers of health. The committee travelled to
many parts of Canada in the last session, and
contributed in no small way to public
appreciation of the work which the Senate is
doing. It often sat in subcommittees to ensure
that the maximum number of citizens, including many of the poor themselves, were heard.
It is gathering, analyzing and synthesizing a
vast amount of information on poverty, its
causes and its effects. We were informed yesterday by Senator Croll, and again today, that
it will report some time in 1971. It will, I am
sure, cast some new light on our traditional
approaches to overcoming poverty, but its
importance has already been underscored. It
lies partly in the fact that it is a constant
reminder that our society has not yet come
fully to grips with the paradox of scarcity in
the midst of plenty.
The Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce has held an extensive series of hearings on the White Paper on
Taxation under the able chairmanship of
Senator Hayden. It has held over 30 hearings
and heard over 110 witnesses. Its work bas
elicited comments from the financial press
and others and it will, I am sure, make a
contribution to the decisions eventually taken
by the Government on the White Paper on
Taxation.
The Standing Senate Committee on National Finance has held 11 hearings and heard 26
witnesses. In its more recent hearings the
committee has reviewed the expenditures of
those Government programs which accounted
for the bulk of the increase in discretionary
expenditures, and it bas reported its conclusions to the Senate. I have been advised by
Senator Everett that the committee will do
more of the same kind of analysis in the fall,
possibly assisted by some expert advice on
techniques of systems analysis for the control
of Government expenditures.
Finally, the Standing Senate Committee on
Legal and Constitutional Affairs began its
inquiry into statutory instruments last week
with the appearance of my colleague, the
Minister of Justice, Mr. Turner. He outlined
the problems for individual liberty posed by
the administrative process and lie suggested
areas which were particularly in need of

June 25, 1870

SENATE DEBATES

review. This committee inquiry may well be meet between now and the time when Parliaone of the most important the Senate has ment resumes or when the Senate resumes.
undertaken. It will be noted that Senator We know that the Banking, Trade and ComGrosart, today in talking of the work of that merce Committee proposes to meet early in
committee, spoke about going beyond the September to deal with the Canada Corporarange that was covered in some of the tions Bill. We will recall that Senator
speeches made during the course of the Hayden, in answer to a question by Senator
debate, including my own. It may amount to a Benidickson, indicated that it was his hope
kind of McRuer Commission at the federal that that bill could be dealt with in commitlevel. The subject matter it proposes to deal tee so that we could have it in this chamber
with is of growing importance in an era in time to dispose of it without necessitating a
where increasing numbers of citizens are con- re-examination in committee in the other
cerned with the relationship of the rights of place. This would obviate the necessity of
another debate on the subject which would
the individual to the state.
matter inevitably follow if we were not in a position
Prior to the referral of the subject
of Comof statutory instruments to the Legal and to send that bill back to the House
sesConstitutional Affairs Committee-I think I mons before prorogation of the present
already indicated this, but I will repeat sion of Parliament.
I believe that we have done responsible and
it-the Senate engaged in a thorough and
enlightening debate on the difficulties in careful work in the Senate, in this session as
reconciling the imperatives of effective Gov- in other sessions. I have said several times in
public that I believe that the vital dialogue
ernment and the rights of the individual.
We have had two other debates in the that should take place in this country should
Senate in the past session on subjects of be primarily between the Canadian Parliapublic concern. Arising out of the Thirteenth ment and the people, and not between the
Annual Meeting of the Canada-U.S. Interpar- news media and secondary institutions and
liamentary Group in March of this year, there the Canadian people. It seems to me that
took place a stimulating debate on Canadian- Parliament, as meaningful today as ever, has
American relations. That debate was closed an opportunity of placing itself in a position
only Monday evening by Senator Desruis- where it is one of the primary participants in
the dialogue that must take place in a free
seaux.
We have had, more recently, a debate on society.
I can only say that if we have done a
the facilities provided by the federal Governfor women prisoners, initiat- complete and thorough job of work during
ment in Canada
ed in an excellent address by Senator Fergus- this part of the session, it is largely due to
son. In light of the recommendations of the the industry and the interest of senators.
Ouimet Report, the debate is a particularly
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
timely one.
the Leader has suggested that I should add
Honourable senators, in summarizing some my comments to his well-prepared report on
of the work of the Senate to date this session, the activities of the Senate. As I have had no
I have underlined the three aspects of the occasion to prepare any text, my remarks
Sena1 e's work. It is first, of course, a legisla- may not be offered in any logical order. When
tive body. In that capacity it has dealt with a I deal with some topics, my terms might be
great deal of Government legislation in the either too weak or too strong; and I beg in
present session. It is also, through its commit- advance the indulgence of the Senate.
tees, a chamber of investigation, inquiry and
The first thing I want to deal with is the
scrutiny. Finally, it is a deliberative assembly, vexing problem that we meet when we have
one of the few remaining forums for the dis- to adjourn or prorogue. When there is no
cussion of vital issues.
agreement with the other place, I do not see
The House of Commons is taken up these that the Senate should be called upon to
days almost exclusively with the legislative stand here and wait, just to be ready at the
program of the Government. The Senate has very minute the other place is prepared to
more time and honourable senators may send us a bill. If there was agreement and
increasingly want to take advantage of the they said they wanted to adjourn tonight and
time that the Senate provides to direct public were going to do their best to send us the last
piece of legislation within a certain time, then
attention to issues of their choosing.
We now know what Senator Croll today we could arrange for Royal Assent or prorotold us, that the Committee on Poverty will gation or adjournment at a certain time. But

1386

SENATE DEBATES

when there is no agreement, I do not think
we should be doing what we are doing now,
simply killing time and waiting for them to
decide when we should deal with a bill and
when we should prorogue or adjourn.
This has always been exceedingly vexing
for all members of the Senate. I can understand that we have not the same perspective
as the Leader of the Government may have
in this respect. The Senate as a whole should
show some independence if the other house is
not willing to co-operate clearly and frankly
in this matter of adjournment or prorogation.
Honourable senators, I agree that the Senate
has done a good job during this session. I
agree with the Leader of the Government
that the committees have been doing good
work. The Special Committee on Mass Media
is one case in point.
As far as the Special Committee on Poverty
is concerned, I will say that the nature of
Senator
Croll's speech
this
afternoon
increased the fears I had when we set up
that committee. I do not know exactly where
it is going and where it is going to end. I
know the program for this summer, but I
wonder if the members of the committee
know exactly what it is trying to achieve. For
myself, I think it is trying to do too much and
cover too much ground. At any rate, the
report we had was not very reassuring, and I
think in saying this I am expressing the feelings of a majority of senators in this respect.
Of course I do not want to detract in any way
from what the members of the committee
have been trying to do. All I am saying is
that the speech we heard this afternoon does
not clarify the situation as to the road which
this committee intends to follow.
As far as the Mass Media Committee is
concerned, it has done a tremendous job. As I
have indicated before, I am happy for the
members of that committee that their sittings
are at an end, and that they are now in the
process of drafting a report. The members
have had to spend long hours on the job, and
I hope that when the report is issued it will
show the results of the very worthy efforts
that have been made by all those concerned,
especially its chairman.
I also have only praise for the Standing
Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce, particularly insofar as its study on
the White Paper on Taxation is concerned.
This is an extremely difficult subject and has
required a lot of time and attention of the
committee members. I can only say that those
who have been faithful in attending the com[Hon. Mr. Flynn.]

June 25, 1970

mittee meetings should have the gratitude of
all the people of this country. I am quite
convinced that the report that we will get
from the Banking, Trade and Commerce
Committee concerning the White Paper on
Taxation will be appreciated, and will serve
to give the Senate an image which the public
too often ignores.
In the matter of legislation, the Senate has
dono this session what it has always done,
and that is excellent work. In my view, apart
from the emphasis we have put during
recent years on investigation work, the standing Senate committees have continued doing
during this session what they have been
doing for years and years. Of course, I realize
we have a problem. The work of the Senate is
not such that it attracts a great deal of publicity. It is not one which is attractive to
reporters or which encourages them to publish stories in the press. I do not know, but I
sense that the Leader of the Government
would like the press to pay more attention to
what we are doing, but I do not worry about
that as much as I suspect he does. The
main thing is that we are doing what we are
supposed to do, and if the public does not
appreciate it, well, that is too bad. But our
first duty is to satisfy ourselves that we are
doing what we should do. I would not simply
want to appear to be doing something. I am
more interested in doing it. Then, if the public
gives us credit for it, so much the better.
I have this last observation to make, and I
offer it with the greatest respect for the
Leader of the Government. There is certainly
one area in which we could improve the work
of the Senate. This improvement would
require the Leader of the Government himself to distinguish more clearly between his
job as Leader of the Government and his job
as Leader of the Senate. He worries too much
about having the Senate accept, in their
entirety, all the initiatives of the Government.
He should not worry so much about the
Senate bringing in an amendement to legislation. He should not lose sleep because some
members of the governing party in this place
might eventually vote against the Government.
Hon. Mr. Langlois: It has happened quite
often. I have done so myself on many occasions, and I have not lost any sleep over it.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: No, because you can do it.
But when you told your leader, he would lose
sleep over it, and probably would tell you
"Think about it, my friend. Try not to do
it," or "Be absent from this place."

June 25. 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Langlois: You are making an un- which this side does its job, but I would not
want him to be offended simply because I say
warranted and unfounded accusation.
this. I promise him that if he has any critiHon. Mr. Flynn: If you want to discuss it, I cism then I am going to listen to him with
have no objection at all. I am willing to dis- great care, and I shall try to improve on what
cuss it in very simple terms. I am suggesting I have been trying to do. I know that there is
to you, very humblyroom for improvement.
In any event, and taking especially into
Hon. Mr. Langlois: You are making quite
consideration what the honourable Leader of
an accusation here.
the Government has rightly said about the
Hon. Mr. Flynn: If you think I am aiming good work that the Senate is doing, I suggest
at you, I am willing to discuss it.
only that we can improve. But I think we can
done what we
Hon. Mr. Langlois: You are aiming at the all be satisfied that we have large does not
had to do. If the publie at
whole group on this side.
recognize it, then at least we have the satisHon. Mr. Flynn: I did not mention anything faction of having done what we thought we
about "the whole group." I mentioned some had to do.
members voting against the Goverrnent or
Hon. Mr. Langlois: Honourable senators, I
offering amendments. If I said something else,
rise on a question of privilege. My good
I am willing to correct it.
friend the honourable Leader of the OpposiHon. Mr. Langlois: I hope you read over tion did warn us that he would be using
strong words, and I should not have been
your remarks tomorrow.
carried away by his strong remarks.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I certainly will, but I hope
However, I rise to seek leave to call the
you will understand them better tomorrow attention of the house to a visit we received
than you do tonight.
this afternoon. I could not draw attention to it
That is my suggestion, and it might apply at the time it occurred because I would have
to the party to which I belong at some future had to interrupt the important speech of my
time, because I am not so pessimistic as to honourable friend, Senator Argue. But, if I
believe that there will always be this huge have leaveLiberal majority in this place. The time may
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Certainly.
come when another party will have a majority in this place, and I would not mind the
Hon. Mr. Langlois: Honourable senators
observations I am now making applying in must have noticed that this afternoon in the
future circumstances.
south gallery there was a group of young
I am saying to the Leader of the Govern- Royal Canadian Sea Cadets. They are visiting
ment that there is a conflict of interest Ottawa and, after having been received by
between the position of Leader of the Gov- the Prime Minister and visiting the House of
ernment and the Leader of the Senate, when Commons, they, at my suggestion, came to this
you think it is essential for the Senate to chamber.
approve, without amendment or any dissent,
This Sea Cadet Corps cornes frorn a village
any kind of legislation that comes before us. I of the Gaspé which used to be part of my
would like the Senate to show more riding when I was a member of the other
independence,
and
by
showing
more
place. They come from Cap-Chat. Their neatindependence the Senate would do a much ness and discipline must have been noticeable
better job; and, if the Leader of the Govern- to all.
ment is interested in improving the public
When I was President of the Quebec
image of the Senate, this would be achieved
Branch of the Navy League of Canada I had
by so doing.
the occasion to inspect that corps on the
In any event, I did not mean to offend the Gaspé coast, and I found them to be one of
Leader of the Government, or my very good the best cadet corps it was ever my honour to
friend Senator Langlois, or anyone else. I do inspect. I do not ask honourable senators to
not care about being criticized myself. I am take my word for that. For two years in a
trying to do what I can here, and I realize row this corps won the Nelson trophy awardthat I could be subject to harsh criticism. I ed annually to the most efficient of all the sea
would like Senator Langlois not to hesitate to cadet corps of Canada.
It was a pleasure for us to have a visit this
criticize me if he has something to say about
the way in which I do my job or the way in afternoon from such a corps. I take this occa-

1388

SENATE DEBATES

June 25, 1970

sion to pay a tribute, not only to those young points one makes in debate and the points
Canadians, but a tribute also to the village one makes in the realm of personal
fron which they corne. The population of the conviction.
village is only about 4,000, but it supports this
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I would correct the word
corps financially. I think that is an example
for the whole country. As long as we have "conviction" and say "friendship."
young people of this calibre as the leaders of
Hon. Mr. Martin: That
tomorrow, then we need have no doubts as do enjoy with the Leader is one thing that I
of the Opposition, a
to the future of Canada.
friendship that I value greatly. I regret to say
that that friendship has not reached the point
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
where it has a persuasive effect in terms of
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, I do political ideology. Nevertheless, it is a factor
not want to prolong the debate...
in the happy relationship I enjoy having with
Hon. Mr. Flynn: If the honourable Leader him.
I regret that in this instance the Leader of
of the Government speaks now I shall ask His
Honour the Speaker if his speech will have the Opposition bas been proven right. He suggested that there was not much point in our
the effect of closing the debate.
mee ing tonight, that we would not get the
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, I do Elections Bill. As he said, the Leader of the
not intend to debate the issue. I wish only to Government may sometimes be expected to
say that the honourable Leader of the Opposi- have a perspective in the light of his respontion and myself can close our remarks tonight sibilities as Leader of the Government. It was
by joining in full agreement with Senator in the light of that
perspective that I
Langlois in the tribute he has paid to these anticipated
it would be useful for us to meet
young Canadians from the Gaspé.
tonight in the expectation that we would have
I assure the honourable Leader of the
Opposition that I have been in this business the bill. We did not receive the bill and I see
too long to take offence from a debating no point in our prolonging the agony.
remark. I have long since learned that there
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 11
is a sharp line of distinction between the a.m.

June 28, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Friday, June 26, 1970
The Senate met at 11 a.m., Honourable
Hédard Robichaud, P.C., Speaker pro tem, in
the Chair.
Prayers.
UNITED NATIONS
TWENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY

OF FOUNDING

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
before proceeding with our agenda, I have
indicated to the Leader of the Opposition my
proposal to remind honourable senators that
twenty-five years ago today the Charter of the
United Nations was signed in San Francisco.
An all-party Canadian delegation attended
that conference for the purpose of committing
Canada to the United Nations.
It is fitting, on this important anniversary,
that we should look back over the road travelled by the United Nations since that time.
In the midst of victory, the allies, nations
united in adversity, laid the foundations for
the peace, the peace which they had won at
great cost.
I need not remind honourable senators that
Canada was one of the participants in that
San Francisco ceremony twenty-five years
ago and that Canada has resolutely, under
governments of different complexion, upheld
the terms of the charter and has stood by the
spirit of its preamble.
No country has supported more consistently
the aims of the United Nations. We have
made the successful functioning of this organization one of the cornerstones of our foreign
policy. We are proud of what the United
Nations has been able to accomplish. We are
proud of the role we have played in the
growth of the organization and its agencies,
in promoting peacekeeping, and of our three
terms as a member of the Security Council.
The occasion of the United Nations twentyfifth birthday seems to me to call for recommitment rather than for celebration. The
United Nations Organization bas survived a
quarter of a century, which is more than can
be said for its predecessor, the League of
Nations. Like the League, it was conceived
idealistically, and like the League it has
found no effective method of ensuring collective security. Nevertheless, in many other
respects, in many lesser ways, the United
22481-43

Nations has been and is a force for peace,
justice and understanding. We must continue
to have confidence in this world organization,
for its survival in the long run, in the judgment of the Government and in my judgment,
is fundamental to our national interests.
The United Nations promotes peace in an
infinite variety of ways and on many different levels. But more so our alliances, our
Commonwealth membership, and our role in
the United Nations form together the intricate
pattern of our relations with the world.
So we must continue to work for a stronger
organization, an organization less susceptible
to the intricacies of cold war politics. But in
the meanwhile, we must seek to achieve
whatever we can.
Despite its crities and its weaknesses, the
United Nations has been and is a powerful
force for international co-operation. If we and
our friends are able to broaden its horizons,
to make good the promise of the Charter,
then it will devolve upon us and those
like us to "unite our strength to maintain
international peace and security, and to
insure that armed force shall not be used,
save in the common interest." Those are the
words of the Charter. That is what the United
Nations was established to accomplish. That
is what it is all about. That is why we have
devoted so much of our energy towards
making it a vital world organization. And
that is why we stress the importance of
peacekeeping and have shown ourselves so
willing to support our words through action.
As we measure the passage of time since
the spring and summer of 1945, so we must
measure progress. However, the avoidance of
world conflict over the past 25 years is only
in part attributable to the United Nations.
Unlike the League, it has survived, and in
many respects it has wrought immense good.
For that we must be thankful, but it would be
folly to blind ourselves to the grave shortcomings of the organization in its fundamental role. It behooves us, therefore, as Canadians, to make clear our willingness, indeed our
eagerness, to take practical action, such as we
have taken in the past, to see that the second
quarter century of the United Nations will be
one not merely of survival but of progress
toward peace through conciliation and, if
necessary, through collective enforcement.
If on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary
of the signature of the Charter this much
cannot be said, then our national interest will

SENATE DEBATES
have been as ill served as will have been the
cause of peace and the betterment of al
mankind.
Former Prime Minister of Canada, Mr.
Pearson, speaking yesterday in London as a
former President of the United Nations General Assembly, noted the present weakness of
the organization, a weakness that he said was
attributable not to the character and the constitution of the organization, but to its membership; and he declared that unless the
nations of the world take strong action now,
the disappearance of the United Nations is
not impossible.
As one whose whole life has surrounded
these two organizations, the League of
Nations and the United Nations, I recognize
the disability of the United Nations, but I say
with firmness and conviction that if the
United Nations flounders, if it ceases to be,
then the world will have lost the most important foundation for the establishment of the
rule of law in the world.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
in a century that has known two world wars
and the development of nuclear engines
capable of mass destruction, and in a century
that has suffered through the Korean War,
the Arab-Israeli war, the war in Vietnam,
and a countless number of bloody revolutions,
civil wars, and various other forms of armed
conflict, it is not at all surprising that the
peace-loving people of the world should
have placed so much trust in such an organization as the United Nations, which has as its
prime goal "the saving of succeeding generations from the scourge of war."
Not only is everyone tired of war, but
everyone realizes only too well that a fullscale nuclear conflict would mean the end of
our civilization, if not of humanity itself.
That is why we desire nations to resolve their
differences peaceably at the conference table,
and not on the battlefield.
We need responsible statesmen with the
patience and ability to discuss international
problems calmly, intelligently, objectively,
and unemotionally. The peace which we are
working so assiduously to establish throughout the world, if it is to be worthy of rational
men and durable, will have to have been
forged in the fires of reason and probity, and
not those of force and mendaciousness.
The United Nations was signed into existence twenty-five years ago. We sang its
praises then and we have continued to do so
through the years. Yet, humanity is not unaware of its failures and structural defects.
[lIon. Mr. Martin.]

June 26, 1970

Indeed, in all that time the United Nations
has suffered growing pains, and has often
failed in its task. Recently, for example, the
United Nations demonstrated its inability to
cope with the events in Indo-China, the
Middle East, and the newly developing
nations of Africa. However, on the other side
of the ledger, one should remember that in
the India-Pakistan struggle over Kashmir, the
Netherlands and
the
between
conflict
Indonesia and the dispute between Greeks
and Turks in Cyprus, the United Nations did
enjoy a significant measure of success.
Also to its credit, the United Nations succeeded in having nations agree to: (1) a ban
on nuclear tests in the atmosphere; (2) sharing atomic knowledge for peaceful purposes;
(3) a ban on the proliferation of nuclear
weapons; and (4) outer-space research.
The United Nations today serves to bring
together in one place the representatives of
126 nations of the world. We remain convinced, despite the numerous setbacks this
organization has suffered, that it is only in
coming together for purposes of deliberation
and discussion of the problems that beleaguer
them, that nations can ever hope to arrive
peacefully at solutions that will give rise to
common purpose and shared goals.
It is our sincere hope that nations will learn
to co-operate in worthy efforts to improve the
quality of life the world over and cease to
work at cross-purposes. There is some consolation to be gleaned from the fact that while
men talk, nations do not usually fight. But we
should not be satisfied with the United
Nations' performance until those who participate as our representatives have agreed to
seek more concrete, positive goals-new plateaus on the upward climb toward peace.
The United Nations cannot but improve in
its role as the arbiter of international conflicts. I feel that most of the member nations
realize this and are making herculean efforts
to effect worthwhile changes. For this they
are to be commended. They have our
appreciation, respect and best wishes. Also,
they have our understanding. The United
Nations is men-men come together to solve
mutual problems. Solutions would at times be
easy were it not for the very human failings
and limitations of those working toward
them. Being human, which means that we all
have faults, we can sympathize and maybe
even laugh at ourselves, for at times man
proves to be his own worst enemy.
We hope and pray that, God willing, peace,
elusive as it has been in the past, will finally

June 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

be captured, securely harnessed and set to
work for man in his quest for a happy, fruitfui life.
The United Nations is our best hope and
Canada is doing the right thing in continuing
to support it without reservation.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Hon. Paul Mariin tabled:
Capital Budget of the National Capital
Commission for the fiscal year ending
March 31, 1971, pursuant to section 80(2)
of the Financial Administration Act,
chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952, as approved by
Order in Council P.C. 1970-622, dated
April 9, 1970.
Report of the Canadian Overseas Telecommunication Corporation, including its
Accounts and Financial Statements certified by the Auditor General, for the fiscal
year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to
sections 22 and 23 (1) of the Canadian
Overseas Telecommunication Act, chapter
42, and sections 85(3) and 87(3) of the
Financial Administration Act, chapter
116, R.S.C., 1952.
Statement by the Department of
National Defence of Moneys received and
disbursed
in
the Special Account
(Replacement of Materiel), for the fiscal
year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to
section 11(4) of the National Defence Act,
chapter 184, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of Defence Construction (1951)
Limited, including its Accounts and
Financial Statements certified by the
Auditor General, for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to sections 85(3)
and 87(3) of the Financial Administration
Act, chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of the Farm Credit Corporation,
including its Accounts and Financial
Statements certified by the Auditor General, for the fiscal year ended M'arch 31,
1970, pursuant to sections 85(3) and 87(3)
of the Financial Administration Act,
chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952.
Statutory Orders and Regulations published in the Canada Gazette, Part II, of
Wednesday, June 24, 1970, pursuant to
section 7 of the Regulations Act, chapter
235, R.S.C., 1952.
Copies of a list of ail projects approved
under the Area Development Incentives
Act to December 31, 1969, prepared by
the Department of Regional Economic
Expansion.
22481-431

Copies of Capital Budgets of Eldorado
Nuclear Limited and Eldorado Aviation
Limited for the year ending December 31,
1970, pursuant to section 80(2) of the
Financial Administration Act, chapter
116, R.S.C., 1952, together with a copy of
Order in Council P.C. 1970-986, dated
June 4, 1970, approving same. (English
text).
Report of Canadian Arsenals Limited,
including its Accounts and Financial
Statements certified by the Auditor General, for the fiscal year ended March 31,
1970, pursuant to sections 85(3) and 87(3)
of the Financial Administration Act,
chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of Canadian Commercial Corporation, including its Accounts and Financial Statements certified by the Auditor
General, for the fiscal year ended March
31, 1970, pursuant to section 13 (1) of the
Canadian Commercial Corporation Act,
chapter 35, and sections 85(3) and 87(3) of
the Financial Administration Act, chapter
116, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of Crown Assets Disposal Corporation, including its Accounts and
Financial Statements certified by the
Auditor General, for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 14 of
the Surplus Crown Assets Act, chapter
260, and sections 85 (3) and 87(3) of the
Financial Administration Act, chapter
116, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of Expenditures and Administration in connection with the Unemployment Assistance Act for the fiscal year
ended March 31, 1969, pursuant to section
9 of the said Act, chapter 26, Statutes of
Canada, 1956.
Report of the Canadian Radio-Television Commission for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 31 of
the Broadcasting Act, chapter 25, Statutes
of Canada, 1967-68.
Capital and Operating Budgets of the
Canadian National Railways for the year
ending December 31, 1970, pursuant to
section 37 of the Canadian National Railways Act, chapter 29, Statutes of Canada,
1955, together with a copy of Order in
Council P.C. 1970-1151, dated June 25,
1970, approving saie. (English text).
Capital Budget of Air Canada for the
year ending December 31, 1970, pursuant
to section 80(2) of the Financial Administration Act, chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952,

SENATE DEBATES

June 26, 1970

Canada Elections Act. I have asked that there
be circulated to honourable senators an excellent summary, prepared by the office of the
Chief Electoral Officer, of the amendments to
the Canada Elections Act as included in Bill
CANADA ELECTIONS ACT
C-215. Since I should like to refer to that
document frorn time to time, I might suggest
FIRST READING
that honourable senators agree that it be
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the annexed to today's Hansard for the assistance
Senate that a message had been received of honourable senators. May I ask for that to
frorn the House of Commons with Bill C-215, be done?
respecting the franchise of electors and the
The Hon. the Speaker pro ten: Is it agreed?
election of members to the House of
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Commons.
Bill read first time.
(For text of summary see Appendix pp.
together with copy of Order in Council
P.C. 1970-1152, dated June 25, 1970,
approving sarne. (English text).

SECOND READING

1410-1414)

Hon. Mr. Stanbury: The bill itself is a
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable rather massive document, containing some
senators, when shall this bill be read the 350 pages, and this suminary gives us a
second time?
reference to the major changes being
proposed.
J. Stanbury: Honourable
Hon. Richard
Because of the great importance of our
senators, with leave of the Senate, and notwithstanding Rule 44(1) (f), I move that this election legislation, the Government, in April
1969, for the first time in some ten years,
bill be now read the second time.
undertook a complete review of this area. The
Honourable senators, there is no legislation Standing Committee on Privileges and Elecmore basic to our democracy than our Elec- tions in the other place was given the task of
dons Act. Not long ago I received a letter studying the report of the Representation
from a man who had decided to encourage Commissioner on alternative methods of presome of his fellow new Canadians to apply paring electoral lists, and of undertaking a
for citizenship, because, as you know, many review of the general provisions of the
people coming to this country from abroad, Canada Elections Act on questions other than
even after a lifetime in Canada, have not election expenses. That review having been
taken out Canadian citizenship. He wanted to completed, this bill was prepared, accepting
know what he could tell them about the in almost every case the recommendations of
advantages they would gain by becoming citi- the committee.
zens. He had come to the conclusion that the
The next step in the procedure would be
only advantage was the right to vote. He
the only consideration of the question of election
seemed disappointed that that was
thing he could tell them. I was able to point expenses, then a review of the Representation
out a number of other legal advantages, but it Commissioner Act, and finally a review of the
Act. It is
also gave me the opportunity to remind him Dominion Controverted Elections
expected that a special committee will comgently that the right to vote, the right to
of election
participate in the democratic process of mence its work on the question
choosing the people who will represent you, expenses this summer or early in the fall,
in that
and in fact the right to become a candidate with a view to having legislation 1971.
of
yourself, are the greatest gifts that could be regard in place before the summer
So we have now reached the stage where
bestowed on any individual.
The extent to which we are prepared to the report of the Representation Commissioner
and
broaden the franchise to include the greatest on Electoral Lists has been prepared on
in the electorate, and studied, where the Standing Committee
number of our citizens
the other place
the extent to which we are willing to facili- Privileges and Elections in
study of the general protate the exercise of that franchise, are the has completed its
where a
measure of our commitment to human justice, visions of the Canada Elections Act,
collective bill has been proposed to the House of Comand of our confidence in the
is ready
wisdom of the people. These are the basic mons and has achieved passage and
for our consideration.
tenets of democracy.
First, I should like to review the general
Honourable senators, I have the privilege of
introducing Bill C-215, an act to amend the content of the bill by referring to the sum[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

The last of the important amendments is
mary which is in the hands of honourable
senators, or in any event is printed in the the change of nomination day to the twentyOfficial Report of the debate in the other first day before polling day, instead of the
fourteenth day.
place at page 7417 and following.
Honourable senators, that is just a rapid
The major provisions-and I shal limit
time-may be run-through of the main provisions of the bill
myself to those at the present
found in the following paragraphs of the and I would like now to discuss at some
length matters which one might expect to
summary:
but which do not appear
11. where the voting age is lowered to 18 find in the bill matters which do appear in
there, and other
years;
the reason they do.
12. which changes the residence require- the bill and
I think the most startling omission in the
ments to the date of the first day of enumerabill is the absence of any provision for the
tion rather than the date of issue of the writ;
a permanent voters' list. This
20. which provides that an elector need not development of surprise to many people, I
absence was a
produce his enumeration notice to obtain a
believe, due to the general feeling that a percertificate to vote;
manent voters' list would be a means of over27. which provides that the proclamation coming such problems as groups of people
will be printed in both official languages in being left off the voters' list, the confusion of
every electoral district of Canada;
having to find and train enumerators sudden29. which provides for the registration of ly when an election is called, and the probpolitical parties;
lems of long campaigns.
30. which lowers the age of the candidate
I gather that the predisposition of the
to 18;
Standing Committee on Privileges and Elec39. which provides for a system of proxy tions in the other place was to adopt a permavoting for fishermen, mariners, prospectors, nent voters' list and an absentee voting
full-time students and permanently disabled system, but when they began to look into the
whole question, they found that all that glitpersons;
voters'
41. which requires a change in the format ters is not gold and that a permanent nearly
list, while attractive in theory, was not
and design of the ballot;
so attractive when the problems were
42 and 43. which add the political affilia- appreciated.
tion of the candidate to the ballot, and
First, they found that Canada had already
remove his occupation and address;
tried a permanent voters' list. In 1934 the
which finally removes an old inequity Dominion Franchise Act was passed. A per44.
by stating that a ballot paper will not be manent voters' list was set up pursuant to
rejected solely because it was marked with an that act in 1934 and was revised between May
instrument other than the black lead pencil 15 and July 1 of each year until 1938, when
provided or with a mark other than a cross.
the act was repealed. It was repealed because
I would refer also to paragraph 49, which of the report of a special committee of the
makes it possible for the voters to gather at house in 1937, which concluded that the basic
the pub after the polls are closed to cele- lists prepared in 1934 were almost completely
brate or commiserate.
obsolete within six months after they were
Paragraph 57 resolves the existing conflict completed, and that the annual revision was
in the Broadcasting Act and the Elections not an adequate remedy for the situation.
The standing committee looked at the situaAct and now makes it clear that political
broadcasts are forbidden only on the ordinary tion in the United Kingdom and found that,
polling day and on the one day immediately even in a relatively stable society such as that
in the United Kingdom, many people would
preceding it.
Paragraph 59 extends the Canadian Forces be deprived of their voting rights if an elecvoting rules to public servants posted abroad tion were held at any time other than shortly
and their dependents, as well as dependents after the February 16 annual revision came
into force.
of members of the forces serving abroad.
Even in Australia, where there is a combiParagraph 61 provides that now the list of
Canadian Forces and public service electors nation of permanent voters' list and compulwho will be voting abroad will be available ir sory registration and a system which allows
changes to be made to the list until the day
the office of each returning officer.

1394

SENATE DEBATES

an election is called, there were still 3 to 5
per cent of the electors who were not on the
list at election time.
Statistics indicate that our population is
much more mobile than that of the other
countries studied and as a result our problem
would be even worse.
While the committee appreciated that our
system had its disadvantages, it seemed to be
the most likely to assure that the smallest
number of voters were disfranchised by not
being included on the voters list. Our lists are
prepared only seven weeks before election
day and there is provision for revisions on
the 19th, 18th, and 17th days before polling
day. In rural polling divisions, an elector may
vote even if he is not on the list by using the
voucher procedure.
The committee satisfied itself that this was
as good a procedure as there is anywhere in
the world.
Perhaps the position against the permanent
voters list was made easier when the committee looked at the comparative costs. Our present method of enumeration costs about $7
million at each election. Of course we have
all been through a recent situation where
elections have been frequent, but in the
normal course our parliamentary system provides for elections only every four or five
years. So our costs of enumeration might be
somewhere between $121million and $7 million a year, depending on the frequency of
elections. On the other hand, the basic cost of
a permanent voters' list, according to Nelson
Castonguay in his evidence before the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections in
the other place, is a dollar per elector per
year, or approximately $13 million a year in
Canada.
As a result, the committee concluded, and
the Government agreed, that our present
system of enumeration costs less and assures
more people of their franchise than any other
system which might be adopted.
The committee also recognized a number of
other factors which affected their judgment of
the practicability of a permanent voters' list
for Canada. The principal one among these
was of course the fact that we do not have
fixed elections and therefore cannot be
assured that the date of annual revision will
have any logical relationship to the date of an
election. Another problem was that great distances would have to be covered by some of
the candidates in far-flung ridings, and that
might become an impossibility through inclement weather for the candidates campaigning
[Hon. Mr. Stanbury.]

June 26, 1970

in those ridings during a shorter campaign.
Another consideration was the fact that we
are a federated state, as opposed to a unitary
state such as the United Kingdom where the
distances are shorter and communications and
transportation are centralized.
The recommendations of the committee and
the decision of Government was that we
should not proceed toward a permanent voters' list. That decision meant that we would
continue to have the same basic pattern of
enumeration and basic election timetable
which we have had in the past. We shall have
to find ways of improving the existing system
to overcome the problem of people being left
off the voters' list because of either indifference or accident. This objective will be pursued by giving more extensive publicity to
the procedures to be followed by people to be
sure that they are included on the voters' list.
Another major step has been taken to
extend the voters' list and to ensure Canadians an opportunity to vote in general elections. This is the amendment which will
include members of the federal public service
living abroad.
It had been hoped that the means could be
found to make it possible for all Canadians
living and working abroad to preserve their
franchise during their absence. This would
have been possible with a permanent voters'
list and an absentee voting system. However,
the abandonment of the idea of a permanent
voters' list made it necessary to abandon also
the idea of an absentee voting system and
made it much more difficult to avoid the
abuses which could creep into our present
system if it were made applicable to such a
far-flung community.
As honourable senators know, the armed
forces serving abroad have had the right to
vote, and the committee found that it would
not be too difficult to extend that right to
members of the federal public service living
abroad. Through its own agencies, the Government has accurate records as to the identity and whereabouts of such personnel. The
same is true of the dependents of government
personnel and those of the armed forces, and
therefore it is administratively practical to
add them to the voters' list. Unfortunately the
same is not true of people in the private
sector living abroad.
The problem of the late counting of the
votes of the armed forces, public servants,
and their dependents, exercising their franchise outside of the country, has been overcome by advancing the date for nomination of

June 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

candidates from the 14th to the 21st day suasion rather than violence; through consenpreceding voting day, so that their votes can sus rather than constraint. But we cannot
be taken from the 14th to the 9th days before expect the one without the other. Out of
the election, and the results can be integrated access to the reins of power flows the sense of
into the count of the votes registered on elec- responsibility in using them.
tion day. This avoids the uncertainty of the
The committee felt that something should
outcome of the election brought about by the be done to encourage those entitled to
late announcement of the forces vote and also Canadian citizenship to become Canadian citiavoids focusing attention on that vote in such zens. As I mentioned at the beginning of these
a way as to indicate the party preference of a remarks, the principal tangible evidence of
particular group of voters.
citizenship is the right to vote and to particiAnother serious gap between the theory pate in the political system of the country.
and practice of universal suffrage has Emphasis bas been placed on this fact by
occurred where large groups of people, providing that citizens only shall be entitled
because of their occupation, are unable to be to vote but that this restriction will not be
present in their constituencies either on elec- retroactive; so that all those who were qualition day or at the time for advanced polling. fied to vote at the last general election and
Generally, this difficulty applies to fishermen, have remained ordinarily resident in Canada
mariners, prospectors, students and perma- on a continuous basis will retain that right.
The measures I have been discussing have
nently disabled persons. The Government has
accepted the recommendation of the commit- been aimed at making certain that the frantee to establish a system of proxy voting chise is as broad as is practically possible. It
whereby these people can exercise their fran- is also important that it be made as easy as
chise through a proxy appointed from among possible for those entitled to vote to express
electors in the polling division in which the their intentions with a minimum of technical
voters would normally vote. Several thousand barriers. The provisions of the bill facilitating
voters will now have at least the opportunity this kind of expression are the redesign of the
to cast their ballot, whereas that opportunity ballot, the provision that any mark on the
has previously been effectively denied them.
ballot space made with any kind of marking
I think the most exciting extension of the instrument will be acceptable so long as the
franchise provided by the bill before us is mark is not so distinctive as to identify the
accomplished through the reduction of the elector, and the provision that the party
minimum voting age from 21 to 18 years. affiliation of the candidate may appear on the
Nearly a million new electors will be added ballot. These provisions should greatly
decrease the number of spoiled ballots and
to the rolls through this measure alone.
finds it
It is important here to note the favourable the situations in which the elector
in the Senate to Senator difficult to express his real intention.
reaction registered
Of course as soon as you start talking about
Argue's resolution directed towards accomparty affiliation, the question arises, what
plishing these same purposes.
Honourable senators may recall that on constitutes a party, and the technical sense in
every occasion on which I have had the which it must be defined by the bill. As
honour of addressing them, I have taken the honourable senators are aware, there is
opportunity to express my own faith in the already a definition of a party in the Senate
knowledge, the wisdom and the values and House of Commons Act for the purpose
expressed by the generation which is now of determining the payment of emoluments to
passing from its teen years into early adult- the leaders of groups other than the official
hood. Of course there are exceptions, just as opposition. The party must have a minimum
there are in every generation, but I am satis- of 12 members of Parliament, and any party
fied that the people who will be enfranchised which has such representation in the House
by this provision are better equipped to make of Commons immediately preceding the elecdecisions and more interested in the well- tion will automatically be registered as a
being of our society than were many of their political party for purposes of this bill. But
forbears. It is vital that our electoral system the questions of whether or not further fracbe opened to them, both as voters and as turing of the electorate into multiple parties
candidates. They must see that there is no should be encouraged, and whether or not a
impediment to their participation in oui group should be able to demonstrate its
democratic system. They must also learn that appeal over a fairly broad segment of Canadivery
a democratic society progresses through per- an society before being recognized, were

1396

SENATE DEBATES

much in the minds of the Government when
they proposed that for the purposes of this
bill a political party at a national election,
other than those already substantially represented in the House of Commons, should have
to nominate 75 candidates to be eligible for
registration.
Honourable senators, I have drawn attention to the principal provisions of the bill and
have discussed some of them in some depth,
and I would only like to add my own congratulations to the members of the Standing
Committee on Privileges and Elections of the
other place who did such an excellent job of
this part of the revision of our electoral legislation. In addition to making progressive substantive amendments, they have clarified our
election law in many respects and have
updated the language of the act. Their deliberations and those of the Committee of the
Whole in the other place over the last few
days provide a good illustration of how constructive parliamentary committees can be
when partisan considerations are subordinated to the general public interest. This of
course is more common in the Senate where
the passion of partisan advocacy seldom
flares. The extent to which the Government
adopted the recommendations of the report of
the committee is also significant. It indicates
the degree to which the cabinet respects the
recommendations of parliamentary committees.
Honourable senators, I commend this bill to
you for consideration and support.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable senators, it is not my intention to speak at any
length on this bill today. I see Senator Cook is
going to applaud that statement, but I do not
think he need do so because it is hardly to be
expected that we should give detailed examination to the bill at the present time since it
contains some 94 clauses and covers 327
pages. In addition, some of the amendments
were passed by the House of Commons only
last evening.
Furthermore, honourable senators, I think
the duty of the Senate on an election bill is to
be more concerned with the broad principles
of the bill rather than the precise mechanism
by which the vote is taken, although, as electors, we are also interested in that.
As has been stated, perhaps the main proposed change in the act is the lowering of the
voting age, and there was general agreement
on this when the matter was discussed at
[Hon. Mr. Stanbury.]

June 26, 1970

some length in the Senate some time ago.
Personally, I would favour extending this
somewhat, because I still believe that young
people in their last year of high school should
be entitled to vote in elections. In such a
situation it might well be that a 17-year old
would be entitled to vote, but having regard
to our educational system, I feel that in their
last year in high school they have the knowledge essential to allow them to judge political
issues and cast a vote. Indeed there bas
always been the understanding, although not
perhaps set out in legislation, that there is a
correlation between education and the right
to vote. As my memory serves me, I recall
reading that back in 1863 or 1864 compulsory
free education was introduced in Nova Scotia
because at that time the right to vote was
being given, and it was felt that if people had
the right to vote they must have some educational qualification to judge the issues of the
day.
Honourable senators, I have also noted that
the residence qualification seems to have been
widened to the extent tha't it is no longer
necessary for an elector to have resided in
Canada for 12 months prior to the date of
election, and that now if his ordinary place of
residence on the date of enumeration was in
Canada, lie would have the right to vote. I
was also interested in this proxy voting
system. I know of places where they have had
some experience with this system and, because of its complications, it has at times
given rise to considerable difficulty on election day.
Personally, I have long been an advocate of
yet another kind of voting because of the fact
that at election time there will be people who
are ill in hospital or in institutions or at home
and who will not be able to go out to vote. To
enable such people to vote, I believe there
should be what I like to call a travelling poll,
whereby a deputy returning officer would
travel around to where these people are,
whether in their homes, in institutions or in
hospitals, and so allow them to vote. I believe
a system to take care of this situation could
be worked out. This is a matter to which I
think we could give some consideration in the
future.
There is a further matter that I should like
to have clarified. I have noticed mn
some news
reports that the time which must be given to
employees to vote has been extended to four
hours. By that I mean that all employees
must be allowed four hours in which to vote
on election day. I also understand that the
time for voting has been extended and that in

June 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

future the polls will close at 8 o'clock in the
evening. Now, my question is this: does an
employee have to get four hours off work
during the working day, or will the situation
be covered if he is allowed to leave his work
at 4 o'clock in the afternoon, thus giving him
one hour of his employer's time and three
hours of his own time in which to vote? I
should like to have that point clarified either
now or at some time in the future.
I should also like to see the franchise
extended in another way, honourable senators. The sponsor of the bill has mentioned
the fact that no longer will a person be
allowed to vote in Canada just because he is
a British subject who resides in Canada. In
future he must be a Canadian citizen. Of
course protection is given to those who have
voted in the last election. Personally, I do not
like to see what I regard as pressure being
exerted to bring about indirectly what should
be brought about directly.
I gather from the remarks of the sponsor
that one of the reasons they are now limiting
the franchise to Canadian citizens is to influence people to take out Canadian citizenship.
As far as I am concerned, I do not believe
that there should be any qualification as to
citizenship; I feel that the residence qualification is sufficient. I do not see that it makes
any difference whether a person is a Canadian citizen, a British subject, or a German
citizen, or any other citizen. My view is
simply this; if a person is entitled to live in
Canada he is entitled to vote in Canada.
If he is good enough to reside here, I say he
should have the right to vote.
Honourable senators, I suppose I should pay
a passing tribute to an old tradition in this
chamber, and say that the bill comes to us so
late that it is impossible to give it adequate
consideration. Actually, that does not bother
me too much. I will confess that I have not
gone through all the sections of the bill, and
certainly not through the amendments which
were put before us about five minutes ago.
However, I do intend to study the bill very
carefully during the summer recess. Then, if
there are certain sections that I think should
be amended, I propose to bring in an amending bill when we return in the fall.
Hon. Hazen Argue: Honourable senators, I
hope I will be pardoned for a brief contribution at this time. It arises out of the work I
have done over a great many years to bring
about this very happy occasion, at which time
the voting age is being lowered to 18 years.
22481-44

I want to congratulate Senator Stanbury on
his comprehensive outline of the purposes of
the amendments to the act. I am sure that
this bill will receive support in the Senate.
On March 29, 1954 it was my privilege to
introduce in the House of Commons the first
bill which advocated a reduction in the voting
age. It was my privilege on a number of
subsequent occasions in the other place to
bring forward that proposal. On the first
occasion, the bill was defeated. The bill that
would have provided for a reduction in the
voting age to 18 years was defeated on March
15, 1955 by 177 votes to 24. At that time, 88
per cent of the Members of Parliament, on
what was announced as a free vote, considered such a provision to be a mistake or at
least premature.
This measure has many commendable features, but I think the central and most important one is that of lowering the voting age. It
passed the other place unanimously, and I
hope that it will do so here.
This demonstrates the process of change
within the democratic society. When people
who feel that certain changes should be
undertaken put them forward initially, there
is great opposition, but after a considerable
period of time they are often adopted.
The Senate of Canada on June 25, 1969
unanimously gave second reading to the bill
then standing in my name to reduce the
voting age to 18 years, and it was to be given
third reading at the next sitting. The following day a move was made, which was given
majority support, to have the bill referred to
committee before third reading. It was
referred to committee, but never got out of
that committee.
I think the Senate did the right thing In
supporting that measure. It would be doing a
great service to itself, if from time to time it
decided certain amendments should be made
to statutes, to pass amending bills in this
house and send them to the other place. Then
the other place would have to take the
responsibility of dealing with them, rather
than our having some senators apparently
trying to mind-read what may be the desire
of the front bench in the other place, and
then governing ourselves accordingly.
Some Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Argue: I have listened with great
interest to the remarks just made by the
honourable Senator Macdonald (Cape Breton).
I know he was sincere when he said that he
would study Bill C-215 during the recess, and

SENATE DEBATES
that if he felt certain further amendments
should be made he would bring them in when
the Senate reconvenes. Knowing his history, I
know that this he will do if lie feels it should
be done.
Earlier this year the Senate adopted a bill
standing in the name of the honourable Senator Macdonald, to amend the Criminal Code. I
trust that we will take similar action in the
future on other bills, because I think that by
so doing we exercise our legislative prerogative and show some general leadership to the
country, which is also part of our duty.
Canada and Parliament are undertaking an
important and wise move in lowering the
voting age to 18. In the near future, it may be
necessary to amend other statutes of Canada
further to increase the duties and responsibilities of our young people. There are those
who view the younger generation with great
fear and, in many instances, with great opposition. I believe the young people of today are
the best, the most responsible, the most idealistic younger generation this country has
seen; and Parliament is recognizing today
that the young people can responsibly exercise the franchise in Canada at the age of 18.

June 26, 1970

whether this is a wise provision. It may be an
avenue whereby very young people's views
can be reflected in the national Parliament or
the provincial legislatures. Perhaps the present under 20-year-olds will not in future
years consider it desirable to have 18-yearolds and 19-year-olds in Parliament or in the
legislatures. After all, the conduct of public
business is a serious and responsible kind of
work. The more experience one brings to it,
the better the legislative process. All that can
be done is to watch the result of this provision which enables 18-year-olds to be members of the Parliament of Canada. In any
event, I do not imagine there will be many,
and no damage is likely to be done. In fact, it
may be that some good will come from it.
Another aspect of general electoral problems upon which I would comment is the use
of public opinion polls at election time. The
experience in the recent British election is a
case in point. From my own observation-and
I am sure this is true of almost all senatorspolls taken during an election campaign do
have a profound effect, particularly upon the
uncommitted and the uninstructed voter.
Sometimes polls work very much to the
disadvantage of the party which seems to be
Hon. John J. Connolly: Honourable sena- leading. Sometimes the party that is leading
tors, I wish to make one or two remarks of a finds that its supporters become lukewarm,
general character in connection with this bill. and that they say: "We are so far ahead that
I agree with what Senator Macdonald (Cape my work and my vote do not matter." PerBreton) has said, particularly with regard to haps that is what happened in Britain.
the spread of education in this country
Where a change in government is indicated
making a vast difference in our approach to by the polls some people want to get on the
the electoral laws. When the franchise was bandwagon. Regardless of whether a party
originally established and it was decided that has a set of policies and a valid program,
the voting age should be 21 years, I believe it people will vote for it simply because they
is proper and fair to say that the educational want to be on the winning side.
level of the population was by no means as
In my view, this is not consistent with the
high as it is today. With the spread of education-and by that I do not simply mean ideal functioning of the democratic process. It
formal education, but education through the is propagandizing, although it is not undermedia, through greater contact between taken as a method of propagandizing. It is one
groups from differing areas, as people become of the new developments that we must keep
more mobile-the political sophistication of in mind when we make periodic revisions of
our people is constantly rising and, as a our election laws.
result, we have to keep in mind the possibiliHon. Andrew Thompson: Honourable senaty of revising our electoral laws so as to give tors, I should like to ask a question of the
those who have some knowledge of and some honourable sponsor of this bill. He emphasense of responsibility towards the working of sized the fact that no one who previously had
our public institutions and opportunity to the right to vote will be excluded from
pronounce upon the persons who shall run voting, but I also notice that paragraph 11 of
them.
this document entitled "Summary of the Main
Not only has the voting age been reduced Amendments made to the Canada Elections
to 18 years, but it is now possible for an Act", refers to "British subjeets, other than
individual to stand for election to Parliament Candian citizens." In the former Canada Elecif he or she is 18 years of age. I do not know tions Act the term "British subject" includes
[Hon. Mr. Argue.]

June 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

citizens of Ireland and those of a number of
countries. I assume that that definition will
still apply. If it does not, then those people, if
they are no longer considered to be included
with British subjects, will be excluded.

tion of the political affiliation is optional. Section 31(l)(b) provides that:
-the political affiliation of each candidate, if any, as indicated under section 23
at the time of nomination of that candidate, shall be set out, in such form-

Hon. Mr. Stanbury: Senator Thompson
Hon. Mr. Denis: Yes, that means the name
mentioned this question to me a few moments
ago, but all I can do is to refer him to the of the party.
wording of the section. We are talking about
Hon. Mr. Stanbury: That is correct.
British subjects, and I am not aware of any
re-definition of that term. However, I think
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: Is not that covered by
the intent of the act is clear, that all British section 31(l)(c), which concludes with the
subjects who were entitled to vote at the time words:
of the last election-and I assume that that
-the address or occupation of that canmeans the same kind of British subject-are
didate, as indicated by him, shail be set
entitled to vote provided they have been in
out, after or under the name of the
continuous residence in the country.
candidate.
As far as I am aware, the honourable senaIt gives him the option.
tor's interpretation would not be a proper
one.
Hon. Mr. Denis: It is just an option?
Hon. Azellus Denis: Honourable senators,
Hon. Mr. Stanbury: Yes, I think it is so
may I ask Senator Stanbury a question.
expressed.
Paragraph 43 of this summary reads:
Hon. Muriel McQ. Fergusson: Honourable
The requirement to indicate the senators, I congratulate Senator Stanbury
address and occupation of a candidate on upon the excellent outline he has given us of
the ballot paper is deleted.
the main amendments to the Canada Elections Act. Like other honourable senators who
I am wondering if that means it is optional,
or whether it is applied absolutely to every have not studied these amendments very
candidate. If you have the option of putting closely, I hope to do so during the recess,
your address and occupation on the ballot although I shal probably not be as thorough
paper, then some candidates would do so, and in my study as Senator Macdonald plans to
some would not. Some candidates would take be.
According to paragraph 59 of the summary,
the view that the name of the party on the
ballot paper would give more information to the bill provides that voting privileges are
extended to public servants
the voters, but in that case the voter would and their dependents, as well posted abroad
as dependents
not know the occupation or the address of the of the members of the armed forces serving
candidate. If we look at this in one way then abroad. I cannot find any definition of a
more information is given, but if we look at it dependent in the act. My question to Senator
in another way, information is being Stanbury is this: If the wife of a member of
the armed forces or a public servant posted
suppressed.
abroad is also employed, possibly earning
Hon. Mr. Stanbury: Would Senator Denis more than her husband, is she then considrepeat the number of the paragraph to which ered a dependent and entitled to vote?
he is referring?
Hon. Mr. Stanbury: Honourable senators, I
Hon. Mr. Denis: It is paragraph 43 of the am not sure that I have the answer to that
question. I would think that if she is a
summary of the main amendments.
dependent in the normal sense, such as the
Hon. Mr. Stanbury: Perhaps we should wife or child of a person in the armed forces
or public service, and qualifies in all other
refer to the section.
respects in terns of age, citizenship or other
Hon. Mr. Denis: But it is not given.
qualification, she would be entitled to vote.
Hon. Mr. Stanbury: It is mentioned in the
immediately preceding paragraph. It is section
31(1)(b). My understanding is that the indica22481-44&

Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: I regret that I differ
with the honourable Senator Stanbury in the
interpretation. I have not studied it very

1400

SENATE DEBATES

June 26, 1970

closely, but if I find she is not covered, I, like
Senator Macdonald, would like to see an
amending bill introduced in the fall.

Hon. Mr. McDonald: With leave, I move
that it be considered now.
Honourable senators, the report covers two
Hon. Mr. Denis: She is entitled to vote as items. The first concerns travelling expenses
between a senator's place of residence and
an employee.
Ottawa, and increases the mileage rate when
Hon. Mrs. Fergusson: She may not be an travelling by automobile to 16 cents per mile.
employee of the Government, but of someone
Another change makes provision for paying
else.
the moving expenses of a senator between his
Hon. Mr. Flynn: That is unlikely in a home and Ottawa once during his career.
This is effective only beginning with the
foreign country.
Twenty-eighth Parliament. Therefore those
Hon. G. Percival Burchill: I join with the members who have had expenses in moving
other honourable senators in congratulating to Ottawa from their homes since the beginSenator Stanbury on his excellent presenta- ning of the Twenty-eighth Parliament will be
tion and summary. However, as he did not able to claim those expenses, providing they
refer to amendment number 14, I would like have receipts and vouchers covering them.
an explanation of it. It reads:
Report adopted.
The privilege accorded ministers, priests
and teachers is extended to persons seaADJOURNMENT
sonally employed in the fishing industry,
other than fishermen.
Leave having been given to revert to
Hon. Mr. Stanbury: Honourable senators, Motions:
my understanding of that term is that it is
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald moved, with
not intended to cover fishing proprietors, but leave of the Senate and notwithstanding Rule
those employed in the fishing industry.
45(l)(g), that when the Senate adjourns today
it do stand adjourned until Monday, October
Hon. Mr. Flynn: Occasionally hired.
5, at 8 p.m.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
I-e said: Honourable senators, this motion
is made with the understanding that Mr.
THIRD READING
Speaker has the authority to recall the Senate
The Hon. the Speaker pro ten: Honourable at any time during that interval. This power
senators, when shall this bill be read the was given to Mr. Speaker under a resolution
third time?
that we passed on November 6 last. In all
Hon. Richard J. Stanbury: With leave of probability, we will be recalled prior to Octothe Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(l)(b), ber 5.
I move that the bill be read the third time
Hon. Mr. Martin: We will.
now.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: Mr. Speaker will send
Motion agreed ta and bill read third time the notices to our home addresses, as covered
and passed.
by the resolution passed on November 6 last.
Motion agreed to.
SENATE ACCOUNTS
SECOND REPORT OF STANDING COMMITTEEINTERNAL ECONOMY AND CONTINGENT
ACCOUNTS

BUSINESS OF THE SENATE

Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, I move that we adjourn until
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald, for Hon.
Donald Smith, Chairman of the Standing approximately 2.30 or the call of the bell.
We are not at the moment aware of what
Committee on Internal Economy and Contingent Accounts, presented the committee's may come to us in the interval from the other
place, but it is unlikely that we will receive
second report as followsany legislation before 2 or 2.30 p.m. Would
Hon. Senalors: Dispense.
honourable senators hold themselves available
to reassemble at approximately 2.30 p.m.?
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, when shall this report be taken into
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I should like to know
consideration?
-vhen it is planned to have Royal Assent. I
[Hon. Mrs. Fergusson.]

June 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

not wish to be the cause of any embarrassment. Nevertheless, I would make a strong
plea to him that he regard our friendship as
such that he will not be reluctant to tell even
Hon. Mr. Martin: It may be earlier, if his strongest protagonist politically that he is
possible.
a friend of the Leader of the Government in
Hon. Mr. Flynn: If there is other legislation, the Senate.
as I told the Leader of the Government, I
Hon. Mr. Flynn: That is quite different.
cannot give assurance that we will give leave
to proceed with it. My understanding is that
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: I do not mind being
if it were to reach us before half-past twelve, known as his friend, but not as his deputy.
we might be willing to proceed. That is why I
thought we would have Royal Assent before
Hon. Mr. Martin: I agree.
one o'clock.
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: I assure the Leader of
the Opposition, that Royal Assent will be just
as early as we can arrange it.
At 4 p.m. the sitting was resumed.
Motion agreed to.

understood that we were to have Royal
Assent before one o'clock. Now it is proposed
to adjourn until 2.30.

ROYAL ASSENT
OFFICIAL REPORT

NOTICE

INCORRECT IDENTIFICATION

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
Hon. John M. Macdonald: Honourable sena- Senate that he had received the following
tors, before we adjourn I rise on a matter of communication:
very important personal privilege. If honourable senators look at Hansard of June 23, page
GOVERNMENT HOUSE
1317, they will note that the Honourable A.
Ottawa
Hamilton McDonald took the occasion to offer
the felicitations of this chamber to the Gov26 June 1970
ernment Leader (Hon. Mr. Martin) on his
Sir:
birthday. The Leader of the Government then
I have the honour to inform you that
rose to thank his colleagues. In Hansard the
the Right Hon. Gérald Fauteux, P.C.,
English translation of what he said reads as
Chief Justice of Canada, acting as Deputy
follows:
of His Excellency the Governor General,
Honourable senators, I sincerely thank
will proceed to the Senate Chamber
my colleague and deputy, the honourable
today, June 26th, at 4.15 p.m. for the
Senator Macdonald (Cape Breton) and
purpose of giving Royal Assent to certain
the Leader of the Opposition.
bills.
Honourable senators, I would certainly love
I have the honour to be,
to join the others in offering felicitations to
Sir,
the Government Leader, but I take great
Your obedient servant,
offence at being classified as his deputy.
Louis-Frémont Trudeau,
Indeed, honourable senators, I must shortly
Brigadier General
return to Cape Breton, and I greatly fear that
Assistant Secretary to the
if this became known there would be a strong
Governor General.
delegation to meet me on the Cape Breton
side of the Canso Causeway to turn me back!
The Honourable
The Speaker of the Senate,
Some Hon. Senators: Oh, oh.
Ottawa.
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I
am very sorry that clandestinely this error
has crept into Hansard. I would not wish the doubt that we will be ready to proceed with
honourable Senator Macdonald to in any way Royal Assent at the time indicated by His
suffer embarrassment when he gets to Cape Honour the Speaker. In the meantime we are
Breton because of any association that I may prepared to proceed with Bill C-204, to
have established with him. I certainly would amend the Fisheries Act.

SENATE DEBATES

1402

June 26. 1970

Hon. Mr. Martin: That is a matter for the
Senate itself to decide. Senator Carter is
BILL TO AMEND-FIRST READING
charged with the sponsorship of the bill and
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the he will be making an explanatory statement. I
Senate that a message had been received suppose the Senate will have to examine that
from the House of Commons with Bill C-204, statement, in the light of its merits, as judged
by each senator.
to amend the Fisheries Act.
Bill read first time.
Hon. Mr. Blois: Honourable senators, surely
this bill, which is of so much importance to
SECOND READING
the Maritime provinces, needs more considerThe Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable ation? It has been weeks in the other place.
senators, when shall this bill be read the As a member of the Senate, I wish to speak
on it, but I could not do so without studying
second time?
what happened in the other place and what
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I speeches were made on it there. Surely it
ask leave to move the second reading of this does not have to go through this weekend?
bill.
Hon. Mr. Martin: I have explained the
The reason I ask leave is because this bill is
part of the Government's pollution program, importance of this measure in terms of the
and there are some important administrative Government program. It has been passed in
and other acts to be taken, as the minister so the other house and there have been long
advises me. For that reason I hope we can explanations on it in committee there. I suggest that the proper course now is to listen to
deal with this bill forthwith.
Senator Carter and to make our judgment
Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable sena- afterwards.
tors, before we give leave, I think we should
Hon. Mr. Macdonald: Honourable senators,
have some indication whether this is one of
unfortunately Senator Flynn, the Leader of
the items of public business that must be
concluded, according to the Leader of the the Opposition, is unable to be here. He did
Government, before we have Royal Assent. take a strong view against considering the bill
at this time. Prior to leaving, he mentioned to
I think it is rather ridiculous that we me that, as far as be was concerned, he would
should come here at 4 o'clock and get a mes- leave it to my judgment as regards giving
sage as to Royal Assent at 4.15, and be asked unanimous consent in the Senate.
to deal with this bill in 15 minutes. It is
I have spoken privately to the Leader of
impossible and absolutely absurd.
the Government, and while I can agree with
This measure has been kicked around in what he said about urgency, yet, I think there
the other house for months. It is a very certainly is not time to give this bill the
important bill as far as the Maritimes are debate and consideration it deserves.
concerned, and I think it deserves more than
Having said that, let me say this, that if the
the five minutes the Government expects us
to give it. Before giving leave I would like to Leader of the Government considers it is an
know if it is the intention to send it to essential part of the Government program
that this bill be passed today, such is my
committee.
regard for his judgment and for him, that I
Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators, I would not be prepared to dissent. As far as I
agree that Senator Phillips (Prince) is justi- am concerned, I would give the necessary
fied in asking that this bill be given the full- consent that all stages be passed now.
est consideration possible. It was for that
However, I would also say that normally I
reason that I rose, after His Honour the would speak on this bill, but I do not think
Speaker had indicated the possibility of Royal we can give it proper consideration today.
Assent in 15 minutes. I indicated that the Therefore, I will not participate in this
nature of the business before us was likely to debate.
take more than that time. That is why I asked
for leave.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, when shall this bill be read the
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): Honourable second time?
senators, I believe that the Leader of the
Government has missed my point in reference
Hon. Chesley W. Carter with leave of the
to the committee. Will the bill be referred to Senate, moved the second reading of Bill
a Senate committee?
C-204.
FISHERIES ACT

[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

He said: Honourable senators, I should like
to express my thanks to Senator Macdonald
and his colleagues in the Opposition for permitting the Senate to proceed with this bill. I
am sure I am echoing the sentiments of the
Minister of Fisheries, because this bill is a
very important one and constitutes an important part of the Government's program to
control pollution.
Because of the time factor, I will be as
brief as possible and I will confine my
remarks to the bare essentials.
In order to make the bill as meaningful as
possible in the fewest words, I should
like to start out by emphasizing the following
points. The first is that the Fisheries Act is a
very old law, passed in the first session of the
first Parliament of Canada. It is therefore as
old as Parliament itself.
Secondly, I should like to emphasize that it
is a federal law; it is national in character,
and its jurisdiction runs from the Atlantic to
the Pacific and encompasses Canadian fishermen in territorial waters, on the high seas,
and wherever they may go in Canadian ships.
However, I would point out that while it is a
federal law, Privy Council decisions have
recognized certain proprietary rights on the
part of provinces in that certain provinces
own fisheries and have authority to lease fishing rights. Furthermore, over the years Parliament has delegated administrative power
to certain provinces; for example, the opening
and closing dates of fishing seasons, catch
limitation, et cetera. But all of these provincial regulations are subject to federal approval.
The federal act has been amended from
time to time, the last amendment being in
1960-61 when the operating clauses were
reduced from 77 to 68. The purpose of Bill
C-204 now before us is to further amend the
Fisheries Act and bring it up to date, particularly with respect to the control of pollution.
The powers to control pollution have always
resided in the Fisheries Act, and specifically
in sections 33 and 34 of that act. The main
thrust of Bill C-204 is to amend sections 33
and 34 still further. To emphasize this I
would like to put on record the heading to
section 33 of the Fisheries Act which is:
Injury to fishing grounds and pollution
of waters.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): Honourable
senators, I rise on a point of order. I have
asked for a copy of the bill as passed by the
other place and I am told that they are not
available. How can we consider the bill if we
do not have copies of it?

Hon. Mr. Carter: I have a copy here.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): I know you
have, but I would like to have a copy too.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Send
him a copy.
Hon. Mr. Carter: The main thrust of Bill
C-204 is to amend, as I said, sections 33 and
34 to remedy their present defects which have
prevented them from being used effectively to
control pollution. The defects in the present
Act are as follows: first, many parts of the act
are unenforceable and in some respects contradictory; secondly, it does not have sufficient teeth-the maximum fine is $1,000,
which in today's values is a very insignificant
sum particularly for large companies; thirdly,
and this is the most serious defect in the bill,
it operates only after the fact. That is to say,
the minister or the department is unable to
take any action until after an offence bas
been committed.
To remedy these defects, Bill C-204 adds
four new sections to section 33, namely, 33A,
33B, 33c and 33D, and five new sections to
section 34, namely, 34A,

34B, 34c, 34D and

34E. The whole thrust of these new sections
which f1l nine of the ten pages of the bill is
aimed at more effective control of pollution of
waters and more effective control of injury to
fishing grounds.
Bill C-204 does this in several ways. In the
first place it changes the whole approach of
the present act which now operates, as I said,
only after the fact. It adopts a new approach,
the preventive approach which seeks to deal
with pollution before it occurs.
In this respect, Bill C-204 empowers the
minister to require plans for new plants to be
submitted for approval and to prohibit the
construction or alteration of those plants,
should the company concerned not provide
satisfactory facilities for the treatment of
pollutants.
It also empowers the minister to make
regulations to determine the amounts of, or
limits to, the quantities or concentrations that
may be permitted in a given body of water at
a given time.
In this connection it should be noted that
the application of such preventive regulations
to existing plants, or to their alterations and
extensions in order to bring them up to
acceptable standards, presents some problems.
However, this is not a technical but rather a

SENATE DEBATES
socio-economic problem which will have to be
solved by other means, with each case being
decided on its merits.
Bill C-204 also increases the maximum fine
from $1,000 to $5,000, and each day the pollution continues constitutes a separate offence.
In addition, should a company pollute a body
of water and not take the necessary action to
clean it up, the minister is empowered to take
the necessary action and to recover the costs
from the company concerned.
I said earlier that many parts of the present
act are unenforceable because they are totally
prohibitive, and, in so far as these parts
imply that regulations can be made while at
the same time being totally prohibitive, they
are also contradictory.
With regard to the remedy itself, Bill C-204
is more realistic in that it recognizes that
present technology has not yet reached the
point where 100 per cent removal of deleterious substances from industrial and human
waste is possible. It therefore empowers the
minister to regulate the amounts and concentrations of pollutants in the way I have just
mentioned. In this way it enables offences to
be pinpointed so that meaningful prosecutions
can take place, which the total prohibition of
the present act now makes impossible.
The new additions to section 34 also
enlarge the scope of the act to include marine
plants, both plants harvested for commercial
use, such as seaweed and Irish moss, and
those which constitute the chain of the life
cycle on which fish life depends.
Honourable senators, this is a brief summary of the amendments to sections 33 and
34 of the present act which constitute, as I
have already said, 90 per cent of the bill
before us.
I should also point out that Bill C-204 was
given thorough consideration in the Commons
Standing Committee on Fisheries and Forestry, and was amended so extensively that the
committee ordered that the bill be reprinted,
as amended. These amendments have been
approved in substance by the Commons, and
as a result the present bill is much better and
much stronger than the one originally
drafted.
In addition to the main amendments with
which I have just dealt, there are three minor
amendments with which I shall deal briefly,
and I shall take them in reverse order.
The first amendment with which I shall
deal is found on page 11 of the bill, and it
repeals section 63 of the present act. Section
63 of the Fisheries Act goes back to the days
when bank fishing was prosecuted in small
boats called dories, launched from a mother
ship. That type of fishing, with the exception
of one or two Portugese ships, is no longer
[Hon. Mr. Carter.]

June 26, 1970

carried on, and we can thank God that it has
gone forever. With the advent of beam draggers and stern trawlers, this section has no
application, and it is therefore repealed.
Hon. Andrew Thompson: I am sorry for
having to interrupt the honourable senator,
but I do it in order to ask if copies of the
bill are available. I must say that I concur
in the remarks of Senator Phillips (Prince).
It is very difficult to follow the able explanation of Senator Carter without a copy of
the bill.
Hon. Mr. Carter: Copies of the bill were
distributed.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Oitawa West): The
honourable senator must have a copy on his
file.
Hon. Mr. Thompson: Yes; I have one now.
Hon. Mr. Carter: The second minor amendment to which I refer is found on page 10,
and it repeals subsections (3) and (3a) of
section 55 of the present act. Section 55 deals
with the 12-mile limit, and it restricts Canadian draggers from fishing within twelve miles
of the coastline. The last sentence of section
55(3) reads as follows:
-and in the application of this subsection to the coasts of Newfoundland the
words "three miles" shall be substituted
for the words "twelve miles".
So that while Canadian draggers have been
restricted to a 12-mile limit with respect to
other provinces, as far as Newfoundland is
concerned they have been able to fish to
within three miles of the shoreline. The effect
of the amendment is to delete that last sentence which I have just read, so that the 12mile limit applies also to Newfoundland.
The final amendment is in clause 2 of the
bill, which provides that section 31 of the act
is repealed. Section 31 of the Fisheries Act
states that Canadian fishermen are not permitted to fish in offshore waters during a
period when the act prohibits them from fishing in inshore waters. The prohibition takes
the form of preventing fishermen from landing their fish in ports when they cannot land
catches from inshore waters. This clause is
discriminatory as it prevents fishing for
salmon, scallops or herring in offshore waters
at a time when scallops, herring, or other
commercial fish such as salmon cannot be
fished in inshore waters.
I realize, and honourable senators know,
that this has caused some concern to the lobster fishermen of Nova Scotia. They feel that
the repeal of this act will enable the lobster
fishery to be prosecuted on George's Bankby offshore in this case I mean far offshore,
not the near offshore-and that this will

June 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

interrupt their fishery and depress market
prices. It should be remembered, however,
that this clause applies not only to the lobster
fishery but to all types of commercial fish. In
that respect it is out of date and
discriminatory.
In reply to the argument advanced by the
Nova Scotia fishermen, I would like to point
out that the offshore fishery on George's Bank
is prosecuted by other nations, including the
United States. Therefore as far as market
prices are concerned, repeal of section 31 will
not have much effect.
I would also like to point out that notwithstanding repeal of section 31, the minister
still bas authority under section 34 to make
such regulations as are necessary to regulate
the lobster fishery inshore or far offshore as
far as Canadian fishermen are concerned.
Furthermore, I would like to read two
paragraphs of a letter sent by the Minister of
Fisheries and Forestry to bis colleague, the
Minister of Manpower and Immigration, dealing with this matter. The relevant paragraphs
are as follows:
In the case of the lobster fishery the
repeal of section 31 would not in itself
legalize offshore lobster fishing from
Canada. Before this fishing would be permissible it would be necessary to amend
the Lobster Fishery Regulations which
would enable us to issue licences for that
purpose. These regulations would be very
precise and would spell out the far offshore areas where this fishery would be
permitted, the type of catching device
allowed, as well as other details regarding the fishing vessels to be used, etc.
These regulations would clearly define
this lobster fishery from our present
highly regulated inshore lobster fishery.
This is the pertinent paragraph:
Furthermore, I want to assure you we
will take no action to even draw up regulations or think of issuing licences until
the fishermen's organizations have had an
opportunity to present their views to me,
or to senior people in my department.
Secondly, if the House of Commons
Standing Committee on Fisheries and
Forestry should decide that they want to
consider this subject after the bouse
reconvenes next fall, and call witnesses
before it, then again we would not take
any action until the committee had had a
full opportunity to study the subject and
report their findings.

1405

I submit, honourable senators, that this will
alleviate the fears of the Nova Scotia
fishermen.
Hon. Mr. Martin: May I ask the honourable
senator if that letter regarding assurance for
consultation with the minister and his officials
is from the Honourable Allan J. MacEachen
to the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry?
Hon. Mr. Carter: It is the other way
around: it is from the Minister of Fisheries
and Forestry to the Honourable Allan J.
MacEachen.
There are many other aspects of the bill
that are interesting but not strictly relevant.
Without further ado, honourable senators, I
recommend this bill for your support.
Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable senators, I had intended to speak on this bill, but
having discovered how little importance this
Government places on fisheries, I will not
make my speech. It is obvious that the Government has already decided that this bill is
going through. However, I would like to
direct two or three questions to the sponsor of
the bill (Hon. Mr. Carter).
The first question concerns the relationship
of the emphasis on pollution in this bill and
in the Canada Water Act. I thought we had
more or less dealt with pollution in the
Canada Water Act, yet I find a great emphasis
on pollution in another bill.
After raising my point of order I received a
copy of the bill, and later another copy. It is
interesting to note that section 33A(4) is
scratched out in one copy but not in the
other. Is that section in the bill or is it not?
The section dealing with marine plants and
the regulations on licensing, the type of
equipment to be used and so on, should be
referred to a Senate committee. If I can help
the Government out of a rather difficult situation-and God knows, they need help-I
would suggest that no action be taken on
these regulations until they have been
referred to a Senate standing committee, so
that we can review the regulations that are
envisaged.
My next question arises from a copy of a
resolution passed by the Prince Edward
Island Legislature. It was passed unanimously,
and I think they took some time about it, as
opposed to the way we are doing things. In
that resolution, which is directed to the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry, they refer to
certain objections concerning lobster fishing,
particularly in District No. 8. They say that
lobster resources are not being properly protected from larger vessels fishing for other

1406

SENATE DEBATES

species on fertile lobster grounds, and they
ask that the sections in Bill C-204 relating to
this be deleted. I would ask the sponsor of the
bill to indicate what action has been taken in
that regard.
May I again, honourable senators, express
my disappointment that fisheries is receiving
such scant attention from this Government.
There is no reason why this bill cannot
receive further and more detailed consideration that it bas received so far.
Hon. Mr. Carter: Honourable senatorsThe Hon. the Speaker pro tem: I must
advise honourable senators that if Senator
Carter speaks at this time it will have the
effect of closing the debate.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): Mr. Speaker,
those were questions I directed to the sponsor
of the bill and I feel I should be entitled to a
reply without closing the debate.
Hon. Mr. Carter: I am afraid I did not
correctly hear my honourable friend's four
questions. I heard only two of them.

June 26, 1970

created. They will not have general jurisdiction throughout Canada as the Fisheries Act
now bas.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): Who has the
control, the water authority agency set up
under the Canada Water Act or this authority
outlined in the bill? In other words, which is
supreme or governs?
Hon. Mr. Carter: Neither is supreme. The
water management control bodies set up
under the Canada Water Act will have on
that body a representative of the Department
of Fisheries. I presume my honourable friend
is asking, should there be a conflict of interest
between the Department of Fisheries and
some other department, who will make the
decisions?
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): Yes.
Hon. Mr. Carter: The answer to that question is that the decision is resolved by the
Cabinet itself.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): That is a dangerous thing.

Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): That is fairly
Hon. Mr. Martin: As honourable Senator
good for a grit.
Carter so well pointed out, there is in the
Hon. Mr. Carter: The first one was as to the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources
relationship of Bill C-204 to the Canada the co-ordinating agency. If there is a disagreement, under our system of Government,
Water Act. I understood your first question.
As honourable senators know, there was a as Senator Carter pointed out, it can be
lot of time devoted to the discussion in com- resolved only by Cabinet.
mittee as to making Bill C-204 compatible
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): In other words,
with the Canada Water Act. Many members
took the position that the Canada Water Act we have four acts and no authority.
was not necessary and others felt that Bill
Hon. Mr. Martin: Senator Carter just said
C-202, the Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention
Act, was not necessary because the necessary the opposite, that there is a co-ordinating
agency. I have supplemented what he said by
powers were already in Bill C-204.
The relationship between the two is this: pointing out that the co-ordinating agency is
The Fisheries Act does not deal with air pol- the Department of Energy, Mines and
lution or land pollution; therefore, it was Resources.
felt there should be a new act. In order to
Hon. Mr. Carter: The second question had
deal with air pollution and land pollution it
was conceded, after much discussion in to do with the resolution passed by the legiscommittee, that it would be necessary to set lature of Nova Scotia or Prince Edward
up water management control bodies. Since Island.
the Fisheries Act is a national act, it would
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): The Prince
be better to use a new instrument, the
Canada Water Act, in order to create these Edward Island Legislature.
new bodies, instead of using the Fisheries
Hon. Mr. Carter: Prince Edward Island,
Act.
with respect to fishing area No. 8. My honourIn so far as the Canada Water Act is concerned, these water management and control able friend, I think, is referring to the lobbodies are joint creatures of the provincial ster fishery regulation, which is a regulation
and federal governments. They will have made under this act but has nothing to do
authority only in the areas where they are with the bill before us.
[Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince).]

SENATE DEBATES

June 26, 1970

Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): The resolution
as passed by the legislature refers specifically
to Bill C-204.

that the regulations concerning marine plants
will be referred to a Senate committee when
the Senate reconvenes.

Hon. Mr. Carter: I think the resolution
referred to Bill C-204, but they did not understand that that bill does not amend the lobster fishery regulation.

Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, as
has been indicated by Senator Carter, it is the
intention of the minister to give fishermen an
opportunity to be consulted about the regulations before their implementation.
Apart altogether from that, in the Standing
Senate Committee on Health, Welfare and
Science recently, on another bill, it was pointed out that in the Standing Senate Committee
on Legal and Constitutional Affairs the
proposal was made to send to that committee
the report of the Committee on Statutory
Orders in the other place. That lends itself to
an examination by the Standing Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs of
all regulations passed by the Government.
That is to make sure that they have a statutory base, to make sure that regulations that
have legislative effect are being examined, to
make sure that the authority pursuant to
them is understood, and that the authority
exists for the making of those regulations.
What we are concerned about in this bill,
obviously, as Senator Carter has indicated, is
a desire to bring about a new approach in the
Fisheries Act, a preventative approach, one
that deals with pollution before it occurs.
This is not the only pollution measure that
the Government has brought forward. There
are constitutional limitations, as far as the
federal Government is concerned, with regard
to pollution. We saw this in the Canada
Water act.
We recognize that the provinces have
much constitutional authority in this matter,
and I can only hope that, by the co-operation
of the provinces through the Canada Water
Act, and other measures that have been
passed this session, we all recognize, regardless of where we sit in this house, that the
problem of pollution is of primary concern.
The minister under this bill is given the
power to require plans for new plans to be
submitted for approval before they can be
established. This is intended to ensure that
they do not contribute to the pollution of
water, and is part of the preventive program.
The new sections, as Senator Carter has
indicated, under section 34 of the present act
put more teeth into the act, increase the
penalties and give the minister power to clean
up pollution caused by a plant, to fishing
grounds, and to recover the costs for so doing.
These may not be all embracing measures,

Hon. Mr. Fournier (De Lanaudière): Honourable senators, I rise on a point of order. The
last remarks of the honourable Senator Phillips was not a question, and that opened the
door to another remark from the honourable
Senator Carter. This was a second speech,
and I think that the debate is closed.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): Honourable
senators, the senator may think that the
debate has closed, but I have an entirely different viewpoint. I still have two questions to
which I should like answers. I want to know
whether clause 33(a)(iv) is still in the bill or
whether it has been removed.
Secondly-since you can take only two at a
time, I will give two at a time-can the
honourable sponsor of the bill give us an
assurance that the regulation concerning
marine plants will be delayed until the
Senate committee has had a chance to meet
and review it?
Hon. Mr. Carter: Honourable senators, the
answer to the first question is that clause
33(a)(iv) was deleted by the House of Commons. It is not in the bill before us, it is not
part of Bill C-204.
With respect to the referral to a committee,
that is entirely up to the Senate. I do not
decide that. If the Senate wishes to refer it to
a committee, I presume the only comnimittee to
which it could be referred would be the
Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce. I am in the hands of
the Senate in that respect.
Motion agreed to and bill read the second
time.
THIRD READING

The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
senators, when shall this bill be read the
third time?
Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, with
leave of the Senate, I move that the bill be
read the third time now.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): Honourable
senators, before giving leave, I would like the
Leader of the Governnent to give assurances

1408

SENATE DEBATES

June 26, 1970

but they are measures that lie within the now read the third time. Is it your pleasure,
limitations of the constitutional powers of the honourable senators, to adopt the motion?
federal Government.
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Clause 34 of the bill further enlarges the
definition of fish to include marine plants,
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): On division.
both those which are harvested for commerHon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Restigoucial use, such as seaweed and Irish moss, and
those which form, as Senator Carter said, the che): On division.
life cycle on which fish life depends. In addiMotion agreed to and bill read third time
tion, honourable senators, the bill has some and passed, on division.
other minor amendments which Senator
Carter emphasized.
STANDARDS COUNCIL OF CANADA BILL
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): I am sorry to
FIRST READING
interrupt the honourable senator, but I was
quite happy with the explanation given by
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem informed the
Senator Carter. If we are in such a hurry to
pass this measure, I do not sec the need for a Senate that a message had been received
second explanation from the honourable from the House of Commons with Bill C-163,
to provide for the establishment of a Standsenator.
ards Council of Canada.
Hon. Mr. Martin: We are not in a hurry.
Bill read first time.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince): My question was
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald moved that
simply this: Will the regulations under 34B be
referred to a Senate committee for study the bill be placed on the Orders of the Day
for second reading at the next sitting.
before being put into effect?
Hon. Mr. Martin: I have already explained
that it was not the intention to move that it
be sent to a committee. That would mean that
we would not be able to adjourn. I feel that
we should deal with this measure now since it
has an aspect of urgency about it. But we
have set up under the Legal and Constitutional Aifairs Committee an instrument to examine the whole question of statutory orders
and delegated legislation. In that committee
all regulations, those made pursuant to this
bill and other bills will, I hope, be examined.
It is up to each senator to see that that does
happen.

Motion agreed to.
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.

At 4.15 p.m. the sitting was resumed.
Tue Senate adjourned during pleasure.

ROYAL ASSENT

The Right Honourable Gérald Fauteux, P.C.,
Chief Justice of Canada, Deputy of His
Excellency the Governor General, having
Hon. Mr. Carter: If I might be permitted to come and being seated
at the foot of the
add a word to what Senator Martin bas said, Throne, and the House
of Commons having
I would point out that these are not new been summoned, and
being come with their
regulations. The regulations in which Senator Speaker, the Right Honourable
the Deputy of
Phillips (Prince) is interested already exist His Excellency the
Governor General was
under other legislation, the National Research pleased to give the Royal
Assent to the folBoard Act, for example, and a couple of other lowing bills:
acts that deal with marine life. But, honouraAn Act to establish a commission for
ble senators, for the first time they have been
the reform of the laws of Canada.
consolidated and brought under the Fisheries
An Act to prevent pollution of areas of
Act. So, as I said, these regulations are not
the arctic waters adjacent to the mainland
new; they already exist.
and islands of the Canadian arctic.
The Hon. the Speaker pro tem: Honourable
An Act to amend the Territorial Sea
senators, notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(d) and
and Fishing Zones Act.
with leave of the Senate, it is moved by
An Act respecting inland water
honourable Senator Carter, seconded by
resources in the Yukon Territory and
honourable Senator Petten, that this bill be
Northwest Territories.
[Hon. Mr. Martin.]

June 26. 1970

DEBATES
26,
June 1970SENATE

An Act to provide for the management
of the water resources of Canada including research and the planning and
implementation of programs relating to
the conservation, development and utilization of water resources.
An Act to amend the Canada Labour
(Standards) Code.
An Act to amend the Excise Act.
An Act to amend the National Energy
Board Act.
An Act to amend the Bis of Exchange
Act.
An Act to amend the Yukon Act, the
Northwest Territories Act and the Territorial Lands Act.
An Act respecting civil liability for
nuclear damage.
An Act respecting regulations made
pursuant to section 4 of the Aeronautics
Act.
An Act respecting the franchise of
electors and the election of members to
the House of Commons.
An Act to postpone the expiration of
certain provisions of Act to amend the
Canada Shipping Act.
An Act te amend the Fisheries Act.
An Act respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.
An Act respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.
An Act respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.
An Act respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.
An Act respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.

10
1409

An Act respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.
An Act respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.
An Act respecting the Electoral Roundaries Readjustment Act.
An Act respecting the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act.
The Honourable Lucien Lamoureux, Speaker of the House of Commons, then addressed
the Right Honourable the Deputy of His
Excellency the Governor General as follows:
May it please Your Honour:
The Commons of Canada have voted
certain supplies required te enable the
Government to defray the expenses of
the public service.
In the name of the Commons, I present
to Your Honour the foflowing bill:
An Act for granting to Her Majesty
certain suins cf money for the public service for the financial year ending 31st
March, 1971.
To which bill I humbly request Your
Honour's assent.
The Right Honourable the Deputy cf Ris
Excellency the Governor General was pleased.
to give the Royal Assent te the said bil.
The House of Conunons withdrew.
The Right Honourable the Deputy cf Ris
Exceliency the Governor General was pleased
to retire.
The sitting cf the Senate was resumed.
The Senate adjourned until Monday, October 5, at 8 p.m.

1410

SENATE DEBATES

June 26, 1970

APPENDIX
(See p. 1392)
CANADA ELECTIONS ACT
SUMMARY OF MAIN AMENDMENTS
(References in brackets
are to pertinent sections
of Bill C-215)

up areas abutting incorporated towns and
cities of 5,000 population or more urban polling divisions, if he deems it expedient (Sec.
11(3)).

1. The French terminology suggested by the
Staff of the Statute Revision Commission is
10. The Chief Electoral Officer is given the
adopted.
power, when requested not later than the
2. The duties and responsibilities which, date of the issue of the writ, to declare areas
under the Canada Elections Act, as amended, within incorporated towns and cities of 5,000
are at present assigned to the Representation population or more rural polling divisions, if
Commissioner are transferred back to the he deems it expedient (Sec. 11(4)).
Chief Electoral Officer (Sec. 4(2) and (3),
11. Voting age is reduced to eighteen and
Sec. 61(1) and Sec. 70).
only Canadian citizens are qualified as elec3. Any reference to a specific salary to be tors (British subjects, other than Canadian
paid to the Chief Electoral Officer is deleted citizens, who were qualified as electors on the
from the Act and, instead, his salary is equat- 25th day of June, 1968, and have not ceased
ed to that of a puisne judge of the Exchequer since that date to be ordinarily resident in
Court of Canada, including any additional Canada, are deemed to be qualified as elecsalary authorized by section 20 of the Judges tors) (Sec. 14(1) to (3)).
Act (Sec. 3(4)).
12. The residence requirement to be qualified to vote will be determined as of the first
4. Where, by reason of some emergency, it
has been necessary to suspend voting at any day of enumeration, instead of as of the date
polling station on the ordinary polling day, of the issue of the writ (Sec. 16).
the Chief Electoral Officer is empowered to
13. Ministers, priests and teachers who
extend the hours of voting at the polling sta- change the place of their ordinary residence
tion after the hour fixed for the closing of the from one polling division to another between
poll (Sec. 4(4)).
the first day of enumeration and polling day,
5. Failure on the part of a returning officer will be allowed to have their names entered
to revise his polling division boundaries as on the list of electors for the polling division
instructed by the Chief Electoral Officer is a to which they have moved, even if such polling
cause for removal from office (Sec. 7(3)(f)). division is in the same electoral district (Sec.
17(9)).
6. A vacancy in the office of returning offic14. The privilege accorded ministers, priests
er will be filled within 60 days from the date
on which the Chief Electoral Officer has been and teachers is extended to persons seasonally employed in the fishing industry, other
informed of the vacancy (Sec. 7(5)).
than fishermen (Sec. 17(9)(c)).
7. Returning officers in electoral districts
15. The distinction between persons temspecified in Schedule III are allowed to
porarily engaged in public works and those in
appoint additional election clerks on the
authorization of the Chief Electoral Officer non-public works is abolished (Sec. 17(12)
and (13)).
(Sec. 8(10), (11) and (12)).
16. A candidate who was a member of Par8. Polling division boundaries will be estab- liament on the day before the dissolution
of
lished to include approximately 250 electors, Parliament immediately preceding the elecor a multitude thereof, per polling division tion, is entitled to vote in the electoral
district
(Sec. 10(2) and (3)).
where he is a candidate; this right is extend9. The Chief Electoral Officer is given the ed to his spouse and dependants (Sec. 17(16)).
power, when requested not later than the
17. The procedures for appointing urban
date of the issue of the writ, to declare built enumerators, revising agents and substitute

June 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

29. Political parties in Canada wishing to
revising officers are clarified and their duties
and responsibilities clearly defined (Sec. 18, endorse candidates at an election for the
House of Commons will have to register with
Sched. A, Rules (4), (27) and (68)).
the Chief Electoral Officer; in addition, any
18. The returning officer and revising officer new party that wishes to be identified on the
are permitted to correct clerical errors made ballot papers must have candidates officially
by the enumerators or the printers in the nominated in 75 electoral districts in Canada
preparation of the preliminary lists of elec- on the 28th day before polling day (Section
tors (Sec. 18(4) and Sec. 8, Sched. A, Rules 13).
(42) and (43)).
30. The age to be a candidate is reduced
19. At the request of the returning officer, from 21 to 18 (Sec. 20).
the revising officer will be allowed to rectify
31. Persons who are specifically disqualified
mistakes made by the enumerators or revising agents (Sec. 18, Sched. A, Rules (41) and from voting are ineligible as candidates (Sec.
21(l)(h)).
(80)).
32. Persons who consent to be candidates at
20. An elector who bas been enumerated
but whose name has been left off the prelimi- an election knowing that they are ineligible
nary list of electors may obtain a certificate will be guilty of an offence (Sec. 21(4)).
to vote without producing his enumeration
33. Returning officers will be permitted to
notice in form No. 7 (Sec. 18(20)).
centralize up to ten polling stations and,
21. With the prior approval of the Chief whenever possible, shall locate their polling
Electoral Officer and for good and valid stations in schools or other public buildings
reason, a returning officer will be authorized (Sec. 33 (6) and (9)).
to amalgamate two or more polling divisions
34. The rights and obligations of candidates
(Sec. 18(29) and (30)).
and their agents in polling stations are clari22. Only postmasters of post offices in the fied and more precisely set out (Sec. 36).
urban areas of an electoral district will
35. The Friday immediately preceding pollreceive a notice of revision (Sec. 18, Sched. A,
ing day, instead of Saturday, will be the last
Rule (34)).
day for receiving applications for transfer
23. The days for the sittings for revising certificates (Sec. 43(1)>.
the preliminary lists of electors, in both
36. The procedure for voting is clarified and
urban and rural areas, are advanced by one
precisely set out (Sec. 45).
day (Sec. 18, Sched. A, Rule (39) and Sched.
B, Rule (13)).
37. Anyone who records the serial number
of a ballot paper is guilty of an offence (Sec.
24. Revising officers are authorized to take 45(10)).
names off the preliminary lists of electors at
the request of the persons themselves who
38. Where an elector is unable to mark his
want their names to be removed from the ballot for any reason, a friend or relative
lists (Sec. 18, Sched. A, Rule (42)).
accompanying him will be permitted to mark
the ballot on his behalf (Sec. 45(14) to (18)).
25. Revising agents are authorized to accept
39. A system of proxy voting, exercisable
statements from relatives by blood or maronly on the ordinary polling day, is instituted
riage (Sec. 18, Sched. A, Rule (76)(b)).
for fishermen, mariners, prospectors and full26. The number of copies of the statements time students who, in the normal course of
of changes and additions supplied to candi- their employment or studies as such, are
dates is reduced from five to three (Sec. 18, absent from their place of ordinary residence
Sched. A, Rules (63) and (64)).
on advance polling day and ordinary polling
as for persons who, through illprinted in day, as well
27. The proclamation will be
ness or physical incapacity, are unable to
both official languages in every electoral dis- attend and vote at a polling station (Sec. 46).
trict in Canada (Sec. 19(1)).
40. The proxy provisions relating to full28. The procedure for the nomination of time students are in lieu of their prior entitlecandidates is set out separately from the ment to be on two lists.
provisions dealing with polling day and nomi41. The format of the ballot paper is
nation day, and is precisely set out (Sections
changed to contain a small circular space at
22 and 23).

SENATE DEBATES

June 26, 1970

the right of and completely separated from
51. The restriction for paying transportation
the space where the name of the candidate is of electors to the poils is deleted. (Sec.
printed, in which space the elector will indi- 15(3)(d)).
cate his choice (Sec. 31(2) and Form No. 37);
52. Any form of tampering with the elecThe Chief Electoral Officer is required to
prepare a new design for the back of the tion material or campaign literature of a candidate is an offence (Sec. 73).
ballot paper (Sec. 116).
53. The right to vote at advance polls is
42. The political affiliation of a candidate
who is endorsed by the leader of a registered extended to persons confined to wheelchairs
party or his designated representative will be or otherwise incapacitated and these poils
will be located in places providing ease of
printed on the ballot paper (Sec. 31(1) (b)).
access to such incapacitated persons (Sections
43. The requirement to indicate the address 91(6) and 93).
and occupation of a candidate on the ballot
54. The notice of advance poils will be pubpaper is deleted.
lished thirty days before polling day, rather
44. A ballot paper will not be rejected than twelve days as in the past (Sec. 92(3)).
solely because it was marked with a writing
55. It is now an offence to make a premainstrument other than a black lead pencil or
with a mark other than a cross (Sec. 51 (4) ture count of the votes cast at an advance
(b)).
poil (Sec. 95(9)).
45. A returning officer will apply to a judge
for a recount if, on the official addition of the
votes, there is an equality of votes between
two or more candidates and an additional
vote for one of such candidates would entitle
him to be declared elected (Sec. 53(7)).
46. When a judicial recount is conducted,
the persons who are entitled to attend and
the election material to which the judge may
refer, are clearly set out in the Act; the judge
is entitled to hire clerical assistance and is
empowered to summon before him a deputy
returning officer or poil clerk, if necessary;
the attendance of an election clerk is no
longer mandatory; a judge will be permitted
to terminate a recount at any time upon
request (Sec. 56).

56. The minimum age for all election officers, except returning officers, whose minimum
age shall continue to be twenty-one, will be
eighteen (Sec. 98(2) and (3)).
57. Political broadcasts are forbidden only
on the ordinary polling day and on the one
day immediately preceding it (Sec. 99(1)).
58. The provisions relating to premature
publication of election results are amended to
make it possible to take action against corporations as well as individuals (Sec. 105 (2)).

59. The present provisions of the Canadian
Forces Voting Rules are extended to public
servants posted abroad and their dependants
as well as to dependants of the members of
the Forces serving abroad and for this pur47. The Chief Electoral Officer is authorized
to pay revising agents by warrants, give pose, Schedule II of the Canada Elections Act
accountable advances to returning officers and is re-titled "Special Voting Rules" (Sec. 109).
withold payments to election officers who
60. Persons entitled to vote as Veteran elechave failed to carry out their duties (Sec. tors under the Special
Voting Rules are enti61(4), (8) and (16)).
tled to choose, as their place of ordinary resi48. The penalty and offences provisions of dence, the institution in which they are
the Canada Elections Act are consolidated, resident while receiving treatment, provided
whenever possible, and the penalties incor- they have been there for at
least
porated into a single section (Sections 65 to (Sec. 67(3) (b) of the Special Voting one year
Rules).
79).
61. A candidate or his accredited represen49. The outlets for the sale of alcoholic
beverages are closed on ordinary polling day tative will be authorized to inspect, in the
office of the returning officer, the list of
only while the polls are open (Sec. 67).
Canadian Forces and Public Service electors,
50. A candidate and his official agent are entitled to vote under the Special Voting
prohibited from providing alcoholic beverages Rules, who are ordinarily resident of his elecduring an election period for election pur- toral district and make extracts therefrom
poses (Sec. 66(3)).
(Sections 12(2) and 28(1)).

June 26, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

62. The list of Canadian Forces electors
prepared by each commanding officer is no
longer open for inspection by candidates or
their representatives (Paragraph 29 of the
present Canadian Forces Voting Rules).
63. Nomination day in electoral districts
other than those specified in Schedule III will
be on the twenty-first day before polling day
at a general election, instead of the fourteenth day, and the days and times specified
for the doing of anything under the Act or
Rules will be advanced to permit the vote
under the Special Voting Rules to be
announced on the ordinary polling day (Sections 22(5) and 52).
64. The writs of election for a general election will specify the date on which they are
returnable (Form No. 1).
65. A clear distinction is made between the
terms "qualified as elector" or "qualified elector" and "qualified to vote".
THE SPECIAL VOTING

RULES

In 1963, the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections passed a resolution asking
my predecessor "to prepare an amendment to
the Act allowing Civil Servants and their
dependants to vote in those areas where
Armed Forces voting facilities are provided,
under the Rules applied to Armed Forces voting". Further reference may be found in the
Minutes of Proceedings and Evidence No. 6,
for Tuesday November 19, 1963.
A preliminary project was then prepared,
pretty well along the lines of the Canadian
Forces Voting Rules. It could not be submitted to the Committee because of prorogation.
I revived the matter earlier this year and
thought it advisable to obtain the advice of
the departments concerned. I then called a
meeting of the twenty odd departments and
agencies which have employees abroad. At
that meeting, it was agreed to appoint a subcommittee of representatives of the departments that are mainly involved, that is
departments that have the largest number of
employees serving outside of Canada. The
sub-committee, which was chaired by the
representative of the Department of External
Affairs, held a number of meetings and submitted a series of recommendations to me.
These recommendations are included in the
document which you now have in front of
you.
After consultation with the Legislation section of the Department of Justice, it was

decided to prepare a combined set of rules for
the three categories of electors involved,
namely members of the Canadian Forces,
Public Servants abroad and veterans electors.
The mechanies proposed for the taking of the
votes of the Armed Forces and of the Publie
Servants are exactly the same, so the same
facilities could be used for both groups. Furthermore, the same procedure could apply to
the sorting, counting and reporting of the
votes cast by the three groups of electors
involved.
The project, which we propose to entitle
Special Voting Rules, is based essentially on
the present Canadian Forces Voting Rules
and would replace them. The amendments to
the Canadian Forces Voting Rules wich I propose in my series of amendments distributed
earlier have been incorporated in these
Rules. Nothing of substance bas been deleted
and we have added only three (3) things:
(1) At the request of the Committee at
its meetings of December 2 and 4, 1969,
provisions have been made for the preparation of the list of electors entitled to
vote under the Rules so that they could
be made available to candidates and their
accredited representatives. Conversely,
the requirement that each commanding
officer's list be open to inspection by any
candidate is deleted.
(2) Since, in the view of this Committee
in 1963, the voting facilities were to be
extended to dependants of Civil Servants
abroad, we thought of extending the
same privilege to dependants of the
members of the Canadian Forces. Under
the present Canadian Forces Voting
Rules, only the spouse of a Canadian
Forces elector is entitled to vote under
the Rules.
(3) At the request of the Department of
Veterans Affairs, it is suggested in these
Special Rules that if on polling day for a
general election, a veteran elector bas
been residing in a hospital or institution
for a period of not less than one year, he
be given the option of voting for the
candidate of his choice either in the electoral district where he bas his place of
ordinary residence or in the electoral district where the hospital or institution is
located. This is something new. Under the
present Rules, a veteran elector can vote
only for a candidate in the electoral district where was his ordinary residence at
the time of his admission to the hospital
or institution. This is not my recommen-

1414

SENATE

dation. It is oniy passed on to you on
behaif of the Department of Veterans
Affairs. I may say though that, in my
opinion, the change proposed by DVA
wouid not be inconsistent with other
provisions of the Act or the Rules. For
instance, persons in chronic hospitals,
homes for the aged, etc., may consider
that institution as their residence for the
purpose of being registered as electors;
furthermore, members of the Forces may
change their place of ordinary residence
from. the place where they enlisted te the
place where they may have moved as a
resuit of their service. In any event, I arn
sure that the Department of Veterans

MEBATES

June 26, 1970

Affairs would be pleased to provide the
Committee with additional information
on this matter, if you so wish.
Finally, I wouid like to add that before
going to the printer I invited the deputy head
of each departmnent or agency that has
employees abroad to comment on the proposed "Special Voting Rules". This project, I
arn pleased to say, would be acceptable to
thern ail.
As I said before, these Special Voting Rules
are derived from our present Canadian Forces
Voting Rules. Perhaps then the Committee
would be interested in a brief description of
the operations of the Canadian Forces Voting
Rules.

September 29. 1970

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE

Tuesday, September 29, 1970
The Senate met at 8 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
THE LATE PRESIDENT NASSER
GOVERNMENT LEADER IN SENATE
CANADA'S REPRESENTATIVE AT FUNERAL
Hon. A. Hamilion McDonald: Honourable
senators, before proceeding with the business
of the Senate this evening, I think I should
advise the Senate of the reason for the absence of the Leader of the Government at this
time. He left by plane at 5.30 this afternoon
to journey to Cairo to be the representative
of the Government of Canada at the funeral
of the late President Nasser. I am sure honourable senators will recall that it is only
about a year ago that Senator Martin made
a similar journey to the same part of the
world to be Canada's representative at the
funeral of the late Premier Levi Eshkol.
It is my understanding that Senator Martin
is one of the few members of the Government
of the day who had met President Nasser
personally. I am sure, therefore, that all bonourable senators will be pleased that he has
been chosen to represent Canada on this important occasion.

1415

Closely related to the development of his
province and his area, his business operations
were most successful. He was an exemplary
Canadian.
Named an honorary lieutenant-colonel of
the Quebec Regiment, be was elected as
alderman of Quebec City and served in this
capacity from 1922 to 1926.
In 1932, he represented the Quebec government at the Imperial Conference in Ottawa.
Senator Dessureault was appointed to the
Senate in 1945.
He was delegated by the Senate to the
1956 NATO Parliamentary Conference in
Paris. He also headed the Canadian delegation
at the 52nd Interparliamentary Conference
held in Belgrade in 1963, and in Copenhagen
the following year. He was always equal to
the important duties entrusted to him.
I am deeply convinced that I speak on behalf of each and everyone of my colleagues
in extending our heartfelt sympathy to his
distinguished wife and to his family.

Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: As you know,
honourable senators, since we last met we
have sustained a loss in our membership
through the death of Senator Dessureault. I
have asked Senator Langlois if he would pay
the official tribute to our late colleague.

[English]
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
I join the Acting Leader of the Government
in saying that it is indeed appropriate that the
Leader of the Government in the Senate, a
former Secretary of State for External Affairs
who bas had the opportunity of meeting
President Nasser on a few occasions, should
be the one to represent our country at the
funeral of this great Arab Leader.
Gamal Abdel Nasser displayed a singular
peacemaking ability only a couple of days
ago when, as a result of his wise efforts, the
war in Jordan was brought to an end, at
least for the time being.
This great leader will be sorely nissed by
his own people and the whole Arab world. It
is to be hoped that his departure will not
usher in a period of anarchy and renewed
internal warfare in the Middle East.

[Translation]
Hon. Léopold Langlois: Honourable senators, my first duty after the recess is to pay
a last tribute to one of our eminent colleagues,
the late Senator Jean-Marie Dessureault, who
died quite recently.
A manufacturer and wood dealer in Quebec
City, he held several posts in management,
among them being director and vicepresident of the Banque Canadienne Nationale
from 1944 to 1964.

[Translation]
Honourable senators, I also wish to pay
tribute to the late Senator Dessureault.
It would have been unprecedented if, after
two months' absence, we had met without
having to deplore a death or a departure. We
deeply regret the death of Senator Dessureault, and the resignation of Senator Savoie.
Senator Jean-Marie Dessureault had been
here since 1945. He was respected and admired both in the Senate and in the business

TRIBUTES
THE LATE SENATOR J.-M. DESSUREAULT

SENATE DEBATES
community where he was active before coming here.
As Senator Langlois pointed out, be had
been a member of many boards of directors.
He was an experienced businessman, a believer in personal action and private enterprise.
He displayed on many occasions an exceptional vigour, intelligence and efficiency.
It should be mentioned, I think, that Senator Dessureault was, at the time the Right
Honourable Louis St-Laurent entered politics,
one of those who helped him most by backing
his election in Quebec East in 1942, while remaining afterwards one of his most faithful
supporters and one of his most effective
organizers.
Senator Dessureault, as you know, was
particularly interested in the Inter-Parliamentary Union. He has often represented the Canadian Parliament at the annual
conferences of that organization, and was a
member of its executive committee for several
years.
I join with Senator Langlois in offering to
Mrs. Dessureault, a distinguished and charming lady, whom we shall miss here, our
deepest sympathy, as well as to the children,
several of whom are my personal friends.
With respect to Senator Savoie who resigned on his 75th birthday, I may say that be
bas represented here the Acadian people very
well. We wish him God-speed and a long and
peaceful retirement.

September 29, 1970

I owe much to his guidance and I fully
realize that a great many people have also
benefited from his advice.
He was a member of the Senate for some
25 years. His counsel, here as well as in business circles, his moderation, and his devotion
never failed those with whom he came into
contact.
It is with very deep regret that we see him
leave public life where he always was so
highly appreciated.
The Senate loses an excellent colleague and,
for my part, I lose an excellent friend.
To Mrs. Dessureault and to all the members
of his family I extend our deepest sympathy
and tell them our great sorrow.
[English]
Hon. G. Percival Burchill: Honourable
senators, I should like to associate myself
with the remarks made by honourable senators who have preceded me in reference to
the much lamented death of our colleague
Senator Dessureault. The seat on my left is
empty tonight, because Senator Dessureault
was my seat-mate in this chamber for almost
the entire time that I have been a member of
the Senate. We were both appointed in 1945,
and later in that year, shortly after he came
here, he joined me as a seat-mate, and we
have been together since that time.
I always found him a very warm friend.
The tributes that have been paid to him tonight are very worthy. He was a distinguished
Canadian and made a genuine contribution to
Hon. Paul Desruisseaux: Mr. Speaker, I the work of this chamber. I personally will
willingly join in the tribute paid by the two miss him very much indeed, as I believe we
all will. I extend my sympathies to Madame
previous speakers.
Dessureault and other members of the family.
I knew personally the late Senator Dessureault who led the exemplary life of a true
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Canadian and always commanded respect.
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald tabled:
He received his education in the Eastern
Reports of the Secretary of State of
Townships particularly at Victoriaville ColCanada for the fiscal years ended March
lege. Upon leaving this institution he worked
31, 1968 and 1969, pursuant to section 8
indefatigably and became an able businessof the Department of State Act, chapter
man. His life was a tale of steady progress in
77, R.S.C., 1952.
his private as well as in his business undertakings in the Province of Quebec of which he
Report of the Medical Research Council, together with its Accounts and Finanbecame in my estimation one of the most
cial Statement certified by the Auditor
prominent citizens. He was active in civic
General, for the fiscal year ended March
affairs and in public life.
31, 1970, pursuant to section 69 of the
As previous speakers have said, the late
Government Organization Act, 1969,
Senator Dessureault was a member of the
chapter 28, Statutes of Canada, 1968-69.
board of directors of many important instiReport on the Administration of Allowtutions. I have known him for many years
ances for Disabled Persons in Canada for
and was able to appreciate his acute judgment
the fiscal year ended March 31, 1969,
in business matters.
pursuant to section 12 of the Disabled
[Hon. Mr. Flynn.]

September 29, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Persons Act, chapter 55, Statutes of Canada, 1953-54.
Report on the Administration of Old
Age Assistance in Canada for the fiscal
year ended March 31, 1969, pursuant to
section 12 of the Old Age Assistance Act,
chapter 199, R.S.C., 1952.
Report on the Administration of Allowances for Blind Persons in Canada for
the fiscal year ended March 31, 1969,
pursuant to section 12 of the Blind Persons Act, chapter 17, R.S.C., 1952.
Copies of the Report, dated June 1970,
of the Commission of Investigation established under the Inquiries Act, Part II,
relating to C. A. Leonard, E. Hockett and
J. Kreeger. (Chairman-Judge Ernest
J. C. Stewart).

1417

The Hon. the Speaker: With leave of the
Senate, it is moved by honourable Senator
Hayden, seconded by honourable Senator
Langlois, notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(f), that
this report be now adopted. Is it your pleasure, honourable senators, to adopt the
motion?

Hon. Mr. Hayden: Honourable senators,
the amendments which have been tabled
deal with a variety of points, the mere
mention of some of which will bring to your
memory legislation that we have already
dealt with and which precedes and makes
necessary what we have now. You will recall
in dealing with the life insurance companies,
the loan companies and the trust companies
during the last year, there was provision by
which special act companies, such as they
were required to be under the then law,
might become letters patent companies, and
CANADA CORPORATIONS ACT
changes in their objects, et cetera, if they
REPORT OF COMMITTEE PRESENTED
are existing, may be made by supplementary
ADJOURNED
-DEBATE
letters patent. What was needed, however,
Hon. Salier A. Hayden, Chairman of the was the authority and procedures necessary
Standing Committee on Banking, Trade and so that this could be done under the Canada
Commerce, reported that the committee had Corporations Act.
I should first tell you that this bill still
considered Bill C-4, to amend the Canada
Corporations Act and other statutory pro- requires certain companies with certain obvisions related to the subject matter of cer- jects to be incorporated or to be amended by
tain of those amendments, and had directed a special Act of Parliament. One such would
be companies having to do with the constructhat the bill be reported with amendments.
He said: Honourable senators, in present- tion and operation of a telegraph and teleing this report may I call the attention of the phone system, and another would beto the
us
Senate to the fact that the amendments are banks. We had a representation made
numerous and reasonably lengthy, but also, in connection with a company incorporated
by special act many years ago, and among
I think, reasonably clear.
its many objects were constructing and
If the report were read from the table to- operating a telegraph and telephone system.
night in the ordinary way, the time consumed Years ago this company abandoned those
and the involvement required to understand particular objects and confined its operations
the amendments completely without having to the manufacturing business.
the bill itself before you, would present
In looking at the amendments which were
problems. Therefore, I suggest that the Senate
idea that I might, on consider- introduced in Bill C-4 in the Commons and
entertain the
ation of the report tonight, explain the pur- which were in the bill when it came to us, it
pose and effect of the amendments. They will did not appear that such a company, even
appear in Hansard which you will have to- though it had abandoned these objects of
morrow and you will more readily under- constructing and operating a telegraph or
stand the purport of the amendments after I telephone company, could be what we would
have given an explanation of their purpose. call a letters patent company, because it had
At least I flatter myself to think that the ex- among its objects certain objects which still
planation will have that effect.
would have to be dealt with by special act.
(For text of report see Appendix, p. 1430-2)
We thought this was entitled to consideraThe Hon. the Speaker: Honourable sena- tion, and amendments were presented, which
tors, when shall this report be taken into the minister accepted. The net result is that
consideration?
the first amendment, which is on page 6 of
Hon. Mr. Hayden: With leave of the Sen- the bill, will permit such a company, which
has not carried on any of these objects for a
ate, now.

1418

SENATE DEBATES

September 29, 1970

number of years, to apply for supplementary would enable a federal company to restrict,
letters patent rather than be obliged to go to under certain conditions, the transfer of
Parliament for a special act.
shares to persons who are not Canadian citiThe limitation here is that the objects in zens or persons ordinarily resident in Canada.
such a company, in order to qualify to be a These provisions have been designed to meet
letters patent or supplementary letters patent the problem of federal companies operating
company, must "include any of the objects in the fields of activity where Parliament has
referred to in paragraph (a)"-those are the prescribed a minimum content of Canadian
construction or operation of telegraph or ownership or control as a condition precedent
telephone systems-"but the company has not for eligibility to hold a licence or a permit to
been carrying on any of those objects for five carry on an undertaking in Canada-for exor more years. .. " They thought this was the ample, in the field of broadcasting.
limiting test, and hence this amendment on
A federal company which is engaging in
page 6.
the publication of a newspaper and which
The authority given in the bill, as it came does not otherwise have any radio or teleto us, to create letters patent companies and vision holdings, would not be able to qualify
provide objects, as against what was in the as a constrained share company since the
objects when it was a special act company, company does not acquire licence or permit
presented another problem. If we strike out to carry on its undertakings in Canada. Yet
certain objects, such as in this case, we would such a company must maintain a reckless
be striking out the right to construct and degree of Canadian shareholder
operate a telegraph or telephone system. The if the advertising expenditures participation,
incurred in
question was whether the words used in the the advertising of a newspaper are to be
bill as it came to us-which created the power deductible under the provisions of section 1 2 A
in the minister to limit or extend the ob- of the Income Tax Act.
jects-were embracing enough to include
The amendment which we have before us
what would be done in the type of cases that in our report,
which is under section 38 A of
I have illustrated to you, which would really the Canada
Corporations Act, was designed to
mean reducing the objects.
give a newspaper company the means to
In order to make every person happy-in- comply with section 12A of the Income Tax
cluding the solicitors for the company con- Act, and in this way
to
cerned-and to satisfy the views of the qualifications under that protect its necessary
act.
Department of Justice, we inserted the word
If companies operating newspapers are un"reduce".
able to restrict the transfers of shares in
Honourable senators, I call the next amend- accordance with the provisions of
ment the "newspaper amendment". The bill then a newspaper company could section 38A,
conceivably
as it came before us provided for a kind of be required-and this could happen quite incompany called a "constrained company". advertently-to complete a transfer, or transThose are peculiar words. A constrained com- actions, of shares, which would have the
pany was to cover the type of situation where effect of disqualifying it as a Canadian newsa company would be incorporated as a "con- paper for the purposes of section 12A of the
strained" company because, under certain Income Tax Act.
public statutes, there were requirements for
We thought it was
a percentage of Canadian content in the we should provide thisa worthy motive that
ability in the newsshareholders in order that they might function
and get licences or permits. This occurs, for paper to protect its revenues; and the minisfact,
instance, under the broadcasting and tele- ter, as a matter of and presented the draft of
the amendment
it was
vision legislation, where there are require- unanimously by the members concurred in
of the comments as to Canadian content. It also occurs mittee.
in connection with the issue of permits in the
There was also a provision added in subNorthwest Territories.
paragraph (3) of this
This shows how far afield one has to look, the same fashion with same section to deal in
applications for Letters
sometimes, and one would wonder why it Patent.
should be necessary to put in newspaper inThe Letters Patent or supplementary Letcorporations, or give them the right to be in ters
Patent of a public company may declare
the category of a constrained company.
the company to be a constrained-share conHonourable senators, may I tell you how pany when the company is
one that is inthis arises. Bill C-4 contains provisions which corporated with
the object of investing in the

LHon.

Mr. Hayden.]

Septeniber 29, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

shares of other corporations and has a significant or controlling interest, directly or
indirectly, through the holding of shares in a
federally-incorporated trust, insurance, loan,
small loans or sales finance company. This
was added for the same purpose and to produce the same result.
For instance, in the case of a newspaper, if
any of the shares are being traded in publicly,
it might well be that share certificates would
be presented for transfer, which the company,
without this provision in the law, would be
obligated to transfer. It might be that in the
making of that transfer the percentage of
Canadian content required under section 12A
of the Income Tax Act would be defeated,
because the provisions are that there must be
three-quarters of the issued shares Canadianowned and representing three-quarters of the
assets.
This is the purpose, and this is the effect of
these amendments.
The next amendments, which are referred
to in the report and appear on pages 10 and
11, simply involve the renumbering of sections because of the number of subsections
required to give effect to this point in relation to newspapers.
We also had a problem brought to our
attention by the trust companies. Bill C-4,
among its provisions, deals with securities
law in relation to take-over bids and insider
trading, which heretofore had been the exclusive subject matter of provincial securities
legislation. An "insider" is defined in the provincial statutes, and it is also defined in this
bill, as a person who has 10 per cent or more
of the issued shares of the company of which
he is an insider.
Now, a trust company operating nationally
in Canada may be the trustee of and be administering estates in various parts of Canada;
and in those estates you might find in five,
six or eight of them across Canada shares of
one particular company. The sum total of
those shares when pooled together would exceed, let us assume, 10 per cent of the issued
shares of that company. In those circumstances trust companies, if we did not make
some change in the law, would be an insider,
and al directors, officers and managers across
Canada would be required to file under the
securities legislation. Therefore, we provided
by amendment to limit this requirement to
those situations where they were administering an estate of one person which included
10 per cent or more of the shares of a particular company and in relation to which they
might well qualify as an insider.

Honourable senators, in a number of cases
in the bill the doing of something or the
failure to do something that is required to be
done was made an offence; a penalty was
provided-imprisonment and/or a fine, with
failure to pay the fine resulting in imprisonment. An example of one of the offences
created is as follows. If the company's directors decide they are going to make a proxy
solicitation in connection with an annual
meeting, they are required under the securities provisions in this bill, as they are under
the securities provisions of the provincial
statutes, in addition to sending out the proxy
to send with it an information circular. This
must be sent by prepaid mail. Now, let us
assume that the messenger is on his way to
the post office to mail this bundle of proxies
with the information circulars and he slips on
the ice or somebody knocks him on the head,
and when he recovers and picks up his
bundle, some have fallen out and are lost.
Honourable senators, this is an offence
under this bill. And as it stood there was no
defence to it; it was an absolute offence.
Inadvertence, act of God, or anything else
could not be pleaded as a defence and the
magistrate, the judge or whoever might try
the case, would be obliged to find the accused
guilty, which would result in his having a
criminal record. We thought this too extreme
to tolerate. We suggested a change and the
minister quite readily accepted our suggestion. Therefore, in a number of cases
throughout the bill the word "knowingly" or
"wilfully" is inserted, so that whatever was
done had to be wilfully or knowingly done
before the full impact of the law might be
applied.
Moving along, honourable senators, there is
a provision in the securities laws of the
United States which has led to all kinds of
consequences. That provision is that shareholders can write in proposals and the directors of a company must incorporate those
proposals in the material sent out to shareholders for an annual meeting. We have
something of the same nature here except
that there is a saving clause which provides
that in certain circumstances the directors do
not have to include a proposal because many
-maybe most-of these proposals could turn
out to be vexatious, completely irrelevant,
and costly while accomplishing no good purpose so far as the company was concerned.
Therefore, we made a provision by inserting
on page 39 that in certain circumstances the
directors might omit the proposal, but in

1420

SENATE DEBATES

doing so they must give reasons. We provided
that if the directors made an assertion that
the proposals involved questions of law or
were based on matters of law and that the
directors have had the advice of counsel in
connection therewith, then they might omit
the inclusion in the material of any such
proposal.
Let me hasten to add that nobody's rights
have been taken away, because the minister
or the person putting forward a proposal may
go to the courts in the province and get an
order requiring that this proposal be included
in the material. Furthermore, we decided that
in order to put some form of check rein on the
vexatious type of proposal that might be put
forward, one that would merely serve to
create difficulties or to agitate without accomplishing anything, that where a shareholder within a five-year calendar period has
put forward two proposals, both of which.
within the five-year period have been refused
or voted down by the shareholders, then the
next time that such a person tried to put forward such a proposal he must send along
with the proposal a deposit of enough money
to take care of the costs of the preparation
and inclusion of the proposal in the material,
the mailing costs, et cetera. If his proposal is
favourably voted on, then he gets his money
back, but if it is not, it is turned over to the
company and used to pay these expenses.
Honourable senators, skipping over one or
two of the amendments, we come to the investigation powers. The bill as it came to us
provided that five or more shareholders holding in the aggregate not less than one-tenth
of the issued capital or one-tenth of the issued
shares of any class might apply to the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission for an
order for the investigation of the company on
certain grounds which are set out in the bill.
These are grounds that in one way or another
would impute fraud or fraudulent conduct or
where there is an allegation that the manager
or some other person in authority has been
guilty of fraud or misfeasance. The position
we took in committee-and there was quite a
lengthy debate and stubborn resistance for a
while-is that at the stage when the application is made to the commission, while it may
be made ex parte, there should be notice to
the person against whom the allegations are
made, and such person should be entitled to
appear when the matter is being studied and
a decision being made as to whether an
inspector should be appointed or there should
be an investigation. There should be an opportunity for these persons against whom the
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

September 29, 1970

allegation is made to examine the material to
find out what the allegations are and what
support there is for them, and also to crossexamine the people making the allegations.
The minister's resistance in the beginning
was addressed to the question that if you gave
notice to the people against whom the allegations are made in every case, the allegations
might be of such a character that by the time
one could get into the records of the company,
those records could have been destroyed or
could have disappeared. However, we finally
came to a workable compromise. Paying attention to the position taken by the minister, we
provided that in the discretion of the commission and depending upon their assessment
of the case and the material they have before
them, they may or may not give notice to the
people against whom the allegations are made,
and if they do give notice these people are
entitled to appear, to be represented and to
present evidence in their own defence. They
are also entitled to cross-examine those who
have made the allegations against them.
We think all those provisions are reasonable and are consistent with a proper approach to a situation of this kind, where
nothing tantamount to a finding of guilt
should be made so early in the procedure
and there should not be access under certain
circumstances to the material, to the allegations by the people who are affected by them.
Then on page 52 we have given a solicitor's
privilege in connection with any requirement
that documents be produced. The inspector,
after he is appointed and is conducting his
investigation, can fix a day for hearing and
can send in his investigators to take possession of the books and records, and can study
them, et cetera. However, the question of
solicitor's privilege arises. One must remember that is not a privilege the solicitor has
the right to claim for himself because he is in
possession of the documents of a client; the
privilege is the client's privilege, and the
solicitor must not yield the client's privilege
without the consent of his client or, as we
have provided here, an order of the court
This has been done in certain other statutes.
We thought we should make a provision,
when security has been given during the
course of an investigation, that when the
investigation terminates and no further proceedings are taken-in other words, the allegations are not substantiated-but the application was not vexatious, there should be
provision for terminating the security the
applicant had been required to give in the
beginning.

September 29, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Then we had this point of view put forward
to us, that in the disclosures that are required
from private companies you run into some
unusual situations where it seems there
should be some exception to the requirement
that any private company that is identified
with a holding company must make disclosure, and there is a limit under which they
do not have to make this disclosure in connection with revenues and assets; but you
might have a situation, for instance, such as
one particular case we had before us, that of
two federally incorporated subsidiaries, whose
assets and revenues were well below the
amounts for revenues and assets provided for
in the bill which would make it necessary
for the company to make full disclosure, having to file statements merely because they
were affiliated with another holding company
that was obligated to file statements. To take
care of this we decided, with regard to the
holding company and the affiliates, that if
the financial statement is a consolidated
statement in which there is this disclosure,
then there is no obligation on individual companies to do this. This avoids much unnecessary work, and I think is in the interests of
good administration.
Then we have a definition of a constrained
company at page 81-and I think the purport
of it is perfectly clear-defining what is a
constrained company. It simply includes all
types of companies which I discussed with
you when dealing with the newspaper amendments.
Then we come to the pièce de résistance.
You will remember that in the Senate we had
a great deal of discussion, first of al on the
validity of provincial securities legislation,
and the question as to whether, with valid
provincial securities legislation existing, you
could have an intrusion into that field by
federal securities legislation in relation to
federally incorporated companies.
The position taken by the Department of
Justice in the cormittee was that they were
not seeking to impugn the competency of the
provincial securities legislation, but they were
proposing in this bill to assert that they had
legislative competency; in other words, that
you have two parallel lines or, what they call
in constitutional law, the double aspect, that
is, that both fields might be occupied and both
would be entitled to carry on their functions,
the federally incorporated companies in relation to securities legislation affecting them
federally and the provincial securities law in
the trading-in-securities field in relation to
the same federally incorporated companies.
22481--45

That is quite an acrobatic feat, if you think
you can ride those two parallel lines. Knowing
that mathematically they only meet at infinity,
you would be due for a long ride.
We were concerned, and we did not feel we
should do anything which would mean we
were bowing in favour of the federal legislation and saying this is valid to the exclusion
of the provincial legislation; nor did we feel
we could incorporate in federal legislation a
declaration that, notwithstanding the federal
legislation in relation to federally-incorporated
companies, the provincial securities legislation
was also valid.
Finally, we settled on this, whether it is a
solution or not remains to be seen. Frankly,
I do not think it is a real solution, because I
can see where conflict can develop very quickly and the net result will be, as it must be,
litigation. For instance, if a federally incorporated company complies with these security
provisions in Bill C-4, it must also comply
with the same, or practically the same, wordfor-word security provisions on take-over bids
and insider trading in the provincial statutes.
Let us assume that a federally incorporated
company goes to the Securities Commission
of Ontario and files all its material in connection with the take-over bid and the transaction is approved. So far as Ontario is concerned, they would carry on. Then let us
assume that a federally incorporated company
comes to Ottawa to apply to another commission we have set up under this legislation,
files all its material and the transaction is
refused. Right away, you have the beginning
of a lawsuit on the question of validity. Or,
for instance, in the provincial securities law
an insider may sell short. All he has to do is
to tell his broker that he is selling short and
the broker must tell the exchange, when
executing the order, that this is a short sale;
but in Bill C-4 an insider is prohibited from
selling short. You can see where conflict may
readily develop there.
Hon. Mr. Benidickson: With respect to a
federally incorporated company?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Yes, with respect to a
federally incorporated company, because
there is nothing in Bill C-4 which casts any
doubt upon the validity of provincial securities legislation, even in its application
to federally-incorporated companies. This is
simply a case where the federal authority
says, "These are federally incorporated companies and they are our creatures. We are
entitled to look after them under the general

1422

SENATE DEBATES

September 29, 1970

lent work in respect of other matters with
which we shall be dealing tomorrow.
Thirdly, it may be that some honourable
senators would like to study the report and
the amendments, and for that reason I do not
think it should be adopted tonight. I am willing to yield to anyone who wishes to speak,
but it is my intention now to move the adjournment of this debate to enable honourable
senators to look at the report and to make
whatever observations they wish upon it tomorrow.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Honourable senators, if
I am permitted I should like to make a further reference to the committee's report. I
omitted to refer to the provisions as to investigations.
One allegation that shareholders could
make to justify their applying for an inspector was that somebody in management had
been guilty of fraud, misfeasance or misconduct. We were very confused because we
did not know what kind of misconduct was
being talked about in the bill. We did not
know whether it was the old-fashioned kind
and this was a declaration against sin, or
whether it referred to some more modern
concept.
Senator Flynn was the one who brought to
our attention the French text which appeared
to attach to the word "misconduct" an error
of judgment, and this seemed to be a difficult
situation to face in the light of the preceding
words "fraud, misfeasance or misconduct".
The solution that we finally evolved was to
put the word "other" before the word "misconduct", so that it reads "fraud, misfeasance
or other misconduct". This brings into play
what in law we call the ejusdem generis
rule, so that it means misconduct of the character of fraud or misfeasance. So, we are isolating it to some extent.
Then the minister's representatives who
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
I do not intend to add to the comments of were there thought that there should be some
the Chairman of the Standing Senate Com- qualification in the French text. The words
mittee on Banking, Trade and Commerce, there were, I think, "autre faute de gestion",
because to do so would be redundant and and they wanted the words "de même nature". Since our hearing it bas been suguseless. I want only to make three points.
First, I compliment Senator Hayden upon gested that we use the word "genre" instead
his explanation of the committee's report. of "nature", as it was a better descriptive
This report clearly demonstrates the kind of word. We do not need any amendment or
leadership that the chairman has always variation in the report because this would
just be a more correct translation of "other
given to the committee.
misconduct" in the context of fraud and misfeasance.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
authority we have to incorporate companies
which may operate anywhere in Canada."
Finally, there is an amendment which adds
section 36 to the bill. I think the committee
has focussed on the problem in this language.
Compliance with provincial legislation, wherever relevant, shall not exempt any company to which the Canada
Corporations Act applies from compliance with the provisions of that Act.
There you have an attempt to set out this
double aspect of constitutional law. How
valid it is, I would not venture an opinionperhaps I would privately, but for the purposes of explaining this report that the committee bas made I add no qualification and
no personal view in relation to that section.
But, I do say, as we told the minister in
committee, that the real object should be to
have one national commission; that we should
not be creating what may be a tenth commission to deal with security across Canada.
It is the committee's view that this should
be the real purpose, and it may be that by
following this procedure, having regard to
all the problems of documentation and delays,
et cetera, the day when they will get to
work on this will be hastened.
The committee insisted that the problem
had to be faced and that something had to
be done in relation to it, and this was really
a compromise, one that was readily accepted
for what it was worth.
Honourable senators, those are the amendments the committee has made, and upon
which we have spent some time. In my
view the bill is a better bill for what we did.
This explanation, I hope, will make an understanding by honourable senators casier
when they read the committee's report in
Hansard.

Hon. Mr. Flynn: Agreed.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: My second point is that
On motion of Hon. Mr. Flynn, debate adthe committee itself has done an excellent job
of work on this bill. It has also donc excel- journed.
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

Septemer DEBATES
29
1970SENATE

September 29. 1870
CANADIAN

NATIONAL

RAILWAYS

DERAILMENTS 1968-69-EXPENDITURES
1N
EXCESS 0F FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS-

INQUERY ANSWERED

Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
Government, pursuant to, notice:
(1) How many derailments involving
an expenditure of $50,000 or more occurred on the Canadian National Railways System during the 1968-69 fiscal
year?

1423
12

(2) What was the location and the
cause of each such derailment, and what
was the financial loss to the Canadian
National Railways in each case?
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Answered.
The Canadian National Railways advise as follows:1. 36.
2. Attached is a list showing the location, cause and cost of accidents occurring during the period April 1, 1968 to
March 31, 1969.

CANADIAN NATIONAL RLAILWAYS
Train Derailments involving expenditures of $50,000 or more during the
period April lst, 1968 to March 31st, 1969.
Mileage

Subdivision

Date

Cause

Amount

NEwFouNDLANiD MA6183

335.7

Bishop's Falls ...............

284.34

Bishop's Falls .............

fiat car..............................
Mar. 15/69 Broken rail ............................

Sydney ...................

Dec. 25/68 Broken rail ............................

Monk.......................
Newcastle..................

Sept. 20/68 Sun kink..................
Nov. 23/68 Burnt journal................

May 25/68 Pulpwood failing -through opening of rack on
64,653

MARITimEm AREA&

46.2

108,600

CRAEuuR AREA

122.1
18. 6

122,740

64,662

QuEBEc ARBA
Lac St. Jean...............

Nov. 20/68 Brake adjuster feUl due to lost brake hangar
PMi.................................
Nov. 24/68 Excessive speed ........................
Jan. 9/69 Switch aligument.......................

Lac St. Jean...............
Montmnagny................

77,666

195,038
81,640

CHAMPLAiN AnEA

52.4
77.0

Drammondville .............
Drummondville .............

13.28

Newmarket.................
Grimsby ...................

Jan. 17/69
Feb. 1/69

Broken truckside.......................
Broken rail ............................

108,892
172,955

TOROaNM AREA

38.56
20.6

Apr. 9/68
July 5/68

Oakviile ..................

Burnt journal ............................
Train struck float trailer at public crossng ...

Sept. 16/68 While passing through cross over, derailment
occurred...............................

50,363
319,935
347,500

SouTH wEsTERn ONTARio AREA

76.38

Guelph ....................

Apr. 19/68 Train struck truck at crossing.............

53,164

NORTIRRN ONTARTo AREA
157.3
141.4
42.3

Newmarket...................
Alderdale.....................
Caramat .....................

22481-451

June 7/68
July 31/68
Nov. 3/68

Sun kink................................
Oscillation of car.........................
Burnt journal]............................

222,300
73,832
82,712

SENATE DEBATESSeoner2,17

Mileage

Subdivision

September 29, 1970

Cause

Date

Amount

LAKEEEAD AREA
1/68
29/68
21/68
28/68

Kinghorn...................
Graham ...................
Sprague ....................
Graham ...................

JUly
July
Oct.
Oct.

Rivers .....................

Apr. 23/68

Cromer ....................

109.3
42.1
57.8
108.0

Aug. 1/68

Burnt journal ............................
Slack action .............................
Burnt journal ............................
Unstable sub grade ......................

134,348
59,022
303,666
70,188

AssimBoINE ARAn
Piles weakened by fire-approaeh trestie
collapsed under weight of tramn..........
Broken truck side........................

543,246
50,868

HuDsoN BAY AiREA
271,412
64.69
114.2

Margo .......................
Wekusko .....................

Automobile struck train at public crossing ...
June 1/68
Sept. 16/68 Broken axie..............................

65,616

SASKATCHEWAN AREA
77.0

Watrous......................

Jan. 11/69

Burnt journal ............................

71,766

EDMON'roN ARAn
Edson........................
Edson ........................

Nov. 11/68 Broken truck side ........................
Burnt journal ............................
Feb. 1/69

44.3

Three Hilîs...............

Aug. 5/68

93.1
38.8
97.2
32.8
22.7
67.49
38.1

Ashcrof t...................
Ashcrof t......................
Asherof t...................
Yale .......................
Tete Jaune..................
Clearwater .................
Yale .......................

143.6
66.3

177,668
54,361

CALGARY ABEA

Traek washed out by heavy cloudburst ..

184,698

BRinsH COLUMBIA AREA
May 17/68
Aug. 14/68
Sept. 15/68
Oct. 12/68
Nov. 17/68
Jan. 8/69
Feb. 28/69

RAILWAY EQUIPMENT DAMAGED AND INOPERATIVE. 1969-INQUIRY ANSWERED

(Madawaska-Res±iHon. Mr. Fournier
gauche> inquired of the Government, pursuiant
ta notice:
1. How many pieces of equipment in
the entire Canadian National Rallway
Systema were damaged and inoperative at
the end of 1969?
2. 0f these, how many were (a) locomotives, (b) passenger cars, (c) coaches,
(di) sleepers, (e) dîners, (f) box cars,
(g) gondolas andi (i) other?
3. How many of the units involveci is it
economically feasible to repair?
Hon. Mr. McDanald: Answered.
The Canadian National Railways acivise
as follows:
[Hon. Mr. Mcflonald.1

Sun kink ................................
Train struck landslide ....................
Switch point struck by oscillating car ...
Burnt journal ............................
Burot journal ............................
Oscillation of car.........................
Train struck rock slde ...................

111,289
129,276
89,436
153,420
131,847
173,256
211,943

1. As at December 31, 1969 there were
1,065 pieces of damageci equipment or
.88% of the overail total of 122,232 units
of equipment.
2. (a) Locomotives, 8; (b) Passenger
cars, 17; (c) Coaches, 2; (di) Sleepers, 1;
(e) Diners, 0; (S) Box Cars, 538; (g)
Tank cars, 0; (h) Gondolas, 101; (i)
Other, 398.
3. Ail units except eleven baggage or
express cars damageci by fixe.
WREEL FLANGE OILERS-NUMBER AND) COST
OF INSTALLATION-INQUIRY ANSWERED

(Madawaska-Res±iHan. Mr. Fournier
gauche) inquired of the Government, pursuant
ta notice:
1. How many wheel flange allers were
installeci by the Canadian National Railways up ta December 31, 1969?

Septernber 29, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

2. What was the cost per installation?

These applications were within the following regions of
the Railway:

Hon. Mr. McDonald: Answered.
The Canadian National Railways advise
as follows:
None. Wheel flange oilers were an installation on steam locomotives and are
not applied to present day motive power.

Between

Charlottetown-Georgetown, P.E.I.
(Mixed Train).........................
Charlottetown-Souris-Elmira,
P.E.. (Mixed Train)..................
Charlottetown-Murray Harbour,
P.E.I. (Mixed Train)..................
St. John's-Port aux Basques, Nfld....
Halifax-Yarmouth, N.S. (Mixed
Train)...........................

HOT BOX DETECTORS-NUMBER AND COST OF
INSTALLATION-INQUIRY ANSWERED

Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Resiigouche) inquired of the Government, pursuant
to notice:
1. How many hot box detectors were

Summerside-Tignish, P.E.I. (Mixed
Summerside-Borden, P.E.I. (Mixed

T rain)................................

2. What was the cost per installation?

Railways

68.1

Chambord-Dolbeau, Que.............
Quebec-Cochrane, Que...........

Montreal-Harvey, Que...........
Senneterre-Noranda, Que.........

57.4
575.8
125.5
101.5

LaTuque-Parent, Que. (Mixed Train) 122.5

Parent-Senneterre, Que. (Mixed Train) 138.2
17.0
Montreal-Deux Montagnes, Que.......
8.2
Montreal-Cartierville, Que............
20.0
Que.............
Montreal-St. Hilaire,
Great Lakes Region
1
2
3
4
5
6

Hamilton-Toronto, Ont.... .........
Cochrane-Hearst, Ont................
Toronto-Markham, Ont..............
Toronto-Guelph, Ont..... .........
Toronto-Kapuskasing................
Toronto-Palmerston--Owen SoundKincardine-Stratford--Goderich.....

39.3
129.1
22.3
48.8
551.0
357.5

from

January 1, 1965 to December 31, 1969?
2. What region and how many line
miles were involved in each case?

Prairie Region
1

3. Which applications were approved?
4. Which applications were refused?
Hon. Mr. McDonald: Answered.
The Canadian Transport Commission

advise as follows:

2
3
4
5
6

1. Canadian National Railways filed 36
applications to discontinue passenger

trains in the period January 1, 1965 to
December 31, 1969.
2. See attached list.
3. See attached list.
4. Answered by No. 3.

250.0

Quebec-Chicoutimi, Que........... .227.2

PASSENGER SERVICE 1965-69-INQUIRY
ANSWERED

the Canadian National

68.4

547.3

Montreal-Cantic, Que............ .43.6
Quebec-La Malbaie, Que.......... .87.8
Montreal-Chicoutimi, Que......... 317.8

APPLICATION FOR CANCELLATION OF

the Canadian Transport Commission by

74.8

St. Lawrence Region

Hon. Mr. McDonald: Answered.
The Canadian National Rallways advise
as follows:
1. 68.
2. Between $35,000 and $50,000 per installation.

tion of passenger service were made to

52.7

19.7
T rain)................................
Charlottetown, P.E.I.-Moncton, N.B.
126.8
(M ixed Train).........................
89.3
Moncton-St. John, N.B..........

installed by the Canadian National Railways up to December 31, 1969?

(Madawaska-RestiHon. Mr. Fournier
gouche) inquired of the Government, pursuant
to notice:
1. How many applications for cancella-

Line Mile

Atlantic Region

Prince Albert-North Battleford,
Sask. (Mixed Train)...................
Prince Albert-Turtleford, Sask.
(M ixed Train).........................
Humboldt-Melfort-Carrot River,
Sask. (Mixed Train)...................
Winnipeg, Man.-Port Arthur, Ont.....
Saskatoon, Sask.-The Pas, Man.......
Winnipeg-Churchill, Man.............
Wabowden-Churchill, Man. (Mixed
Train)................................

131.2
150.7
163.5
438.3
340.1
509.8
373.4

Mountain Region
1
2
3
4

Edmonton-Grand Centre, Alta.......
Edmonton-Calgary-Drumheller,
A lta...................................
Jasper, Alta.-Prince Rupert, B.C.....
MeBride-Prince George, B.C. (Mixed
Train)................................

176.2
355.4
721.9
146.1

SENATE DEBATES

Atlantic RegionCases 1 to 4 inclusive-approved.
Cases 5 to 8 inclusive-Pursuant to Section 4 of Order
No. R-6751 of the Railway Transport Committee,
Canadian Transport Commission, these trains were
not declared to comprise a passenger train service and
have been discontinued by the Company.
Case 9-pending.
St. Lawrence RegionCase 1-approved.
Cases 2 to Il inclusive-pending.
Great Lakes RegionCase 1-approved.
Case 2-approved in part between Kapuskasing and
Hearst, Ont.-59.7 miles.
Cases 3 to 6 inclusive-pending.
Prairie RegionCases 1 and 2-approved.
Cases 3 to 6 inclusive-pending.
Mountain RegionCases 1 to 4 inclusive-pending.
COST OF ADVERTISING PASSENGER SERVICE
ON OCEAN LIMITED-INQUIRY ANSWERED

September 29, 1970

the years 1967, 1968 and 1969 to advertise
their passenger service in Canada through
(a) television (b) radio (c) newspapers (d)
billboards (e) pamphlets and (f) other
news media?
Hon. Mr. McDonald: Answered.
The Canadian National Railways advise as follows:
Advertising of the various services offered by the Company is a matter of internal management and is donc in
accordance with what is considered to be
the requirements of the market. Expenditures covering advertising are controlled
through an annual budget which is also
made in accordance with considered
requirements.
INQUIRIES
QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE

On the Orders of the Day:
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-ResiHon. Edgar Fournier:
gouche) inquired of the Government, pur- before the Orders of the Honourable senators,
Day are called I rise
suant to notice:
on a question of privilege to say a few words
What was the amount paid by the about these answers to the notices of inquiry.
Canadian National Railways to advertise
Before the summer holiday I gave notice
the Ocean Limited passenger service on of 21 inquiries in respect of the Canadian
the
Moncton-Edmunston-Joffre
line National Railways, of which to date 18 have
through (a) television (b) radio (c) news- been answered. Of those answers,
eleven
papers and (d) other news media, in the were in the affirmative-that
United States and in Canada during the answer given was the one that is to say, the
was required
years 1967, 1968 and 1969?
-and seven were answered in the negative,
and by that I mean there was either no
Hon. Mr. McDonald: Answered.
answer or an unsatisfactory answer. As exThe Canadian National Railways ad- amples of unsatisfactory answers
I quote the
vise as follows:
following:
Advertising of the various services ofRailway costs of this nature are confered by the Company is a matter of
sidered confidential in view of the railway's competitive situation.
internal management and is done in accordance with what is considered to be
And that answer is given where there is no
the requirements of the market. Expendi- competition at all.
tures covering advertising are controlled
A further answer was:
through an annual budget which is also
Advertising of the various services
made in accordance with considered
offered by the Company is a matter of
requirements.
internal management and is done in accordance with what is considered to be
COST OF ADVERTISING PASSENGER SERVICE
IN CANADA, 1967-69-INQUIRY ANSWERED
the requirements of the market.
Hon. Mr. Fournier (Madawaska-Res±iAnother answer was:
gouche) inquired of the Government, purIt is not the practice of the Company
suant to notice:
to disclose names of firms or persons
What was the total amount paid by
submitting tenders nor to disclose inthe Canadian National Railways during
formation respecting proposals received.
[Hon. Mr. McDonald.]

SENATE DEBATES

September 29. 1970

Yet another was:
It is the company's practice not to
disclose the terms of arrangements made
with other parties.
This is all I wish to say tonight, but I
assure honourable senators that I shall have
something more to say about this at a later
date and at a more appropriate time.
Hon. Mr. Choquette: Are those examples of
the answers you have been given?
(Madawaska-RestiHon. Mr. Fournier
gouche): Those are the answers given, which
cannot be accepted by me.
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, judging from the honourable senator's language I presume he is going to pursue this subject on some appropriate occasion.
I can make no comment on what he has said
this evening. Undoubtedly, there will be
occasions when officials of the Canadian National Railways will be appearing before a
committee of this house, and perhaps it will
be such an occasion that the honourable
senator will select.
Hon. Mr. Fournier
gouche): Agreed.

(Madawaska-Resti-

STANDARDS COUNCIL OF CANADA BILL
SECOND

READING-DEBATE

ADJOURNED

Hon. Azellus Denis moved the second
reading of Bill C-163, to provide for the
establishment of a Standards Council of
Canada.
He said: Honourable senators, the purpose
of the bill is to establish a statutory corporation to be known as the Standards Council of
Canada, en langue française: Conseil canadien des normes, responsible for promoting
and co-ordinating voluntary standardization
in Canada and for Canadian participation in
international voluntary standards organizations.
In 1966 the Government established a
steering committee comprising representatives of the federal Government and the
Canadian Standards Association to consider
steps to be taken to strengthen and promote
voluntary standardization in Canada at both
national and international levels. After examining the organization of standardization
activities in Canada and studying the practices in other countries, the steering committee recommended the establishment of a
new organization embracing all Canadian in-

terests: government, industry and consumer,
and making full use of existing standardssetting and enforcement agencies.
The steering committee proposed that the
new organization consist of a coundil, to be
known as the Standards Council of Canada,
a supporting secretariat, and accredited
standards-formulating, testing and enforcement agencies. The council would be responsible at the national level for the promotion
and co-ordination of voluntary standardization activities in Canada and for Canadian
in international voluntary
participation
standardization activities.
In 1968 this proposal was considered at a
federal-provincial conference and, with modifications recommended on that occasion, was
accepted in principle by the provinces and
the Canadian Standards Association.
Subsequently, the proposal was sent for
comment to 258 industry, trade, and consumer associations. Replies received indicated
overwhelmingly favourable reaction, strong
interest and support on a nation-wide basis
for the early establishment of the council.
The objects of the council are to foster and
promote voluntary standardization in fields
relating to the construction, manufacture,
production, quality, performance and safety
of buildings, structures, manufactured articles
and products and other goods, including components thereof, not expressly provided for
by law, as a means of advancing the national
economy, benefiting the health, safety and
welfare of the public, assisting and protecting
consumers, facilitating domestic and international trade and furthering international
co-operation in the field of standards.
In carrying out these objects, the council
may engage in a number of activities, which
are specified in the bill. Among other things,
the council will be expected to:
(a) promote co-operation among organizations concerned with voluntary standardization in Canada to co-ordinate standardization
activities and develop common standards and
codes;
(b) promote co-operation between organizations concerned with voluntary standardization in Canada and departments and agencies of government;
(c) identify and evaluate the need for new
standards, revisions to existing standards and
additional testing and certification services,
and arrange for that need to be satisfied by
existing organizations, or by promoting the
establishment of new organizations for this
purpose where none exist;

1428

SENATE DEBATES

September 29, 1970

(d) represent Canada as the Canadian standards to meet the needs of all sectors of
member of the International Organization for the economy.
Standardization, the International ElectroHonourable senators, in performing these
technical Commission and other similar inter- functions the council will be concerned with
national organizations engaged in voluntary the voluntary standards of industry and comstandardization activities;
merce developed by co-operation of interested
(e) accredit organizations engaged in stand- parties such as manufacturers, processors,
ards-formulation and certification;
service industries, consumers, et cetera, and
(f) provide financial assistance to Canadian accepted and used by them on a voluntary
organizations
concerned
with voluntary basis. The council will have no authority to
standardization to assist them in meeting enforce standards. Where public health,
national and international requirements; and safety and welfare is concerned, federal, pro(g) review the need for and make recom- vincial and municipal governments will conmendations with respect to the use of, or tinue to be responsible for the enforcement of
conversion to, the international system of standards in their respective areas of jurisunits, known as the metric system, in Cana- diction.
dian industry, trade and commerce.
This is not to say that standards developed
by a standards-setting organization accredited
The Standards Council would be respon- by the council may not be used as mandatory
sible in the private sector for encouraging standards. On the contrary, it is hoped that
preparations for change to the metric system they will be, where it would be appropriate to
in a manner to achieve optimum benefits at do so. However, if such standards become
the minimum cost. Specifically, it would mandatory, it will be because government, at
initiate studies, planning, consultation and either the federal, provincial or municipal
ultimate organization of a co-ordinated ap- level, has chosen to adopt and use them.
proach to conversion which would need to be
It is not intended that the council should
capable of flexible adjustment to the evolving engage directly
in standards formulation, testsituation in Canada and abroad.
ing and certification activities, which would
It will have the responsibility for determin- continue to be carried out by existing staning the pace of conversion, sector by sector.
dards-setting organizations such as the CanaHonourable senators, to sum up, the council dian Standards Association, the Canadian
will help to generate public interest in stand- Pulp and Paper Association, and the Canaards, increase the awareness of their ad- dian Gas Association. Nor will the council
vantages, and provide a focal point in Canada duplicate other functions performed by such
from which information about standards in organizations.
al fields will be readily available.
It will help to generate an awareness of [Translation]
Honourable senators, the Standards Council
quality and interest in a high level of performance in all areas of industry and com- of Canada will consist of not more than fiftymerce. It will provide an additional protection seven members, under the direction of a presifor the Canadian consumers. It will facilitate dent and a vice-president. Six of those memthe flow of goods and services within the bers will be employed in the public service
country. It will enable Canada to take of Canada, ten of them will be appointed by
full advantage of export opportunities. It will each of the ten provinces and the remaining
prevent duplication, and diminish the possi- members will represent national organizations.
Such a council will represent all levels of
bility of conflicting standards evolving in
government, federal, provincial and municCanada.
In addition, the council will ensure that ipal; primary and secondary industries; disstandardization in Canada in all areas of ac- tribution and service industries; representativity is co-ordinated with the developments tives of trade and commerce, of provincial
in countries that are our major trading part- organizations, of consumers' organizations,
et cetera.
ners.
Civil servants shall be appointed to hold
It will be an impartial agency to which
Canadians interested in seeing new standards office during pleasure, but the other members
developed would be able to address them- of the Council shall be appointed for terms
selves and will enable existing standards or- not exceeding three years; they may, however,
ganizations to play a larger and more effective be reappointed to the Council in the same or
role in formulating and promoting the use of another capacity. The President alone shall
[Hon. Mr. Denis.]

September 29, 1870

SENATE DEBATES

be paid such remuneration and expenses, in
the amount authorized by the Governor in
Council. As for the others, they shall serve
without remuneration but be paid reasonable
travelling expenses.
The executive committee of the Council
shall be composed of nine members and a
secretariat under the supervision and authority
of a director; it is expected that there will
be approximately 24 employees and officers
who will be paid such remuneration and expenses as are fixed by the Council with the
approval of the Treasury Board.
The Council may also, for temporary periods
or for specifie projects, engage persons having
a technical or specialized knowledge on any
matter relating to the work of the council to
advise and assist it in the performance of its
duties under this act.
For the first few years, the expenditures
would amount to about $200,000 and reach
approximately $400,000 in following years.
Al the amounts required for the payment
of salaries and other expenses will come out
of the moneys appropriated for that purpose
by Parliament.
These amounts are quite small if we consider the tremendous advantages which will
accrue to the Canadian citizens, both consumers and businessmen.

22481-46

1429

[English]
Honourable senators, the structure of the
proposed council is intentionally designed
to make maximum use of those organizations
which already exist and function effectively.
The ain is to broaden the range of activities
in a co-ordinated fashion to obtain a more
complete coverage of standards needs. In no
sense, however, should the proposal be interpreted as an attempt on the part of the Government to control or administer the whole
field of standards activity. Rather, the object
is to achieve a realistic partnership between
government and industry, based on voluntary
action. It is intended that the status quo will
be maintained with respect to existing responsibilities for regulation and enforcement
in areas of health, safety and protection of
the public against fraud.
[Translation]
Therefore, I move that this bill be rèad for
the second time. If it is passed, I intend to
move its referral to our Standing Comnittee
on Banking, Trade and Commerce.
[English]
On motion of Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince),
debate adjourned.
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at
2 p.m.

SENATE DEBATES

September 29, 1970

APPENDIX
(See p. 1417)
CANADA CORPORATIONS ACT
BILL TO AMEND-REPORT

Wednesday, September 23, 1970
The Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce to which was referred Bill C-4, intituled: "An Act to amend
the Canada Corporations Act and other statutory provisions related to the subject matter
of certain of those amendments", has in
obedience to the order of reference of June
23, 1970, examined the said bill and now reports the same with the following amendments:
1. Page 6: Strike out lines 12 to 24, inclusive, and substitute therefor the following:
"(2) A company incorporated by Special
Act of the Parliament of Canada
(a) whose objects do not include any of
the objects mentioned in subsections (2)
to (4) of section 5 or mentioned in sections
5A to 5c, or
(b) whose objects do include any of the
objects referred to in paragraph (a) but
the company has not been carrying on
any of those objects for five or more
years,
may apply for letters patent continuing the
company under this Part if at the time of
the application the company is carrying on
business and the application is authorized
by a resolution approved by three-fourths
of the votes cast at a special general meeting of the shareholders of the company."
2. Page 7: Strike out line 12 and substitute
therefor the following:
"ter may, by the letters patent, reduce,
limit or"
3. Pages 9 and 10: Strike out lines 24 to 38,
inclusive, on page 9, and lines 1 to 9, inclusive,
on page 10, and substitute therefor the following:
"(2) The letters patent or supplementary
letters patent of a public company may
declare the company to be a constrainedshare company when the company is one in
respect of which any class or description of
persons may not have a significant or con-

OF COMMITTEE

trolling interest, directly or indirectly, in
its shares or any class or classes thereof if
(a) the company is to qualify under any
other Act of the Parliament of Canada or
any regulations thereunder
(i) for any licence or permit to carry
on or continue its undertaking or any
part thereof in Canada, or
(ii) as a Canadian newspaper or periodical, or
(b) any other company in which the company has a direct or indirect interest
through the holding of shares in other
corporations is to qualify
(i) under any Act of the Parliament of
Canada or any regulation thereunder
for any licence or permit to carry on
or continue its undertaking or any part
thereof in Canada, or
(ii) as a Canadian newspaper or periodical under any Act of the Parliament of Canada.
(3) The letters patent or supplementary
letters patent of a public company may declare the company to be a constrained-share
company when the company is one that is
incorporated with the objects of investing
in the shares of other corporations and it
has a significant or controlling interest
directly or indirectly through the holding of
shares in a federally incorporated trust, insurance, loan, small loans or sales finance
company."
4. Pages 10 and 11: Renumber subsections
(3) to (8), inclusive, of proposed section 38A
as subsections (4) to (9), inclusive.
5. Page 11: Strike out lines 23 and 24 and
substitute therefor the following:
"(9) A company that contravenes subsection (6) of this section is guilty of"
6. Page 14: Immediately after line 27 add,
as subsection (3) of proposed new section 98,
the following:
"(3) Subparagraph (iii) of paragraph (b)
of subsection (1) does not apply to a trust
company that exercises control or direction

September 29, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

as a trustee over the equity shares of a
public company carrying more than ten per
cent of the voting rights attached to all
equity shares of the public company for
the time being outstanding unless the trustee
corporation exercises such control or direc,
tion on behalf of any one person who
beneficially owns, directly or indirectly,
equity shares of the public company carrying more than ten per cent of the voting
rights attached to all equity shares of the
company for the time being outstanding."

(b) if such further proposal does not
receive the favourable vote of a majority
of the votes cast in regard thereto at the
meeting of shareholders at which it is
presented, the sum deposited shall be
used by the company to meet its expenses
in connection with such proposal, and
the surplus, if any, of the sum deposited
shall be returned to the person who made
the deposit."

12. Page 40: Strike out line 3 and substitute therefor the following:
7. Page 19: Strike out line 16 and substitute
"other relevant order as to the judge seems
therefor the following:
fit."
"and who wilfully fails so to do is guilty
of an"
13. Page 42: Strike out lines 5 to 20, inclusive, and substitute therefor the following:
8. Page 25: Strike out line 16 and substitute
"112. (1) Five or more shareholders
therefor the following:
holding shares representing in the aggregate
"holders, and"
not less than one-tenth of the issued capital
9. Page 25: Strike out line 21 and substitute
of the class of shares of the company may
therefor the following:
apply, or the Minister on his own initiative
"agent, and
may cause an application to be made, to
(c) to each recognized stock exchange in
the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission
Canada on which the shares of the comestablished under the Combines Investigpany are listed."
ation Act (hereinafter called the Commission), upon reasonable notice to the com10. Page 31: Strike out line 20 and substipany or other interested party or ex parte
tute therefor the following:
if the Commission is of the opinion that
"(5) A person who wilfully fails to comply
the giving of notice would in view of the
with"
allegations made by the applicants or on
11. Page 39: Immediately after line 32, add
behalf of the Minister unduly prejudice
the following:
any investigation that might be ordered
"(9) Whenever, pursuant to subsection
by the Commission, for an order directing
(8), a company makes an assertion based
an investigation of the company in respect
on matters of law, the directors and officers
of which the application is made."
of the company may, subject to section
1061, rely on an opinion of counsel in
14. Page 42: Strike out lines 21 to 25,
making such an assertion.
inclusive, and substitute therefor the follow(10) A shareholder who, within the five ing:
calendar years preceding the meeting at
"(2) Where it is shown to the Commission
which any further proposal of his to be
by the Minister or upon the solemn declarpresented, has submitted two or more proation of the applicant shareholders that
posals that have not received the favourable
there are reasonable grounds for believing
vote of a majority of the votes cast in
that in respect of the company concerned,"
regard thereto, shall be required to deposit
with any such further proposal a sum
15. Page 42: Strike out lines 33 to 35, inclusreasonably sufficient to meet the expenses
of the company in submitting any such
ive, and substitute therefor the following:
further proposal; and
"have been performed wrongfully in a
(a) if such further proposal receives the
manner prejudicial to the interests of any
favourable vote of a majority of the votes
shareholder;"
cast in regard thereto at the meeting of
16. Page 43: Strike out line 6 and substitute
shareholders at which it is presented, the
sum deposited shall be returned to the therefor the following:
"fraud, misfeasance or other misconduct,"
person who deposited the same; or
22481--461

SENATE DEBATES

September 29, 1970

17. Page 43: Strike out lines 18 to 25,
a holding company that files such consoliinclusive, and substitute therefor the followdated financial statements in accordance
ing:
with paragraph (b) of subsection (1)."
"(4) Where an application is made under
22. Page 77: Strike out line 12 and substisubsection (1) by shareholders, the applicant
shareholders shall give the Minister reason- tute therefor the following:
"year or to both, and every person who
able notice thereof; and the Minister and
knowingly"
the company or any other party who has
been given notice of the application, or an
23. Page 77: Strike out line 18 and substiauthorized representative of any of them, is
entitled to appear in person or by counsel tute therefor the following:
"pany who knowingly authorizes, permits
to examine the application and supporting
or acqui-"
material, to cross-examine the applicants
and to be heard at any hearing of the
24. Page 81: Strike out lines 25 to 33, inapplication."
clusive, and substitute therefor the following:
18. Page 50: Strike out line 20 and substitute
"shares or class of shares of a corporation
therefor the following:
would
"(4) Any person who wilfully fails"
(i) preclude the corporation or any corporation in which it has a direct or
19. Page 52: Immediately after line 14 add
indirect interest through the holding of
the following as subsection (2) of proposed
shares in other corporations, as the
section 112C.
case may be, from qualifying for any
"(2) Nothing in section 112, 112B or this
licence or permit pursuant to any Act
section compels the production by a solicitor
described in subsection (2) of section
of a document containing a privileged com38A, or
munication made by or to him in that
(ii) preclude, under an Act of the Parcapacity or authorizes the taking of possession of any document in his possession
liament of Canada, the exercise of the
without the consent of this client or an
voting rights attached to any shares of
order of a court."
a federally incorporated trust, insurance, loan, small loans or sales finance
20. Page 53: Strike out lines 12 to 19, incompany held by that corporation, or
clusive, and substitute therefor the following:
any other corporation in which it holds
"(4) Upon the termination of the investishares, at a meeting of the shareholders
gation, the Commission may order that any
of such trust, insurance, loan, small
security given pursuant to subsection (3) be
returned to the applicant but if the Comloans or sales finance company;
mission holds that the application was vexabut if the "constrained-class""
tious or malicious it may"
21. Page 63: Strike out lines 6 to 13, inclusive, and substitute therefor the following:
"(4) For the purposes of paragraph (b) of
subsection (3), the gross revenues and total
assets of any other company with which a
private company mentioned in the said
paragraph (b) is affiliated within the meaning of section 121B shall be included in the
gross revenue and the total assets of that
private company, unless the financial statements of the private company and its affiliates, if any, are consolidated with those of

25. Page 106: Renumber clause 36 as clause
37 and insert the following as new clause 36:
"36. Compliance with provincial legislation, wherever relevant, shall not exempt
any company to which the Canada Corporations Act applies from compliance with
the provisions of that Act."
Respectfully submitted.
Salter A. Hayden,
Chairman.

September 30. 1970

SENATE DEBATES
SNT
EAE

THE SENATE

Wednesday, September 30, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
TAX REFORM
REPORT 0F BANKING, TRADE AND COMMERCE
COMMITTEE ON WHITE PAPER

Hon. Salter A. Hayden: Honourable senators, 1 desire to table at titis time the report
of the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce in connection with
The White Paper Proposais for Tax Reform,
which was referred by the Senate in November of last year to this committee with instructions to examine and report upon it.
May I suggest that, if the Senate concurs,
titis report be printed as an appendix to
Senate Hansard of today and also in the
Journals of today?
The Han. the Speaker: Is it agreed, honourable senators?
Hon. Senalors: Agreed.
(For text of report see Appendix to today's
Hansard.)
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Honourable senators, as
you can see, the report I have tabled is a reasonably substantial document. It occurred to
me that an understanding of seine of its
aspects and the points developed in it might
be facflitated by *a brief explanation of the
important headings, an-d perhaps I might be
allowed at this time to proceed in somewhat
the saine manner as I did last evening in connection with another report.
The Han. the Speaker. Honourable senators, is it agreed that the honourable Senator
Hayden be a]iowed to make a statement?
Han. Senators: Agreed.
Han. Mr. Hayden: The WMtte Paper referred to the Standing Senate Committee on
Banking, Trade and Commerce deals with
many questions that might be considered to
be part of the hard core of proposais for tax
reform, while others could be grouped under
a heading that would embrace the types of
amendments proposed from year to year in
the annual revisions of the Income Tax Actthat is, if more revenue is needed, the rates

of individual income tax, surtax, and so on,
may be increased, and there may be amendments which, because the Income Tax Act in
respect of certain matters is not as explicit
as it might be, are designed to close off the
use, or as the income tax people might say,
the misuse or exploitation of those areas. We
have had to look at this in the overail picture.
In the course of this study it became apparent
that there were certain elements in the report
with a very particular attraction and interest
for the general public.
Our hearings commenced on January 28
this year and concluded on June 24, during
which time we heard approximately 118
briefs. That is not a compietely correct
representation, because in some cases there
were group representations and in others
associations which. represented a variety of
membership. There were, for instance,
representations by the Retail Merchants Association, the Chamber of Commerce, the
British Columbia Forest Products Association,
et cetera.
In setting dates for, hearings we attempted
in the overail to arrive at a cross-section
representation of the views of people concerned with particular phases of the economy
and operations and the effect of taxes upon
them. In this manner we succeeded in hearing
groupings representing a fairly good crosssection of representations from, people who
would be concerned by various aspects of
this report.
Having said that, it appears to me that
there are certain headings upon which. I
might remark briefly. The most important
single one is individual rates of income tax
as affected by the proposais in the White
Paper. Second in importance is the proposed
capital gains tax. The third heading would
be integration. The fourth, and maybe it
should be at the head of the list, having
regard to the volume and forcefu]ness of
representation, is the small business. Next
are the extractive industries, which include
mining, oul and gas. Then I will briefly cail
your attention to what the White Paper
proposes in connection with entertainment
expenses, dividend tax credit and the public
utilities in the electric, gas and steam fields,
and how it is proposed to treat them. That
will not require much time.
I think I should at the beginning tell you
the guidelines that we followed. The White
Paper itself proposed certain guidelines in
its approach. I do not; think we can quarrel
particularly with those; however, we made
our definition, I think narrower and more

SENATE DEBATES
concentrated, as you will see when I make
reference to it.
In the White Paper the concept of guidelines that should govern and was governing
consideration of the White Paper proposals
was fairness in taxation, and any concept
should interfere as little as possible with
incentives to work and invest, and with the
directions our economy may follow in meeting
demands of consumer and foreign markets,
and the continuing need for a spur-you may
call it an incentive-in certain kinds of industry. This is in a narrow gauge the sort
of concept with which the White Paper proposals were introduced.
You will see in our report a written prologue. When we started we had no idea that
there would be a prologue, but it became
necessary when certain releases were made
by the Government during the course of our
hearings, the last one being August 26 of
this year. We felt that these had to be dealt
with, because they trenched on some of the
points we had already developed in the
preparation of our report. We decided that a
prologue was the place to deal with two
things: one, to put in proper perspective some
basic observations that were necessary to
any proper study of the White Paper proposals; the other, to deal with changes in the
White Paper on Proposals for Tax Reform
proposed by the Minister of Finance after the
publication of the White Paper in November
last year.
On page 1 of the prologue you will read
the following:
Canada is, of necessity, a capital importing country.
That statement was firmly established in all
the representations made to us and is generally acknowledged as true by those who are
familiar with economics, the economie structure, the industrial life of Canada, the operations of the extractive industry and even
small business. The second point was the
competition for capital, particularly risk
capital, which is the area of capital that may
be required in mining operations and in the
oil and gas industry. The point we were developing was that:
The competition for capital, including risk
capital, in world markets makes it necessary that Canada meets such competition
or suffer a diminution in capital inflow
with disastrous effect on our economic
growth, prosperity and standards of
living. The guidelines for Canadian tax
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

Septembér 30, 1970

policy in these circumstances must blend
equity with our capital needs and maintenance of our competitive position in the
export market.
That seems so obvious that that statement
might almost be considered trite. We say:
It is not enough to achieve equity in
taxation if it takes place at the expense
of reduced economie growth. We cannot
afford to put a chill on the initiative of
our industry and all those people who
are making such increased economic
growth possible.
In our summation we say:
Your committee will examine the
proposals in the White Paper in the light
of these self-evident truths and in an
objective way so that fairness in taxation
and recognition of the tax position of our
lower income groups can be harmonized
with the needs of our country to keep
up its economic growth, to encourage the
inflow of capital and expansion of exports
and to maintain our competitive position
in the world markets. Sharing the tax
burdens equitably is an excellent principle, but the other objectives so necessary to be maintained must be harnessed
with them so that our economic growth
and world trade status is not adversely
affected.
This is the basis upon which we proceeded
and this is the basis of our approach to the
analysis of the proposals in the White Paper
and the recommendations which you will find
in the report. I would point out that we have
aimed at producing a very clear and easy-toread report. The index is extensive so that
you may with reasonable ease find the page
reference of a particular item for which you
are looking. We have also incorporated in
the beginning of the report a summary of
the proposals, of how the committee dealt
with the proposals, either by way of rejection,
modification or recommendation of their
acceptance.
I should also mention that I have tabled
this report in the English text, because the
French text could not proceed into translation
until the English text was ready. The French
text and its translation has been completed,
but I expect that printing and other problems
may delay its availability until perhaps the
end of this week. In the meantime, we have
had translated part of the material which you
have received, for those who wish to look at
the French text.

September 30. 1970

SENATE DEBATES

The summary of the recommendations of
the committee are in French, and the French
edition of the report itself will be available as
quickly as possible. We did not lose sight of
the need that this should be communicated in
both languages to the people of Canada. Having said that, may I deal first with individual
rates.
The proposal in the White Paper fundamentally involves increasing what are called
the basic exemptions to married persons and
to single persons. For single persons, the
increase in the exemption is $400-from $1,000
to $1,400. One really must look at that as
being $1,500 because there is a medical and
donations item where, instead of furnishing
details as to medical expenses, donations, and
so on, one may take a lump sum of $100 as
an exempt item. Therefore, when talking
about single persons and their basic exemptions, talk about $1,500 for the total of the
basic exemption.
For persons with married status, the increase is from $2,000 up to $2,800. Again, one
must take into consideration that factor of
$100, which means talking in terms of $2,900.
The White Paper estimates that the effect
of these increases on 1969 estimated taxpayers
and their incomes would be to remove approximately 750,000 taxpayers from the tax
rolls, and therefore lessen the tax revenues
by whatever amount those people contributed
in taxes. So we have the disappearance from
the tax rols of this group of people, representing approximately 750,000 persons, by
reason of the increase in the exemptions.
Then there is the group in between, which
is represented by about three million taxpayers. If you take the actual statistical
figures for 1967, which are the figures that we
used, they would be the group up to $3,000
for a single person and up to $8,500 for
people with married status.
In that grouping, the benefit of the increased exemption and the graduated rate of
tax increase in that grouping is such that
some part of the benefit of the increased
exemption is enjoyed until a single person
reaches $3,000 of income-on the basis of the
1967 figures-and a married person reaches
the figure of $8,500.
The authors of the White Paper provided
us with some information, during the course
.of the hearings we conducted, in which they
indicated to us the percentage basis on which
they translated or transposed the 1967 actual
figures to 1969 estimated figures to see what
the result would be.

1435

On the basis of the percentage increases
which they allocated to increases in salaries
and wages, increases in interest and dividends, and things of that character, the figures they talked about in 1969 in the White
Paper are $3,400 for a single person and
$9,100 for a married person.
The relative figures on actual 1967 figures
are the figures that I have mentioned-$3,000
for a single person and $8,500 for a person
with married status.
The White Paper proposed that this broadening of the exemption be extended to every
taxpayer. The net result of all that-on the
figures in the White Paper-showed a loss of
tax revenue of $1 billion. You see that in
Table 15 on page 95 of the White Paper.
In the increases in rates proposed in the
White Paper to replace that loss of revenue,
an item of $1,225 million is shown as the
amount which the increases in graduated
rates, et cetera, would recover for the Crown.
So in that area alone you can see that in
relation only to the graduated rates the proposed rates would produce $225 million more
than the loss of revenues.
In our analysis of this we felt that there
was something basically wrong in that approach. That is an approach by which you
grant increased exemptions to a group of
almost three million taxpayers who would be
in the category of single persons over $3,000
of income and married persons over $8,500 of
income, and then you proceed by increases
in graduated rates to tax back not only the
full amount of the increases in exemptions
but also to provide additional tax to make
up for the loss of revenue by taking 750,000
people off the tax rolls and by not taxing
away completely the increased exemptions
on the second group until they get to the
area of $3,000 for single persons and $8,500
for married persons.
As a result of an analysis we have made,
the figures of which have been verified by
our tax consultants, we determined that in
granting the benefits to the first two groups
-that is, the group which disappears from
the tax rolls and those who, up to a certain
amount of income, receive some benefit from
the broadened exemptions-there would be a
net loss. In other words, the total cost to
Canadian tax revenues by reason of doing
that on the actual 1967 figures in the tax
statistics would amount to $157 million.
We made another calculation which showed
that in relation to the next group-that is
the third group who represent 44 per cent of

1436

SENATE DEBATES

the taxpayers of Canada, amounting to over
2,800,000 taxpayers-the increased tax in
order to take back the benefits of the increased exemptions and to provide for income to take up the loss of revenue in the
first two groups of low income, the increase
to Canada by reason of that in tax revenues
would be $239 million.
We analyzed the position to determine
whether it was necessary to give these exemptions to this third class of higher income
people and then to tax them away from them.
We concluded with the recommendation that,
by reason of certain factors, what we should
do is not grant any increased exemption beyond the $1,400 and $2,800 to those taxpayers
who come in that third category representing
44 per cent of the taxpayers of Canada. By
that means, we do not have to tax it back.
If you were going to levy any increase in tax
in that group, it should only be to produce the
loss of revenue caused by granting the full
non-taxable position to the 750,000 people and
the partial benefit, by reason of the increased
exemption, to the second group. We have
made our position very clear as to why we
think this is the right approach. You will see
that we discuss it on page 17 of the report.
We say that if the plan which we propose is
followed, so far as single persons with incomes over $3,000 per year and married
persons with incomes over $8,500 per year
are concerned, even if they receive no part
of the increased exemptions, the loss of revenue would not be anywhere near the
estimated loss of $1 billion according to Table
15 in the White Paper, and it would not be
necessary to raise the rate schedules, a step
which your committee feels would be disastrous to the middle income group.
In dealing with alternative sources we
present two situations for your consideration;
one concerns the alternatives in our recommendations by which the loss of revenue can
be made up. For instance, there is the natural
increase in salaries, wages, interest and dividend which even in the White Paper is
shown to be substantial as between 1967 and
1969. With this growth the tax rate produces
more revenue even at the current rate, and in
our view it could be expected that the proposed course of action should be not to increase the rates in the higher brackets at
this time, but to wait and see the outcome
over a year or two years of operation to see
whether the swelling in the interim and the
increases resulting from the extra revenues
produced even at the present rate could take
up the slack and fill the gap.
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

September 30, 1970

We also felt that since the White Paper
proposed a capital gains tax, which we support in principle but applied in a different
way, there would be substantial revenue
from that source, and that there would also
be substantial revenue, possibly $60 or $65
million through eliminating the lower rate
of corporate tax on corporations generally,
other than those which qualify in our view
as large corporations. In other words, honourable senators, in our proposals we suggest
that these two items would produce a certain
amount of additional tax revenue. The lower
rate of corporate tax would still be available
to small businesses, but the income that would
flow back, without withdrawing that rate
from those corporations whose operations
would still qualify them as small businesses,
would produce, from our studies, approximately $60 to $65 million a year and go to
reduce a loss of revenue on the basis of 1967
figures of $157 million on our proposal.
Our summation is that having regard to
that amount of money representing loss of
revenue with these available sources to
produce substantial additional income and
with the proposals in the White Paper, many
of which we support, by which new elements
of income are added to the income tax base,
if you bring into taxable income things like
unemployment insurance and payments of
various kinds by which additional income tax
and tax revenues would be produced, there
would be an increase in the amount of
taxable income.
Now, honourable senators, I think the minister was finally very upset. In fact, if you
read the release which he made in June of
this year, you will see he was attempting to
rebut the statements that have been broadly
made by almost everybody who appeared before us and, indeed in the press, that this
increase in taxes and tax revenues in the fitth
year would amount to some $630 million,
without any budgetting or any accounting for
the need of it, which would come directly out
of the savings of this third group of people
representing 44 per cent of the individual
taxpayers in Canada. He was at some pains
in his release to say that it was not the intention of the Government to take any more tax
revenue to replace lost tax revenue than the
amount of tax revenue which was produced
in 1969. In order to make sure of that, he gave
the undertaking in this letter, on behalf of
the Government, that there would be attached
to any legislation a schedule of five rates of
tax upon the individual's income, one for

September 30. 1970

SENATE DEBATES

each year of the first five years of the operation of the White Paper proposals, and the
rates would be geared in an effort to take
from the taxpayers in that third and higher
income group only the amount of additional
revenue that was required to bring up the
revenues for the year to equal the 1969 tax
revenues. This corroborates the view which
I have stated as being the view of the committee.
If we make that assumption, then that is
the logical and practical way of dealing with
it, in my view and the view of the committee.
The gap that has to be filled, having regard to
the additional sources of income which wil
become available even under our recommendations, will be a narrow one and, therefore,
it may very well be filled to overflowing by
the increases in wages and salaries, dividends
and interest income, which will quite obviously produce more tax revenues in each
succeeding year. If it does not, and if we are
not able to achieve that progression, some
disaster is going to occur as far as the economic growth of Canada is concerned.
So, in those circumstances, the logical and
practical approach is to make these changes.
We certainly approve of removing these people from the tax rolls, and we certainly
approve of the benefit given to the second
group, to the extent the White Paper proposals give that benefit. But we say: Let us
wait. Do not put into effect tax rates which
may gouge unnecessarily the people in the
third group of taxpayers, representing 44 per
cent of the taxpayers, and let us see how
this proposed tax system works out. Will it
generate enough additional tax income to
bring the revenues up to the total amount in
1969? In the opinion of your committee and
our tax consultants, this method would be
more practical and, for the reasons I have
stated, it is quite likely to generate more
than sufficient additional tax revenue to take
care of this so-called gap or loss in tax
revenue by giving these benefits to certain
groups of our taxpayers.
Having said that, I would refer you to the
Prologue and to pages 16 and 17, in which
this subject is developed. It is also developed
in the body of the report, at pages 53 and
54, under the heading where we are dealing
with the White Paper proposals for the individual and his family.
I would now like to move on, hopefully at
a faster rate, to deal with capital gains. You
are all familiar witt the capital gains proposals in the White Paper, but just in passing

I should say that all gains were to be subject
to a capital gains tax based on a valuation of
whatever the asset was at the valuation
date, which is proposed to be some time
between the date of publication of the White
Paper and the time when the new legislation
comes forward. It is proposed that these
gains be taxed at the marginal rate of the
taxpayer; in other words, they would be income. You can see immediately that in those
circumstances the effect of capital gains might
be to push a person who made a gain into
a higher bracket of income tax rates, and
therefore higher income. Of course, losses
were to be offset in the same way, against
income.
Elsewhere in the world the approach to
the capital gains tax is different. In other
words, the capital gains tax is a separate and
distinct tax and is not identifiable in any way
with income. This is the course which we
adopted, and this is the format of the capital
gains tax system in the United States.
Our proposal with regard to the capital
gains tax was that there should be a shortterm capital gain, where you buy and sell and
realize in less than a year. Our conclusion
and recommendation is that that gain or that
loss should be treated just the same as any
other income of a person who is operating
in that field. I think in the committee I
characterized the gain you make in less than
a year as being a "fast buck." This looks like
the character of a transaction designed to be
speculative and to make a quick return.
We recognized a second category, that of
long-term gains and long-term losses, and
we provided for a capital gains tax which
would be the lower of half the marginal rate
of the taxpayer or 25 per cent of the gain.
So that even on a 50 per cent tax rate, half
the marginal rate would be 25 per cent, and
then this would be exposure to tax.
We did make this difference as far as
losses are concerned. We provided that if you
have a long-term loss you must write it off
against your long-term gain. In other words,
you cannot have recourse to your income source
to make any such write-off, but we did provide in the report, as you will see, that if the
person making the long-term loss does not have
enough current gains to take care of it, he
will be entitled to carry the loss back over
the three previous years and forward for the
next eight years. So we are giving him a fair
run, and we thought that he should have a

1438

SENATE DEBATES

reasonable period of time in which to make
the recovery of the loss.
That is generally our position in relation
to capital gains, but we went further.
The White Paper proposes to tax the principal residence and farms, and that would be
taxable on the gain at whatever the marginal
rate of tax was, with an allowance of, I think,
$1,000 a year for each year since the publication of the White Paper in which the owner
has been in occupation of the premises. Canadians being basically homeowners and residers, on this concept of principal residence we
say, that we should have a little more respect
for principal residence, and we should look on
that as something apart. In our recommendations we have favoured the proposal of the
Province of Ontario in its brief, namely, that
on the sale of a principal residence the vendor
or his spouse shall be entitled to a net lifetime
exemption of $50,000. In other words, when
his property is valued at valuation date, he
could make up to $50,000 of increase or gain
on the sale without being subject to any capital gains tax.
We thought that some recognition should
be given to the character of the home, and
what the owner may have put into it, what
his plans were in connection with doing that,
and what he intended to realize out of it in
the way of security later on. But we went one
degree further, and provided for a roll-over.
By that I mean that if a person or his spouse
in fact sells the principal residence and reinvests the money in another home within a
year then there is a roll-over of any gain that
might otherwise fall from the transaction, and
there is a deferment of any tax on the gain.
Let us assume that a man has a home and
sells it for $50,000, and let us also assume
that he has made a gain of $20,000 on the
sale. Then his lifetime exemption of $50,000
is only eaten up in part. He could defer
and save that part by roll-over, by reinvesting in another home for which
he might pay the equivalent of the purchase
price. Or, let us assume that he got more
than $50,000 of gain when he sold the home.
If he reinvested within a year, then any
capital gains liability in relation to that
would be deferred until such time as he
might again sell the home.
Then we felt that the farmers were entitled to consideration in relation to farms,
and we inserted a provision dealing with
farms and orchards. This is a matter in regard to which Senator Phillips and I obtained
a bit of newspaper publicity. We were not
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

September 30, 1970

looking for publicity, but we thought it was
a fair way of dealing with this farm situation.
We grouped farms and orchards together
because we received a wonderful presentation
from the orchard operators in the Maritimes.
How to go about valuating a farm is a
difficult question. First of all, the market is
not great, and, secondly, it changes with the
demand for the product, and such things as
that. Again, we did not take completely the
recommendation of the Province of Ontario
but we came close to it. We decided that a
farmer or his spouse, whose principal business was farming, was, in the event of a
sale of the farm property or the orchard,
entitled to a net lifetime exemption of
$75,000 before any gain could be drawn into
a capital gains tax. We provided in that case
also for a roll-over, so that if by any chance

there was a reinvestment and a gain made
over and above the exemption, then the tax
would be deferred. We thought that that was
fair and reasonable treatment for this sector.
Again, it was represented to us that farmers
in the course of a lifetime look upon their
farms as being part of that which is going
to provide security for them when they get
older, and that many things they do to appreciate the value of the farm and to develop and improve its productive qualities
are all done with the design of building up
security. Instead of putting the money into
a pension fund or a registered retirement
savings plan, this is their savings plan and
this is their form of pension.
We thought that we should translate that
into terms of some sort of exemption from
capital gains tax that could be looked upon
as being reasonably fair in the circumstances.
Hon. Mr. Argue: May I ask the honourable
senator a question?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Yes.
Hon. Mr. Argue: Would the $75,000 suggested exemption from capital gains tax for
a farmer be allowed over and above the
$50,000 exemption on a home for the same
farmer, or is that really in lieu of the
$50,000 exemption?
Hon. Mr. Hayden: No. They are two different categories. When we talk about the
principal residence we are not talking about
the character of a farm, so these are two
different situations.
Hon. Mr. Argue: Presumably, a farmer
might have both exemptions if he qualified?

September 30. 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. Hayden: He might, but if he had the shareholders you would create what
that principal residence on the farm, that would be a creditable tax representing some
portion of the corporate tax paid by the
would be part of the farm property.
corporation as a deduction from your diviHon. Mr. Argue: And the exemption would dend and, therefore, reduce your tax payable.
This eut in many directions, and in our view,
be just $75,000?
many of them were very bad.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Yes.
For instance, the extractive industries-the
Hon. Mr. Argue: Which is not very much. mining, oil, and gas industries-enjoy incenwhich operate currently on a basis that
Hon. Mr. Hayden: Well it is much tives otherwise taxable income is reduced by
their
better than the White Paper proposes-it does the amount of the incentive, and to another
not propose anything. We felt we were doing group of industries grants are made to assist
justice to the position of the farmer and the in the development of whatever their operaresident of the city, and we also felt that we tions may be. The net result of all these
were acting fairly with respect to the tax things is to reduce what would otherwise be
revenues of the country. Other people may the taxable income of the corporation, and
have different views, but this was the con- therefore the amount of tax paid. That was
sensus.
the purpose of the incentive. But, incidentally,
I might say that while this is one of the it would also reduce the creditable tax to
recommendations that the Province of Ontario which the shareholder is entitled. This is just
made in its brief, it is something that we tried one of the grounds upon which we were
out. We put many of these ideas to the dif- opposed to this.
ferent groups of people who appeared before
We were opposed as well to the differential
us. The farmers who appeared before us
this way: "Well, between widely-held and closely-held comexpressed their concern
defined as
having regard to the way in which prices of panies. A closely-held company is
which are not
farms are depressed, then we will be hit by a company the shares of
Any coma certain valuation on valuation day, but if registered on any stock exchange. depending
situation so pany might have that designation,
there is an upturn in the market
A
far as production is concerned we may run upon the limited number of shareholders.
inta a very healthy capital gains tax." So widely-held company is one whose shares
comthe committee decided to take it on this basis. would be traded on an exchange, or a
pany which the minister in his discretion
We did not know how to go about doing a
valuation. In any event, this is the recom- might classify as a widely-held company.
mendation.
Closely-held corporations were subject to
Honourable senators, I think those are the corporate taxation at the full rate, but when
principal points in connection with a capital dividends came through to the shareholders
gains tax-at least, these are the points that they got a 100 per cent credit for the corpohit the public mind, and which are of great rate tax paid. In relation to the widely-held
interest so far as the public is concerned.
companies there was only a 50 per cent
felt that
I should tell you something about integra- credit for corporate tax paid. Werelation to
tion. "Integration" is a word that has a the effect of this, particularly in would be
variety of meanings, but it takes on a special the mining, oil and gas industries, operations
in growth
meaning in the White Paper, that of grossing to discourage investment
yield would be subthe corporation tax and the dividends paid by in Canada because the encourage investment
the corporation so as to give credit to the stantially less. It would
by non-residents beshareholder who receives the dividend for in this type of company be subject to this
been cause they would not
some part of the corporate tax that bas
creditable tax position.
paid.
that we have
May I point out the enumeration on page
At the beginning I might say
rejected completely and out of hand the 32 of our reasons for recommending entirely
introduction of any system of integration against the adoption of an integrated sysbased upon the proposals in the White Paper, tem. First, there is the great administrative
and there is a number of reasons for doing difficulties in endeavouring to provide the inthat. You will find the sum total of them at formation to the shareholder, because he
page 32 of the committee's report. I should needs it from the company. We were shown a
tell you that the theory was that by inte- draft statement of instructions prepared in
degrating corporation taxes and dividends to the income tax division as a temporary this.
scription of a method of dealing with

SENATE DEBATES
It consisted of some 20 pages, and was very
complex. You can imagine the poor taxpayer
trying to assemble this information and interpret it. As a matter of fact, some witnesses
told us that there would not be even enough
chartered accountants in Canada to do this
within any reasonable time limit. Therefore,
our objections are that great administrative
difficulties will be encountered in determining the creditable tax on dividends. Even if
the system can be made workable the result
will be a loss of revenue to Canada estimated at $140 million in the first year and
$250 million in the fifth year of the system.
Our candid view was that that is too great
a price to pay for the introduction of this type
of system which we feel is not needed and
would not serve any purpose better or maybe
as well as would certain modifications to the
present tax dividend credit system.
The public utilities-that is steam, electric
and gas-were dealt with very unfairly by
the proposals. They were not to be entitled
to receive any creditable tax, although they
are subject to income tax. The federal authority transfers 95 per cent of that tax revenue to the provinces and the provinces say
since it has been transferred we are not going
to grant creditable tax. However, the design
and scheme of integration is the grossing-up
of corporate taxes and dividends to the shareholders. The credit in relation to the dividend
depends on the amount of corporate tax paid.
Therefore, it was a denial or a negation of
the very principle inherent in the definition
of integration as it might apply because these
utilities had paid their corporate taxes. Subsequently the minister receded from that
position in relation to subsidiaries and issued
a statement which I develop in the prologue,
with which it is not necessary for me to deal
now.
In a subsidiary and parent company situation, the creditable tax position was recognized. However, we say if there is to be integration, then they are entitled to 100 per cent
recognition. Some of the other reasons are
that Canadian investor tendencies will be distorted by favouring investment in mature,
non-expansionist, creditable tax corporations
as against growth, risk-taking corporations.
Conversely, non-resident investment tendencies will be distorted by favouring foreign
investment in growth corporations as against
creditable tax corporations. The application of
those parts of the integration system which
apply to non-residents, and the negotiation of
new tax treaties to give effect thereto will be
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

September 30, 1870

much more difficult than envisaged by the
White Paper.
Paragraph (g) is a very important one as
far as we are concerned: the integration
system will result in the reduction at the
shareholder level of incentives which had been
granted by the Government to corporations,
and, in combination with the two and onehalf year dividend pay-out rule, will ultimately gravely reduce the power of the
Government to utilize the tax system effectively to stimulate and control the economy.
The two and one-half year dividend period
is one of the features of the integration system which we call a stale-dating of surpluses. That is, a company and the shareholders receiving dividends would be entitled to creditable tax if the dividends were
paid out within a period of two and one-half
years from the time they were earned and
went into surplus. If they were not, then
the creditable tax disappeared. We felt that
this was putting undue pressure on the
board of directors, where you would have a
contest as between the policy where the company needs the money and retains earnings, as
against the shareholder's position that if he
does not receive a dividend within two and
one-half years he must pay full rates of tax.
This, generally, is what I wished to say
with respect to integration, except that I
should add that we recommend against the
acceptance of the two classifications of
widely-held and closely-held companies. As
an illustration, two companies might be competitors, one being closely held and the other
widely held. Simpson's and Eaton's, who are
competitors, is an example. When the
closely-held company paid a dividend its
shareholders would receive 100 per cent corporate tax credit; in the case of the widelyheld corporation it would be 50 per cent. We
felt that there was no justification. It is considered by the White Paper that this integration and these aspects might assist the
small business. We have a section dealing
with this in which we indicate that, first, it
is too complicated; secondly, in our view, it
will not assist. We consider that there is a
much easier and more direct way of dealing
with small business.
We also recommend against the proposal
for a five-year revaluation
of shares
of widely-held
companies.
The
White
Paper proposes that on the anniversary
date in the fifth year following the acquisition of shares they must be revalued. If there
is a gain, then there is a deemed realization,
whether or not they have been sold, and in-

September 30, 1970

EAE
SNT DEBATES
SENATE

corne tax is irnposed on the gain at the taxpayer's marginal rate. This posed tremendous
problems.
Sorne subsidiary companies in Canada of
foreign companies heeded the urgings of
an earlier Minister of Finance. A percentage of the shares were offered to the general
public in Canada. Now, this was the worst
thing in the world that such cornpanies could
have done. They certainly would not have
done it if they had known that the White
Paper was in the offing, because by offering
for instance, 25 per cent of their shares to
the public in Canada and having thern listed
on the exchange they became a widely-held
cornpany and therefore subject to this revaluation every five years. Under the White Paper
the shares of the closely-held companies are
not subi ect to such revaluation.
One brief was presented where an American
parent having approxirnately 74 per cent of
the shares of the Canadian cornpany offered
about 25 per cent for Canadian participation.
Assuming that in five years time the value of
those shares increased by $5 each, it was calculated that the tax consequences rnight be
of the order of between $30 million and $35
million. One could not possibly go out on the
mnarket and seli a million or so shares and
realize anything approaching the amount
yielded by this revaluation in five years, because there is a difference between what the
mnarket will buy and how revaluation of
shares may be carried out. The rnarket price
of those shares might be, say, $20.* It rnight
represent a rnarkup of $5 a share over a
period of five years. But you go out and try
to rnove any quantity of shares on the market, and your price goes down.
Now, there is no undertaking in the White
Paper guaranteeing that if the revaluation
produces a gain of $5 a share you will be able
to realize it 50 that you will then have the
rnoney to pay your tax. It is a concept of
gain that I have difficulty in understanding.
I have always looked on a gain as something
that I get in rny hand, wbere I have sornething
that can be realized on. But here you bave
deerned realization and the flve-year revaluation. We bave recommended. completely
agamnst that.
On gifts and bequests to rnuseums, regardless of whether they are state-owned or
privately-owned, we have made a recommendation. For instance, a gift to a provincial
rnuseurn would be exempt frorn capital gains.
]Representatives on the board of the Montreal
Museum, which is privately owned, appeared

before us, and they would have limitations in
the amount of the gift that could be given in
a year under the charitable donations provision. We feit that a museum is a museum,
whether it happens to be owned by Her
Majesty in the right of Canada or Her Majesty
in the right of the Province of Ontario, or by
the private sector, and the purpose of maintaining the museurn and of gifts and bequests
to, it is for educational purposes of the people
generally, and there should flot be any distinction as to the benefit or privilege the donor
of the gif t gives when hie makes such a gift.
We therefore say that there shouid be f ull
extension of the benefit of that gift. Under the
Income Tax Act a gift can be made to Her
Majesty and it is non-taxable, so we think this
position should apply generally.
May I move on-this is taking longer than
I expected-and now tell you about sma-l
business. Small business has smnce 1949 enjoyed this special 10w rate of tax on the first
$35,000 of income. It started out at a 10w rate.
I do not know whether it was 5 or 10 per
cent. It bas gone up until it is now about 21
per cent on the flrst $35,000 of taxable incorne. The White Paper proposes doing away
with that. We got a vast cross-section of
viewpoints fromn people who appeared before
us, even those who were flot directly interested in srnall business. Big corporations
appeared and said that they did not need to
have the benefit of that small rate on the flrst
$35,000 extended to thern. Simplicity in admirnistration when tbis was flrst brought in
gave it to everybody rather than setting up a
system where it was lirnited to small business.
It is proposed that the benefit should continue
to small business, and that a small business
should be defined, as a company where, on a
net profit basis, the net profits do not exceed
$100,000. This should be referrable to manufacturing, farming and fishing, and should not
include other extraneous income, such as investment income that such a business might
have.
We aiso provide for a notch provision. If
in any year the net profits happen to be somewhat in excess of $ 100,000, the person could
then make up bis mind whether he wanted
to attribute an arnount. If it were $102,000, in
order to get the benefit of retained earnings
on an extra $10,000 or so, he rnight be prepared to pay $2,000 of that to Her Majesty,
reduce his net profits to $100,000 and take the
benefit of the lower rate. This is not free
advice that I arn handing out today, because
this is not the law yet.

1442

SENATE DEBATES

I would suggest that honourable senators
should read pages 81 and 82 of the report
Appendix 1, which deals with the various
types of small business. There you will find
that there is a refutation of all the suggestions
that were made for dealing with this, by loans,
by capital cost allowances or accelerated depreciation. The difficulty with accelerated
depreciation is that some small businesses do
not have any substantial depreciable assets;
therefore the accelerated depreciation basis
would not mean anything to them.
Generally, we favoured retention of the
small business provision. You will find quotations from such eminent Ministers of Finance
of previous periods as Mr. Abbott and
Mr. Fleming, who at different times increased the lower rate of tax so as to provide for an element of retained earnings, because these people are not in a position to
go into the market where they can borrow,
as larger business may do. If they are to
advance, improve and enlarge their operations
they have to do it out of business earnings.
The plan of the lower rate of tax on small
business was designed to give them a larger
element of retained earnings so that they
might do that. It should be remembered that
small businesses some day grow into big
businesses, which would be good for the
economy of Canada.
Now may I move on to the extractive industries, mining and so on. This is a very
important subject, and I would suggest that
honourable senators read in the prologue
pages 5, 6, 35, 71 and 72, which will give you
the history of these operations.
The question you have to decide is a very
simple one. The White Paper says that the
mineral deposits industries-which include
mining, gas and oil-have over the years enjoyed special rules providing special incentives. We think that these industries, particularly mining, have made a tremendous contribution to the growth of Canada, especially
in areas outside the great cities, pushing into
completely virginal land to set up communities where none existed before, providing
employment, producing towns and communities, a way of life. I think the average over
the last five or ten years of the balance of
payments earnings that came from the mining
industry was of the order of $1, billion a year.
About 60 per cent of the mineral production
is exported, so it can be seen that this is a
tremendous factor.
Since their product is exported, these companies must operate on a basis in Canada
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

September 30, 1970

and be subject to tax and enjoy incentives
to the extent that they can remain truly
competitive with other places in the world,
because it must be remembered that minerals
have no nationality; they may occur anywhere. When they move into a market they
may move in from areas where there are
special incentives that enable them to compete on a better basis. Therefore, Canada
needs this sort of thinking if the mining
industry is to continue to develop as it has
hitherto.
At the risk of perhaps taking up a few
more moments I should like to refer honourable senators to exactly what has developed in the mining industry and what the
mining industry has done. Remember, the
only contest is whether the special rules are
too generous. The White Paper says it acknowledges all the contribution made and the
need for special rules, but thinks they could
get along with a less generous allowance or
incentive. In dealing with that I suggest this
for your consideration, that some wilderness
areas have been converted into well-organized
modern communities with substantial population and modern facilities by the efforts of
mining exploration and development. One
need only mention such places as Thompson,
Manitoba, Labrador City, Wabush and Murdochville, to recall the extent of regional
development in areas that were once nonproductive and are now flourishing and contributing to the tax revenues, federally and
provincially, as well as providing substantial
employment. We have the iron ore development in Newfoundland, lead and zinc in
New Brunswick, nickel in Manitoba, potash
and oil in Saskatchewan and oil and gas in
Alberta, as well as such developments in
outlying regions in Quebec, Ontario and
British Columbia where undeveloped areas
have been strengthened.
Al you have to do is mention some of
these names to realize that these developments, as the White Paper itself acknowledges,
have occurred in the undeveloped area and
contribute in large measure to the development of Canada.
I will take just a minute to tell you what
the White Paper proposes. At the present
time mines enjoy a three-year tax exemption from commencement of operations, and
during that period they pay no taxes. They
also enjoy what is called a depletion allowance, which is described as a percentage depletion allowance. It means that 33à per
cent of what would otherwise be taxable
income is exempt from tax.

Septenriber 30. 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1443

This has been the history and the pattern lines, dams, generation of power, communities,
of the special rules as far back as the thirties. et cetera, are not in the recognized area of
During those years, if you go back and con- eligible expenditures at all.
sult what the succeeding Ministers of Finance
This was the situation we were faced with,
had to say about the value of this to the and so we have made certain recommendaCanadian economy, you will see that they tions. The minister, in his letter of August 26,
were fully alive as to how much was being has recognized in certain areas the validity
given in the way of incentives and how valu- of these objections by stating that eligible
able it was for the development of Canada. expenditures will be enlarged in definition so
In any event, if these rules are used in other as to include expansion. Just what kind of
countries which you must compete with, expansion he is referring to, I do not know
then you have difficulty in competing if you yet. We will have to wait and see what the
do not operate under the same rules or some rules are. For instance, mining equipment,
reasonable facsimile thereof.
replacement of mining equipment and maThe White Paper proposes that the three- chinery would be recognized for 100 per cent
year tax exemption be withdrawn and the write-off and as part of the eligible expendipercentage depletion allowance be withdrawn tures. Also, the present corporate rate of tax
and changed to what they call earned de- on mining companies of 40 per cent would be
pletion. In other words, you must spend reduced to 25 per cent.
money on what are defined as eligible exIn the face of this letter of August 26, it
penditures which are what we cal 83A is difficult to reconcile the statements in the
Tax Act and
expenditures under the Income
White Paper that the mining companies need
represents mineral exploration and develop- special rules and they still need them and
ment. If you spend $3 on eligible expendi- incentives, but less generous than what they
tures then you are entitled to a reward or a are now enjoying. Immediately you find that
bonus of $1, which is not taxable. The limi- the less generous rules would produce taxes
tation is that if you spend in excess of 33? of 55 to 60 per cent if they were applied. In
per cent it does not count for anything. You order to meet that, the minister said that the
get no further reward, so the maximum is 40 per cent corporate rate could be reduced to
still 33à per cent.
25 per cent. That in itself is an acknowledgeIt was demonstrated before us by the com- ment of the value and the importance of this
panies who appeared that the effect of the to the industry. The industry knew what they
White Paper proposals would be to increase were talking about when they made their
their taxes to an area of somewhere between representations to us and said this will not
55 and 60 per cent. The White Paper ac- advance the position of the industry. They
knowledges that this entitles the mines to mentioned things that they would not be able
special rules. The only thing I understand by to do because of this change. Some companies
special rules is that you pay less taxes. I appeared before us and stated that they had
think that is the purpose of the incentive. no way of spending more money. They said
This would put them in a higher position that they had almost unlimited tar sands, and
taxwise than general manufacturing or any that what they did was to develop it. It was
other business.
mentioned that to earn depletion presented a
It was also demonstrated to us that under problem, that they would be unable to do it.
these new rules, the eligible expenditures
One of the iron ore companies which I feel
favoured particularly new mines that may
will benefit by the change made by the mincome into existence as against existing mines
they had thousands of tons or
which are carrying on and expanding their ister said that of tons and that they did not
an illustration, up until the maybe millions
operations. As
money for development, that
minister's letter of August 26, the cost of an need to spend
expenditures were for bringing the ore
existing mine expanding its operations would their This is a high-grade open pit operation.
not qualify as an eligible expenditure. How- out.
So, they were in a position where they could
ever, to the extent that there were any capital
items, you could write off capital cost allow- not earn it. The real difficulty was that they
ances each year. If you had to replace ma- obtained their risk capital from the special
chinery and equipment in an existing mine, kind of person who puts up risk capital, and
that would not qualify as an eligible expend- it was on terms that these special rules existiture. As far as the mines and oil and gas ed. That was the attraction. Now you wipe this
companies are concerned, they said that the attraction away. First of all, there is the
money they spend on roads, railways, power effect that if you have at your disposal 33à

SENATE DEBATES

per cent of your taxable income, you can
withdraw from taxable income and apply to
any of the obligations you have. That is a very
considerable attraction to a person putting up
risk capital, because he is putting it up on
the basis that there is no guarantee you are
going to get a mine or well, and any of these
incentives mean nothing unless you make
money. If you do not have what would otherwise be taxable income, you do not get any
benefit from it. So, this is why you have this
peculiar kind of incentive, and it has to be
what it is in order to reward those who have
that speculative flair. Even though there are
more failures than successes, they are prepared to take chances.
What we have recommended is that instead of having a three-year tax exemption
period in relation to the entire earnings during that period, 75 per cent of the earnings
should be exempt in that period. That would
leave 25 per cent taxable, and the only way
in which a mine, in those circumstances,
could avoid paying tax would be by writing
off some of its expenditures.
This was the complaint of the White Paper.
They said that in the period of this tax exemption these mines did not write off any
part of their tax exemptions, they saved them
up, and started to write them off when they
were taxable. We reached the conclusion that
we would not give them a 100 per cent threeyear tax exemption period, that we would
give 75 per cent, so that up to 25 per cent
taxable income they either pay taxes or they
bring in some of their expenditures on development and exploration so as to put themselves in a non-taxable position.
We have suggested, in order to meet all the
difficulties of the positions of so many different types of mining, oil and gas companies,
that the depletion allowance must be divided
into a 20 per cent depletion, that the fact it
is a mine or an oil or gas company in production entitles it to that 20 per cent depletion allowance, whether or not it expends
money on development, and that the balance,
up to a maximum of 331 per cent, must be
earned.
We thought that was a fair compromise,
because those who could not earn depletion
would have something to compensate them
for with respect to commitments which had
been made in the past when they thought they
were on a basis of 33A per cent depletion and
which would be carried through the piece.
There were many types of expenditures
which would not qualify at the time we wrote
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

September 30, 1970

our report, as eligible expenditures. Therefore, we thought there should be some reasonable allocation in relation to expenditures
they would make, for instance, on dams,
power sites, replacement of machinery and
equipment, and things of that kind-that they
could not earn depletion on unless they were
entitled to some percentage, or unearned depletion, as it is called.
So we divided it that way and we suggested, too, in our recommendations, that the
benefits being extended to new mines, from
the time the White Paper was published,
should to the fullest extent possible also be
extended to existing mines when they go to
carry on their operations.
Honourable senators, these points have
taken longer than I had intended, and I hope
you will pardon me. There are some other
points which I feel I must deal with in passing. For instance, there is the position of the
prospector and the grubstaker.
I am not sure that we have had any evidence to indicate this, but certainly both
the prospector and the grubstaker serve a
useful purpose. When they go out and prospect and uncover some claims, and are able
to make those claims, sometimes they get
back some money. Sometimes they get a
stake, and the stake may be in escrow shares,
depending on whether or not they ever realize
anything on them.
They were entitled to exemption. The White
Paper proposes to take that exemption away.
This is not taken away because of any disagreement on the merits of the prospector or
grubstaker, but only because with the advent
of the proposed capital gains system it would
not work on the capital gains system. So the
White Paper proposes to bring that sale of
the mineral claims into the operations of the
capital gains tax.
Our view is that these people serve a useful
purpose and if they are to be denied an
exemption which they have enjoyed for a
long period, it should be on the merits and
not merely because it is required that the
capital gains tax system be all-embracing.
I want to say a word about entertainment
expenses. Of course, the White Paper proposes to deny entertainment expenses. I found
something which I think you might find very
interesting. It is on page 28 of our report. We
discovered that in 1965 a study was made in
the income tax division on this whole question
of expense account living and the personal
use of the automobile, entertainment, and
conventions. At the end of that year, the then

September 30. 1870

SENATE DEBATES

Minister of National Revenue issued a bulletin
reporting on the study, and the summation is
on page 28.
Apart from the personal use of automobiles the Expense Account Living project did not reveal any substantial areas
of avoidance among the over $25,000 income taxpayers. We were aware of the
car problem and have been attempting to
cope with it.
Club dues is a problem that apparently
should receive the attention of Technical
and Review Sections to ensure equivalent
treatment across the country.
No major loss of tax was revealed in
one area that we were primarily concerned about, that is the use of large
assets such as yachts and hunting lodges
and in another,-wives'
travel,-the
avoidance was relatively modest.
This was the statement of the income tax
study-we know of no study since that timeand it appeared to your committee that there
was ample opportunity within the ambit of
the present Income Tax Act, that administratively all the authority exists to make a
determination as to whether the particular
expenditure has been made out for the purposes of earning income, that no further authority is needed, and the injustice and the
harm that would be done by denying expense
deductions in these areas would be tremendous.
We had a lot of evidence before us showing the educational value of conventions and
of what goes on at trade meetings, the improvement of techniques and production
facilities, and so on, gained by the exchange
of information and studies and seminars in
the course of those meetings.
Honourable senators, having said that, I
should come to the question of dividend tax
credit. We suggested that the dividend tax
credit be continued. That means that a person
who receives dividend is entitled to deduct
20 per cent of the dividend from the sum
total of the tax which would otherwise be
payable. The criticisin of the White Paper
was that it undertaxes the wealthy. It may
be that that is obvious, because the wealthy
would have more money to invest and therefore they might have a larger amount of
dividends, and therefore 20 per cent of that
would provide a higher deduction. But, by
the same token, the suin they were deducting
the 20 per cent from-namely, the taxes they

1445

would otherwise owe-would also be a much
more substantial sum.
To meet that, we have suggested that we
graduate the deduction; that is, that on the
first $500 of dividend income the taxpayer gets
a 25 per cent deduction from tax otherwise
payable. Then, on the next $4,500, he gets a
20 per cent deduction, and on any income
over $5,000 the deduction on tax otherwise
payable be 15 per cent.
I think that, by and large, this would about
equate the amount of loss of revenue from
the present 20 per cent deduction on dividend
tax credit. I think that amount of loss of
revenue is of the order of $105 million a
year.
Honourable senators, one gets so full of
this subject that it is difficult to stop the
processes from revolving. I would recommend this report to you as being readable.
The best way to read it would be to find a
desk where you can spread out the White
Paper and this report because they are correlated, and so you can look at what the
White Paper says and then look at the treatment which we propose.
I wish to refer to a passage at page 48 of
the report. At the conclusion of the White
Paper they make some assumptions as to how
well its proposals are going to work out and
how very smooth the transition over all will
be, with little or no damaging effect on the
people or on the economy. On page 48 we
have made a brief analysis of that, and I hope
you will permit the little touch of humour in
paragraph 7 on that page. This is what we
say:
In conclusion on this subject matter,
your Committee is not completely convinced that the overall conclusions of
Chapter 8 of the White Paper are necessarily grounded in fact or reflect what
will be the facts in the future. It appreciates the difficulties inherent in estimating the results of such vast changes
as the White Paper suggests (paragraph
8.5 White Paper) and it must conclude
that the estimates of results set forth in
Chapter 8 are therefore highly suspect.
If personal income taxes alone are considered (paragraph 8.7 through paragraph 8.13 White Paper) a combination
of three or more estimatesThese are al quotes from those paragraphs.
-three or more assumptions, one "might
be", one "risks of error", one "particular
sequence", one "hypothetical" and one
computer can hardly lead this Committee

SENATE DEBATES
to any sense of security that the composite results set forth in the White Paper
are much more than a pious hope.
And on that note I close the remarks I have
to make.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators,
this is not a debate; honourable Senator Hayden had asked for permission to address you
and make a statement. Is it agreed that the
Leader of the Opposition (Hon. Mr. Flynn)
should now speak following the remarks of
the honourable Senator Hayden?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
I wish to expand very briefly on the comments of the chairman of the Standing Senate
Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce
in his presentation of his report on the White
Paper Proposals for Tax Reform.
The report is quite clear, especially when
you consider its summary and its prologue
and the very helpful comments made by the
chairman. I am quite sure that honourable
senators will want to read with serious attention the report as well as the remarks made
this afternoon by Senator Hayden.
As far as my own few remarks are concerned, it is clear that the committee has accepted fewer of the proposals in the White
Paper than it has rejected. It may be said that
the proposals that the committee has accepted
were accepted in principle but that in practice the conclusions are far removed from the
original proposals. Such wide differences are
probably due to the divergent approaches by
the drafters of the White Paper as compared
to those working on the committee. Those who
drafted the White Paper did not have the
advantage of having before them in advance
all the briefs that were presented by those
who appeared before the committee. The list
of corporations, institutions and individuals
who appeared before the committee is quite
impressive, as honourable senators will note.
The drafters of the White Paper had seemed especially preocuppied with equity. They
took away what appeared to us to be some
incentives, while seeking to close some loopholes and correct some abuses.
When we considered this problem in committee we felt that it was possible to close the
loopholes and to correct the abuses without
endangering the growth of our economy. We
thought it much more important to have this
in perspective in any tax reform than it was
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

September 30, 1970

to try to seek an impossible equity in principle.
As indicated by Senator Hayden, under
the present law you can correct many of the
more obvious abuses, but you should certainly
not sacrifice the economic growth of Canada,
nor its competitive position in the financial
and export markets of the world, by drawing
very strict rules that do not really achieve
what they are seeking to achieve and which
may, in fact, result in exactly the opposite
effect.
You may think that certain of the proposals
in the White Paper will bring in more revenue, but in practice I am sure the proposals
ultimately will have exactly the opposite result. They will only serve to reduce initiative
and frustrate enterprise, thus slowing down
our growth. This, I think, is the essential
difference between the report of this committee and the original proposals in the White
Paper.
May I say that more important than having had the help of consultants with wide
knowledge and experience and having had
the co-operation of the many companies,
groups and individuals listed in the report,
the committee was very fortunate indeed to
have two really outstanding experts in the
Committee Chairman Senator Hayden, and
the Deputy Chairman Senator Phillips (Rigaud).
I would congratulate all members of the
committee for the tremendous job they did
in completing this report. I for one, as a
member of the steering committee, share responsibility in the drafting of the report,
even if I did not carry a proportionate share
of the burden of accomplishing the task. I
feel I can safely say that when this report
has been fully considered-and that may
take some weeks, because it took months
before we could really assess the White
Paper-it will be looked upon as a major
contribution to the achievement of a sensible
and equitable reform of our fiscal system in
Canada.
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, may I be allowed to comment
briefly on the remarks of Senator Hayden this
afternoon?
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed, honourable senators?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: Honourable senators,
on behalf of Senator Martin, the Govern-

Septernber 30. 1970

SENATE DEBATES

ment Leader, I want to take this opportunity
of expressing our appreciation to the members of the Standing Senate Committee on
Banking, Trade and Commerce who spent
most of the summer recess in preparing the
material that went into the report tabled
today. I feel that the explanations and comments given by Senator Hayden today have
convinced all of us of the tremendous grasp
which the people who served on that committee had of this particular subject matter,
and I am authorized to tell him and all the
members of the committee that the Government has committed itself to giving every
consideration to the report tabled here today.
I expect that when Senator Martin returns he would like to have the opportunity
of saying a few words with respect to this
report, and I know there are procedures that
can be followed which would allow him to
do that.
In conclusion, I say a very sincere thank
you to the chairman, the vice-chairman and
every member of the committee for their
diligent and worthwhile work.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
STANDARDS COUNCIL OF CANADA BILL
SECOND READING
The Senate resumed from yesterday the
adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mr.
Denis for the second reading of Bill C-163,
to provide for the establishment of a Standards Council of Canada.
Hon. Orville H. Phillips: Honourable senators, in making a few brief remarks on Bill
C-163, may I at the outset thank the honourable Senator Denis for his introduction
and at the saine time congratulate him on a
remarkable feat. It is interesting to note that
when the Government has a bill with very
little to it, and they want to build it up, they
seem to draw upon the old master of political
camouflage, honourable Senator Denis, and in
this case, as I have said, he did a remarkable
job. Here he bas taken the shell of a bill and
built it up in the manner of one who takes
the shell of a house and makes it appear as a
palatial residence.
Honourable senators, Bill C-163 is described
as being "to provide for the establishment of
a Standards Council of Canada". The first
thing that impresses one is the vagueness of
the bill, and the first question that comes to
mind is, what do they mean by a standard?
The minister in the other place said that a

standard meant a lot of different things to
different people. It is still going to mean exactly that when this bill becomes law, because
it does nothing whatever to describe a standard in any way. The bill provides for the
establishment of a council made up of a
president, vice-president and one member appointed by each of the provinces. I wonder if
each of the provinces has agreed to provide
a nominee for this committee. Perhaps when
the sponsor moves to send this bill to committee he will answer that question.
In addition to the provincial nominees,
there is provision for the appointment of at
least 41 members. In the past I have often
questioned these committees and wondered
how many favourites were left unrecognized
and unhonoured by being appointed to a
committee. In this case I am rather curious to
know how this figure of 41 was arrived at.
Last evening honourable Senator Denis mentioned that circulars were mailed to 258
organizations and that the Government is
going to appoint 41 members. This arouses my
curiousity, and for some reason or other I
would like to know why the figure of 41 was
selected.
In the other place the minister in introducing this bill mentioned that the council
would operate entirely independently of the
Government. Perhaps I am too suspicious, but
I fail to see how a council with a president,
vice-president and secretariat appointed by
the Government is going to be completely
independent and free of Government interference.
The obj ects of the council are set forth in
full, and clause 4 emphasizes "voluntary
standardization' This is a term which appears and reappears throughout the bill. But,
honourable senators, what is "voluntary
standardization"? What is meant by it?
Neither in the introduction to the bill nor in
the Hansard of the other place is there a
description of "voluntary standardization".
Who is volunteering and what form of standardization are they talking about? That is
rather a broad clause, and I am afraid it is
going to take somewhat more than voluntary
work to bring about standardization in industry and in commercial methods and practices. This is particularly the case if we refer
to a legal practice. Imagine trying to standardize that ah across the country. I wonder
if they really mean it, honourable Senator
Denis, when they go on to say that this wil
be assisting and protecting the consumer. So
I presume that "practice" there must refer
to a legal practice.

SENATE DEBATES

The second subclause, honourable senators,
refers to the powers of the council. Paragraph
(c) says that it has the power "to establish
and circulate criteria and procedures relating
to the preparation, approval, acceptance and
designation of voluntary standards in Canada in those fields."
This, honourable senators, is another
council being established outside of Parliament which will establish the criteria and
lay down the rules and never refer back to
Parliament for any form of approval. We are
continually going through these procedures.
Honourable senators, another question
arises, because all these criteria are being
laid down without laboratories or staff, except the secretariat. I believe the sponsor
said that it was expected that there would
be 28 members of the secretariat. How is the
work going to be done? In dealing with this
point let me take the case of a product coming on the market, such as a television tube.
How will this product be judged to reach a
certain standard? How will that standard be
arrived at and how will the public be advised? Perhaps in replying to the debate, the
honourable Senator Denis would be kind
enough to take this as an example and follow one item through the procedures laid
down in the bill and thus make it perhaps a
little more clear than it is at the present
time.
Section 16 refers to the employees of the
secretariat. Strangely enough, they are not
being selected by the Public Service Commission, and yet they have all these superannuation benefits and protection of employment. I do not see why the Government does
not trust the commission to select these 28
individuals. Surely, the commission is qualified to do that? They select thousands of employees each year, and I am sure the honourable senator agrees with me that they do
a remarkably good job. So, I see no reason
why they should not select the employees of
the secretariat of this council.
In the explanation of the act reference was
repeatedly made to the fact that this was
going to be a voluntary system of establishing standards, yet the Government is assuming through this council the authority to establish all the criteria and also to accredit
organizations engaged in standards formulation. This left me wondering who is to volunteer. It appears very much like the old army
system: "You, you and you are volunteering!"
You are not quite sure what you are volunteering for. I believe we are in a similar
situation with this council, that it will have
[Hon. Mr. Phillips (Prince).]

September 30. 1970

complete authority to lay down all the procedures. It will recognize only certain organizations and will have complete control over
standardization, despite all the emphasis
placed on the fact that this is "voluntary".
I thought one clause of the bill confirmed
the fact that the Government still has a sense
of humour. Clause 18 says that the council
shall be deemed to be a charitable organization.
Honourable senators, it takes a lot of imagination to anticipate the United Appeal next
year listing the Standards Council of Canada
as one of the benefitting organizations. I do
not believe the Government is taking this
bill very seriously when it lists this council
as a charitable organization.
In conclusion, I would like to make this
suggestion to the sponsor of the bill: If be
believes the Government is sincere in introducing this bill, that he have his will altered
and leave some of his surplus wealth in the
form of a bequest to the Standards Council
of Canada. Only then will I be tempted to
believe both him and the sponsor of the bill
in the other place.
Hon. Azellus Denis: Honorables sénateurs,The Hon. the Speaker: I must inform honourable senators that if the honourable Senator Denis speaks now, his speech will have
the effect of closing the debate.
[Translation]
Hon. Azellus Denis: Honourable senators,
I must thank Senator Phillips (Prince) for
his kind words to me. He was not as kindly
disposed towards the bill that I have had the
honour to introduce.
The honourable senator has asked me
several questions with regard to the voluntary
basis[English]
-the
voluntary basis, voluntary standards, the number of the members of the
council. Why is it that they decided to appoint
57 instead of 37 or 68? After all, I suppose
we have to arrive at the number of people
who could represent the most important
fields of activity in Canada, which include
manufacturing, services, distribution, performance and the like. So, one could not
appoint as many members as there are organizations or kinds of business in Canada.
We have arrived at a figure of 57, and I suppose it is an arbitrary one. It could have
been 45, 46 or 47, but I do not think there

September 30, 1970

1449

SENATE DEBATES

is much significance in it, and maybe the
officials of the department could tell you in
committee why it was set at 57. Maybe it is
a case of having a majority of some kind in
the case of a vote.
As far as the voluntary basis is concerned,
I might point out to the honourable senator
that such a voluntary basis has been working
well throughout Canada for many years. Most
of the standards have been worked out and
defined by the association which consists of
specialists in that kind of work. As a matter
of fact, if this council is established it will
be partly due to the fact that an association
like the Canadian Standards Association was
on the steering committee and approved of
its establishment. However, it does not mean
that this is going to be the only one. There
are many others, such as the Pulp and Paper
Association, but they work in just one field.
There are many fields not covered at the
present time. There might be some other
areas into which those associations could look
to make everything more generally standard
through voluntary standardization.
What is the standard based on? It is based
on quality, quantity, the components, the way
it is presented to the public. A good example
of the problems facing such a body is the
expressions used in advertisements, wherein
manufacturers of products talk about king
size, giant size, family size, small size, and
everything else. They might be able to find
ways of standardizing sizes. The council
would also participate in the international
organization.
As far as the protection of existing standardization is concerned, Section 4(3) reads as
follows:
In carrying out its objects and exercising its powers under this section, the
Coundil shall, to the greatest extent practicable, make use of the services and
facilities of existing organizations in
Canada engaged in standards formulation,
testing and certification in the fields referred to in subsection (1).

That seems to be all that I can say about
this bill at the present time. Officials from
the department will appear in committee to
answer the questions that have been asked
by Senator Phillips (Prince), if he is not satisfied with the answers I have already given
him.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE
On motion of Hon. Mr. Denis, bill referred
to the Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce.
CANADA CORPORATIONS ACT
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ADOPTED
The Senate resumed from yesterday the adjourned debate on the motion of Hon. Mr.
Hayden for the adoption of the report of the
Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce on Bill C-4, to amend
the Canada Corporations Act.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
in moving the adjournment of this debate
yesterday I said all that I had to say in connection with this report. If no other honourable senator wishes to pursue the matter,
then I suggest the report be adopted now.
Report adopted.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators,
when shall this bill, as amended, be read the
third time?
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald moved that the
bill be placed on the Orders of the Day for
third reading at the next sitting of the Senate.
Motion agreed to.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CANADA-

CARIBBEAN RELATIONS

The Senate proceeded to consideration of
the final report of the Standing Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs on Canada-CaribSo, as the honourable senator can see, the bean Relations, which was presented on June
would look after that. The 23.
same organization
work of the council is to co-ordinate the work
Hon. John B. Aird: Honourable senators, in
of those standards organizations, and to complete standardization in areas that are not ordinary circumstances I would ask that this
already covered, and at the end of the year order be allowed to stand until tomorrow, but
it will make a recommendation to Parliament. I cannot be present then, so with your indulThe council's orders will not be mandatory; gence I should like to proceed. I should tell
it is the Government who will make them you that I have a reasonably short speech to
make, and this is probably its major merit.
mandatory.

1450

SENATE DEBATES

September 30, 1970

Last June 23, when I presented the final maica, endorsed a number of the committee's
report of the Standing Senate Committee on suggestions, and added:
Foreign Affairs on Canada-Caribbean RelaWe hope that the report will not be
tions, I received leave of the Senate to
shelved and forgotten. Canada and the
make a few remarks pertaining to that docuCommonwealth Caribbean have many
ment. However, since that time several events
traditional social and economic ties. Over
have occurred relevant thereto, and as a rethe years, both sides have benefited, and
sult I have formed some further impressions
we think it would be to the advantage
about which I should like to comment.
of both to maintain and strengthen them.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is the honourable
Other similar comments have come from
senator moving the adoption of the commit- many quarters, and for this reason I would
tee's report?
like to refer to my remarks made last June
in
Hon. Mr. Aird: No, I am not moving the the this chamber. On that occasion I stressed
fact that this report was a team effort in
adoption of the report.
every sense of that phrase. I wish to pay parThe Hon. the Speaker: Am I to understand ticular tribute to the contribution made by
that a motion for the adoption of the report the vice-chairman, Senator Allister Grosart,
and by Senator Hédard Robichaud, both of
will be made at a future sitting?
whom were members of the steering comHon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable mittee. I must say-and I am very pleased
senators, I do not believe there will be a that he is here today to hear me say it-that
motion for the adoption of this report. The Senator Grosart was simply first rate, and it
Chairman of the Standing Senate Committee gives me great personal pleasure to record
on Foreign Affairs wanted an opportunity to this fact. His contribution to this committee,
explain some sections of the report, and this as well as to other committees and to the deis what he is doing now. If some honourable bates of the Senate, are, and should be, a consenator should wish to move the adoption of tinuing source of inspiration and dedicated
the report, it will be up to the house to de- example to all honourable senators.
cide whether to allow that, but the honourHon. Senators: Hear, hear.
able senator is not now asking for the adoption of his commitLee's report.
Hon. Mr. Aird: Secondly, I was pleased
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, personally that the publication of the report
is it agreed that the Honourable Senator Aird coincided so closely with that of the Governbe allowed to proceed in the same fashion as ment's foreign policy papers. The committee
the honourable Senator Hayden was allowed was able to deal in some detail with an area
to proceed yesterday in connection with an- of current interest and, I believe, to complement usefully the coverage of the Governother committee's report?
ment's review.
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
No doubt the members of the Standing
Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs were
Hon. Mr. Aird: Honourable senators, if I also gratified to see that the Government's
may proceed, firstly, I think it is fair policy on development assistance included a
to say that there has been a very number of changes of the kind recommended
lively interest indeed in the committee's in our report. These changes should greatly
forty-six conclusions and recommendations. augment the effectiveness of Canadian assisThis is certainly true if one can judge by the tance to the Caribbean and, therefore, should
media coverage, and the heavy demand for result in a general improvement of relations.
copies of the report, the supply of which I am
However, at the same time, it is worth
told has long since been exhausted. I believe
that this wide discussion of the report in recalling the committee's strong conclusion
both Canada and the Caribbean is a very about the vital role of trade in economic
healthy sign of an active public concern with development. The report concluded:
Any strategy of Canadian assistance for
issues of great mutual importance.
the long term development of the CaribI was particularly interested in Caribbean
bean should emphasize Caribbean export
reactions, and I am pleased to report that
potential.
they seem generally constructive and favourable in tone. For example, in an editorial on We hope that it will be possible for the
July 15, the Daily Gleaner of Kingston, Ja- Government to take positive action on the
[Hon. Mr. Aird.]

September 30. 1970

SENATE DEBATES

many recommendations in this area, which sions which they will wish to share with this
we believe have enormous possibilities for Chamber.
improving the quality of life for the people
In closing, may I say that, although our
of the Caribbean.
committee is in the course of planning a
study of another area of great interest, the
Thirdly, within several days of the publica- Caribbean inquiry bas made a lasting imtion of our report, the Canadian Government pression on ail of us. As a result, I am concomplied with the urgent requests of the fident that each of us will maintain a very
respective Caribbean governments for an ex- active and continuing interest in this aspect
tension of the sugar tariff rebate scheme. of Canadian external relations. Thank you.
The extension, as I understand it, is only
for a period of one further calendar year,
Hon. Mr. Burchill: Might I ask the Acting
but I am hopeful that in a spirit of co-opera- Government Leader if it is the intention to
tion and consultation, which was so strongly carry this item forward on the agenda? I
advocated by our committee, the new agri- feel that some senators will wish to discuss
cultural development fund can be planned the report, but I was under the impression
and operated to the full satisfaction of all that Senator Aird had moved its adoption.
However, evidently this is not the case.
involved.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: As I attempted to exFourthly, a further event and one of great
reassurance to the committee was the an- plain a few moments ago, it is not normal
nouncement in July that the Leader of the to move the adoption of a report of this type.
Government in the Senate would head a However, that does not mean that there
special mission of consultation to visit the should not be discussion of the report in
area. The dispatch of this extraordinary mis- this Chamber. I think Senator Aird has given
sion, and the selection of Senator Paul Martin us that opportunity. In the event that no one
as its leader, were important demonstrations else adjourns this discussion, I would like to
of the concern of the Canadian Government adjourn it on behalf of Senator Martin, for
with Canada-Caribbean relations. But there I know he wishes to take part in the
is reason to hope that the mission is more discussion because of the trip he has made to
than merely such a demonstration, albeit a the Caribbean and the fact that he will be
very significant one. Senator Martin's unique making more in the near future.
qualifications for such a mission and his proHon. Mr. Aird: In reply to Senator Burchill,
found concern over many years for the
developing countries and, in my I had a discussion with the Government
problems of
he departed for
opinion of equal importance, his great feel- Leader yesterday before intention that this
his
ing for their people will doubtless ensure Cairo. It is certainly
go forward into the next sesthat the Canadian Government will receive debate should
viewpoint. Our sion; it is also my intention.
a perceptive and forceful
committee, therefore, is hopeful that his visit
Hon. Mr. Grosari: Before you put the queswill mark the beginning of a new era in tion, Your Honour, I wonder if I could ask
Canada-Caribbean relations-an era, as our the Acting Leader of the Government what he
report recommended, of "continuous con- is adjourning?
sultation and close co-operative planning."
Hon. Mr. McDonald: This bouse is giving
Once this overall condition precedent is
consideration to the report without actually
achieved, it will be possible for the Governa formal motion of adoption. It is
ment to consider the specific recommenda- moving
understanding that reports of this type
tions put forward in the committee's report. my
are not presented for adoption.
Senator Martin was accompanied by a senior normallyhowever, that does not prohibit disSurely,
diplomatic official with special responsibilities cussion of this subject by all interested senain the field of development assistance. I am tors, and I hope the honourable senator
sure that their discussions with political would be one of those who take part in the
leaders and officials in the Caribbean have discussion.
provided a sound basis for assessing many
of these proposals.
Hon. Mr. Grosari: I fully agree with the
Mr. Speaker, I respectfully believe that the latter part of the statement. However, I wonreport is quite a straightforward document der if we have some new procedure by
which speaks for itself, and T expect that a which we adjourn with permission given to
number of honourable senators have impres- a senator to speak?

1452

SENATE DEBATES

Hon. Mr. McDonald: If my honourable
friend could present us with a better method,
I would be very pleased. However, I am
sure that he does not want to cut off a discussion of this type in the Chamber, and I
know of no other procedure than the one
we are using.

September 30, 1970

know what we are doing. We have rules, and
the present procedure is a mockery of them.
The Hon. the Speaker: I suggest that since
there was a point of order raised on the procedure we are now following, I should take
this matter under advisement until tomorrow.
Would that be agreeable?

Hon. Mr. Grosart: There are numerous
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
other procedures. However, I am not concerned; I just think that when a situation of
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at
this type arises in the future we should 2 p.m.

APPENDIX

The Standing Senate Coxnmittee on Banldng, Trade and Commerce

Report on
The White Paper
Proposais for Tax Reform
Presented to the
Senate of Canada

SEPTEMBER 1970

The Honourable Salter A. Hayden, Q.C., Chairman
The Honourable Lazarus Phillips, 0.0., Vice-Chairman
22481-47

MEMBERSHIP 0F COMMITTEE
The Standing Senate Committee on Banldng, Trade and Commerce
The Hlonourable Salter A. Hayden, Chai*man
The Honourable Lazarus Phillips, Vice-Chairman
and
The Honourable Senators
Aird
Croil
Aseltine
Desruisseaux
Beaubien
Everett
Benidickson
Gélinas
Blois
Giguère
Burchili
Grosart
Carter
Haig
Choquette
Hays
Connolly (Ottawa West) Hollett
Cook

Isnor
Kinley
Lang
Macnaughton
Molson
Wallcer
Welch
White
Willis

Ex oficio mem bers: Flynn and Martin

(Quorum 7)

Note: The Honourable Senator Leonard served on the Committee until bis
retirement from the Senate i April 1970. Hie was replaced on the
Comniittee by the Honourable Senator Aird.
22481-471.

ORDERS 0F REFERENCE

Extract from the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Senate, November 19, 1969:
"With leave of the Senate,
The Honourable Senator Martin, P.C., moved, seconded by the Honourable
Senator Langlois:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce
be authorized to examine and report upon the White Paper intituled: "Proposais for Tax Reforma", prepared by the Minister of Finance, and tabled in
the Senate on Tuesday, l8th November, 1969.
After debate, and'Me question being put on the motion, it wasResolved in the affirmative."
Extracts from the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Senate, December 19, 1969:
"With leave of the Senate,
The Honourable Senator Phillips (Rigaud), moved, seconded by the
Honourabie Senator Robichaud, P.C.:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce
be empowered to engage the services of such counsel and technical, clerical
and other personnel as may be necessary for the purposes of its examination
and consideration of such legislation and other matters as may be referred
to it.

After debate, and"Me question being put on the motion, it wasResolved in the affirmative."
Extract from the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Senate, February 18, 1970:
"With leave of the Senate,
The Honourable Senator McDonald moved, seconded by the Honourable
Senator Hayden:
That the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce
have power to sit during adjournmnents of the Senate.
After debate, andThe question being put on the motion, it wasResolved in the affirmative."
ROBERT FORTIER,

Clerk of the Senate.

TABLE 0F CONTENTS
PAGE

SUMMARY.................................................................................

vii

PROLOGUE........................1
CHIAPTER 1........................9
I Introduction .......................................................................
II Method of Procedure ...........................................................
MI Areas of Agreement and Disagreement.......................................
IV The Tax Burden on Individuals ...............................................
V The Capital Gains Tax ..........................................................
VI The Tax Loopholes ..............................................................
VII Wage Earner Expenses ..........................................................
VIII The Integration System. .......................................................
IX The Minerai Industries ..........................................................
X Taxing International Incane ...................................................
XI Miscellaneous Revisions.........................................................
XYI Coordination With The Provinces ............................................
XII Impact on Revenues and The Economy .....................................
XIV Conclusions.......................................................................

9
10
Il
15
21
26
29
30
35
42
43
44
46
49

CHAPTER 2-THE INDIVIDUAL AND FAMILY .............................
Increased Personal Exemptions ................................................
Pension and Retirement Savings Plans.......................................
Income Averaging Formula.....................................................
Benefits to, Employees ...........................................................

53
53
54
55
56

57
CHAPTER 3-CAPITAL GAINS AND LOSSES .................................
57
Types of Assets Subject to Tax ................................................
58
Valuation Date and Historical Cost of Capital Assets ................
58
Property Held For Personal Use..............................................
Exemption from Tax-Principal Residences-Farms and Orchards .... 58
59
Short Term and Long Terni Capital Gains .................................
60
Five-Year Revaluation and Deemed Reali.zation ............................
Gifts and Bequests-Inter vivos-Museums, Universities, Charitable
60
Organizations................................................................
61
Roil-Over Provisions............................................................
62
Tax Free Incorporations and Reorgamizations ..............................

PAGE

CHAPTER 4-CORPORATIONS AND THEIR SHAREHOLIERS ..... 63
Rejection of Integration .......................................................
63&65
Retention of Modified Dividend Tax Credit ..................................
63
Closely-Held and Widely-Held Corporations ................................
63
Corporate Surpluses ...........................................................
64&68
Small Business Corporations .................................................
65&79
Public Utilities......................................................................
67
Co-operatives, Caisses Populaires and Credit Unions ................ 68
CHAPTER 5-BUSINESS AND PROPERTY INCOME ..................
"Nothings" and Goodwill........................................................
Entertainment and Related Expenses...........................................
Depreciation.........................................................................
Consolidated Returns..............................................................
Incentives for Mining and Oul and Gas Industries ..................
......
Non-Operators ......................................................................
Prospectors and Grubstakers....................................................
Professional Incone ...............................................................
Non-Profit Organizations .........................................................
Museums and Similar Institutions ..............................................
Trusts ................. ..............................................................
CHAPTER 6-TAXING INTERNATIONAL INCOME..........................
Tax Loopholes

75
75

...........................................................

Dividends from Foreign Corporations ........................................
Tax Havens............................................................
.............
Foreign Business Corporations ..................................................
Withholding Tax ...................................................................
Capital gains-Non-Residents ..................................................
APPENDIX-THE SMALL BUSINESS CORPORATION ......................
Alternative Suggestions...........................................................
Recommendations..................................................................
SCHEDULES 'A' AND 'B'............................................................

69
69
69
69
71
71
72
73
73
73
74
74

76
76
77
77
78
79
82
82

83&86

SUMMARY
The following is a sumniary of the major points and recommendations
reported upon by the Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and
Commerce in respect of the White Paper proposais for tax reform.
GENERAL

"

"
*
"
"
"

"

"
"

Approval of certain aspects of the White Paper but substantial modification or rejection of many recommendations contained therein.
Approval of Govemnment procedure to submit the White Paper for parliamentary hearings before legisiation.
Primary concern that the legisiation does flot unduly disrupt thec economy.
Coordination with the provinces to be maintained and, if possible, inproved.
Rejection of White Paper conclusion that suggested amendmnents would
not affect savings and emphasis that legisiation must preserve savmngs
and the necessary monies for Canadian economic expansion.
Conclusion a tax systera must preserve investmnent of capital and savings
by Canadians and foreigners, as well as the industry, skml and know-how
of Canadians in the use thereof.
Decision a tax systema must permit Canada to remain competitive in
world markets so that Canadian production may be exported where
required.
Legisiation to be drafted to avoid retroactive application of new rules.
Legisiation to provide for issuance of binding tax rulings by Department
of National Revenue.

INCOME 0F INDIVIDUALS

Conclusion that the existing more favourable rates of tax in the United
States affecting individuals be not further accentuated by increasing
Canadian individual rates of tax.
" Increase of personal exemptions froin $1000 to, $1400 for single persons
and froin $2000 to $2800 for married persons, but only for single persons
with incomes of less than $3000 and for married persons with incomes
of less than $8500.
" Elimination by virtue of these increased exemptions of federal income
tax on approximately 750,000 low income taxpayers.
" No change in present rates of personal income tax but suggestion of inmediate implementation of upper marginal rate of approximately 50%7
for combined federal and provincial taxes.
"

"

•
•
•
*
•

Approval in more liberal form of White Paper proposals for deduction of
child care costs of working parents, the flat employee expense allowances
of up to $150 and employee moving costs.
Present tax exemption for fellowships, scholarships, bursaries and
research grants to be continued.
Foreign professors and teachers, temporarily in Canada, should continue
to be dealt with under the provisions of Canada's tax conventions.
Provision of general income averaging formula for all individual taxpayers with amendments to White Paper proposals thereon.
Present averaging formula for retirement receipts to be retained, with
certain improved alternatives for the taxpayer.
Approval of White Paper proposal to eliminate tax on pension plan distributions to widows by means of contributions to retirement savings
funds, but recommendation that benefit be extended to all beneficiaries.

CAPITAL GAINS TAX-GENERAL

•
•
•

•

•
•

•
•
•
•

Acceptance of a capital gains tax, but subject to well defined restrictions
and limitations in respect of property held for personal use.
Rejection of White Paper proposal that all capital gains be taxed substantially in the same way as ordinary income.
Rejection of White Paper proposal which would tax "fast killing" turnovers of publicly listed securities at lower effective rates than patiently
held long term private investments.
Approval of White Paper proposal to value all capital assets on valuation
date, but where capital assets worth less on valuation date than cost,
capital gain or loss to be determined with respect to such cost.
Definition of capital assets as property not held primarily for sale to
customers in the ordinary course of business.
Capital gains and losses to be divided into short term gains and losses
(capital assets held for less than one year) and long term gains and
losses (capital assets held for one year or more).
Short term capital gains and losses to be treated as ordinary income.
Net long term capital gains to be taxed at lower of 25% or one-half
marginal tax rate of taxpayer.
Three-year carry back and eight-year carry forward to be provided for
long term capital losses.
Thorough study to be made of concepts of cost basis (cost platform on
which capital gain or loss is based) and non-deductible expenses related
to capital assets to constitute increase to cost basis.

CAPITAL GAINS TAX-PERSONAL USE PROPERTY

"

.
.

.

No gain or loss to be realized and taxed when proceeds of any given sale
or exchange less than $5000.
Lifetime exemption for individuals and their spouses of $50,000 for principal residences and $75,000 for farms, orchards, etc. of farmers.
Broad roll-over provisions so that no capital gains tax to be payable
on personal use property except where disposition thereof not replaced
within one year.
No other differences to be made between personal use property and other
capital assets.

CAPITAL GAINS TAX-UNREALIZED GAINS AND ROLL-OVERS

No capital gains tax on unrealized gains of any nature, therefore elimination of White Paper proposals on five-year revaluation of shares and
deemed realization of gain, if any, on such shares as well as on assets
of taxpayers leaving Canada.
. Extended definition of permissible roll-overs to permit freedom for corporate reorganizations, exchanges of corporate property and corporate
readjustments where no tax avoidance purpose.
. Enactment of provisions to equate purchase of corporate assets and purchase of corporate shares where purchased corporation liquidated within
one year.
• Unrealized gains on the exercise of stock options not to be taxable but
cost basis for capital gains to be cost of shares under stock option and
not value of such shares.
• No capital gains tax on gifts or bequests but recipient thereof to have
same cost basis for future capital gains tax as donor or deceased plus
amount of gift tax or death duties.

"

CORPORATIONS-GENERAL

Maintenance of present low rate of tax on first $35,000 of business income but only for small business corporations which are not part of a
larger corporate group and have incomes of $100,000 a year or less.
• White Paper proposal to permit certain corporations to be treated as
partnerships approved with minor modifications.
. Permission to be given for corporations to file consolidated returns without increased tax rate.
* 15% penalty tax to be applicable to avoid undue accumulation of certain intercorporate dividends arising from investment.
.

ix
22481-48

CORPORATION-SHAREHOLDER RELATIONSHIP

Rejection of White Paper proposal for integration of corporate and
shareholder taxes.
• Rejection of White Paper proposal for difference between closely-held
and widely-held Canadian corporations.
" Retention of present system of tax free intercorporate dividends from
Canadian corporations and from foreign corporations, 25% or more of
whose voting shares are owned by a Canadian corporation.
• Maintenance of present dividend tax credit system for individuals, with
increase of present credit to 25% for first $500 of dividends, the
application of present 20% credit to next $4,500 of dividends and
reduction of present credit to 15% for dividends in excess of $5000.
• Recommendation of simplified methods for distributing corporate surpluses through payment of flat 15% tax thereon.
• Public utilities to be treated no differently than other Canadian corporations.
"

BUSINESS INCOME
"

•

Approval of White Paper proposal on depreciation allowance for
"nothings" but exclusion of goodwill as a depreciable asset.
Rejection of accrual system reporting for taxpayers in the professions.

SPECIAL TAXPAYERS

*

•
•
•
•

Concurrence with White Paper proposal that certain private clubs and
organizations now tax exempt should be taxed on their investment income, but recommendation that rule apply only to net income in excess
of $5000.
Rejection of White Paper proposal of flat tax rate on all trusts.
White Paper proposal approved that certain publicly held trusts and
similar entities be taxed as corporations or mutual funds.
Present treatment of mutual funds to be substantially continued.
No limitation on deductions for gifts to museums and similar institutions
based on difference of state ownership and private ownership.

MINERAL RESOURCES
"

•

Concurrence in general proposition that incentives must continue to be
given to the mineral resource industries.
Approval of White Paper proposals for deduction of costs of acquisition
of mining rights and taxation of proceeds of disposition thereof but with
protection against tax on present values.

iPresent three-year exemption for new mines to be extended to only 75%
of net earnings during sucli period.
" Earned depletion procedure of White Paper approved in part, when
blended with present depletion allowance, but recommendation made
for extended definition of eligible expenditures which can earn depietion.
" Approvai of White Paper proposai to remove shareholder depietion.
" Transition period for existing properties to be extended beyond periods
provided in White Paper.
"

TAX LOOPHOLES

Determination to close tax loopholes, but doubt on basis of evidence that
they are very extensive.
" Conclusion that White Paper proposai to adopt United States system
for taxing off-shore companies impractical and unnecessary.
" Rejection of White Paper proposai to eliminate legitimate and necessary
entertainment expenses.
* Approval and extension of White Paper proposai that excess depreciation
on real property and other related expenses should flot reduce taxable
income from other sources, but rejection of the White Paper proposai
to the extent it would apply to presently owned assets and to, assets used
by taxpayers in their business.
"

INTERNATIONAL INCOME
"

"
"

"

"
"

Conclusion, contrary to the White Paper, that the White Paper proposais
would seriously reduce foreign investment in Canada without necessarily
doing so in areas desired by Government policy.
Amendments to law must be consistent with accepted international tax
practices and reasonable possibility of negotiating new tax treaties.
Refusai to accept White Paper proposais distinguishing between countries
which do and do not have tax treaties with Canada, since underdeveloped
countries would be prejudiced.
Elimination of defined "foreign business corporations" and decision that
ail companies incorporated in Canada to be automatically resident lin
Canada and subject to full Canadian taxation.
Rejection of White Paper proposai to, tax capital gains of foreign investors
not carrying on business in Canada.
Partial acceptance and extension of White Paper proposai for foreign
tax credits.

xi
22481-48J

PROLOGUE
The purpose of this Prologue is:
(A)

to put in proper perspective some basic observations necessary in the
opinion of your Committee to a study of the White Paper on Tax
Reform, and

(B)

to deal with the changes to the White Paper on Tax Reform proposed
by the Minister of Finance after its publication on November 7, 1969,
its tabling in the Senate and the House of Commons and the reference
by such bodies of the White Paper to their appropriate Committees
for study and report.

Your Committee wishes to outline first, under heading (A), its concept
of the guidelines that should govern the consideration of the White Paper
proposals on Tax Reform:
(1) Economic growth in Canada can come about only through the investment of capital and savings by Canadians or foreigners plus the industry,
skill and know-how of our people in the use of such capital and savings.
(2) Canada is, of necessity, a capital importing country. The development
of our natural resources such as mining and gas and oil require substantial risk capital which in the past has come largely from the United
States mainly because of our political and economic stability. More and
more, however, the position and approach of the United States is undergoing change so that it is now exporting capital outside of Canada and
more generally around the world where wages, taxes and other costs
are more favourable. This change in approach and the expansion of
United States operations abroad arise by reason of their balance of payments requirements and otherwise. The competition for capital, including risk capital, in world markets makes it necessary that Canada
meet such competition or suffer a diminution in capital inflow with
disastrous effect on our economic growth, prosperity and standards of
living. The guidelines for Canadian tax policy in these circumstances
must blend equity with our capital needs and maintenance of our competitive position in the export market. It is not enough to achieve equity
in taxation if it takes place at the expense of reduced economic growth.
We cannot afford to put a chill on the initiative of our industry and on
those people who are making such increased economic growth possible.

(3) It is necessary to remain competitive in world markets so that our
production may be exported and this requires a cost level in Canada,
from the point of view of taxation and otherwise, which will permit the
establishment and maintenance of such competitive position.
Your Committee will examine the proposals in the White Paper in the
light of these self-evident truths and in an objective way so that fairness in
taxation and recognition of the tax position of our lower income groups can
be harmonized with the needs of our country to keep up its economic growth,
to encourage the inflow of capital and expansion of exports and to maintain
our competitive position in the world markets. Sharing the tax burdens
equitably is an excellent principle, but the other objectives so necessary to
be maintained must be harnessed with them so that our economic growth and
world trade status is not adversely affected.
Under heading (B) above your Committee wishes to give consideration
to some aspects of the proposed changes to the White Paper put forward by
the Minister of Finance since the publication of the White Paper:
(1) Proposals made in the House of Commons by the Minister of Finance
on November 28, 1969, in relation to the capital gain tax on bonds.
(2) Proposals made on that same day in the House of Commons by the
Minister of Finance on the taxation of the parent company of a utility
company subsidiary.
(3) Proposals (including an undertaking by the Government through the
Minister of Finance by letter addressed both to the Senate and the
House of Commons Committees respectively) dated June 11, 1970,
as to the adjustment of tax rates to offset projected increases in revenue
which the White Paper states would amount to $630,000,000 in 1969
if that year had been the fifth year of the operation of the White Paper
proposals for rate increases. A statement on the same subject was also
made to the House of Commons by the Minister of Finance.
(4) The proposals made by the Minister of Finance on August 26, 1970, in
a letter to the provincial Finance Ministers and Treasurers dealing with
the taxation of the Canadian mining industry and the changes to the
White Paper applicable to such industry.
Your Committee will first deal with the change or modification (as the
Minister calls it) set out in paragraph (1) above in relation to the application
of the capital gains tax to bonds and certain analogous investments. In the
White Paper, paragraph 3.29, it was proposed that if the value of a bond
held by a taxpayer was less on valuation day than the cost to him of that
investment or his amortized cost (if he bought it at a discount) the recovcry

of cost or amortized cost would not be taxed. This rule would have applied
only to bonds, mortgages and agreements for sale held on date of publication
of the White Paper, November 7, 1969, and the modification of this rule was
effected to accord the same treatment to bonds, mortgages and agreements
for sale purchased between November 7, 1969, and valuation day. This
modification of the rule will assure that a bond market dip extending through
valuation day will not cause taxpayers who buy bonds and mortgages now
(that is, after White Paper publication day) to pay tax on more than the real
gain over their historic cost. This modification, moreover, conforms with the
general recommendation of this report that taxable capital gains be limited
in the case of all capital assets to the lesser of the gain over value on valuation
date or historical cost. It also eliminates elements that might have interfered
with the marketing of new bond issues and trading in bonds in the period
between White Paper publication day and valuation day and is therefore to
be commended.
The next change or modification referred to in (2) above has to do
with dividends passing from a gas, steam or electric utility company to its
parent company. Under paragraph 4.64 of the White Paper the federal
government proposed that no credit for federal taxes paid by a gas, steam or
electric company, part or all of which are paid over by the federal government
to the Provincial governments, should be accorded to shareholders of such
utility corporations. This proposal flies in the face of the Government's
scheme for creditable tax to be enjoyed by all resident shareholders of
corporations that have paid corporate tax. Clearly the utility corporations pay
corporate tax to Canada. What the federal government does with that tax
money is in no way subject to the direction or for the benefit of a utility corporation, and the proposed denial of creditable tax to the shareholders of
such a utility corporation is illogical and a violation of the federal government's own scheme for the granting of creditable tax. It is the federal government that disburses to the Provincial governments 95% of the Canadian
corporate taxes paid by each utility corporation. The modification in (2)
above put forward by the Minister of Finance remedies this situation to some
extent. It "provides that a parent company can receive tax-free a dividend
from a subsidiary that is a gas, steam or electric utility provided the dividend
is paid out of profits which have borne the tax (the federal government) is
turning over to the province." To this extent the modification corrects the
basic misconception in paragraph 4.64 of the White Paper. Assuming retention of the integration system of taxing corporate and shareholder profits,
which your Committee will strongly recomnend against, this rule should be
generally applied to all resident shareholders of gas, steam and electric
utilities that pay corporate taxes subsequently turned over by the federal
government to the Provinces.

The next change or modification referred to in (3) above is one by
which the Minister of Finance hopes "to make it crystal clear that its (the
Government's) intention with respect to the White Paper is to reform the tax
system, not to increase taxes". The undertaking of the Minister on behalf
of the Government is that "the legislation . .. to implement its tax reform
measures will include a fixed schedule of declining income tax rates for each
of the first five years of its operation" in order to "provide for tax cuts in
each of the five years designed to ensure that the revenues produced under
the new system will not exceed the total that would be produced if the
present system remained in effect". The Minister acknowledges as is apparent
from a reading of the White Paper that the system outlined in the White
Paper would have produced an additional $630,000,000 in 1969 if that
had been the fifth year of its operation. The serious impact of taking such
substantial moneys from the private sector into the public sector has been
stressed in many of the submissions made to your Committee. Its impact on
savings and on the operations of the classes of individuals who will be most
affected threatens the very classes of taxpayer whose savings are most needed
in the development of our economy. The Minister has put in words what the
public has been saying-why increase tax rates to produce excess tax
revenues when they are not needed and when no purpose for their use is
made evident. No budget has been placed before Parliament nor the nature
of any budget proposals indicated that would require the levying of tax
rates so onerous on so many classes of Canadian citizens.
As shown in the body of this report, the design of the White Paper
was to give increased personal exemptions to all individual taxpayers
while, at the same time, increasing the tax rates on single persons with
incomes in excess of $3,000 and married persons with incomes in excess
of $8,500, constituting approximately 44% of all Canadian individual taxpayers. The effect of this would be, on the one hand, to give increased
personal exemptions to these latter taxpayers while, at the same time, more
than taking back the benefits of such increased personal exemptions by
increased rates of tax. It can be clearly seen that if the increase in personal
exemptions was not accorded to single persons with income of $3,000 or
more or married persons with income of $8,500 or more, the amount of
revenue loss to Canada would be drastically reduced and for reasons hereinafter set out there would be no necessity to increase the tax rates on this
44% of Canadian individual taxpayers.
In such circumstances it appears to your Committee that the proper
course at the very least would have been not to increase taxes on single and
married persons having incomes above $3,000 and $8,500 respectively beyond what it required to replace any loss in revenue by reason of the in-

creased exemptions to the other groups of taxpayers. However, your Committee has concluded in its report that no such increase is either necessary
or desirable, since the added revenues from capital gains tax should be
sufficient to make up any loss of revenue. In addition, by not implementing the
integration and creditable tax proposals, which implementation was recommended against by your Committee, the very substantial loss of revenue estimated by the White Paper (namely $140,000,000 in the first year) would
also be available to make up any loss of revenue.
In brief, the Committee's proposal is that instead of increasing taxes
on some classes of individuals to the substantial extent proposed by the
White Paper, the existing income tax rates should be maintained, but the
personal exemptions should not be extended to all taxpayers. The Government could then await the actual flow of taxes under the system and could
analyse the impact on the tax revenue before any decision to levy in whole
or in part the tax increases contemplated by the White Paper. This appears
to your Committee a much more practical course and the results could well
produce the required tax revenues without disturbing the savings and investment habits of many people and hurting the economic growth patterns
of our country.
With respect to (4) above, the last item in respect of which the Minister
of Finance has suggested modifications, the changes are in relation to the
mining industry and some of the proposals of the White Paper thereon.
This modification was effected in a letter to the Provincial Finance Ministers
and Treasurers dated August 26, 1970. Your Committee already had prepared its report on the subject of the mining and the oil and gas industries
which remains unchanged in the body of the report. Your Committee, however, wishes to discuss the new suggestions of the Minister as to the tax
treatment of the mining industry as these appear in the memorandum attached to his letter.
The Minister proposes to widen the definition of eligible expenditures
on which depletion may be earned, by including in eligible expenditures, expenditures made for replacement of mining machinery and mine buildings
acquired in connection with expansion of an existing mine. This proposal, it
is suggested, would put an existing mine on a comparable tax basis with the
incentives available to a new mine in the White Paper. A further change is
to lower the rate of federal tax on the industry from 40 percent to 25 percent of taxable income. These changes proposed by the Minister represent a
basic change in the incentives put forward in the White Paper. The industry
in its submissions strenuously contended for such changes demonstrating
that without them, existing mines would be subject to heavy additional tax

with less retained earnings for development and with less opportunity to earn
depletion by reason of the restrictive definition of eligible expenditures on
which earned depletion was to be calculated.
A complete assessment of the extent and benefit of these changes cannot be made until the details of the new definition of eligible expenditures
are settled and there is published the extent to which the incentives for new
mines will be made fully available to existing mines. The changes proposed
by the Minister represent a long step forward to meet the claims of the
industry and to acknowledge the inadequacies of the White Paper proposals
on these points. They also point up the less generous treatment inherent in
the White Paper proposals which the White Paper originally stated was
entirely sufficient and should make for a smooth transition for the industry
from the old rules to the new rules. These changes are in line with recommendations of this Committee but the Committee wishes to stress that they
do not deal fully with the needs of the industry in the way of special rules.
Those mines that cannot earn depletion even with the enlarged definition of
eligible expenditures are not helped. Ail mines that were financed under
the old special rules are not offered relief by these proposed changes. These
changes do not recognize the need for some element of percentage depletion
to be continued both as an assistance to financial commitments and more
importantly as an attraction to raise risk capital competitively in markets
where the tax exemption period and depletion are the pattern of financing
and offer the kind of reward that such suppliers of capital require. The
return of capital if the mine comes into successful operation and the interest
or dividend yield are not sufficient attractions.
It is significant too that the reaction from the mining industry has
not thus far produced uniform support for these proposals. Objection or
support appears to proceed on the basis of the nature of the mining operation being carried on, whether open pit or underground development and the
extent of the broadening of eligible expenditures. Due to the special problems of pollution and the like, any incentive for processing at this time may
be more illusory than real, having regard to the problems identified with the
establishment and operation of processing facilities. In addition some mining
companies feel that the construction of refineries should receive the same
benefits by way of incentive. Other mining companies feel that the cost of
all assets required to place a new mine in operation including off-property
assets such as roads, townsites etc. is properly part of the exploration and
development of mineral resources and should be included in eligible expenditures. The recommendations of your Committee in this report do not deal
with this aspect. These reactions by the industry are prompted by the latest
statement of the Minister of Finance of August 26th, 1970.

Special. rules for incentives are needed that will attract capital to an lindustry where failures in any particular case can f ar outixumber successes. The
special risks are clear to, those who venture into this field. A cost basis that
makes Canadian production of these natural resources competitive lin world
markets requires adequate incentives and the provision of risk capital at
rates consistent with those available to competitors who are also producers
from other parts of the world. The plus features that assure attractiveness
to risk capital are the incentives that in a successfully operating mine will
produce rewards in capital appreciation to those who venture their capital in
such risk operations.
Nothing is said directly in the Minister's letter as to the position of the
oul and gas industry in these new proposais. The Committee fully expects
that the samne broadening of eligible expenditures and extension of other
incentives will also apply to, such industry as the need for the same has been
established before it.

CHAPTER 1
I
IN4TRODUCTION
1. On November 7, 1969, the Honourable E. J. Benson, Minister of
Finance, issued a document entitled "Proposais for Tax Reform", and generally referred to since its issuance as the "White Paper" on taxation.
On November 18, 1969, the leader of the Government i the Senate tabled
these proposais for tax reform and, by resolution of the Senate, on November
19, 1969, the consideration of such proposais for tax reform was referred to
the Standing Senate Comnittee on Banking, Trade and Commerce. This report constitutes the resuit of such consideration.
2. For purposes of brevity and identification "Proposais for Tax
Reform" wiil be referred to in this report as the "White Paper" and the
Standing Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce wiil be
referred to as "your Committee" or "the Committee".
3. Pursuant to authority granted to, your Committee by the Senate,
your Committee retained the services of a limited staff comprising Arthur
W. Gilmour, B. Com., C.A., F.R.I.S., a recognized expert in tax accounting
matters, Alan J. Irving a former member of the legal staff of the Department
of National Revenue and Roland B. Breton, on boan from a large trust company, as executive secretary. Your Comniittee is indebted for the valuable
contribution made by these gentlemen.
4. Your Committee has studied carefully the contents of the White
Paper and has in the course of such studies received and listened to
representations made by a wide variety of taxpayers at thirty-one meetings
held by your Committee between January 28, 1970 and June 24, 1970.
Attached to this report as Schedule "A" is a list of ail the companies, organizations and individuals that have been heard before your Committee.
Attached hereto as Schedule "B" is a list of additional companies, organizations and individuals who made representations, but did not appear before
your Committee. In addition to the representations hereinbefore referred to,
your Committee received a considerable number of letters and other communications dealing with different aspects of the White Paper proposals.

In all, the studies and representations made by taxpayers and other interested
bodies in Canada have reflected an intensive study of the White Paper proposals, and the Canadian public is to be congratulated for the interest shown
and for the quality of the submissions.
5. The conclusions arrived at by your Committee are based upon its
own study of the White Paper after giving due consideration to the representations that have been made to it.
6. Your Committee has concluded that the public hearings held with
respect to the White Paper have had some effect in convincing the Government that substantial modifications to the White Paper are necessary, and to
date some of these modifications, limited in scope but important in themselves, have already been announced and are referred to in the Prologue to
this report. These modifications encourage your Committee to hope that a
study of this report will lead to further substantial and important revisions
of the White Paper proposals, since the Committee is convinced that such
modifications are essential.
II
METHOD OF PROCEDURE OF THE COMMITTEE
1. It will be helpful to indicate the procedure that your Committee
intends to follow in reporting its conclusions with respect to the White Paper
proposals.
2. Chapters 2 to 6 inclusive of the White Paper describe in detail the
proposals related to the various headings of such chapters, and following this
introductory chapter your Committee will report under such respective headings its recommendations and conclusions in respect of the said chapters 2 to
6 inclusive.
3. In this first chapter of its report, your Committee will deal in general
terms, and from time to time more specifically, with the submissions of the
White Paper contained in chapters 1, 7 and 8 thereof. The format will, in
the main, follow that adopted by the White Paper, particularly in the treatment of the matters referred to in chapter 1 thereof.
4. Before, however, reporting on these separate chapters of the White
Paper, your Committee wishes to indicate some of the main areas of agreement and some of the main areas of disagreement between the proposals
of the White Paper and the findings of your Committee.

AREAS OF AGREEMENT AND DISAGREEMENT
AREAS OF AGREEMENT

1. Your Committee commends the Government and the Minister of
Finance for the submission of the White Paper for public hearings and for
the decision not to implement the White Paper proposals into legislation
until amendments to such proposals may be made as a result of such hearings.
The Committee desires to report that practically all those who have submitted representations have referred with approval to this procedure as
constituting a most desirable form of participatory democracy with respect
to taxpayers subject to federal tax legislation.
2. The desire to strive for harmony between federal and provincial
tax policies and practices is also commended by your Committee and it
heartily concurs in the observations contained in paragraph 1.15 of the
White Paper and the general subject matter of coordination with the provinces as dealt with in chapter 7. The Committee wishes to particularly note
the comments in paragraph 7.1 White Paper on the previous high degree
of coordination between the federal and provincial income tax systems,
which comments the Committee believes are of great relevance and
significance.
3. Your Committee concurs in the general thrust of those areas of the
White Paper which indicate a desire to grant relief to taxpayers in the lower
income brackets, to institute new areas of taxation such as capital gains
and to provide necessary changes in our present income tax law so as to
bring about a more equitable distribution of the tax burden. Your Committee notes with special approval the intention to remove from the income
tax rolls approximately 750,000 taxpayers (paragraph 1.26 White Paper)
and to increase the basic income tax exemptions for both single persons
and married couples (paragraph 1.25 White Paper), although in this regard
it would limit such increased basic tax exemptions to lower income bracket
taxpayers.
4. Your Committee also wishes to express its approval of the proposition
that the top rates of combined federal and provincial income tax should
be reduced to 50 per cent (paragraph 2.42 White Paper). Your Committee
expresses the hope that this goal is feasible of attainment. It wishes to go
beyond the White Paper, however, and trusts that this reduction can be
enacted without any time phasing procedure. The Committee realizes that the
conclusion of the White Paper on the maximum 50 per cent rate was based
on the estimate that capital gains would be taxed on the same basis as

ordinary income. Your Committee, however, feels that its conclusion as to a
lower rate of tax on capital gains does not militate against the general proposition, supported by the Royal Commission on Taxation (paragraph 8.36
White Paper), that the interests of the economy demand a maximum marginal tax rate of 50 per cent. Whatever difference there may be in revenue
collection between the proposed capital gains tax and that suggested by your
Committee, it should not be large enough to eliminate the desirability of
not asking any individual to pay more than 50 per cent of his marginal
income in income taxes.
5. Your Committee further notes with approval the intention indicated
to provide a deduction for child care costs for families where both parents
work or where there is only one parent and that parent is working
(paragraph 1.33 White Paper). Your Committee appreciates that this
exemption does not solve the overail problem of child care costs but it is at
least a step in the right direction. Your Committee also commends the
suggestion of an employee's expense allowance of up to the lesser of 3 per
cent of employment income or $150 a year in recognition of the money it
costs wage earners to do their work (paragraph 1.32 White Paper).
6. The Committee was in agreement with a substantial number of other
matters recommended by the White Paper, such as the elimination of foreign
business corporations (paragraph 6.31 White Paper et seq.), the cancellation
of the 4 per cent tax on foreign investment income over $2,400 (paragraph
2.37 White Paper), the application of new rules to certain kinds of trusts
that have issued transferable or redeemable units (paragraph 5.56 White
Paper), the taxation of certain income of non-profit organizations (paragraph 5.54 White Paper), etc. The full list of these matters which have been
approved by your Committee appears in the several chapters of this report
that follow.
AREAS OF PARTIAL OR TOTAL DISAGREEMENT

7. Your Committee does not agree with the proposals in the White
Paper which would increase the taxes on a wide spectrum of individuals
(including particularly those in the middle income brackets) who are
already subject to a high graduated income tax under the present law. On
the basis of Tables 4 through 10 of the White Paper and further information furnished to your Committee, when the changes in federal taxes and
the estimated changes in provincial taxes are taken into account it would
appear that, on the average, based on 1967 actual tax statistics, the tax payable by an unmarried person under the White Paper proposals will increase
commencing at approximately the $3,000 level and the tax payable by a
married person under the White Paper proposals will increase commencing

at approximately the $8,500 level, with the highest absolute increase being
imposed on incomes between $13,000 and $14,000 in the case of both
single and married persons.
8. The Committee finds itself in disagreement with a considerable
number of the changes suggested by the White Paper for the taxation of
individuals and the reportage of their income. Thus, your Committee disagrees with the recommendations for the accrual reportage of professional
income (paragraph 5.46 White Paper), the inclusion of the additional elements of income subject to tax referred to in paragraphs 2.24 and 2.26 of
the White Paper and the total disallowance of entertainment expenses (paragraphs 5.9 and 5.10 White Paper). With respect to paragraph 5.46 White
Paper none of the evidence presented to your Committee convinced it that,
in fact, professionals as a class have received "unwarranted advantage by
comparison to the rest of Canadians" due to the method of their reportage
of income. Conversely, the briefs submitted to the Committee convinced it
that any attempt to adopt an accrual method of reporting income for professionals would be impracticable and virtually unworkable.
9. Your Committee is opposed to the introduction of a complex gross-up
and credit system (the so-called integration system) for the taxation of corporate dividends, and with some changes recommends retention of the present
system of taxing dividends in the hands of both individual and corporate
recipients and a simplified method for distributing corporate surpluses under
Section 105 of the present Income Tax Act. The Committee is equally
opposed to any difference being made between closely-held and widely-held
Canadian corporations.
10. Your Committee accepts the proposed introduction of a capital
gains tax but is opposed to the rate of tax to be applied thereto, to the
category of capital assets to be subject to taxation, to any taxation without
realization of gain or loss and generally to the treatment of capital gains and
losses as proposed in the White Paper. Your Committee in this regard is of
the view that all capital assets of every nature should be subject to capital
gains or loss treatment, but at different rates for long term and short term
gains and losses. The Committee also feels that certain exclusions should be
made where the proceeds of sale or exchange of property held for personal
use do not exceed $5,000, and that a lifetime net gain exemption should be
given in an amount of $50,000 for principal residences and $75,000 for
orchards and farm where the owner is an individual or his spouse and their
principal occupation is farming, (or where such individual or spouse,
because of statutory provisions, is obliged to operate such farm through
corporate ownership). In addition, your Committee feels that very broad
roll-over provisions should be enacted for principal residences, transactions

of property held for personal use and corporate reorganizations. Beyond
this, in order to avoid any realization of gain or loss for tax purposes where
there has been no gain or loss by conventional economic standards, your
Committee recommends that in addition to an initial cost basis of value on
valuation date, to protect taxpayers whose historical cost is above such
value, gain or loss should be computed with reference to such historical
cost and not with reference to such value.
11. Your Committee does not agree generally with the proposal to
eliminate the lower corporate tax rate on annual income up to $35,000
(paragraphs 1.39 and 1.41 White Paper), but it does agree that such lower
rate should only apply when such earnings are made by defined small businesses. See the Appendix to this report.
12. The Committee cannot agree with most of the changes proposed
for the taxation of international income, including particularly the differences
suggested for withholding tax rates and tax credits between treaty and nontreaty countries and the methods of attacking tax haven entities.
13. Your Committee is in agreement that some modifications should
be made with respect to the three-year tax exemption for mines, the depletion
allowances and generally the tax incentives granted to the natural resource
industries. Because, however, of the importance of these industries to the
Canadian economy, your Committee is of the view that the suggested changes
in the White Paper are too radical and disruptive in their economic effects,
and alternative suggestions will be submitted in this report.
14. Your Committee, on the basis of the briefs presented to it, has
considerable doubts as to whether the impact on revenues and the economy
set forth in Chapter 8 of the White Paper are factually correct and, in any
event, because of the substantial number of estimates and assumptions made
therein, the Committee is reluctant to conclude that the various tables and
results set forth in the White Paper have necessarily any relation to what
the ultimate facts will be.
15. Your Committee has concluded that some of the White Paper
proposals, including the capital gains tax, if implemented, would be retroactive in their effect, affecting particularly those long term investments (such
as those in the natural resource and real estate industries) made on the
reasonable expectation that the present tax structure would be maintained
subject to normal reforms and revisions from time to time. Because of the
complicated adverse reactions that would result from such retroactivity,
both on the domestic as well as the international level, your Committee will
recommend in certain instances where changes are to be made that they be
phrased so as not to be retroactive in their effect.

ALTERNATIVES

16. The reasons for the foregoing areas of agreement and disagreement
and the justifications for the alternative proposals submitted by your Committee in the succeeding chapters of this report will become more evident
as the conclusions reflected in this report are explained. Certain of these
explanations (headings IV to IX) will now be covered under the six headings
of main points stated by the White Paper (paragraph 1.5 White Paper) as
constituting the main objectives of the White Paper proposals and the
remainder under a number of additional headings (headings X to XIV).

IV
THE TAX BURDEN ON INDIVIDUALS
"Canadiansin the lower income tax brackets face a heavy total tax
burden. In recent years sales taxes and property taxes have been increased substantially. Where changes in the income tax can provide
relief, it must be given to those with lower incomes. The government
proposes increases in the exemptions to ease the burden on these
individuals and families." (paragraph 1.5 White Paper).

1. The expected effects of the White Paper personal income tax
changes on revenues, calculated on the basis of 1969 incomes, are found
in table 15 on page 95 of the White Paper. Paragraph 1.25 White Paper
proposes to remove or reduce taxes on lower income taxpayers by increasing the basic personal exemption for a single person to $1,400 from
$1,000 and for a married couple to $2,800 from $2,000. Since, however,
these increased basic tax exemptions would apply to all taxpayers, the
cost of this procedure is declared by table 15 to be one billion dollars. To
offset this loss in revenue, item 2 in table 15 indicates that rate schedule
changes will be effected resulting in increased revenue of $1,255,000,000,
2. The effect of the White Paper proposals on exemptions and tax
rates can be summarized as follows:
(a) The elimination from the tax rolls of approximately 750,000
persons now subject to tax;
(b) The increase of the personal exemptions of all taxpayers; and
(c) The increase or decrease in certain income brackets of the rates
of tax.
3. The expected loss of one billion dollars resulting from increased
personal exemptions (paragraph 8.14 White Paper) and the expected revenue

of $1,255,000,000 resulting from increased tax rates (paragraph 8.15 White
Paper) are based upon the estimated 1969 incomes of taxpayers and on a
further series of assumptions that may or may not be valid. Your Committee
in making its analysis has decided to base itself on the actual 1967 taxation
statistics without making any adjustment for subsequent increases in income
Dr number of taxpayers, since it concluded that the extrapolation of the
1967 statistics to 1970 or 1971 would not deteriorate from its conclusions.
Based on the 1967 figures submitted to your Committee, if the White Paper
proposals were applied thereto, the following approximations are reached:
(a) 678,000 taxpayers would be eliminated from the tax rolls as a
result of granting the increased personal exemptions to persons
whose annual income does not exceed $1,500 in the case of
single persons or $3,000 in the case of married persons and the
revenue loss to Canada resulting therefrom would be $25,000,000;
(b) 3,070,000 taxpayers would benefit by the increased personal
exemptions to persons whose annual income is between $1,500 and
$3,000 in the case of single persons and between $3,000 and
$8,500 in the case of married persons and the revenue loss to
Canada resulting therefrom would be $342,000,000. As a result,
however, of the proposed increased tax rates in the White Paper
there would be a tax increase on this group of $210,000,000 so
that the net loss to Canada would be $132,000,000; and
(c) 2,897,000 taxpayers would benefit by the increased personal
exemptions to persons whose annual income exceeds $3,000 in
the case of single persons and exceeds $8,500 in the case of married
persons and the revenue loss to Canada resulting therefrom would
be $286,000,000. As a result, however, of the proposed increased
tax rates of the White Paper there would be a tax increase on
this group of $525,000,000, so that the net gain to Canada and
the net increased tax on this group would be $239,000,000.
The taxpayers mentioned in Groups (a) and (b) above constituted
some 56 per cent of the 1967 Canadian taxpayers, with the remaining 44
per cent being accounted for in Group (c). The total cost to Canada from
the elimination of the taxpayers in Group (a) and the benefits to taxpayers
in Group (b) (totalling $157,000,000) would therefore be more than offset
by the proposed net increase in revenue to Canada of $239,000,000 from
those taxpayers in Group (c).
4. The desire to improve the position of Canadians in the lower income brackets has led your Committee to conclude that the taxpayers referred to in Group (a) should be eliminated from the tax rolls and that the

benefits contemplated in the White Paper for those persons in Group (b)
should also be granted, but your Committee cannot accept the proposai of
the White Paper whereby the taxpayers in Group (c), who represent some
44 per cent of the taxpayers in this country, should be subjected to bigher
income tax liability.
5. Your Committee therefore recommends that the increased persona]
exemptions suggested in paragraph 1.25 of the White Paper be only given
to individuals whose income does flot exceed $3,000 in the case of single
persons and $8,500 in the case of married persons with an appropriate
notch provision for persons just over these limits. If this plan were followed
and single persons with income over $3,000 and married persons with incorne over $8,500 received no part of the increased exemptions, the ioss of
revenue would, of course, not be anywhere near the estimated loss of one
billion dollars referred to i table 15 and it would, therefore, not be necessary to increase the rate schedules which your Committee feels would be
disastrous to those in the middle income brackets.
6. By limiting the total proposed increase in the basic tax exemptions to
those in the lower income brackets the resuit would continue to be that some
750,000 Canadians would stili be taken off the income tax roils and, furthermore, that the continuing taxpayers in the somewhat higher income brackets
would obtain some additional tax relief. The higher basic tax exemptions
which the White Paper proposes to grant ail taxpayers, mncluding single
persons with income over $3,000 and married persons with income over
$8,500, followed conversely by an increase in graduated tax rates, appears
to your Committee to be quixotic and unacceptable. In view of the proposed
imposition of a capital gains tax and the elimination of the integration
system for corporations and their sharehoiders, your Committee is convinced
that the cost to Canada of the benefits to be extended to the taxpayers i
Groups a) and b) referred to in Clause 3 above can be accepted without
shifting the burden of such benefits on to the shoulders of the taxpayers in
Group c).
7. As already indicated, your Committee is gravely concerned that the
White Paper proposais would increase the burden on married couples with
incomnes ranging from approximately $8,500 upwards, thereby including
those taxpayers who are generally described as the middle income group.
lI addition, the proposed rates schedu-les do not give effect to the fact that
all of the provinces will probably not adopt a uniform tax rate of 28 per cent
of the new federai taxes so that the effect on the middle income group
wili therefore be more extreme because there will be more taxpayers i
that category and dloser to the top levels of that category. This middle

income group is the group in Canada that must be relied upon in the main
for skilled teclinical training and executive and managerial ability.
8. The increased tax rates applicable to the middle income groups would
increase the already existing adverse disparity between rates applicable to
such groups under the Canadian and the United States tax systems, and
would have the inevitable effect of contributing to the graduai emigration
of skilled workers and those with executive talent from Canada. Your
Committee cannot agree with the statements made in paragraph 8.39 of
the White Paper on the comparison of Canadian and United States income
taxes, which reads as follows:
8.39 The Canadian income taxes proposed ini this paper, plus the Canada (or
Quebec)
Pension Plan contributions, would normally be less than the current U.S.
plus their social security contribution, for single persons at aIl income mncome taxes
levels.
would also be less for most married persons; for example, those with two childrenThey
and
earning $8,000 or less. At higher income levels married persons would pay
somewhat
more in Canada, depending on their incomes and circumnstances. The differences
are
not large until incomes exceed, say, $20,000, and above that the gradual
reduction of
the top rates to about 50 per cent would limit the gap. We believe that these
for married persons with higher incomes could best be met in the market bydifferences
the pay scales for those individuals or scarce categories who must be retaîned or adjusting
attracted
against U.S. competition.

It would appear that under certain fact assumptions (including itemized
deductions for medical and dental expenses, charitable contributions and
other miscellaneous deductions) federal United States taxes are higher than
those proposed for Canada only upon single individuals with incomes of
approximately $3,000 or less and upon married individuals with incomes
of approximately $5,000 or less and that federal United States taxes commence to be materially lower than Canadian taxes when earned income
exceeds approximately $1 0,000. The more favourable effect of United States
mncome taxes is accentuated further when it is realized that state income
taxes in the United States are for the most part iower than provincial
mncome taxes ini Canada and that, in the case of married persons, the right
in the United States to file a joint income tax retumn further effectively
reduces the over-ail tax burden of most married persons. Your Committee
finds it particularly difficult to accept the last sentence in paragraph 8.39
of the White Paper, since ini the opinion of your Committee the notion that
the market place will inevitably adjust the disparity ini tax rates is totally
unrealistic. Finally, your Conimittee most emphatically rejects the skeptical
conclusions of paragraph 8.38 White Paper and would regret any system
whose ability to retain Canadians in Canada is based on what may be only
temporary restrictions in the United States immigration law.
9. As noted previously your Committee is in favour of reducing the
maximum marginal tax rate on individuals to 50 per cent but it realizes that

this desire can only be effectively implemented in the case of provinces that
would impose a tax rate lower than 28 per cent of the federal taxes. The
White Paper itself acknowledges that the 50 per cent rate suggested by
paragraph 2.42 White Paper could only apply in such circumstances, since
in paragraph 2.44 White Paper the combined federal and provincial rates
are estimated at 51.2 per cent in provinces that impose tax at the rate of
28 per cent and correspondingly higher in provinces that impose higher rates.
The various tables set forth at the end of Chapter 2 of the White Paper
have assumed (a) that ail provinces wiil change their established tax
systems to a system where the provincial tax will be a uniformn percentage
of the new federal tax and (b) that ail provinces wiil reduce their present
tax rates to a uniform 28 per cent of the new federal taxes. Since this
assumaption is flot realistic, the figures set forth in these tables are, therefore,
to that extent suspect. Beyond this, the authors of the White Paper estimnate
that the cost of reducing the maximum rate to 51.2 per cent will be
$40,000,000, based on 1969 incomes (Chapter 8, Table 15, Item 9 White
Paper). On the basis of figures presented to the Committee, the estimated
cost of this type of reduction, basai on 1967 incomes, would only be
approximately $21 ,585,000.
10. The Comniittee was presented with a substantial number of briefs
from varying sectors of the economy deaing with the additional elements of
income to, be subject to tax and referred to in paragraphs 2.21 to 2.27 of
the White Paper. While accepting the fact that pure logic might dictate the
inclusion of ail of these additional elements into taxable income, your Committee has concluded on the basis of its hearings that in certain instances
to do so would be a niistake and that the conceivable revenue gains resulting
therefrom would be more than offset by the unfavourable social consequences
thereof. Your Committee cannot corne to the conclusion that under any
circumstances feilowships, scholarships, bursaries and research grants should
be made subject to tax. In this respect your Committee was impressed with
the evidence submitted by varlous universities and teaching associations that
the taxation of fellowships, scholarships and other grants; would inhibit research and other studies in Canada and would lead gifted students to go
abroad and continue their studies and researchi in a more favourable tax
atmosphere. On the question of foreign professors and teachers, your Committee notai that in fourteen of the sixteen existing income tax conventions,
teachers froma other countries coming temporarily to Canada are exemptai
from. Canadian tax on their teaching incomes for up to two years and your
Comxnittee concluded that the matter should be a question of treaty negotiation before legisiation. Beyond this, the evidence submitted to, your Committee indicatai that Canada receives substantial benefits from. the views of

teachers and professors from other lands and that Canada would lose such
benefits if these visitors were subjected to Canadian taxes that could well be
higher than the taxes in the countries of the teachers' normal residence.
11. Your Committee was generally in agreement with the principles
contained in paragraphes 2.53 through 2.59 of the White Paper which would
permit a taxpayer to average his income and the tax thereon pursuant to a
general averaging formula. Your Committee, however, concluded that the
proposals of the White Paper were defective in that they were extremely
complex, they made no adequate provision for a taxpayer whose income
varies substantially from year to year, they made no adequate provision for
a taxpayer whose income is drastically reduced in a year and they made no
adequate provision to enable professional persons, such as doctors, dentists,
lawyers and chartered accountants, who invest a great deal of their income
in their education, to carry these costs forward and apply them against future
income. On the whole, the suggestions of the White Paper appear to do little
to help the Canadian taxpayer and instead increase the taxes payable on
retirement and similar allowances. As an example, on the basis of information
furnished to your Committee, the taxes that would be payable by an individual
for a five-year period who had an average income of $12,000 in the four
previous years and income of $18,000 in the current year, assuming 1970
tax rates and exemptions in all years, would be(1) Combined federal and provincial taxes payable
under present Income Tax Act that does not recognize
any form of income averaging for salaried, professional or business income

$ 15,096

(2) Combined taxes had the provisions of Section
36(1) of the present Income Tax Act applied to the
extra $6,000 received in the current year

$ 13,959

(3) Combined taxes had the taxpayer been a farmer
or fisherman entitled to use the five year incomeaveraging procedures provided by Section 42 of the
present Income Tax Act

$ 14,830

(4) Combined taxes under the income-averaging
method proposed by the White Paper

$ 15,050

The great weight of the evidence submitted to the Committee has
indicated that the use of the proposed formula will impose greatly increased
taxes on retirement receipts as compared to the already high rate of tax
imposed under the provisions of Section 36(1) of the Income Tax Act. It
would therefore seem that the Government might consider rejecting the

proposed formula and instead recommending the establishment of two separate income-averaging formulae. The first would be for general use, while
the second would apply only to lump sum retirement receipts. The first
averaging formula for general use might well be based on the averaging
formula now in force for farmers and fishermen under Section 42 of the
Income Tax Act. This particular formula appears to have worked reasonably
well in practice and it is infinitely simpler than the formula proposed in the
White Paper. The second averaging formula to apply to retirement receipts
specified in the present Section 36(1) of the Income Tax Act might impose
a tax equal to the lesser of
(i) a flat rate of tax such as 15 per cent to 20 per cent, or
(ii) the average rate of tax paid by the taxpayer for the previous five,
or preferably ten, years.

V
THE CAPITAL GAINS TAX
"Importantforms of income and benefits escape taxation. The government proposes to bring them into taxable income. In particular,
a tax on capital gains is proposed." (paragraph 1.5 White Paper).

1. Your Committee is generally in favour of a capital gains tax although
concern was expressed by some taxpayers as to whether Canada, as one of
the great trading nations of the world with a limited population, has reached
the point where disincentives to capital investments are appropriate. On
balance, however, the search for equity leads to the acceptance of a form of
capital gains tax.
2. Your Committee, however, is strongly opposed to any taxation
without realization, to the total inclusion of capital gains on personal assets,
principal residences, farms and orchards in the framework of such tax and
the general inclusion of capital gains into ordinary income. Your Committee is, therefore, in favour of the imposition of a capital gains tax with
defined exclusions, to be assessed when realized and, in the case of long
term gains, not to exceed the lower of a flat rate of 25 per cent or one-half
the marginal income tax rate of the taxpayer. The detailed conclusions of
your Committee in this area will be found in Chapter 3 of this report.
3. With a unanimous voice all pertinent briefs presented to this Committee condemned the White Paper proposal that the only cost basis for
capital gains tax should be the value of capital assets on valuation date,
with minor exceptions to cover debt securities. Your Committee, therefore,
recommends that when the historical cost of an asset is greater than the
21
22481-49

value of such asset on valuation day, gain or loss should be computed with
reference to such historical cost and not with reference to such value. In
effect, your Committee wishes to ensure that under no circumstances will
any capital gains tax be levied on any asset unless, in fact, a profit and real
economic gain is realized with respect to such asset. In the absence of such
an approach, an asset which on valuation date had a value lower than its
cost could very well give rise to capital gain and tax thereon although, in
fact, there had been no economic benefit or gain thereon whatsoever to the
taxpayer. The Committee also recommends that in determining the value
on valuation date, the valuation of a capital asset should take into consideration, where applicable, both the actual and potential earning power of
such capital asset as well as all other relevant factors relating to such value.
Finally your Committee further recommends that the law be so drafted as
to ensure that there is no retroactive taxation of the goodwill element of
assets existing at valuation date.
4. In almost every western country, and more particularly in the
United States, the taxing systems have acknowledged the desirability of
applying different tax procedures with respect to ordinary income and capital
gains, and your Committee sees no reason why Canada should deliberately
exclude itself from the international investing community by the procedures
contemplated by the White Paper. Although the desirability of introducing a
capital gains tax is accepted, your Committee emphasizes that the decision
making process on investments must include the possibility of long term
capital accretion and profit subject to a lower rate of tax than would apply
to ordinary income and the taxation of such profit under a system where long
term capital gains will not increase the rate of tax on ordinary income.
Your Committee concluded in this respect that most individuals have a
basic annual earned income or business income that is completely independent of any capital gains (or losses) they may receive. An individual taxpayer is subjected to graduated rates of income tax on his total income and
the White Paper proposes that if such taxpayer is fortunate enough to realize
a gain in a year, the amount of such gain must be added to his basic income
with the inevitable result that a higher rate of tax will become payable on
the combined sums of taxable income. Your Committee felt that the proposals
of the White Paper in the foregoing respect would in the case of long term
gains and losses seriously and adversely affect the Canadian community and
supported your Committee's decision to reject the White Paper proposals on
the taxing of all capital gains and losses as ordinary income. It is essential in
the opinion of your Committee that the taxing system of Canada create a
climate pursuant to which Canadians may be induced to save a portion of
their earnings and to invest the same.

5. With respect to property held for personal use or enjoyment, your
Committee concurred with the general principle contained in paragraphs 3.19
through 3.27 of the White Paper that such property should be subject to
capital gains tax but it could not concur with the methods adopted by the
White Paper for the imposition of such tax. In this respect your Committee
concluded as follows:
(a) Principal Residence

Your Committee decided that in order to continue substantial
incentives for the personal ownership by individuals of their homes,
a $50,000 aggregate lifetime net gain should be excluded from
capital gains tax where such gain is derived by an individual or
his spouse from the sale of their principal residence. In addition,
if and to the extent any net gain should exceed this limitation,
your Committee recommends that a full and unrestricted roll-over
permission be given if another principal residence is purchased
within a one-year period;
(b) Other Property

Your Committee could not see any merit in attempting to
distinguish between types of personal property that do or do not
depreciate with use, since it concluded that the complexities of
such a schedular differentiation would be enormous. On balance,
therefore, your Committee concluded that all types of property
held for personal use or enjoyment should be subject to capital
gain or capital loss treatment, with defined limitations in the
application thereof. The shortage of appraisers in Canada and the
administrative complexities involved in the valuation of property
of a personal nature was pointed out to your Committee by an
authoritative expert in this field. The recommendation contained
in this paragraph should reduce the problem to what is hoped to
be manageable proportions. Your Committee therefore concurred
with the principles contained in paragraphs 3.23 and 3.24 of the
White Paper, but in order to avoid the complex bookkeeping
arising from the suggested low level of $500 your Committee
recommends that in the case of tangible property held for personal
use or enjoyment by individuals, no capital gain or loss be realized
unless the proceeds of any individual sale or exchange exceed
$5000;
(c) Roll-Overs

Your Committee felt strongly that extended roll-over provisions should be given to taxpayers for property held for personal
23
22481-491

use or enjoyment in order to permit taxpayers to replace and
upgrade their personal assets without being subjected to capital
gains tax. Your Committee was impressed that in the generally
accepted sense of the term, gain or loss on an item is not realized
if the item in question is merely replaced with another item of the
same kind and your Committee, therefore, wished to ensure that
no individual would be subjected to capital gains tax (or entitled
to a capital loss deduction) unless he actually disposed on a more
or less permanent basis of the type of item in question. With reference particularly to works of art, your Committee felt that the
upgrading of artistic collections was desirable in the interests of
Canada and that there seemed no logical reason to impose a capital gains tax where a taxpayer sells or exchanges a work of art
purely for the purpose of acquiring another and more expensive
work of art of the same category. To impose a tax at such a time
would, in the opinion of your Committee, restrict the growth of
private collections which, in the normal course of events, will either
find their way into museums upon the death of the owner, or
alternatively, will be subjected to estate tax and succession duties
on their appreciated value. In effect, your Committee acknowledges
that certain types of personal property held for personal use or
enjoyment can, in certain circumstances, give rise to substantial
money gains and that in those circumstances those money gains
should be taxed in the same way as other capital gains. This conclusion, however, should not be extended to cover those transactions where a sale or exchange of this type of property has been
effected for the purpose of replacing the same with a more expensive asset of the same type. The law would, of course, require that
where there has been only a partial use of any gain for replacement, the portion of the gain unused for replacement would be
subject to the capital gains tax. This provision would also prevent
the taxpayer from claiming an immediate loss in respect of a capital asset sold or exchanged and replaced by a less expensive asset.
If in due course the replaced capital asset is not subject to a capital
gains tax further taxes will be exigible in respect thereto through
the application of the gift tax provisions or estate tax and succession duties. Your Committee, therefore, recommends that a full
and unrestricted roll-over permission be given to the extent any
property held for personal use or enjoyment is replaced within
one year of its sale or exchange by a piece of property of a
similar type.

6. In addition to the foregoing, your Committee does not agree with the
philosophy of the White Paper which does not distinguish between long term
and short term gains and losses and the Committee felt that it was more
appropriate to give benefits to those taxpayers who constitute the patient,
long term, solid investors as against those who make a "fast killing" turn
over. Your Committee, therefore decided to recommend that short term gains
and losses arising out of the sale or exchange of capital assets held for less
than one year be treated as ordinary income, but that long term gains and
losses be taxed at a reduced rate not to exceed the lower of 25 per cent of
net capital gains or one half the marginal income tax rate of the taxpayer.
7. The Committee wishes to note that one of the most difficult areas
which it had to consider was the question of integrating the capital gains
tax with tax free intercorporate dividends which tax free dividends would
be continued as a result of the elimination of the proposed integration
system. On balance, your Committee finally came to the conclusion that a
modified approach to that used in the United States should be adopted, so
that intercorporate dividends deriving from capital distributions or which do
not come into the undistributed income on hand of the recipient will reduce
the cost basis of the recipient on the securities in question for future capital
gains tax purposes.
8. Whatever final decision may be made on the types of assets subject
to capital gains tax and the rate of tax applicable thereto, your Committee,
on the basis of all its hearings, must unquestionably recommend the total
elimination of all attempts to impose capital gains tax on unrealized gains
and losses. This would involve the cancellation of the proposals for the fiveyear revaluation of shares of widely-held corporations (paragraph 3.33
White Paper), the deemed realization of capital gains when Canadian residents leave Canada (paragraph 3.40 White Paper) and the deemed realization of capital gains on the value of gifts (paragraph 3.41 White Paper).
Your Committee feels that the elimination of these suggestions, together with
a substantial extension of the roll-over provisions, would go a long way to
making the capital gains tax more acceptable in Canada and the effects
thereof more in accord with the economic and social consensus of what is
real gain or loss. In particular your Committee wishes to note the many
representations to it, with which it is in accord, stating that the administrative effect of properly enforcing the deemed realization of gain when Canadians leave Canada would place an intolerable restraint on the liberties of
Canadian individuals. On the question of the five-year revaluation of shares
the opposition thereto in the briefs presented to this Committe was over-

whelming. Amongst the many reasons presented to the Committee against
the proposed revaluation system were the foliowing:
(a) The proposai to tax unrealized gains on the shares of wideiy-heid
Canadian corporations proceeds on the assumaption that the holdings of such shares are readily marketable which, particularly in
the case of large controuling blocks, is flot the case;
(b) In a substantial number of instances holders of such shares, due to
contractual or other legal commitments, wouid be unable to market their shares while, at the same time, being subjected to a tax
on the deemed gain thereon;
(c) In the case of foreign holders of control blocks of such shares,
the countries of residence of such hoiders wouid not give tax
credits for the proposed Canadian tax so that any ultimate sale
taxed in the country of such residence would give rise to double
taxation;
(d) The proposed tax treats most unfairly those subsidiaries of foreign
corporations which, pursuant to Government desires, offered part
of their shares to the public and thereby deprived themselves of
the otherwise exempt status of a closely-held Canadian corporation
under the White Paper proposais.
VI
THE TAX LOOPHOLES
"Tax can be avoided under the present law by clever devices. The reform
must close loopholes now available to those with the wealth and expert
advice to use them." (paragraph 1.5 White Paper).

1. Your Committee is in compiete agreement with the objective to
eliminate from our tax system any devices which have the effect of improperly reducing taxes where same are appropriateiy due and exigible. Your
Committee is in this sense in agreement with the White Paper in being in
favour of virtue and against sin The Committee, however, holds the view
that the present tax iaw, with perhaps some amendments, properly administered, is sufficiently broad and flexible to prevent the vast majority of such
devices and loopholes. Indeed amendments to the Income Tax Act in recent
years to close such loopholes have been well formuiated and applied. A
continuance of this procedure by way of further amendmnents of the saine
nature to the Incarne Tax Act, wherever the necessity is established, should
be sufficient to reach devices and loophoies still used.

2. Evidence was presented to your Committee that the original reasons
for the enactment of Subpart F of the United States Internai Revenue Code
(which presumably is the United States law referred to in paragraph 6.21
White Paper) were as much for balance of payments problems as for tax
haven abuses. In any event, whatever these purposes may have been, the
Committee has concluded from the evidence that Subpart F has not worked
welI in the United States and that it would be a most regrettable decision if
Canada were to enact anything analogous thereto. Your Committee noted in
this respect with considerable interest the following extracts relating to this
subject from an address by The Honourable Edward S. Cohen, Assistant
Secretary of the Treasury for Tax Policy, dated November 19, 1969:
Fjrst, present law is far too complex. It is too complex for taxpayers and too complex
for efficient administration. Lt shows ail of the marks of the series of compromises that
were involved in its development from 1913 to 1962. WJhile the inherent complexity of
business, especially international business, limits what we can do to achieve simplicity, it seems to me that it is not necessary to seek the precision that our present systcmn
appears to be striving for when the cost of that search is such a high degree of complexity.
The cost of complexity both to taxpayers and the government in this area is ceal,
stemming largely from the necessity to assign large numbers of very intelligent people
in an effort to make the present mechanismn function. 1 think we should strive to shift
some of this talented manpower both inside and outside of goverument away from such
intricacies as subpart F income, the deemed-paid foreign tax credit, and section 367
rulings to work creatively on such critical needs as low income housing, transportation,
legal services for the poor, and other frontiers of the law.

On the basis of the evidence presented to it, your Committee concluded with
respect to the United States law that:
(a) the whole system of taxation is too complex, both for taxpayers
and for efficient administration;
(b) there exists considerable doubt whether this complex legisiation
has resulted in the collection of the anticipated amounts of tax;
(c) the law has resulted in a considerable loss of interest on the part
of the United States manufacturers in developing export sales,
with the consequent loss of foreign exchange to assist the United
States balance of payments problems; and
(d) the tax system has resulted i a curtailment of direct investment by
United States corporations in other countries, again with a consequent long terra adverse effect on foreign exchange.
Further comments on this subject matter will be found in Chapter 6 of this
Report.
3. Your Committee finds itself puzzled by the implication running
through the White Paper that there are vast current evasions of income tax
through the use of foreign "loopholes" and other tax avoidance devices, par-

ticulary when table 16 of the White Paper estimates a continuing recovery of $10,000,000 a year by the elimination of tax haven abuses. Your
Committee repeats that it is in favour of shutting off improper tax avoidance
to the extent such tax avoidance exists, but it feels that the subject matter and
the suggested corrections have been given far too much emphasis in the
White Paper, and certainly do not require the highly complex and probably
unworkable suggestions for reform conceived by the White Paper.
4. Your Committee is convinced that a total withdrawal of permission
to deduct entertainment, convention and similar expenses would be wrong
(paragraphs 5.9 and 5.10 White Paper). In effect, the White Paper has
opted to close out these expenses because in a minority of cases it has concluded that the administrative branches of the Department of National
Revenue are incapable of properly enforcing the existing law. Your Committee cannot agree with a proposal which would penalize taxpayers due
to the problems of income tax administration, particularly when, conversely,
there seems to be no lack of desire to accept complexity where the results
are the imposition of taxes. Your Committee therefore decided on the basis
of the evidence submitted to it that business promotion and entertainment
expenses are essential expenses of doing business in Canada and must be
recognized as such. While your Committee firmly supports an increase of
administrative control of improper entertainment and similar expenses, it
notes from a press release dated December 29, 1965 of the Minister of
National Revenue and related documents released by the Taxation Division
at that time, that the Taxation Division, after a thorough investigation,
came to the conclusion that there was little abuse of the use of expense
accounts and that the country was not losing nearly as much tax as had
been originally anticipated on so-called "expense account living" (see the
budget of June 13, 1963). In this respect your Committee noted the following comments in the report from the Operations and Development Section
of the Department of National Revenue to the Director of the Assessments
Branch dated July 16, 1965Apart from the personal use of automobiles the Expense Account Living Project did
not reveal any substantial areas of avoidance among the over $25,000 income taxpayers.
We were aware of the car problem and have been attempting to cope with it.
Club dues is a problem that apparently should receive the attention of Technical
and Review Sections to ensure equivalent treatment across the country.
No major loss of tax was revealed in one area that we were primarily concerned
about, that is the use of large assets such as yachts and hunting lodges and in another,wives' travel,-the avoidance was relatively modest.

Your Committee also noted the following consequent comments in a memorandum from the Director of the Assessments Branch to the Deputy Minister
of National Revenue dated September 21, 1965-

On the basis of these resuits, our Operations Research Unit has estimated the total
annual tax gap, for the 11,650 taxpayers covered by the project, to be about $2ý million.
This is probably an understatement because the districts generally did not adjust, or
report for statistical purposes, incorrect clainis which in their opinion were picayune.
In any event, it is apparent that the tax gap in this stratum of taxpayers resulting
from Expense Account Living is relatively insignificant, representing less than 2% of the
approximately $143 million paid in taxes.

No evidence was presented to the Committee which would indicate that the
situation with respect to expense account living has, in any way, become
more flagrant since the year 1965.
5. Your Committee is basically in agreement with the general proposition of paragraph 5.17 of the White Paper and would even extend it to
property other than real estate. It believes, however, that there is a basic
fault in the approach of paragraph 5.17 of the White Paper in that it would
apply equally to business and investment assets and your Committee,
therefore, would strongly recommend that losses through capital cost allowance, interest and property taxes referred to in paragraph 5.17 of the Wbite
Paper be only restricted in the hands of those taxpayers who are flot primarily
engaged in a business using the assets in question. It seemed to your Committee grossly unfair to specifically penalize operating real estate companies
which resuit would follow if paragraph 5.17 of the White Paper resulted
in legisiation without amendmnent. The Comniittee queries the rationale
which seems to assimilate income producing depreciable property to
"6speculative property."
6. A substantial number of briefs were presented to your Committee
dealing with the question of commercial and non-commercial trusts of varymng kinds and sizes. The general consensus of your Committee was that
there are some loopholes in the trust area which should be closed. On
balance, therefore, your Committee agrees substantially with the suggestions
of paragraph 5.56 of the White Paper on large public trusts, but disagrees
with the conclusions of paragraph 5.57 of the White Paper on other kinds
of trusts.
Vii
WAGE EARNER EXPENSES
"Wage earners are unable to deduct many legitimate expenses from taxable incarne. New deductions would be introduced ta benefit ernployees
and working mot hers". (paragrapb 1.5 White Paper)

1. Your Committee has already indicated its concurrence in the suggestions of the White Paper in this area. It is particularly anxious to se
29
22481-50

that wage earners be entitled to deduct legitimate expenses from their taxable
income and that the new deductions be introduced to benefit employees and
working mothers.
VIII
THE INTEGRATION SYSTEM
"Corporations are taxed in ways that are open to abuse and that fail to
recognize their diflering relationships with shareholders. The government
proposes changes under a new system that would be fairer to small shareholders and that would stinulate Canadian ownership of Canadian busi-

ness." (paragraph 1.5 White Paper)
1. No parts of the White Paper have elicited such universal condemnation as those that the White Paper declares would be fairer to small shareholders and would stimulate Canadian ownership of Canadian businesses.
Practically every taxpayer heard before your Committee strongly objected
to the integration system, and even the limited number who were in favour
of such proposals stressed that substantial modifications would be required
in the proposed system in order to make it acceptable.
2. The integration system would replace the present 20 per cent
individual dividend tax credit and tax-free intercorporate dividends by a
gross-up of corporate tax and credit to shareholders. The proposals complicate matters further by staledating tax credits and by drawing a distinction,
artificial in the opinion of your Committee, between widely-held corporations
and closely-held corporations. Under the White Paper all corporations would
be required to maintain complicated creditable tax accounts, detailed not only
as to amount but also as to age.
3. The main thrust of these proposals would introduce into Canada a
system where corporations through their boards of directors would be subject to the pressure of shareholders for increased distribution of dividends so that creditable tax would not be staledated. In the process corporate
management and directors would not be in a position to determine objectively
the long range needs of the corporation that they administer. In the opinion
of many witnesses, conflicts of interest between corporation management
(who might wish to retain funds for expansion of business), foreign shareholders (who are not affected by creditable tax), and Canadian shareholders
(who would not want creditable taxes to be staledated) would become common and severe. The boards of directors of many companies might be forced
to make decisions respecting dividends and other matters on grounds that
would be beneficial to only some of their shareholders. In addition, your

Committee noted that a company might not have surplus, computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, from which it could
pay out dividends, even though it might have had taxable income and paid
tax in the preceding two and one-half years.
4. Your Committee was not impressed with the suggestions of the
White Paper that the use of stock dividends was an easy alternative to cash
dividends (paragraphs 4.26 and 4.27 White Paper). In the case of many
companies heard before the Committee it became apparent that due to
restrictive covenants in trust deeds, problems with security commissions and
other contractual arrangements and legal problems, a very substantial number of corporate taxpayers would not be in a position to avail themselves
of the stock dividend alternative suggested by the White Paper. The Committee noted in this respect evidence given to it:
that the payment of a stock dividend from a widely-held Canadian
corporation would require a cash tax outlay for a shareholder who
is over the 33- per cent tax bracket,
(b) that a cash payment would be required for stock dividends paid to
foreign shareholders with resulting complexities as to who would
be responsible for the remission of that tax,
(c) that there would be a major cost differential to the declaring company between cash and stock dividends, and
(a)

(d)

that foreign shareholders might very well be presented with serious
tax problems in their country of residence if they were in receipt
of stock dividends from Canadian companies.

5. Furthermore, your Committee found it impossible to overlook the
varying needs of different corporations having regard to the nature of their
activities. For example, those engaged in the extractive and natural resource
industries obviously have problems differing from those engaged merely in
the distribution of manufactured products at the retail level. Your Committee feels the integration system, because of its inflexibility, would badly
serve the varying needs of diverse corporate activities, and would tend to
discourage rather than encourage Canadian investment in the natural resource
companies, in growth companies, in companies carrying on international
operations and generally in the whole Canadian corporate complex. A
considerable body of evidence was presented to your Committee showing
that the various tax incentives and allowances at the corporate level (such
as depreciation, depletion, foreign tax credits, tax-free dividends from foreign
subsidiaries, etc.) would be substantially offset by the increased tax on the
shareholders of such companies by virtue of the fact that the creditable tax
31
22481-50à

of the companies would be lowered by the incentives themselves. Your
Committee concluded that the various incentives on the one hand and the
tax credit system on the other hand seemed to be working against each other
in a large number of such instances and this conclusion was one of the many
reasons which led it to decide that the whole integration system was unacceptable.
6. Without attempting to enumerate all the specific objections to the
integration system which led the Committee to reject it, your Committee
considers it desirable to note some of the more important of these objections
which have not heretofore been fully set forth, and with which objections
your Committee concurs:
(a) Great administrative difficulties will be encountered in determining
the creditable tax on dividends and even if the system can be made
workable the result will be a loss of revenue to Canada estimated
at $140,000,000 in the first year and $250,000,000 in the fifth
year of the system (Table 15, item 13 White Paper);
(b) The public utilities will be most unfairly treated (paragraphs 4.63
to 4.65 White Paper) on the basis of sophistic reasoning;
(c)

Canadian investor tendencies will be distorted by favouring investment in mature, nonexpansionist, creditable tax corporations as
against growth, risk-taking corporations;

(d) Conversely, non-resident investment tendencies will be distorted by
favouring foreign investment in growth corporations as against
creditable tax corporations;
(e) The application of those parts of the integration system which
apply to non-residents and the negotiation of new tax treaties to
give effect thereto will be much more difficult than envisaged by the
White Paper;
(f) The increase in cash dividends may well be consumed by many
shareholders rather than being saved by them and used for further
investment;
(g)

The integration system will result in the reduction, at the shareholder level, of incentives which had been granted by the Government to corporations, and, in combination with the 2½ year dividend
pay-out rule, will ultimately gravely reduce the power of the
Government to utilize the tax system effectively to stimulate and
control the economy;

(h) Because of the issuance of revised assessments and tax disputes
between the taxpayer and the revenue authorities, creditable tax

may in many instances be incapable of being determined within the
staledating period of two and a hall years contemplated by the
White Paper. (The Committee lias taken cognizance of the technical paper issued by the Minister of Finance on Mardi 19, 1970,
where at pages il and 12 an attempt is made to explain the
handling of additional tax demanded by assessment and its staledating. Your Committee is flot in a position to conclude whether
or not this procedure would be a complete answer to the problem,
but it could not help but be impressed with the fact that some
twenty typewritten pages were required at this early stage to explain (basically by examples and flot by legisiative wording) certain aspects of the proposed taxation of corporations and their
shareholders, which proposals at least in part are supposed to
streamline an existing system which, in the opinion of your Conimittee, is working extremely well.)
In concluding that the integration system should be rejected, your Committee wishes to note that it was influenced by the unhappy experience of thc
United Kingdom during the time that a forni of integration system was
provided for under its law. Excerpts from tie statements of various public
officials in tie United Kingdom which were presented to this Committee were
a factor in the considerations of this Committee as to tie undesirability
generally of tie integration system. For example, thc budget statement of thc
United Kingdom. Chancellor of Uic Exchequer dated April 6, 1965 said in
part:
Our present method of taxing corporate bodies goes back to the days before the
joint stock company, as we know it, existed, when the few companies that did exist
were thought of as being in the nature of large partnerships. At that stage, income tax
was virtually a fiat-rate tax: it applied to the income of companies and individuals alike;
and when a company djstributed its income to its shareholders in the form of a dividend,
a second lot of tax was not exacted. Since those days, there have been extensive changes
both in the tax systemn and in the status and position of companies.
First, the personal income tax has become a graduated tax, dîfferentiated according
to the cirdumstances of each taxpayer, and made progressive by reduced rate relief at
the lower end of the scale, and surtax at the upper end. Secondly, company taxation has
been altered by the introduction of profits tax, which is imposed on the whole profits of
a company, whether or not distributed, and is not repayable to shareholders. These
changes have made obsolete the idea that companies and individuals should be treated
for tax in the same way. By separating formally the two taxes, namely, the tax on
corporations and the tax on individuals, we shall be bringing the tax system o! the
United Kingdomn into line with reality and adopting what has become the general
practice throughout the world. (italics inserted)

7. In a federal country suci as Canada Uiere are sufficient problemns
lin evolving a harmonlous tax systeni between tie federal government and
Uic provinces without introducing further stresses Uiat will make such

harmonization very difficult and probably impossible. The adverse reaction
of some of the Canadian provinces to the proposed integration system will
be hereinafter dealt with under heading XII "Coordination with the Provinces".
8. The White Paper (paragraph 4.14) claims that the present dividend
tax credit of 20 per cent redounds to the advantage of those in the higher
tax brackets. Your Committee concurs to some extent with this view, and to
overcome this difficulty, revised dividend tax credit rates and other procedures
are suggested in Chapter 4 of this report.
9. The proposals in the White Paper which relate to integration
include:
(a) two classes of corporations described as closely-held corporations
and widely-held corporations;
(b) the removal of the low rate of tax on the first $35,000. of
business profits and the application of the general corporate tax
rate thereto;
(c) the revaluation of shares of widely-held Canadian corporations
every five years and a deemed realization of gain whether or
not the owner sells the shares; and
(d) the treatment of capital gains as income.
The representations contained in the briefs and other material filed with
your Committee and the evidence at the oral hearings showed very substantial opposition to all of the above, and this erosion makes impracticable
the form of integration proposed in the White Paper. This aspect confirms
the views of your Committee against implementation of the proposal for
integration, since all that would be left of that proposal would be "bits and
pieces" which in no wise could make up a viable or feasible plan.
10. On the subject of mutual funds, your Committee concluded that
the present "conduit pipe" treatment of mutual funds should be continued
by one method or another, including possibly the right to permit mutual
funds to elect to be treated as partnerships. This approach is pointed up by
the necessity to continue the investment of the funds of pension and retirement
plans in mutual funds, which investment the Canadian Mutual Funds Association estimates at approximately $190,000,000. The withdrawal of such
an amount from the mutual fund market would undoubtedly have a serious
effect, not only on the mutual funds themselves, but on the market as a whole,
and such withdrawal of investment would undoubtedly take place if pension
and retirement plans were to be subjected to a more onerous rate of tax by

investment in mutual funds than if they had miade a direct investment ini
shares sinillar to those held by such mutual funds.
11. With respect to privately owned public utilities, the Committee
suggests that this is an area which requires iminediate clarification and
rectification since a very substantial. market bias already exists against utility
shares as a resuit of the White Paper proposais. It would appear that the
only types of shareholders of utilities who are flot adversely affected by the
White Paper proposais are foreign shareholders and your Committee was
convinced that the continuation of the White Paper proposais would have a
considerable impetus in causing foreign take-overs of Canadian privately
owned public utilities.
12. Your Committee, is, therefore, of the view that the proposed
integration system. should be entirely abandoned as being impracticable
and creative of unacceptable distortions. It is the view of the Committee that
the present dividend tax credit system. be retained, but on a modified basis in
order to meet what is regarded as certain inequities in practice under the
present system of dividend tax credits. Beyond this, your Committee is of the
view that a simplified procedure should be created for the distribution of
corporate surpluses by prepayment of tax.
lx
THE MINERAL INDUSTRIES
"Thre minerai industries enjoy special tax benefits that have existed
for many years but that are unnecessarily costly and inefficient.
Assistance to minerai exploration and development must do its
intended job in a more direct way that is less costly in terms of

revenue." (paragraph 1.5 White Paper)
1. The proposais in the White Paper retain the concept that the minerai and extractive industries are to continue to receive special tax considerations because of the special nature and character of their operations. The
White Paper recognizes that "more than the usual industrial risks are invoived
in the search for and developmnent of mines and oil and gas deposits and that
the scale of these risks is quite uncertain in most cases". The White Paper
suggests, however, that the tax benefits heretofore granted to the minerai
industries by way of the three year tax exemption for new mines and depletion
aliowances are too generous. The issue, therefore, is to determine the extent
of the benefits or inducements or incentives that must be granted to those
engaged ini these industries.

2. Special rules or incentives have been provided up to now to assist
in the exploration and development of mineral resources by way of tax
exemption during the first three years of commercial operation of a mine and
by way of allowances called percentage depletion amounting to 333-% of
net production profits that may be deducted from profits before determination of taxable income. These incentives have attracted the required equity
capital notwithstanding the great risks involved and compensate for the
risks and uncertainties of such operations. About 60% of Canada's mineral
output is exported to world markets and must be competitive with the
production of other countries to maintain this position. The existing incentives in Canada have attracted this risk capital on terms that enable
Canadian production to be and remain competitive.
3. Your Committee has listened to the representations that have
been made by most of the leading companies engaged in the various
natural resource industries. Most of these companies, who cumulatively
are responsible for a substantial portion of Canada's export trade and activities in the international market, have taken the position that the present
incentives are absolutely essential for the continuance of their operations and
for the realization of their expansion programs. All have pointed out that the
extractive industries carry on operations on an internationally competitive
basis and that any reduction in the incentives heretofore granted would seriously affect their future. They point out their importance in terms of Canada's
balance of payments and they emphasize that the development of the Canadian hinterland, in some instances completely unoccupied and virgin territory, would not have taken place without these incentives and will not take
place to the same degree in the future if these incentives are seriously reduced.
These companies have in many instances pointed out further that it is not
only the revision in the incentives but also the introduction of the proposed
integration system which would be extremely damaging to them since the
tax saving incentives on the one side would be counterbalanced by low tax
credits to shareholders.
4.

This segment of the White Paper proposals has given your Com-

mittee some troubled moments. It appreciates the necessity of maintaining
the mineral resources industry on a competitive international basis, and

it realizes the necessity of continuing an international investment climate
which will enable Canadian based international mineral resource companies
to extend their activities in both Canada and foreign countries.

5. One of the main concerns of your Committee is the fact that very
considerable long-term developments and financing have been effected in
these industries on the basis of the tax incentives presently in force. Reference
has already been made in this report to the undesirability of the retroactive
legislation features of the White Paper system, and this is particularly evident
in the subject matter now being discussed.
MINING INDUSTRY

6. It has been estimated that the net foreign earnings of the
mining industry amount to some $1,500 million per year. The export and the
competitive position of these industries in international trade continue to be
of major importance in the maintenance of a favourable balance of payments
(See Fourth Annual Review of September, 1967, published by the Economic
Council of Canada, Pages 231-2).
7. The mining industry's contribution to better regional economic
balance has benefitted virtually all sections of Canada. This development has
been most significant in the north where mining has pioneered the development of many areas. Some wilderness areas have been converted into wellorganized modern communities with substantial population and modern
facilities by the efforts of the mining exploration and development.
8. Notwithstanding such a remarkable record of achievement the White
Paper proposes that these special rules and the incentives under which risk
capital was made available with the resulting tremendous development of
the Canadian mineral industry, "should be revised substantially to ensure that
really profitable projects bear a fair share of the burden of taxation".
Yet the White Paper, while proposing to discontinue the tax exempt period of
three years agrees in para. 5.32 that the exemption granted to mining companies in respect of Canadian corporate tax for three years provides "an
incentive to corporations to commit the large amounts of money necessary
to develop a mine and recognizes that the commitment must be made at a
time when the extent and quality of the ore body cannot be clearly ascertained".
9. The first proposal of the White Paper (paragraph 5.31) is to
phase out or withdraw the tax exemption of three years presently enjoyed by
mines from commencement of commercial production. Your Committee is
firmly of the opinion that this tax exemption for Canadian mines must be
continued even if modified as to the extent of the exemption. Such tax exemption is part of the pattern of financing mining exploration and development.
Without this feature, the attractiveness to risk capital suppliers would be
greatly lessened. No fine measurement can be made as to how much

reward is needed to secure such capital but obviously the reward must be
greater than for usual mature investment.
10. The Minister of Finance, The Honourable Walter Harris, in his
Budget Address in 1955 in referring to these special incentive provisions
said: "I believe these special tax provisions (incentives) have clearly established their value in promoting expansion (in the oil and gas and mining
industries) and I now propose to make them a permanent part of our law."
Il. The defect in the White Paper's approach to the financing of the
development of mineral deposits is that it fails to take into account the essential difference between the two types of investors and the demand of the risk
investor for rewards that are commensurate with the greater risks in this area
of mining development. The proposals to permit new mines under certain
conditions to write off 100% of the cost of mining machinery and buildings
and to allow deduction of the cost of acquisition of mineral rights as part of
the costs of exploration and development are in the opinion of your Committee completely inadequate as a reward to attract the financing to begin a
program of exploration and development of mineral resources.
12. In the opinion of your Committee, the proposal to allow to new
mines a fast write off of costs of fixed assets in place of the slower pace by
way of capital cost allowances is not and will not be regarded as an adequate
reward for taking on the greater than normal risks inherent in a program of
exploration and development of mineral resources. More is required than
the mere return of the capital for the risk capital supplier to venture into this
area of financing. What the White Paper proposes by way of incentives
produces no return unless the venture is successful. It is the Committee's view
that the odds under these proposals are not attractive enough to interest the
risk capital supplier in a field where failures greatly outnumber successes.
13. In addition, the White Paper proposes to substitute earned depletion for the existing percentage depletion. This is a radical change in the
special rules. Operators of mineral resource industries may presently under the
special rules reduce their taxable income by claiming a depletition allowance
amounting to 33-% of their net production profits derived from the operation
of mineral resources. This is to be replaced with a form of depletion that
must be earned in relation to exploration and development expenditures as
defined in the White Paper and is limited to a maximum of 331% of net
production profits. Such formula for earned depletion is related more to new
mines than existing mines. This proposal of earned depletion will fall
unevenly across the mineral resource industry. Some may receive full benefit
while others will receive in varying degrees less benefit. In the view of your
Committee, this potential imbalance must be corrected.

14. The proposal in the White Paper is that after a transition period
"depletion allowances in respect of mineral rights held by a taxpayer will have
to be earned". (White Paper paragraph 5.40). The transition period
proposed is that for the first five years the new system is in operation depletion allowance in respect of production profits from properties now owned
may be taken as in the past without the taxpayer having to earn them. The
Committee will recommend an extention of this transition period (see chapter
5, paragraph 14 (c) of this report).
15. The formula proposed in the White Paper for "earned" depletion
that for every $3.00 of eligible expenditures made after the White Paper is
is
published a taxpayer would earn the right to $1.00 of depletion allowance.
The present maximum on such depletion allowance would continue, namely,
one third of net production profits. Expenditures to earn such depletion
allowance under this formula must be in respect of exploration for or development of mineral deposits in Canada or certain mining machinery and
buildings. The Committee has been advised that under this sytem of earned
depletion some mineral resource companies would face an effective tax rate
of 55% to 60%.
16. It is perfectly obvious that under the existing incentives now
proposed to be radically changed, the mineral resource industry in Canada
made tremendous advances.
17. Subject to the foregoing views, your Committee approves in principle a modest revision of the present tax incentive legislation that will modify
the three year tax exemption for mines, but will still retain the necessary incentives to bring about the maximization of the development of Canada's
resources. The details with respect to these proposed revisions will be found
in Chapter 5 of this report. It is significant that in the briefs published by the
various provinces in recent months, the two items in the White Paper that
were most strenuously objected to were integration and the proposed treatment of mining and oil and gas industries. These industries are so important
to the economy of the respective provinces in their continued development
and expansion and so necessary for regional development that the provinces
have expressed great concern as to the adverse consequences of the White
Paper proposals relating to these industries and their effect on the economy of
the provinces.
OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY

18. At present oil and gas companies are entitled to percentage depletion from oil or gas wells. The White Paper proposes to transform this percentage depletion into an incentive system designed to induce taxpayers to

undertake more exploration and development than they otherwise would
(White Paper para. 5.37). The White Paper proposes in para. 5.40, that from
the day on which the White Paper was published depletion allowances would
have to be earned. The existing maximums would continue to apply-that is
that such earned depletion allowance could generally be no more than one
third of production profits, and in the same way as for the mining industry, the
formula proposed is that for every $3.00 of eligible expenditures made after
the White Paper is published a taxpayer would earn the right to $1.00 of
depletion allowance. If the taxpayer's profits in the year were not sufficient
to permit him to deduct the amount earned he would carry the undeducted
amount over to subsequent years.
19. In the future larger amounts of capital will be needed for exploration in the capital-intensive industry of oil and gas as it advances farther north
and off-shore. The existence of a definite depletion allowance provides a
source of money where the supplier of risk capital may have an opportunity
to realize his reward for assuming higher risks.
20. The change to earned depletion for the oil and gas industry proposed under the White Paper would, by substantially increasing its costs,
place the oil and gas industry in Canada in a less competitive position in the
export market in the United States. Presently the depletion allowances in the
United States are calculated at 22 per cent of gross production. The effect of
the present percentage depletion rate in Canada is not as generous. Nevertheless the exporting Canadian oil and gas companies have been able to compete
in the U.S. market although at the cost of some reduction in their margin of
profit.
21. In two areas, namely, a) operating in the competitive U.S. market
and, therefore, in the world market, for Canada's share of such markets, and
b) competing in the risk capital market for capital for further exploration and
development, the change to earned depletion will seriously affect the oil and
gas industry in Canada. It will make the market less profitable for the sale
of Canadian oil and gas and will reduce the ability to procure risk capital
and possibly increase the already higher cost of such capital if available.
22. To the extent the oil and gas companies in Canada have financed
to this moment their capital costs for exploration and development the
continued existence of the present depletion allowance has been an important
economic inducement in producing and selling the end product competitively.
23. In terms of its contribution to the Canadian economy in the
comparatively short period in which the petroleum industry in Canada has
been actively engaged in exploration and production on a significant scale,
the record of achievement of the industry has been outstanding. In terms
of return on capital investment, the experience of the industry has been dis-

appointing when considered in relation to the high risks involved and in
comparison with industry experience in other major producing areas of the
world.
24. There have been long periods when there has been a dearth of
major discoveries inevitably leading to a flagging of interest and a decline in
the level of exploration activity which has only been revived from time to
time by some important discovery, which has renewed hope for the future.
The industry in Canada is now on the threshold of a new stage in its development with a definite shift in emphasis in exploration from the older wellestablished areas in Alberta, Saskatchewan and British Columbia, to what are
referred to as the "frontier areas"-the Mackenzie River delta area and the
Arctic coastal plain, the Arctic islands and Hudson's Bay, and offshore
Eastern Canada. Inevitably, associated with the hope of a better return on
investment, however, is a much higher degree of risk in these frontier areas.
The capital investment required for exploration and development in these
areas will greatly exceed the cost of exploration and development in the
older well-established areas. The ability of the industry to attract the capital
required for exploration and development in these frontier areas will depend
to a considerable extent on the prospect of the enhanced return which would
be provided by an adequate depletion allowance.
25. The oil and gas industry on the basis of the history of operation
in Canada has not reached a position where it can be concluded that there are
such excess earnings that it can operate successfully with a less generous
incentive. The fact that many such companies have not as yet been able to
take advantage of the present depletion allowances points up the fact that net
production profits after providing for exploration and development costs are
nominal.
26. Eligible expenditures for purposes of earning depletion under the
White Paper proposals are section 83A expenditures excluding the cost of
acquiring mineral rights. There expenditures are in respect of exploration and
development. Many expenditures not included in these 83A costs so as to be
entitled to 100 per cent write off are equally exploration and development
expenses. Thus replacement of capital assets in expansion of refinery facilities
and well and associated equipment are necessary costs in developing oil and
gas reserves. Likewise expansion of refining facilities and replacement of
equipment and buildings are necessary if continued operation is to be maintained. Gas plant facilities should be considered an integral part of any
development program. Gas at the wellhead usually is not a saleable product
and must be separated from certain components to bring the gas up to the
standard set by the Gas Conservation Board. In addition government orders
(provincial) require the conservation of gas that is produced with oil.

27. While the treatment of these facilities as depreciable assets subject to capital cost allowance may be justified rather than broadening the
scope of exploration and development expenses under Section 83A of the Income Tax Act, your Committee is of the opinion that the basic character of
these expenditures is part of any development program intended to lead to
production in commercial form of oil and gas. Accordingly, your Committee
is of the view that eligible expenditures to earn depletion should include all
such expenditures for purposes of the determination of earned depletion.

X
TAXING INTERNATIONAL INCOME
1. The conclusions of your Committee in this area are dealt with in
Chapter 6 of this report.
2. Many objections raised before your Committee with respect to
the proposed treatment of international income were based on the assumption of the adoption of the proposed integration system. If the recommendations of this Committee to eliminate the integration system are approved,
virtually all of these objections will be eliminated.
3. The bulk of the remaining objections dealt with taxing capital
gains of foreigners not earned through a permanent establishment in Canada
and the adverse treatment of non-treaty countries as against treaty countries
for withholding tax rates and tax credits. Your Committee cannot in either
of these areas agree with the recommendations of the White Paper. To
attempt to collect capital gains tax from non-residents who have no connection to this country other than ownership of investments seems to your
Committee an exercise in frustration which runs counter to the practice of
virtually all developed countries and which will make the negotiation of
new income tax conventions most difficult. Your Committee has also been
convinced that these tax treaties are and will continue to be mainly with
developed countries so that the effect of the White Paper will be to hurt
mainly the underdeveloped areas of the world at the same time as Canada
is inducing private capital to go to these countries. Your Committee was
also convinced on the basis of the evidence submitted to it that under the
White Paper proposals Canadian companies investing abroad in non-treaty
countries would be at competitive disadvantage with other foreign investors
and that tax incentives offered by developing countries, such as tax holidays
and low rates, might very well be more than offset by the Canadian tax
payable on dividends from non-treaty countries. In all your Committee sees

littie that is good and much that is dangerous in the proposais of the White
Paper on these subjects.
4. The provisions of paragraph 6.15 of the White Paper propose to restrict Section 28 (J) (d) of the present Income Tax Act to exempt only dividends from. those countries with which Canada lias a tax treaty. Your Committee is of the view that the proposed procedure may be discriminatory
against many Canadian corporations in receipt of dividends from foreign
controlled corporations. The White Paper recommends the immediate revision of the present Canadian tax laws and then expresses the hope that
amendment to existing, treaties and the creation of new treaties wili harmonize
with the proposed tax changes. This procedure is an unfortunate example of
putting the cart before the horse. The change in the domestic law should
not be effected until treaties beneficial to such Canadian corporations are
negotiated. If in fact the Government is unable to negotiate treaties or any
satisfactory number of treaties on the basis of the present domestic. law
then the policy decision should be reexamined as to whether any change
in the domestic law should be made. Your Committee, therefore, recommends
against the implementation of the proposai in 6.15 and favours the retention
of the present Section 28 (1) (d) of the Income Tax Act.
5. In summary, your Committee has concluded that the proposed
treatment of foreign investors and foreign income as indicated in the White
Paper has flot been followed by any other country, and that such proposed
treatment is inconsistent with present income tax conventions and current
international tax practice. The proposais ini the White Paper in the Committee's opinion discriminate against the expansion abroad of many Canadian
enterprises and wiil seriousiy tend to curtail them.
xi
MISCELLANEOUS REVISIONS
1. There are some matters that have not been deait with directly in
White Paper which have been brought to the attention of your Comthe
mittee and which, in its opinion, require an expression of its views.
2. Your Committee is of the opinion that the tax iaw should provide the
necessary machinery which would enable the Department of National Revenue to give tax rulings on stipulated facts for the guidance of taxpayers, which
rulings would be binding on the Department provided the stipulated facts
were not materially varied. Taxpayers and their advisers today are not in a
position to obtain the necessary assent, or dissent, as the case may be, for
proposed actions, which particularly in cases involving corporate reorganiza-

tions, long term financial undertakings and the like impose an unwarranted
burden on taxpayers. Your Committee, therefore, feels it is essential that
legislation be enacted to provide for the easy issuance of such rulings, as
these will smooth the operations of the taxation system, reduce uncertainty to
a considerable degree and substantially reduce expensive and lengthy litigation between taxpayers and the Crown. The Committee recommends that the
requisite legislation be phrased so as to induce and not inhibit the issuance
by the Department of National Revenue of rulings, with an obligation on the
Department to issue a ruling within a stated period of time after any proper
application therefor. Your Committee notes that the National Revenue Department has just issued a statement that it will in the future issue binding
rulings under certain circumstances, which procedure your Committee, of
course, commends. The Committee however is still of the view that the ruling
procedure should be specially provided for by legislation.
3. Some representations were made to your Committee in support of the
view that in order to induce loan as against equity investment in Canadian
enterprises, withholding tax should not be exigible on interest paid by Canadian debtors to non-residents. It was argued that large sums of money would
become available from foreign sources if such withholding taxes were
eliminated, as in many instances the non-resident creditors are, in their own
country, either not subject to tax or are not able to obtain tax credits for
Canadian withholding taxes. Assuming that Government policy will be such
as to desire loan moneys coming into Canada from foreign sources, your
Committee suggests that the Government consider the question of whether
the elimination of such withholding tax on interest is desirable where there are
loans from arms-length foreign lenders.

XII
COORDINATION WITH THE PROVINCES
1. Your Committee heartily concurs with the statements in the White
Paper that it is necessary to obtain the consent of the provinces to the over-ail
revision of Canada's tax structure. As stated in paragraph 1.15 White Paper:
A final important goal for tax reform in Canada must be its appeal to provincial
governments and legislatures as a system they too can use. In our federal structure
of governnent, we are striving for harmony in federal and provincial tax policies and
practices. Much has been accomplished in this respect in the past generation. The
proposals in this paper have been designed to permrt that progress to continue.

Paragraph 7.1 White Paper states further:
A major concern of the government in the program of tax reform will be to maintain
the high degree of coordination which has been achieved in recent decades between the
federal and provincial income tax systems.

2. Thus far the Provinces of Quebec and Ontario as well as other
Provinces have expressed the view that the proposed integration system and
capital gains tax of the White Paper involve a radical and complicated restructuring of the tax system, and these provinces have expressed their disagreement with the introduction of such a system. These views so recently
expressed by these provinces should give cause for concern and, in the opinion
of your Committee, they reinforce the conclusions of your Committee that
at the very least the complete abandonment of the integration system and a
complete restructuring of the capital gains tax is required. If at this stage the
proposed integration system were to be implemented, accompanied by the
treatment of capital gains in the manner proposed by the White Paper, and if,
as expected, several provinces refused to harmonize their respective systems
to conform to that of the federal approach, we would truly have an impenetrable jungle of tax law which would defy rational application.
3. Your Committee, however, wishes to again express its appreciation
of the Government's desire to work closely with the provinces in an attempt
to evolve with the passage of time a symmetrical taxation system, and it
urges the Government to continue its quest for the attainnient of this highly
desirable goal. Criticism of, and disagreement with, specific proposals do not
in any way affect this Committee's expression of hope that the attainment of
this objective will be realized.
4. The necessity of continuing discussions with the provinces in order
to develop a unified system is pointed up by the example of the capital gains
tax. It is clear that a tax, to be fairly and equitably applied, must be related
to the whole system of taxation including gift taxes, estate taxes and succession duties. If the proper credits are not worked out, the cumulative effect
of the application of federal and provincial capital gains taxes, gift taxes,
estate taxes and succession duties in given instances could be confiscatory in
its results and ultimately damaging to the Canadian economy. The disincentives resulting therefrom are self-evident, and Canadians generally would
reach a stage of not being interested in either intensive effort or saving.
5. Your Committee in its deliberations has come to the conclusion
that the Government might well consider abandoning the estate tax field to
the provinces, with the understanding that federal receipts from the capital

gains tax would only be ailocated to those provinces applying modest death
duty rates to estates so as to prevent: the confiscatory features hereinbefore
referred to. Your Committee goes furtlier and hopes that, in due course,
death duties in ail provinces will be substantiaily reduced or eliminated and
replaced by the receipts resulting from the application of the new capital
gains tax.
MLI
IMPACT ON REVENUES AND THE ECONOMY
1. This aspect is deait with in Chapter 8 of the White Paper. Your
Committee has listened to many representations with respect to, the overali
effects of the proposed changes contemplated in the White Paper. ]3roadly
speaking the conclusions of those who have made representations, if not on a
unanimous basis, at least on an overwhelming basis, are the foilowing:
(a) The proposais would have the efleet of slowing down the growth of
savings in Canada, thereby preventing Canadian individuals and
corporations from .providing the necessary rnon.eys required for
Canadian economie expansion;
(b) On balance there would be introduced under the provisions of the
White Paper a series of tax disincentives both to corporations and
to individuals which would be harmful to the economy of the
country;
(c) The revenue receipts of the proposed new system would be substantially higher than the existing system and would have the
inevitable elfeet of bringing about an increased diversion of resources from the private to the public sector.
Your Committee is substantially in accord with the foregoing views
and strongly recommendç to the Goverument that the merits of the foregoing
conclusions be carefully studied and considered.
2. Paragrapli 8.35 of the White Paper states the following:
The tax reform. proposais set forth in this paper are expected to have relatively modest
impacts upon the Canadian economy apart from the effects on savings in closely-held
companies, and possibly on investment in the mining industry.

Your Committee is of the view that the economic effects of the White
Paper proposais will probably be far from modest, and will likely have
effects far beyond the casual emuneration in paragraph 8.35 White Paper.
Your Committee is bemused by the fact that the cumulative effects of the

integration system, the capital gains tax and the other changes to the taxation
of domestic and foreign income are considered so minor by the White Paper
that they will only have a modest impact on the Canadian economy. Your
Committee does not have such confidence in the results and for this reason amongst others has rejected many of the conclusions of the White Paper.
In any event, this Committee regards with disfavour the admitted effects in
paragraph 8.35 White Paper on savings of closely-held companies and the
possible reduction of investment in the mining industry.
3. Paragraph 8.37 White Paper reads as follows:
The proposals in this paper involve some
$15,000 or $17,000. These increases may
work over-time or more intensively or to
On the whole, however, the increases do
patterns in any marked degree.

increases in marginal rates up to incomes of
have some modest effect on the incentive to
seek advancement by extra effort or training.
not seem large enough to change behaviour

Your Committee is puzzled as to the basis and evidence on which the
White Paper made its broad conclusions as to its effect on the incentive
of individuals and other behavior patterns, because the increase in marginal
rates set forth in paragraph 8.37 White Paper was not treated with such
disdain in the many briefs presented to the Committee. From these briefs
your Committee must conclude that the increase in marginal rates will have
a serious adverse effect on the incentive to work and it has already stated
its view that the proposed increase in taxes in the middle income brackets
is most undesirable.
4. Paragraph 8.41 of the White Paper estimates "a total reduction
of saving of about $150 million in the first year of the new system and
about $525 million in the fifth year, both based on estimated 1969 income
levels." Your Committee regards with concern any reduction in the savings
of Canadian individuals and corporations. The figures cited are both based
on estimated 1969 income levels. This estimated reduction in savings might
well be increased after the fifth year having regard to the hoped-for expansion
of the Canadian economic level of activity. The loss of $525 million in
the fifth year represents not only the loss of that sum of money that Canadians could invest in Canadian companies or save, but beyond that such
amount could constitute a credit base whereby borrowers could obtain from
Canadian banking and financial institutions additional large sums of money
for investment in Canada. We see here in dramatic form the consequences
that would flow from the introduction of the new system, and this at a
time when Canada is making every possible effort to bring about a better
balance between the division of the Canadian patrimony between Canadian
residents and non-residents. (See, however, the views of the Minister of

Finance dated June 11, 1970, cited in the Prologue to this report which
may minimize the above problems).
5. Paragraph 8.49 of the White Paper states that "The general
economic effects of these proposed tax changes would include some moderate
reduction in aggregate private savings and probably some reduction in the
capital expenditures of closely-held corporations and the mineral industries."
Your Committee has already stated it regards these general economic effects
as highly undesirable and injurious to Canada.
6. The Committee feels constrained to query the conclusions of the
White Paper in respect of paragraph 8.47 where it is stated that the very
substantial changes to be made in the taxation of non-residents "are not
expected to cause any substantial reduction in foreign investment in Canada".
Your Committee wishes to state that it is not within the ambit of its considerations to discuss whether or not a reduction of foreign ownership of Canadian businesses is or is not desirable, but it can state that, in its opinion, the
provisions of the White Paper, and particularly the imposition of capital gains
tax on certain foreign holders of Canadian securities, will have a serious and
long term adverse effect on foreign investment in Canada. In more than one
well thought out brief presented to it, the statement or implication was
clearly given to this Committee that if the capital gains tax is imposed on
foreigners with respect to their Canadian corporate securities, investment in
Canada will be gravely affected.
7. In conclusion on this subject matter, your Committee is not completely convinced that the overall conclusions of Chapter 8 of the White
Paper are necessarily grounded in fact or reflect what will be the facts in
the future. It appreciates the difficulties inherent in estimating the results of
such vast changes as the White Paper suggests (paragraph 8.5 White Paper)
and it must conclude that the estimates of results set forth in Chapter 8 are
therefore highly suspect. If personal income taxes alone are considered (paragraph 8.7 through paragraph 8.13 White Paper) a combination of three
or more estimates, three or more assumptions, one "might be", one "risks of
error", one "particular sequence", one "hypothetical" and one computer
can hardly lead this Committee to any sense of security that the composite
results set forth in the White Paper are much more than a pious hope. This
general worry has not been the least of the reasons why your Committee is
reluctant to advocate the overall major changes to the income tax structure
recommended by the White Paper. Your Committee feels that it would be
far more sensible and safe to introduce gradually amendments to the exist-

ing tax system, such as a limited capital gains tax and partial amendments
to the dividend tax credit and natural resource incentives, rather than take
the chance of perhaps adversely and seriously affecting the whole economy
of this country.
XIV
CONCLUSIONS
1. Dynamism in reforming a tax structure is always desirable and everpresent vigilance to prevent or eliminate abuses is highly commendable.
Canada in the decade of the 1970s requires a stable but flexible economic
climate where the roads to prosperity should be incentive, savings, fairness
and a sense of balance. Known and glaring problems as they arise from
time to time should be the subject of immediate study, implemented by the
necessary legislation where remedies are required. In following such a procedure the necessary detailed examination and study should be made before
the implementing legislation is introduced. Such procedures, involving the
intensive application to the task of the executive and legislative branches of
government will lead to a viable and equitable tax structure. Such a structure
should not be rigid and inviolate as was the law of the Medes and Persians,
but should be clear, supple and subject to modification from time to time in
order to meet inevitable changing conditions as they occur. Such changes
should, however, be brought about without the necessity of toppling the
entire tax structure.
2. Equity and justice do not necessarily require undue experimentation
and utopian dalliance. Perfect tax systems are the fabric of dreams-not of
human endeavour. Even though the motivation in seeking for perfection may
be high-minded, Canada in the opinion of this Committee will reach its goal
by following the dictates of reason, inspired by the realization that the
quality of its people and its natural resources will guarantee the attainment
of fair, equitable and just goals applicable to all Canadians.
3. The White Paper has been helpful in indicating areas where the
tax structure requires modification and where new sources of revenue might
be obtained. The following, in the opinion of your Committee, are the main
areas where modifications to the present law are required:
(a) Increased basic exemptions and other benefits should be given to
lower income bracket taxpayers but the loss of revenue to Canada
therefrom should be obtained from capital gains tax and other
sources without increasing the income tax rates on other Canadian
taxpayers.

(b) The marginal rate on individual taxpayers from the combination
of both federal and provincial taxes should immediately not
exceed 52%.
(c) A capital gains tax should be introduced but in a form that is not
too onerous and that will not be destructive of the saving habits
of Canadians. In this respect short term gains and losses (under
one year) should be treated as ordinary income and long term
gains and losses (one year and over) should not be subjected to
tax at a rate greater than 25%. Special benefits would be given
for principal residences, property held for personal use and
farmers.
(d) Certain tax loopholes should be dealt with so that tax avoidance
will be eliminated as far as possible. This should be achieved
through improvement of the present law and administrative
systems rather than by drastic changes to the law which are either
unfair or unworkable.
(e) The present system of taxing corporations and their shareholders
should be basically maintained but the limitation of the low rate
of corporate tax should be restricted to small business corporations
and the dividend tax credit should be revised for individuals receiving large amounts of dividends. In this respect amendments
to the present law should be enacted to bring about a simpler
method of distribution of corporate surpluses and to impose
penalties in the event of unreasonable accumulations of such corporate surpluses. The integration system and the differentiation
between widely-held and closely-held Canadian corporations
should be abandoned.
(f) Some changes should be made to the taxation of the mineral
industries including adoption of the concept of a broadened form
of earned depletion, but with some amendment the present threeyear exemption of new mines should be retained.
(g)

The taxation of foreigners with respect to their Canadian assets
and income should be based on principles which are acceptable
to the international financial community and therefore no capital
gains tax should be levied on foreign holders of Canadian securities who do not have a business or permanent establishment in
Canada.

(h) The administration of the income tax system should be improved
and in this respect provision should be made for the issuance by

the Department of National Revenue of binding rulings so that
taxpayers may foresee more reasonably the tax resuits of proposed
transactions.
In order to bring about the foregoing changes in our tax law, it is the
view of your Committee that the present Income Tax Act can be amended
without undue disruption in order to bring about these objectives.

CHAPTER 2
THE INDIVIDUAL AND FAMILY
1. Your Cominittee approves the basic principles of paragraph 2.1
White Paper to increase personal tax exemptions and to tax capital gains.
2. Your Committee agrees with the proposai for the increase of
personal exemptions set forth in paragraph 2.4 of the White Paper, but your
Committee recommends that the increased personal exemptions suggested ini
paragraph 2.4 of the White Paper bc only given to individuals whose income
does flot exceed $3,000 in the case of single persans and $8,500 in the case
of married persons with an appropriate notch provision for persons just over
these limits.
3. Your Committee concurs ini the conclusions and recommendations
contained in paragraphs 2.5 through 2. 10 of the White Paper, and further
recommends that the deduction for child care expenses in the case of a
married couple be available to either spouse.
4. For the reasons set forth in Clause VI-4 of Chapter 1 and Clause
3 of Chapter 5 of this report your Committee rejects the conclusions of
paragraph 2.11 of the White Paper and recommends that steps be taken for
a more efficient administration of the present law in order to eliminate
illegal "expense account living", to the extent that the same exists.
5. Your Committee approves the recommendations contained in paragraphs 2.12 and 2.13 of the White Paper.
6. Your Committee approves the proposai contained in paragraph
2.14 of the White Paper.
7. Your Committee concurs in the recommendation of paragraph
2.15 of the White Paper, but would extend this recommendation. for expenses
incurred in moving from one job location to another. Your Committee also
recommends that a one year carry forward of non-utilized moving expenses
be provided.
8. Your Committee concurs with the recommendations of paragraph
2.16 of the White Paper.
53
22481-51

9. Your Committee in relation to paragraph 2.17 of the White Paper
on balance concluded that the suggested system of treating personal exemptions is acceptable provided it does not in any circumstances lower the
exemptions given under the present law.
10.

Your Committee concurs in paragraph 2.18 of the White Paper.
11. Your Committee concurs in paragraph 2.19 of the White Paper
and notes its recommendation to extend the definition of eligible charitable
organizations to the entities referred to in Clause 19(b) of Chapter 5 of
this report. See also Clause 18 of Chapter 3 and Clause 20 of Chapter 5
of this report.
12. Your Committee concurs with paragraph 2.20 of the White Paper.
13. Your Committee concurs in the inclusion in income subject to
tax of the additional elements referred to in paragraphs 2.22, 2.23, 2.25
and 2.27 of the White Paper, but rejects the inclusion in income subject to
tax of the additional elements referred to in paragraph 2.24 of the White
Paper.
14. For the reasons set forth in Chapter 1 and elsewhere in this report
your Committee emphatically rejects changes in the rates schedules as
proposed by paragraphs 2.28 through 2.44 of the White Paper, except that
your Committee approves (a) the elimination of the present additional tax
of 4 per cent on foreign investment income in excess of $2,400 (paragraph
2.37 White Paper) and recommends (b) the immediate reduction of the top
rate of combined federal and provincial personal income tax to 50 per cent
(or at least for the time being to a somewhat higher figure to take care of
those provinces that impose tax at a rate of 28 per cent or higher of the
federal taxes) without the five year phasing suggested by paragraph 2.42
White Paper. Whatever procedures the government ultimately feels are best,
your Committee wishes to stress that in no event should the marginal rate
of combined federal and provincial taxes (including Quebec) exceed 52%
at any time.
15. Except to the extent set forth in Clauses 16 to 18 of this Chapter,
your Committee approved in principle the conclusions with respect to the
provisions of paragraphs 2.45 through 2.52 of the White Paper dealing
with pension plans and retirement savings plans, but recommends that
further studies in detail be made in this area and particularly on the feasibility of benefit limits before the enactment of any legislation. While it can
agree in general with the provision of paragraph 2.50 that certain limits
should be put on the deductibility of lump sum payments into registered
retirement savings plans, the wording of the White Paper is so general that
the Committee feels no legislation should be enacted in the absence of
further detailed information as to what exactly is proposed. Similarly, in

paragraph 2.51 White Paper, your Committee recommends that the suggested changes be deferred pending a more detailed study which would be
made available for further hearings prior to any legislation.
16. In respect of paragraph 2.52 of the White Paper, your Committee
concurs in principle with the changes therein proposed, with the following
amendments:
(a)

On the first change, the right to offset or reduce income should
be extended to all beneficiaries and not only to the widow, and
this privilege should also be extended to defined lump sum
payments from all types of pension plans, deferred profit sharing
plans and retirement allowances;

(b) On the second change, the responsibility of the trustee of a pension
or retirement plan should be limited to a fixed rate of tax on the
amount of the taxable distribution;
(c) All present members of a pension or similar fund who are fortyfive years of age or over and have been a member of the fund
for at least ten years should be allowed to withdraw benefits under
the present system of taxation if they so elect.
With respect to the income averaging formula available for withdrawal
of benefits, your Committee recommends that Section 36 of the present
Income Tax Act be retained, or preferably that the retirement benefits
specified in the present Section 36(1) be taxed at the lesser of (i) a flat rate
of tax between 15 per cent and 20 per cent or (ii) the average rate of tax
paid by the taxpayer for the previous five, or preferably ten, years.
17. In accordance with the general principles set forth in chapter 6
of this report, your Committee recommends that the withholding tax on
pension and similar payments to non-residents should be the same whether
or not the recipient is resident in a country which has a tax treaty with
Canada. In addition, a non-resident recipient should be entitled to elect
to be taxed on his pension and similar payments as though he were a resident
of Canada and these payments were his only income.
18. Your Committee does not accord with the general elimination
of registration for shareholder pension plans (paragraph 2.50 White Paper>
and recommends retention of such registration where the shareholders are
employees of their company substantially on a parity with other employees,
who are not themselves shareholders.
19. Your Committee concurs with the general proposal of paragraph
2.55 White Paper that a general averaging formula should be available
to all individual taxpayers. Your Committee cannot, however, completely,
55
22481-51J

accord with the procedures recommended in paragraphs 2.53 through 2.59
White Paper, for the reasons set forth in Clause IV-II of Chapter 1 of this
report. Your Committee recommends that an averaging formula similar to
that provided under Section 42 of the Income Tax for farmers and fishermen be made available for all taxpayers. Your Committee, however, wishes
to specifically object to the suggestion in paragraph 2.57 White Paper phasing out the averaging of special lump sum business receipts, but it agrees
that the averaging of such receipts should be restricted to small business
corporations as defined in Clause 6 of Chapter 4.
20. Your Committee wishes ta specifically recommend that Section
85A of the Income Tax Act be retained, but it further recommends that it
be extended to give individuals three additional options on which to compute
their tax on employee benefits, namely:
(a)

to take the benefit into taxable income in the year of receipt,
(b) to pay a special tax on the benefit at a rate based on the average
tax rate of the taxpayer for the three prior years, or
(c) to pay tax on the benefit as though it were a capital gain.

CHAPTER 3
CAPITAL GAINS AND LOSSES
1. The Committee agrees with the proposals of the Government that
capital gains should be taxed (paragraph 3.1 White Paper), but it disagrees
substantially with the methods of taxing the same as set forth in the White
Paper.
2. The Committee agrees that the present line between taxable income
and tax exempt capital gain is not clear cut, which leads to uncertainty
(paragraph 3.11 White Paper), and it, therefore, recommends that in enacting a capital gains tax appropriate definitions be provided for those assets
which will give rise to capital gain and capital loss.
3. The Committee cannot accept the philosophy of Chapter 3 of
the White Paper which subjects various types of assets to different treatment
for capital gains purposes. It, therefore, rejects a taxation system which
differentiates between personal property that depreciates with use (paragraph 3.25 White Paper), personal property that does not depreciate with use
(paragraph 3.26 White Paper), shares of closely-held corporations (paragraph 3.31 White Paper), shares of widely-held corporations (paragraph
3.32 White Paper) and the other types of categorized assets referred to in
the White Paper. Your Committee recommends that the sale and exchange
of all capital assets of every nature whatsoever should give rise to capital
gain or capital loss, as the case may be, without restriction as to the nature
of the asset except in the case of certain specified and defined exclusions
based either on the quantum of the sale proceeds or the lifetime amount
of the gain. The introduction of a capital gain tax in the form recommended
by your Committee will necessarily involve detailed enacting legislation as
this is a field of taxation heretofore not applied in Canada. In this chapter
your Committee therefore, will only deal with some of the basic and fundamental aspects arising from the introduction of this new type of taxation.
4. The Committee takes exception to the failure of the White Paper to
consider adjustments to cost basis (that is the adjusted cost platform in
relation to which gain or loss is computed) as an alternative to realization
and taxation of gain or loss. The Committee recommends a total revamping
of the White Paper recommendations to ensure that no taxable gain or

loss is realized for tax purposes unless there has been actual realization
of gain or loss in money or money's worth.
5. The Committee concurs in the recommendation of the White
Paper (paragraph 3.15 White Paper) that the cost basis for gain or loss
should be the value on a stated valuation date of those assets subject to the
capital gains tax. The Committee, however, recommends that no gain or
loss be realized on any particular asset until the value of such asset has returned to its historical cost if higher than value on valuation date. In this
respect your Committee wishes to ensure that the rules for the determination
of value on valuation date give due consideration to both the actual and
potential earnings of a capital asset and not to its break-up value alone.
Your Committee also wishes to refer to the brief presented by the Canadian
Institute of Chartered Accountants which recommends that "safe haven"
rules be developed which would spell out a range of acceptable methods of
valuation within which the value fixed by taxpayers on valuation date would
be accepted without further challenge. The Committee recommends to the
Government that this proposal be studied in depth since it would appear to
be a salutory suggestion to overcome what otherwise might be many years
of contention and litigation. Your Committee is convinced that the White
Paper proposals would tax retroactively the goodwill element of certain
assets existing on valuation date by way of the denial of creditable tax under
the proposed integration system or by way of the tax on capital gains. To
avoid this retroactive taxation of an integral element of such property, which
your Committee cannot condone, your Committee recommends that, where
applicable, goodwill existing at valuation date must form part of the value
of all assets and must not under any circumstances be subject to any form
of retroactive taxation.
6. The Committee recommends that property held for personal use or
enjoyment of every nature whatsover, including all of the assets referred
to in paragraphs 3.22, 3.25 and 3.26 of the White Paper, be included for
purposes of computing capital gain or capital loss, as the case may be, except
in the case of each sale or exchange by an individual where the proceeds
of such sale or exchange do not exceed $5,000. Your Committee further
recommends exemption from capital gains tax to the extent of the first
$50,000 of aggregate net lifetime gains derived from the sale or exchange
by an individual taxpayer or his spouse of their principal residence. In addition, your Committee recommends that where assets sold or exchanged
constitute the principal residence of the taxpayer or the types of assets referred to in paragraphs 3.22, 3.25 or 3.26 of the White Paper or any other
assets used by an individual for his personal use or enjoyment, a full mandatory roll-over provision be provided against realization of gain or loss to the
extent the taxpayer replaces the asset so sold or exchanged within one year

of the date of its sale or exchange with an asset of a similar category.
If and to the extent, however, any of the foregoing items comprise part
of the operating business assets of a taxpayer, (including, of course, speculative assets held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of
business), they would continue to be subject to the ordinary rules applicable
to the taxation of business income and realization of inventory under the
general sections of the Income Tax Act (paragraph 3.27 White Paper).
7. Your Committee recommends exemption from capital gains tax to
the extent of the first $75,000 of aggregate net lifetime gains derived from the
sale or exchange by an individual or his spouse (or by a corporation where
such individual or spouse, because of statutory provisions, is obliged to
operate through corporate ownership) of farms and orchards where the
principal occupation of the transferor is farming.
8. Subject to the stated exclusions, the Committee recommends, therefore, that all capital assets be subject to the capital gains tax, including the
types of investments referred to in the first sentence of paragraph 3.28 of the
White Paper.
9. For reasons set forth in this report, the Committee recommends that
no distinction be made for capital gains purposes between closely-held Canadian corporations and widely-held Canadian corporations, as there appears
to the Committee to be no acceptable justification for creating such separate
categories of corporations.
10. The Committee recommends that capital assets (which by definition
would give rise to capital gain or capital loss) should be defined as assets
not held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business
(which would be subject to ordinary income tax).
11. The Committee recommends that short term capital gains and
losses and long term capital gains and losses should be treated and taxed
differently.
12. The Committee recommends that short term capital gains and
losses should be defined as those realized from the sale or exchange of capital
assets held for less than one year and that such short term capital gains and
losses should be fully brought into income and otherwise taxed under the
Income Tax Act in the same way as other income.
13. The Committee recommends that long term capital gains and
losses should be defined as those realized from the sale or exchange of capital
assets held for one year or more and that for both corporations and individuals the excess of long term gains over long term losses in each taxation

year should be taxed at the lower of the rate of 25 per cent or one-half the
marginal income tax rate of the taxpayer. The Committee wishes to ensure
that the law be drafted in such a way that under no circumstances will a
taxpayer have a higher effective tax rate or a higher marginal tax rate on his
other income by virtue of such taxpayer having made net long term capital
gains in a taxation year.
14. The Committee recommends that short term capital losses should
be fully deductible in the computation of short term capital gains and
ordinary income, but the Committee recommends that long term capital losses
should be fuily deductible only in the computation of long term capital
gains.
15. In view of the difference of rates applicable to long term capital
gains and ordinary income, and the clearer definition of when gain or loss is
realized, the Committee feels that the suggested averaging provisions recommended by the White Paper (paragraph 3.17 White Paper) will be unnecessary for long term capital gains and that taxes on these capital gains should
be collectible in the year of their realization. In order to mitigate the effects
of the foregoing, however, the Committee recommends that long term capital losses be subject to a three year carry back and an eight year carry
forward provision.
16. In accordance with present United States and United Kingdom
practice, the Committee recommends that capital gains and losses of nonresidents of Canada should, in al cases, continue to be non-taxable by
Canada except where (a) the non-resident taxpayer is carrying on business
in Canada or, in the case of countries with which Canada has a tax convention, has a permanent establishment in Canada, and except where (b) in
both instances, such capital gains and losses derive from the business or
permanent establishment, as the case may be.
17. In view of the need of Canada to attract investment capital, the
Committee strongly recommends that all of the White Paper doctrines of
tax on unrealized appreciation should be eliminated. The Committee, therefore, recommends the removal from the proposed capital gains tax of
(a) the five-year revaluation rule for shares of widely held Canadian
corporations (paragraph 3.33 White Paper),
(b) the deemed realization of capital gain or loss on individuals giving
up Canadian residence (paragraph 3.40 White Paper), and
(c) the deemed realization of capital gain or loss on the value of gifts
(paragraph 3.41 White Paper).
18. On the subject of gifts and bequests, the Committee feels that
with the elimination from the ambit of the capital gains tax of certain

amounts of property held for personal use or enjoyment, the problems in
this area will be considerably reduced. The Committee recommends that, to
the extent gifted or bequeathed assets remain subject to the capital gains
tax, no capital gains tax be imposed at the time of the gift or bequest, except
in the case of gifts or bequests to non-residents, but that the recipient of
the property (including executors and trustees) take the property at the
same cost basis as the cost basis of the donor or deceased, as the case may
be, increased by the amount of any gift tax or estate tax or succession duties
imposed upon the transfer. In effect, therefore, the Committee concurs in
substance with the recommendation of paragraph 3.42 of the White Paper,
but recommends that it be extended to inter vivos gifts. With respect to gifts
of property to museums and other charitable organizations, the Committee
wished to retain to the extent possible incentives for the continuation of such
gifts, while at the same time, not permitting taxpayers an unfair use of
such donations for the purpose of realizing tax benefits not basically contemplated by the taxing statute. On balance, therefore, your Committee
came to the conclusion that there should be no capital gains tax imposed
on gifts of property to museums, universities, or charitable organizations,
but that a taxpayer not be permitted to deduct in the computation of his
income a greater amount under Section 27(1)(a) of the present Income
Tax Act than the cost (or value on valuation date) to him of the asset
donated.
19. The Committee recommends that further consideration be given
by the government to the whole concept of cost basis of assets for capital
gains and losses, since the absence of any consideration thereof in the
White Paper makes any comprehensive analysis of the proposed capital gains
tax very difficult. In coming to conclusions on cost basis, the Committee
strongly recommends that all expenses related to capital assets which are
not deductible in the computation of income be added to the cost basis of
such assets for purposes of the capital gains tax, since otherwise failure to
make such adjustments to cost basis would result in the creation of a vast
new area of "nothings" which the White Paper specifically wishes to eliminate
(paragraph 5.4 et seq White Paper).
20. The Committee recommends that the roll-over provisions of
paragraphs 3.43 to 3.52 of the White Paper and particularly paragraph
3.47, should be substantially amended so as to permit greater ease of transfer
of assets and tax free incorporations and reorganizations. In this respect the
Committee recommends that the roll-over provisions be extended so that
sales and exchanges will not give rise to taxable gain or loss unless and
until money or other things or rights readily convertible into money (other
than shares or other securities arising out of the roll-over) have been received
61
22481-52

by the transferor, but that the cost basis and holding time of the things received be the same as the cost basis and holding time of the things transferred for purposes of subsequent imposition of capital gains tax. The Committee recommends, however, that where the roll-over transfer is to a foreign
entity, the free roll-over provisions should only apply where the purpose of
the transaction is not primarily for the purpose of avoiding Canadian taxes.
With respect to liquidation or winding up of Canadian corporations, (paragraph 3.49 White Paper) the Committee similarly recommends that with
respect to capital distributions no gain or loss should be realized by domestic
Canadian taxpayers except to the extent they receive money or other things
or rights readily convertible into money (other than shares or securities distributed in the liquidation). To the extent assets are distributed which do
not result in the realization of gain or loss, these assets should take the same
cost basis and holding time as the securities of the liquidating corporation
in respect of which the distribution is made, but the same rule heretofore
recommended should apply in respect of distributions to foreign shareholders. (See Clause 9 of Chapter 4 below).
21. In addition to the subject of tax free incorporations and reorganizations, the Committee suggests to the Government that considerable
further study be given to the enactment of provisions permitting roll-over
of reinvested gains so as to avoid any undue impediment of transfers of
capital from one form of investment to another. Your Committee in this
respect recommends that provisions be adopted permitting a group of companies to transfer assets between the companies comprising the group at
cost, without such transfer being considered to be a realization of gain for
tax purposes. With respect to insurance proceeds and the like, the evidence
submitted suggested that the one-year requirement for reinvestment (paragraph 3.44 White Paper) is not realistic and is far too stringent, and your
Committee therefore recommends that no tax should apply if a commitment
to replace the asset is legally made within one year after its destruction or
forced realization occurs, provided that the replacement is completed within
three years after the destruction or forced realization takes place.
22. Your Committee recommends that unrealized gains on the exercise of stock options should not be taxable but that the cost basis of the
shares acquired under such options should be their cost to the taxpayer plus
any amount paid for the stock option.
23. Your Committee has already dealt in Clause V-5(c) of Chapter
1 and Clause 6 above with its recommendation for extended roll-over provisions in the case of property held for personal use or enjoyment.

CHAPTER 4
CORPORATIONS AND THEIR SHAREHOLDERS
1. Your Committee rejeets the government's proposai to create one
set of ruies for closely-held corporations and another set of rules for
widely-held corporations (paragrapli 4.19 White Paper) and recommends
that ail corporations be treated in the same manner independently of the
criteria set forth in paragraph 4.43 of the White Paper. Your Committee
was convinced on the basis of the many submissions to it that there were
serlous anomalies created by the differentiation between closely-held and
widely-held Canadian corporations. In no area was this clearer than in the
examples presented to the Committee of corporate structures wherein there
was a mixture of closely held and widely held corporations. Your Committee
feit that a tax system. which would permit these resuits was in every sense
unacceptable and that the restructuring of many of these corporate organizations would be expensive at best and in some instances impossible due to
business factors outside the realm of taxation.
2. The Committee recommends that the present system of credits
for corporate dividends, contained in Sections 28 and 38 of the present
Income Tax Act, be maintained and rejects the proposais of Chapter 4 of
the White Paper to integrate corporate and shareholder taxes by giving
credits to shareholders for corporate taxes paid. The Committee has in
Chapter 1 of this report already set forth the many reasons why it was
forced to, come to the conclusion that the integration proposals contained
in the White Paper are not acceptable, which views have been virtually
unanimously supported by the very large number of briefs submitted to
the Committee.
3. The Committee recommends, however,
(a) that Section 38 of the Income Tax Act be amended to provide
that the credit for dividends therein contained be amended to
provide for a credit of (i) 25 per cent for the first $500 of gross
dividends received in each year by an individual taxpayer, (ii)
20 per cent for the next $4,500 of gross dividends received in
each year by an individual taxpayer, and (iii) 15 per cent for
any dividends in excess thereof,
63
22481-52à

(b) that Section 105 of the Income Tax Act be extended to undistributed income on hand after the end of the 1949 taxation year
without complying with the requirements of Section 105(2) of
the Income Tax Act, and
(c) that an equivalent provision to Section 105 of the Income Tax Act
be introduced to permit designated surplus under Section 28(2)
of the Income Tax Act to be converted upon payment of a flat
15 per cent tax into surplus which can be passed by tax free
intercorporate dividends under Section 28(1) of the Income Tax
Act.
The revenue cost to Canada on the aggregate of these dividend tax credit
and other proposals should not constitute a substantially greater charge than
the present system.
4. In order to avoid the undue accumulation of inter-corporate dividends from investment, the Committee recommends that all intercorporate
dividends which have been received tax free by a Canadian corporation
be subjected to a 15 per cent tax on the gross amount thereof if:
(a) such dividends have derived from less than a 25 per cent holding
of the class of shares in respect of which the dividend was derived, and
(b) an amount equal to such dividends has not been distributed as a
dividend by such Canadian corporations by the end of the fifth
taxation year following the taxation year in which such intercorporate dividends were received, unless the declaration and
payment of such a dividend is prohibited by law or by arm's length
contract, provided, however, that in no event, shall the amount
subject to the 15 per cent tax exceed the increase in undistributed
income on hand from the date of receipt of such intercorporate
dividend to the date of payment of the dividend.
All such dividends on which such 15 per cent tax has been paid would
constitute tax paid undistributed income within the meaning of Section
82(1)(b) of the present Income Tax Act. Your Committee notes that proper
safeguards would have to be introduced to ensure that payment of the tax
is not avoided by distributing the dividend to a related corporation.
5. Your Committee concurs in the proposal of paragraph 4.21 of the
White Paper for a limited election by a corporation to be treated as a partnership. Such partnership election shall have no application to losses except
in the. case of a parent-subsidiary relationship, the losses being available for
carry forward against future profits. The Committee recommends, however,

that the restrictions of paragraphs 4.23 of the White Paper be eliminated.
With respect to paragraph 4.23 of the White Paper:
(i) the Committee is convinced provision can be made to allocate the
income of the electing corporation to various classes of shareholders;
(ii) the Committee recommends that the election be permitted even
where there are foreign shareholders of a corporation electing to be
a partnership, but that in such instances the net taxable income
attributable to such foreign shareholders be taxed at a flat 57½
per cent rate; and
(iii) the Committee recommends that corporate shareholders of the
electing corporation may have different fiscal year ends from the
electing corporation, except where the purpose of such different
fiscal year ends is primarily for the purpose of avoiding Canadian
taxes.
The Committee stresses that the above recommendation is independent of
and in addition to its recommendation (contained in Clause 7 of Chapter
5 of this report) that consolidated returns be authorized.
6. As a result of the recommendation that the integration proposals
be eliminated, the Committee recommends that the low rate on the first
$35,000 of taxable income provided in Section 39 of the Income Tax Act
be maintained, but only in the case of business income of small business
corporations. A small business corporation would be defined as a corporation
whose net income in a given taxation year does not exceed $100,000 and
whose shares (and the shares of any corporation or corporations directly or
indirectly controlling it) are not traded on a recognized stock exchange in
Canada or elsewhere or over the counter. A corollary of the foregoing would
be the enactment of a notch provision which would ensure that a corporation with income before taxes of over $100,000 a year would not be left with
less income after taxes than would a corporation with income before taxes of
exactly $100,000. Because of the extreme importance of this recommendation, the Committee has set forth in an Appendix to this report a full summary
of the reasons for its conclusions, as well as a more detailed analysis of how
it would treat qualified small business corporations.
7. As a further consequence of the elimination of the integration proposals and the distinction between closely-held Canadian corporations and
widely-held Canadian corporations, the Committee is of the opinion that
paragraphs 4.24 to 4.44 and 4.74 to 4.79 (other than 4.78) of the White
Paper would no longer be applicable. Had the integration proposals been ac-

cepted the Committee feels constrained nevertheless to state that in no event
could it have concurred with paragraphs 4.19, 4.27, 4.30, 4.33, 4.35, 4.36,
4.39, 4.42, 4.43 and 4.44 of the White Paper.
8. As a result of the recommendation that no distinction be made
between closely-held Canadian corporations and widely-held Canadian corporations and the consequent removal of the necessity of treating gains and
losses on their shares in a different manner, the Committee is of the opinion
that the provisions of paragraphs 4.33 and 4.45 of the White Paper would
no longer be applicable. The Committee is, however, aware that the maintenance of the present system of tax free intercorporate dividends could affect
the collection of capital gains tax from corporations through the use of tax
free dividends in order to limit the gain on sale of shares by the recipient
corporation. The Committee concurs, therefore, with the general procedures
set forth in paragraph 6.19 of the White Paper that the cost basis of shares
held by corporations be reduced by the amount of tax free dividends received
on such shares, but the Committee recommends that such reduction of cost
basis should only apply in respect of tax free dividends deriving from capital
distributions that do not become part of the undistributed income on hand
of the receiving corporation. As a corollary of the foregoing, ordinary dividends derived from the capital or capital surplus of the declaring corporation
would be deemed for these purposes not to become part of the undistributed
income on hand of the receiving corporation. Any such dividends which reduce such cost basis below zero would, of course, be subject to short term
or long term capital gains tax, as the case may be, depending on the length
of time that the receiving corporation held the shares of the declaring corporation.
9. Your Committee recommends that a similar approach be adopted
on the liquidation of Canadian corporations, namely that undistributed income on hand distributed in liquidation continue to be treated as under the
present provisions of the Income Tax Act but that any distributions of
capital or capital surplus be taxable to the recipient shareholder in the
manner set forth in Clause 20 of Chapter 3 and Clause 8 above.
10. The Committee is also aware of the disproportions that have
arisen by virtue of the present law in the value of shares as against corporate
assets and the different prices that will be paid by purchasers therefor, but
with the advent of the proposed capital gains tax, the Committee is of the
opinion that this disproportion will be mitigated. In order, however, to
eliminate any residual differences, the Committee recommends that where
all or substantially all of the shares of a corporation are purchased and the
acquired corporation is liquidated within one year of the date of
acquisition,
the cost basis and the undepreciated capital cost of the assets received in

liquidation be related to the purchase price of the shares plus any taxes paid
on the liquidation without regard to the cost basis and undepreciated capital
cost these assets had in the corporation which was liquidated.
11. The Committee does not concur with the conclusions of the White
Paper in Sections 4.46 and 4.47 and it recommends that, except in the case
of tax free intercorporate dividends, an individual or corporate Canadian
shareholder of a foreign corporation should receive credit, not only for
foreign withholding taxes, but for a pro rata proportion of the corporation
taxes paid to foreign jurisdictions by such foreign corporations, if such shareholder directly or indirectly owns 10 per cent or more of the common shares
of such foreign corporation. This would in effect extend the concepts of
of
paragraph 6.17 of the White Paper to all taxable Canadian shareholders
foreign corporations owning 10 per cent or more of the common shares of
such foreign corporations. Conversely, and in the light of the recommendation that the integration proposals be eliminated, the Committee does not
feel that it is necessary to provide, as suggested in paragraph 4.40 White
Paper, for any flow through to Canadian shareholders of Canadian corporations of any foreign taxes paid except in those instances where the Canadian
corporation has not received a full usable credit for the foreign taxes paid
and a Canadian shareholder of such Canadian corporation is himself subject
to tax on dividends received from such Canadian corporation.
12. As a result of the recommendation that the integration proposals
be eliminated, the Committee concurs with paragraphs 4.49 and 4.50 of the
White Paper denying to foreign shareholders any credit for Canadian corin this result
porate taxes paid. The Committee could not have concurred
if the integration proposals had been accepted, since to so have done would,
in the opinion of the Committee, have gravely militated against the ability
of Canada to enter into appropriate tax conventions with foreign countries.
13. As a result of the recommendation that the integration proposals
be eliminated, no comment is needed by the Committee in respect of pararecomgraphs 4.51 through 4.65 of the White Paper, and the Committee
Act continue to apply
mends that the existing rules under the Income Tax
to intercorporate shareholdings, shareholdings by pension funds and other
tax free entities, shareholdings by mutual funds and shareholders of electrical,
note
gas and steam utilities. In particular, however, the Committee wishes to
it would have considered
that had the integration proposals been accepted,
the provisions of paragraphs 4.63 through 4.65 of the White Paper, denying
the tax credit benefits to shareholders of electrical, gas and steam utilities,
to be unacceptable, because these corporations pay the full federal corporate
tax applicable to them and it should be irrelevant as to what use the federal
and
government makes of such tax receipts. See further on mutual funds

utilities Clause VIII- 10 and VIII- 11 of Chapter 1 and the Prologue to this
report.
14. The Committee concurs in general with the concept that all corporations incorporated in Canada or in any of its provinces should constitute
Canadian taxpayers without regard to any technical questions of residence or
non-residence. The Committee, therefore, concurs in the recommendations
of paragraphs 6.31 through 6.33 of the White Paper eliminating foreign
business corporations, and further recommends that all corporations incorporated in Canada or in any of its provinces be resident in Canada, regardless of their date of incorporation or prior status. The Committee cannot,
however, concur in the recommendations of paragraphs 4.66 and 4.67 of
the White Paper and it recommends that foreign corporations which are
managed and controlled in Canada have the right and obligation to be
treated, in all respects, in the same manner as companies incorporated under
the laws of Canada or any of its provinces.
15. The Committee has concluded that paragraphs 4.68 through 4.73
of the White Paper, dealing with co-operatives, caisses populaires and credit
unions, contain matters which go far beyond simple tax analysis
and that,
therefore, it would not be proper for the Committee to reach firm conclusions in this area. The Committee wishes to note, however, that
it has
received comprehensive briefs from affected parties on these subject matters,
and the Committee requests that government in considering its over-all policy
to these entities take cognizance of the breadth and importance
of these
representations.
16. The Committee concurs in the concept contained in paragraph
4.78 of the White Paper providing for a flat 15 per cent tax on distributions
of undistributed income on hand to individuals but it strongly objects to the
second sentence of paragraph 4.78 where such distributions would lower the
cost basis of the shares on which such distributions were made. The Committee further recommends that:
(a) tax not be applied to realized capital gains included in retained
earnings so that they may be subsequently paid out without
further income or capital gains tax; and
(b) the option to pay the tax be made available immediately so that
payment of the tax and distributions consequent thereon may be
made before valuation date.

CLIAPTER 5
BUSINESS AND) PROPERTY INCOME
1. The Committee concurs with the proposais to create a new depreciation class for "nothings" (paragraph 5.5 White Paper), and concurs
in the rate of 10 per cent therein suggested. The evidence submitted to your
Committee, with which your Conimittee concurs, recommends that any legislation arising from the proposais should be drafted in such a fashion that al
business costs (including, for example, rights of way, rights of use, rights
to contracts, interest on tax assessments, legal expenses related to acquisitions,
costs incurred for approved continuing education courses, financing commissions, bond discounts, commissions on share issues, finders fees, etc.) should
either be currently deductible or included in the new depreciation class.
Your Committee, however, recommends that goodwill should not constitute a
"nothing" for purposes of this new depreciation class but should be dealt
with in the same way as land, which the Committee assumes is not proposed
by the White Paper to be included within the category of "nothings".
2. The Committee rejects the conclusions that prior goodwiil is a
disappearing asset (paragraph 5.7 White Paper) and recomniends that goodwiil flot be subject to, diminution in determining cost basis for purposes of
the capital gains tax. The Committee also rejects the proposition of paragraph
5.8 of the White Paper as being in violation of the stated policy of the White
Paper (paragraph 3.15 White Paper) that accumulated value prior to valuation date should not be subject to capital gains tax.
3. The Committee rejects the proposals (paragraphs 5.9 and 5.10
White Paper) which would deny deductibility of legitimate entertainment
and related expenses and recommends that the taxpayers of Canada should
not be penalized because of administrative difficulty in properly distinguishing
between legitimate and improper entertainment expenses. The Committee is
of the view that the provisions of the Income Tax Act, and particularly
Section 12, are, if properly administered, sufficiently broad in their scope
to prevent abuses or improprieties in this area. See Clause VI-4 of Chapter 1
of this report.
4. The Committee, after hearing the various briefs presented to it,
bas concluded that the present system of depreciation (although not necessarily the depreciation rates) now in force are, in ail the circumstances,

proper and acceptable and the Committee recommends that no changes be
made in the present system of capital cost allowances. In any event, the
Committee is of the view that because of the importance of this subject no
changes should be made until taxpayers have had a further opportunity to
put forward their views and experiences after the other aspects of the White
Paper have been settled, this being in conformity with the recommendation
of paragraph 5.14 of the White Paper. The Committee, however, recommends for the consideration of government whether the pool concept on
recapture of depreciation might not be conveniently extended on an adjusted
basis to capital gains and losses made on depreciable assets.
5. The Committee concurs with the general concept that corrective
measures must be taken to eliminate the present use of excess depreciation
to lower the income tax imposition on companies and individuals not using
the assets being depreciated in their business or profession. The Committee,
however, rejects the proposals of paragraph 5.17 of the White Paper and
recommends:
(a) that the cost basis of donated or inherited property for both capital
gains purposes and capital cost allowance purposes be as set forth
in Clause 18 of Chapter 3;
(b) that the restriction on the deduction from income of a loss from
holding real property (if that loss is created by capital cost allowance, interest or property taxes) be restricted to corporations and
individuals not engaged directly or through subsidiary companies
in the business of renting property and that such prohibition be
extended beyond property which is real estate to all depreciable
property of every nature not used directly or indirectly in the business or profession of the taxpayer; and
(c) that the separate depreciation class for each rental building that
costs $50,000 or more be eliminated.
In applying (a) above, if depreciable property received by a beneficiary of
an estate or donee (which would be deemed to be received as its undepreciated capital cost to the deceased or donor, as the case may be) is sold,
the recapture of depreciation would be subject to income tax, even though
death taxes or gift taxes had previously been paid on this amount, thus resulting in double taxation. As a result of the foregoing, your Committee
recommends that estate taxes, succession duties and gift taxes be permitted
to reduce the recapture of depreciation through an addition to the undepreciated capital cost of the relevant depreciable assets. In applying (b)
above, the Committee recommends that the present law continue to apply
to property now owned by taxpayers and that the suggested rule apply only

to future acquisitions. In effect, the Committee recommends that both individuals and corporations not be entitled to deduct capital cost allowance,
interest or property taxes on all kinds of property acquired in the future,
including real estate, where the effect thereof would be to lower the taxable
income of the taxpayer and where such property was not held directly or
indirectly for use in the business or profession of the taxpayer.
6. The Committee concurs with the recommendation of paragraphs
5.18 and 5.19 of the White Paper, but without, of course, any limitation on
rental buildings which cost more than $50,000 (See Clause 5 above).
7. The Committee strongly recommends the rejection of the proposal
that no provision be made for consolidated returns (paragraphs 5.20 and
5.22 White Paper) and recommends the enactment of provisions permitting
such consolidated returns without any increase in the corporation tax rate
applicable to the consolidated income so reported.
8. The Committee concurs with the conclusion of the government
(paragraph 5.24 White Paper) that special incentives are needed for the
mineral industries recognizing that "the exploration for and development of
mines and oil and gas deposits involve more than usual industrial risks and
the scale of these risks is quite uncertain in most cases". Your Committee,
however, cannot concur in the conclusion of the White Paper (paragraph
5.24 White Paper) that the present incentive procedures need to be revised
substantially, although the Committee is of the opinion that the present incentives should be modified in certain ways and certain suggestions of the
White Paper should be adopted.
9. Your Committee recommends the implementation of the proposal
in the White Paper, paragraph 5.26 except as to the part that refers to 20
per cent of the net book value of the asset class to be created and recommends
that this annual deduction be increased to 30 per cent.
10. Your Committee concurs with paragraph 5.27 White Paper extending the right to deduct costs of acquisitions of all types of mineral rights.
The conclusions, however, of paragraph 5.28 White Paper to the extent that
the profits of any sale of rights which would not have been taxable under
the existing rules would become taxable on more than the increment of value
after valuation date are not acceptable and the Committee recommends
against their implementation.
11. The Committee recommends against the implementation of paragraph 5.28 White Paper and its proposed transitional rule. The proposed
special rule as to the value of mineral rights held on the date of publication
of the White Paper is in substantial part retroactive taxation. In place of this
special rule, your Committee recommends that such mineral rights and as

well as those rights acquired between the day of publication of the White
Paper and valuation day be valued on valuation day as in the case of other
assets subject to capital gains tax.
12. Your Committee rejects the conclusions of paragraphs 5.31
through 5.35 White Paper, but agrees that the present three-year ful tax
exemption for new mines should be reduced to a 75 per cent exemption on
the earnings of such mines in their first three years of commercial production.
13. Your Committee approves the proposals of paragraphs 5.29 and
5.30 White Paper providing for a quicker write off of the full cost of mining
machinery and buildings out of income of a new mine and recommends that
such allowance should be extended to assets of an existing mine where such
assets are acquired for a substantial expansion of such mine or the replacement of substantial assets.
14. Your Committee recommends:
(a) that earned depletion as proposed in paragraph 5.40 White Paper
be modified to provide a minimum base rate of percentage depletion or "floor" established at 20 per cent of the profits derived
from production of a mineral resource, such calculation to be
after deduction of expenses for exploration and development in
accordance with the present law;
(b) that the eligible expenditure formula for earned depletion provided
in paragraph 5.40 White Paper be implemented with a top limit of
331 per cent of production profits (inclusive of the 20 per cent
floor referred to above), such calculation to be made after deduction of exploration and development expenses from production
income and that the definition of eligible expenditures be broadened
so that existing mines and new mines as well as oil and gas wells
will have a broader base on which to earn depletion. Thus expansion of existing facilities and replacement of machinery and buildings as well as fixed assets subject to capital cost allowance should
qualify as eligible expenditures;
(c) that the proposal in paragraph 5.42 White Paper be amended by
extending the right therein contained for a ten year period in
respect of production profits from properties now owned and
operated;
(d) that paragraph 5.43 White Paper be implemented to eliminate the
percentage depletion available to non-operators, but only to the
extent that the interests of such non-operators are acquired after
the date of the White Paper or commitments to acquire have been
made after such date. Failing this in the opinion of your Com-

mittce, such non-operators would be made subject to tax on the
proceeds received under existing agreements which were concluded. under the present rules of percentage depletion which
may have been a factor in the price accepted. In respect of new
agreements made after November 7, 1969, your Committee
recomxnends that the value to the oil and gas industry, and in
relation to, development of minerai rights, of the financing available through such agreements with non-operators be thoroughly
reviewed. Furthermore the need for depietion incentive to, attract
such non operators to invest ini such agreements should be the
subject of further study;
(e) that paragraph 5.44 White Paper be implemented by the removal
of shareholders' depletion; and
(f) that cost of acquiring rights to mining or oil and gas property
when acquired directly from the Crown, federai or provincial, be
an eligible expenditure.
15. Your Committee recommends against the implemnentation of proposais in paragraph 5.45 of the White Paper to withdraw an exemption
heretofore enjoyed by prospectors and grubstakers under Section 83 of the
Income Tax Act.
16. In the view of your Committee no sufficient reason is given for the
proposai referred to ini paragraph 15 above, except the withdrawal must be
made because of the proposai to, tax capital gains. This exemption was an
exception to the right to levy income tax on proceeds of the sale of a mining
property. Equally, this exemption could remain without effecting the introduction of a capital gains tax. The question of withdrawing this exemption
should be considered on its own merits.
17. The Committee rejects in its entirety the proposai that taxpayers
in the professions be required to report their income on an accrual basis.
(paragraph 5.46 White Paper).
18. The Committee concurs generally with paragraplis 5.48 through
5.53 of the White Paper to the extent that farmers and fishermen would continue to be taxable on their capital gains.
19. The Committee concurs with the proposition that investment incomne
of organizations which are covered by Section 62 (1 ) (i) of the Income Tax
Act be subjected to the corporation tax (paragraph 5.54 White Paper) but
oniy above $5,000 of net income in each year. The Committee also recommends:
(a) That in computing the net income of such organizations, operating
losses be deductible from investment income, and

(b) That social welfare and civic improvement clubs, societies or associations (such as museums, civic betterment groups etc.) be
removed from the ambit of Section 62(1) (i) of the Income Tax
Act and be added to the charitable organizations and corporations
comprised in Section 62(1) (e) and Section 62(1)(J) of the Income Tax Act.
With respect to (b) above, your Committee concluded that the
answer to whether or not investment income of these organizations should
be taxed should depend on the nature of the organization and, therefore, on
its use of the income. If the income is used in the public interest, it should
not be taxed, but if the income is to be spent for the private enjoyment
of
members, then such income should be taxed to the extent it exceeds
the
defined amount.
20. Your Committee recommends that legislation be enacted to equate
privately owned museums which serve the public interest to state museums
so that, in effect, all museums and similar institutions would be treated
as
though they fell within the ambit of Section 27(1) (b) of the present Income
Tax Act.
21. The Committee concurs with the general proposition of paragraph
5.56 of the White Paper, pursuant to which certain trusts would
be treated
as corporations or mutual funds, depending on the circumstances,
provided
that the law only covers those trusts which have issued transferable
or redeemable units to the public and the use of the trust form is really
a substitution
for a corporation or mutual fund.
22. The Committee rejects the proposals contained in paragraph
5.57
of the White Paper for a flat tax rate on trusts and recommends
the retention
of the present system now contained in the Income Tax Act for
taxing trusts.

CHAPTER 6
TAXING INTERNATIONAL INCOME
1. Your Committee condemans the philosophy of substantial. portions
of Chapter 6 of the White Paper which impiy that vast tax avoidance schemes
exist through the use of foreign entities. Nothing your Committee lias heard
lias indicated that this implication is correct and, in fact, the Conimittee notes
that even if ail the proposais of the White Paper regarding tax haven abuses
were adopted, the White Paper Table 16, item 8 dlaims that a maximum of
$ 10,000,000 annuaily wou*ld be added to gross revenue (without, presumably, taking into account the substantial increase in administrative costs of
collection).
2. Your Committee queries the failure of the White Paper to consider
whether existing tax avoidance abuses (as for example the fact situation
cited in paragrapli 6.4 White Paper) couid not be effectively biocked under
the existing legisiation of the Income Tax Act and that failure to block sncb
abuses (if they exist) is due more to iack of enforcement of existing law than
to lack of legisiation. In this respect the Committee notes the existing provisions of Sections 8(1), 8(2), 16(1), 17(l), 17(2), 17(3), 17(4), 21, 22,
23, 67, 68, 137(1), 137(2), 138, 138A(1), and 138(A)2 of the Income
Tax Act, the ruies of corporate residence found in the present case law and
the iaws of agency, which together form a veritable arsenal of provisions
against tax avoidance if properiy administered. The Committee recommends,
however, that in addition to making ail corporations incorporated in Canada
or in any of its provinces residents of Canada (Clause 14 of Chapter 4) the
definition of Canadian residence of foreign corporations be extended to include ail foreign corporations which are factuaiiy managed and controlied in
Canada regardless of where their boards of directors exercise their powers.
3. Your Committee rejects the assumption that Canada wiil be able to
easiiy re-negotiate its tax conventions with various foreign countries, even
thougli many of the proposais of thie White Paper on treatment of foreigners
run counter to international practice. Everything that the Committee lias
heard ini the briefs presented to it has convmnced your Committee that the
negotiation of sucli tax conventions would be extremely difficuit, if not in-

possible, if all or substantially all of the recommendations of the White Paper
were adopted.
4. Your Committee concurs in the conclusion of the White Paper to
continue to exempt dividends received by a Canadian corporation from a
25 per cent or more controlled foreign corporation (paragraph 6.15 White
Paper), but it rejects the conclusion of paragraph 6.15 White Paper that this
privilege be extended only to dividends from those countries with which
Canada has concluded tax treaties. The Committee is of the opinion that
such an enactment would gravely affect the potential for investment by
Canadians in under-developed countries, which countries by and large do not
have tax treaties with Canada.
5. The Committee concurs in principle with the provisions of paragraph 6.17 of the White Paper and, as noted in Clause 11 of Chapter 4,
your Committee recommends that it be extended to individual and corporate
Canadian shareholders of foreign corporations who do not receive tax free
intercorporate dividends and who own 10 per cent or more of the common
shares of the foreign corporation.
6. The Committee concurs in principle with paragraph 6.19 of the
White Paper in the sense that it has previously recommended the wider use
of adjustments to cost basis as an alternate to realization of gain or loss for
capital gains tax purposes. The Committee, however, recommends that
adjustments to cost basis of the shares of the foreign corporation held by the
receiving Canadian corporation should only apply in respect of dividends
that do not go into the undistributed income on hand of the receiving corporation and which arise out of capital distributions. (See Clause 8 of
Chapter 4).
7. Your Committee rejects in their entirety paragraphs 6.20 and 6.21
of the White Paper and concludes that the introduction of equivalent provisions to Subpart F of the United States Internal Revenue Code would be a
grave error. The Committee has concluded on the basis of the briefs presented
to it that Subpart F has proven to be an inordinately complicated and
inefficient tool in the United States, and that current legislation is being
directed to substantially reduce or eliminate many of its effects. The Committee recommends that rather than the enactment of new legislation to
control so-called tax avoidance on passive income (which the Committee is
convinced can be controlled under the present legislation by stricter administration) legislation be introduced, such as that now contemplated by the
United States for Domestic International Sales Corporations, in order to aid
Canadian exporters to compete adequately with their counterparts in foreign
countries.

8. Your Committee rejects paragrapli 6.22 of the White Paper and
recommends that ail foreign withholding taxes regardless of their amount be
subject to credit in Canada, within the limitations now provided by Section
41 of the Income Tax Act.
9. Your Comniittee concurs; with the reconimendations of paragraphs
6.24, 6.25 and 6.26 of the White Paper.
10. As a resuit of the recommendation that the integration proposais
be eliminated (see Chapter 4) the Committee is of the opinion that no flow
through for foreign taxes should be given to Canadian shareholders of Canadian corporations, (See Clause il of Chapter 4), except in those instances
where the Canadian corporation lias not received a full usable credit for the
foreign taxes paid and a Canadian shareholder of such Canadian corporation
is himself subject to tax on dividends received from such Canadian corporation. Your Committee, however, concurs in principle with paragraphs 6.29
and 6.30 of the White Paper, and recommends permission for a complete
flow through of foreign taxes to foreign shareholders of Canadian corporations.
11. As noted in Clause 14 of Chapter 4, your Committee concurs with
the recommendations of paragraphs 6.30 through 6.33 of the White Paper
for the elimination of foreign business corporations.
12. Your Committee strongly objects to the proposai of paragraph 6.36
of the White Paper to increase the Canadian withholding tax rate to 25 per
cent except in the case of payments to countries with which Canada lias a
tax treaty. With particular reference to interest, the Committee feels it would
be a grave mistake to inhibit the lending of money into Canada (in contradistinction to the acquisition by foreigners of equity share positions in Canadian corporations) and the Commiittee is convinced that a substantial portion
of available funds fromn foreign jurisdictions will derive from countries with
which Canada does not have a tax treaty, such as Switzerland. The Commintee does suggest to government that it seriously consider the elimination
of ail withholding taxes on interest payments to arm's length foreign lenders.
(See Clause XI-3 of Chapter 1).
13. Although the White Paper is not clear on the subject, the Committee wishes to confirm that it recomnmends the retention of the 10 per cent
withholding tax of Section 106(la) (b) of the Income Tax Act on dividends
from Canadian corporations which have a degree of Canadian ownership.
14. By virtue of the fact that your Committee recommiends no increase
in the 15 per cent witbholding tax, the Committee considers that paragraph
6.40 of the White Paper is no longer applicable. In the event that the law

ultimately provides that non-residents of Canada who do not maintain a
permanent establishment here are exempt from the proposed capital gains
tax, the Committee recommends that non-resident owned investment corporations owned by such non-residents also be exempted from such capital
gains tax. Further, if, contrary to this Committee's recommendations, withholding tax in excess of the present 15 per cent rate is imposed for nontreaty countries, your Committee recommends that the tax rate payable on
the income of a non-resident owned investment corporation owned by shareholders resident in a treaty country be restricted to the withholding tax rate
on dividends (or possibly interest) set out in the tax agreement with such
country. In addition to the foregoing, your Committee recommends that
Section 70(4) (b) of the Income Tax Act be amended to include amounts
received for technical and similar services as the qualified income of a nonresident owned investment corporation.
15. Your Committee concurs with the recommendations of paragraphs
6.41 and 6.42 of the White Paper.
16. Your Committee has already noted (Clause 16 of Chapter 3) its
opposition to the general principle that capital gains of non-residents be
taxed by Canada, except where such capital gains derive from a trade or
business or permanent establishment of such non-resident in Canada. The
Committee, therefore, rejects the proposals of paragraphs 6.43 through
6.47 of the White Paper.
17. By virtue of the fact that your Committee recommends no increase
in the 15 per cent withholding tax, your Committee is of the opinion that
paragraph 6.48 of the White Paper is not applicable. The Committee, however, concurs with the suggestion contained in paragraph 6.49 of the White
Paper.

Respectfully Submitted

Salter A. Hayden
Chairman

APPENDIX*
THE SMALL BUSINESS CORPORATION
On the question of the small business corporation, the present provisions of the Income
Tax Act provîde for a two tier taxing system. A business corporation is taxed at a specified
low rate (approximately 21%) upon its initial $35,000 of a taxable income and at a higher
rate (51%) upon its taxable income in excess of $35,000. The actual effective low and
high rate in each instance wiIl depend upon the province in which the income bas been
earned since the provincial rates provide some variance in this regard.
Under the White Paper the following is stated at paragraph 4.30:
"It is therefore proposed that the low rate be removed fromn the business profits of
small corporations gradually over a period of five years".
It should be noted that the decision to remove the low rate of tax in respect of the
small business corporation appears to be tied into the concept of integration of corporate
income with the shareholders' income. However, for the purposes of this Appendux, this
aspect of the matter will be disregarded.
The reasons that have been given in the White Paper for proposing the removal of
the two tier tax system appear to be three-fold:
(a) The delay in collecting the second instalment of tax (paragraph 4.15 W'hite Paper).
As this paragraph points out, the low rate of corporate tax on the first $35,000
is not necessarily the only tax collected since a further tax is levied in the hands of
the shareholders upon distribution from the corporation by way of dividend;
(b) Small corporations should be put as nearly as possible in the same tax position
as their competitors, and in particular, the unincorporated competîtor (paragraphs
1.40, 4.20 and 4.32 White Paper); and
(c) The two tier system produced abuses wherein taxpayers were incorporating several
corporations to take advantage of the low tax rate when for business purposes one
corporation would do. (paragraph 4.16 White Paper).
The Committee wishes to note what appears to be two rather inconsistent: statements
made in the White Paper in respect of the small corporation. At paragraph 4.15 White
Paper it is stated:
"This gave themn significant advantage over those persons with similar incomes who
did not or could not incorporate their business ..
while in paragraph 4.9 White Paper it is stated:
"This time, the pressure for change related not only to the problem of the abnorm.ally high tai collected on large distributions, but also to the fact that two taxes
were collected on profits fiowing through small corporations and that this put them
at a disadvantage relative to the unincorporated businesses with which they competed".
In any event, the Committee would like to emphasize that there is a distinction to be
made between the unincorporated business and an incorporated business. In the case
,of the unincorporated business, profits are deemed immediately distributed to the owner
or owners, upon which income tax is paid. In this situation, one tax only is paid. In the
case of the incorporated business, a tai is paid by the corporation at the two corporate
rates, and a further tax is levied upon distribution of corporate profits to the shareholders
by way of dividend. In this situation, two taxes are ini effect levied.
*Sec Chapter 4, paragraph 6.

The reasons given by the White Paper for now proposing to abolish the two tier corporate tax system do not appear to your Committee to diminish in any way the reasons for
establishing the two tier corporate tax system in the first instance. The closest the White
Paper comes to examining this question, is as set forth in paragraphs 4.9 and 4.10 White
Paper where the reference is made to"abnormally high tax collected on large distributions, but also to the fact that two
taxes were collected on profits flowing through small corporations". (Paragraph 4.9)
and"In an attempt to solve this problem, two important changes were made in the tax
system in 1949. First, a two-rate system was introduced for corporations". (Paragraph
4.10).
It does not appear that the introduction of the low initial rate of tax for corporations
had anything to do with the general rate of corporate tax or the tax that was being collected
on distributions. As your Committee understands the matter, the purpose of introducing the
low rate on corporate income was to provide a tax incentive system in order that the small
corporation could generate funds for growth and expansion. The reality of the situation at
the time was that small corporations had difficulty in obtaining funds for financing growth
and a tax abatement system was introduced to help provide these funds. On this point, we
quote from the budget speech of The Honourable D. C. Abbott, the then Minister of Finance,
in his address to the House of Commons on March 22, 1949:
"The House will at once recognize this as a tax relief for small businesses and will,
I trust, be heartily in accord with the policy. Our country as a whole owes a great
deal to the small family type of businesses. They have to struggle along, grow and
develop in competition with large and well financed corporations whose activity may
be nation-wide. My own belief is that small business should be encouraged, and it
seems to me that a useful way to do this is to lower the tax and take less out of the
funds they need for growth and expansion."
The same Minister of Finance in his budget speech of March 28, 1950 stated:
"This tax abatement is intended to allow the small businessman to retain a larger
proportion of his profits for growth."
The Honourable D. M. Fleming, the then Minister of Finance, in his budget speech of
December 20th, 1960, wherein the government increased the initial amount of corporate
income to be subject to the low rate, stated:
"Together with other policies proposed by the government in this session to assist
the small business, this measure will have a significant impact. Companies, especially
those which are not large enough to have ready access to the security markets, are
in a position to enlarge the scope of their operations to create more employment if
their immediate needs for cash to pay taxes are relieved."
In your Committee's opinion, if a case is to be made for the abolition of the two
tier corporate tax system, the reasons for instituting the system in the first instance must be
shown to be fallacious or that the system in fact has been unsuccessful and has failed?
Unfortunately, this aspect of the matter is not referred to in the White Paper.
For the last few months this Committee has examined many briefs and heard many
witnesses on the point. It is clear to this Committee that the needs of the small corporate
business in acquiring funds for growth by way of abatement of taxes exists as much today
as it did in 1949 and 1960. It is apparent that the small corporation (which hopes to grow
into a larger corporation) has a very limited access to funds in the public market place.
The small corporation cannot acquire its capital by issuing shares to the public, nor can
this kind of a corporation obtain borrowed capital through the issue of bonds or debentures
at realistic interest rates. The small corporation at the outset is usually involved in something new and requires what is often termed "venture capital". Such capital is at a premium,
and difficult to acquire. Nevertheless, without some form of assistance that will produce
available cash in the hands of such businesses, many innovations and other imaginative

business ideas will not corne to pass. THIS COMMIITEE CAN FIND NOTHING IMPROPER IN USING THE CORPORATE TAX SYSTEM TO PRODUCE A MINIMAL
AMOUNT OF CASH THAT CAN BE USED FOR THE EXPANSION OF SUCH A
BUSINESS.
The case for the continuing need of the two tier corporate tax system for the benefit
of the small corporate business seems evident to your Committee. While the White Paper
itself has failed to deal with the main issue relating to the small business corporation,
releases by the Department of Finance since the publication of the White Paper now indicate agreement that something must be done for the small corporate business in order to
assist its growth and expansion. At the time of the writing of this report, however, nothing
constructive has been forthcoming. The need in this regard appears paramount since an
examination of Table 16 of the White Paper shows that $95,000,000 of additional tax will
of
be collected in the first year and $390,000,000 in the fifth year by reason of the abolition
taxation. A major portion of this increased collection of tax
the two tier system of corporate
will come from small business corporations.
The argument is made that the small business corporation should be in the same tax
argument we
position as its competitors whether incorporated or unincorporated. With this taxpayer is
in disagreement. For the most part, the unincorporated
also find ourselves
whose
represented by salaried employees, taxpayers in the professions, and those taxpayers
business is of such a nature that there is no particular benefit to them by incorporating a
In no
company. The unincorporated business will usually fall into the non-growth category.salaried
sense of the word does the small aggressive business corporation compete with the
the small
employee, the professional, or the non-growth kind of business. In point of fact, with the
corporation finds itself in daily competition in the public market place
business
exists belarge public as well as private corporations in addition to the competition that
tween the various small incorporated companies themselves. This also appears to have been
the view of The Honourable D. C. Abbott in the extract previously quoted from.
Finally, the argument is made that taxpayers were incorporating several companies
in order to obtain the benefit of the low rate in each corporation when in fact one corporation could have carried on the whole of the enterprise. With this point we agree with the
authors of the White Paper that such an abuse did exist and we also agree with the White
legislaPaper (paragraph 4.17) that in 1963 legislation was enacted to cure this abuse. The which
tion referred to was the enactment of Section 138A(2) of the Income Tax Act
provided that where there was no valid business reason for the separate existence of varions
corporations, the Minister of National Revenue had discretion to "associate" these corporations and thus only one of the corporations could claim the benefit of the low rate of tax.
This legislation has been very effective. Since its introduction in 1963, approximately eight
cases have gone before the Courts challenging the discretion exercised by the Minister of
National Revenue and the Minister has been successful in all but one. This situation, therefore, appears to be a tribute to not only the effectiveness of the legislation, but also that
the discretion bas been exercised wisely. In view of the foregoing, therefore, we cannot find
that the referred-to abuse is now a valid reason for abolishing the two tier corporate tax
system.
In taking issue with the White Paper in respect of the needs of the small corporate
business the Committee was not impressed by the arguments made in the White Paper for the
abolition of the two tier corporate tax system. However, the Committee would not want it
thought that the present system is in every way satisfactory. In the course of examining the
many briefs as well as the witnesses at the hearings, it became apparent to this Committee that
two major faults do exist. First, the two tier corporate tax system applies to all corporations,
both the large as well as the small business corporations, and all therefore receive the
same benefit. The large business corporation does not need this kind of assistance, and indeed, the many large corporations which appeared before this Committee were the first
to agree that such corporations did not need the low rate of tax. The witnesses for these
corporations were quick to point out, however, that the success of the small business corporation was paramount in our economy and was to be encouraged, and that the large
business corporation was dependent upon growing small business corporations.

The second fault which exists under the present system is the fact that all corporate
income is aggregated for the purpose of applying the low rate on the initial $35,000
of
corporate income although the low rate should apply to business income
only. Taxable
investment income should be excluded from the calculation, and taxed at the
regular corporate
rates.
IT IS OUR VIEW, therefore, having regard to all of the foregoing, that
a case has not
been made for the abolition of the low corporate rate in respect
of the small business
corporation. The reasons given in the White Paper are found
wanting,
question which required discussion, was neither asked nor therefore answered. and the major
The Committee
believes that it has examined the issue from the proper point of view,
and in its opinion,
and as previously stated, the reasons for the existence of the two tier
corporate tax system
are as valid today as when they were first instituted.
There have been proposed alternatives to the two tier corporative tax system in
order
that the small business corporation could be benefited in a manner similar to
the low
corporate rate. One suggestion has been the proposed use of accelerated capital cost
allowance. In our view, this proposal would be inadequate in that it fails to take into
account
the nany corporations which are not engaged in a business which requires
substantial
depreciable assets, and the proposal would be therefore of little benefit to them. Another
suggestion has related to a proposed system of government loans. In our view, this
would
not be adequate since it would involve the public sector in making decisions which properly
belong to the private sector. The Committee does not believe that it is in the best interest
of
the economy for such a system to be introduced. Finally, there were some suggestions pertaining to the use of tax deferment for limited periods together with repayment provisions.
In
our view, this system would be fraught with administrative difficulties. The
success of a
business enterprise cannot be measured in terms of time alone.
Having regard to all of the foregoing, it is the considered opinion of this Committee
that the following recommendations be made:
(a) That the present two tier corporate tax system be retained.
(b) That the two tier corporate tax system be for the benefit of the small
business
corporation only, and not for the large business corporation, the latter corporation
paying the full rate on all its income.
(c) That in respect of the small business corporation, the low rate would be
applicable
only to business income, and not to other sources of income such as taxable
ment income, which should be taxed at full corporate rates. The investment investcorporation should be excluded.
(d) That in determining what constitutes a small business corporation,
reference
be made to its net profits and only those corporations with net profits not
exceeding
$100,000 in any given taxation year would be construed as small business corporations entitled to the low rate.
(e) That corporations whose shares are traded in the public market including
those
whose shares are lhsted on the stock exchanges as well as the unlisted
market
(public corporations) would be deemed not to be small business corporations
regardless of their net profits.
(f) That corporations which are controlled directly or indirectly by public corporations,
would not be considered as small business corporations.
(g) That if a small business corporation loses its status in any year, it may
regain
its status if its net profits again fall into the small business category
in any
subsequent taxation year.
(h) That a notch provision be provided whereby those corporations whose net
profits
have slipped over the $100,000 mark would have the option of adding
that
amount to their tax and not lose their small corporation status by that event
alone.
(i) That in defining business profits, reference be made to industrial and commercial
profits, including farming and fishing operations.

SCHEDULE "A"
Alphabetic List of Briefs Submitted
that were heard by the Committee
Naine of Company,
Organization or
Individual

Number
Allotted
to Brief

Ad Hoc Committee of British Insurance Companies ..................... 173
Alcan Aluminium Lirnited ...................................... 204
34
Anglo American Corporation of Canada Limited.........................
248
Aquitaine Company of Canada Ltd......-....................................
Association of International Business Corporations....................... 259
228
Atlantic Provinces Economic Coumdil ........................................
115
Bar of the Province of Quebec, The .........................................
170
Bell Canada........................................................................
169
Bethlehem Copper Corporation Ltd ..........................................
250
Board of Trade of Metropolitan Toronto, The..............................
194
British Newfoundland Corporation Lirnited .................................
Budd Automotive Company of Canada Lirnited (employees) ......... 80
156
Caisses Populaires, et ai .......................................................
131
Canadian Arena Company.....................................................
202
Canadian Art Museum Director's Organization ...........................
Canadian Association of Oilwell Drilling Contractors................... 271
180
Canadian Association of Real Estate Boards ...............................
39
Canadian Association of University Teachers .............................
239
Canadian Bankers' Association .............. .................................
Canadian Bar Association................................ ...................... 247
132
Canadian Chamber of Commerce ............................................
Canadian Chemical Producers' Association, The.......................... 136
176
Canadian Construction Association .........................................
84
Canadian Dental Association ..................................................
258
Canadian Export Association..................................................
233
Canadian Federation of Agriculture .........................................
18
Canadian Gas Association No. 1i............................................
276
No.2 ............................................
Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants, The....................... 256
245
Canadian Institute of Public Real Estate Companies .....................
162
Canadian International Power Company Limited ........................
126
Canadian Labour Congress ...................................................
288
Canadian Life Insurance Association, The ........... ......................
171
Canadian Manufacturers' Association, The .......... .......................
217
Canadian Medical Association ................................................
215
Canadian Mutual Funds Association, The ...................................
58
Canadian Potash Producers Association....................................
88
Canadian Pulp and Paper Association.......................................
12
Canadian Realties Fund of Montreal ........................................
72
Canadian Retail Hardware Association......>.................................
49
Canadian Utilities Limited, et al .............................................
242
Canadian Welfare Council.....................................................
Caplin, Mortimer M ...........................................................
Chambre de Commerce de la Province de Quebec, La .................. 295
210
Chemical Institute of Canada, The............................................
48
Consumers' Gas Company ......... ...........................................
163
Conwest Exploration Company Limited ......................................
Co-operative Union of Canada and
119
Le Conseil Canadien de la Coopération ...............................
Council of the Forest Industries of British Columbia, The ................ 32

Date of
Hearing
April
June
March
May
lune
May
April
May
April
June
June
April
May
April
May
June
April
April
lune
June
April
May
April
April
June
May
March
June
June
Jnne
June
April
lune
May
May
June
April
June
March
May
March
lune
June
June
lune
March
April

22/70
3/70
18/70
28/70
3/70
20/70
16/70
27/70
29/70
18/70
4/70
30/70
20/70
15/70
13/70
24/70
30/70
15/70
18/70
17/70
15/70
27/70
30/70
15/70
3/70
21/70
11/70
24/70
11/70
24/70
10/70
9/70
18/70
27/70
14/70
10/70
29/70
4/70
4/70
13/70
11/70
4/70
3/70
17/70
17/70
11/70
30/70

20/70
May
March 18/70

Naine of Company,
Organization or
Individual

Number
Allotted
to Brief

Denison Mines Ltd...............................................................
297
Dominion Foundries and Steel Luit........................................
185
Electronic Industries Association of Canada .............................
91
Elgistan Management Limited and associated companies............... 83
Great Canadian Oul Sands Limnited ............................................
290
Gulf Oil Canada Limited.......................................................
95
Hart, G. Arnold.................................................................
98
Hollinger Mines Limited........................................................
104
Hudson's Bay Oul and Gas Company Limited............................ 124
Imperial Oil Limited......................................................
..... 82
Independent Petroleum Association of Canada ..............................
255
Insurance Bureau of Canada.....................................
............. 130
International Nickel Company of Canada Limited, The ................. 235
International Utilities Corporation ........................................
.. 237
Investment Dealers' Association of Canada .................................
199
Investors' Group ..................................................................
10
Investors Group Trust Co. Ltd ..........................................
..... 177
Jackman, Harry, Q.C...............................................................
John Labatt Limited .............................................................
38
King Resources Company and its Canadian Employees ............. 127
Law Society of Upper Canada, The ............................. 68
League of Concerned Canadians, The ........................... 97
Liberian Iron Ore Limited ..................................... 64
Loram Liinited ....... ....................................... 234
McIntyre Porcupine Mines Limited ............................. 116
Maple Leaf Gardens, Limited ................. .......................
90
Markborough Properties Limnited ............ ................... 65
Maritime Electric Company, Limited ............................ 30
Massey-Ferguson Limited.......................................................
62
McLaughlin, May, Soward, Morden & Bales ..................... 25
Mercer, Win. M. Ltd.................................................
........... 26
Mercer, Win. M. Ltd. (endorsed by interested companies) ......... 26a
Mining Association of Canada, The........................................
273
Molson Industries Limited .................................................
211
Montreal Kiwanis Club Inc.....................................................
212
Montreal Museum of Fine Arts ...............................................
87
National Association of Canadian Credit Unions, The ................. 189
National Association of Tobacco & Confectionary distributors ....... 67
National Foreign Trade Council ...............................................
161
National Sea Products Limited ...............................................
147
Newfoundland Light & Power Co. Limited..................................
31
Noiseux, Lyonnais, Gascon, Bedard, Lussier, Senecal & Associés ......6
4
Noranda Mines Limited.........................................................
1
Nova Scotia Fruit Growers' Association ....................................
75
Nova Scotia Light and Power Company Limited...........................
6
Peachey, Edmund H. (on behaîf of interested companies) .............. 206
Pension Fund Society of the Bank of Montreal-........................ 71
Prince George Chamber of Commerce, The............................... 137
Retail Council of Canada ... .................................................
59
James Richardson & Sons Ltd ................................................
125
Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation Limited, The ..................................
197
Royal Architectural Institute of Canada, The .............................
99
Royal College of Physicians & Surgeons of Canada....................... 261
St. John's Cemetary on the Humber..........................................il1
Sheil Canada Limited...........................................................
142
Steel Company of Canada Limited...........................................
181

Date of
Hearing
June
May
June
April
June
May
June
April
May
April
June
June
June
May
June
Mardi
June
April
April
May
April
May
April
June
April
April
April
March
May
April
April
April
June
May
May
May
May
June
June
May
March
May
Jan.
May
March
May
June
April
April
May
June
April
May
April
April
May

23/70
6/70
4/70
8/70
16/70
6/70
11/70
29/70
28/70
8/70
23/70
18/70
17/70
28/70
3/70
4/70
10/70
9/70
16/70
28/70
16/70
21/70
22/70
23/70
22/70
15/70
30/70
11/70
21/70
16/70
8/70
8/70
18/70
20/70
21/70
13/70
20/70
24/70
3/70
20/70
11/70
13/70
29/70
14/70
11/70
13/70
10/70
15/70
16/70
7/70
4/70
8/70
14/70
15/70
22/70
6/70

Nane of Company,
Organization or
Individual
Steel Industry- Joint Presentation ............................................................
Sun Oil Company Limited ........................................................................
Syncrude Canada Ltd. ................................................................................
Texaco Canada Limited ............................................................................
Toronto Real Estate Board .....................................................................
Toronto Stock Exchange ............................................................................
TransCanada Pipelines Limited ...............................................................
Trizec Corporation Ltd. .........................................................................
Trust Companies Association of Canada ................................................
Union Carbide Canada Limited ................................................................
Union Carbide Corporation ......................................................................
Vancouver Board of Trade ...................................
Ward-Price Limited ....................................................................................

Total for schedule 'A'-118 briefs.

22481-53

Number
Allotted
to Brief
182
289
35
193
77
267
203
208
269
284
175
5
-

Date of
Hearing
May
June
April
June
June
June
June
May
June
May
June
June
May

6/70
16/70
29/70
10/70
24/70
23/70
17/70
14/70
24/70
20/70
3/70
11/70
6/70

SCHEDULE "B"
Alphabetic List of Briefs Submitted that were flot heard by the Committee
Number
Allotted
to Brief

Name of Company,
Organi.zation or
Individual

.....................................................................................
Adams, S. D ....
............................
Agricuitural Institute of Canada .........................................
Air Industries Association of Canada .............................................................
...
Air Transport Association of Canada ...... ...................................................
>.........................
Alberta Road Builders Association..........................................
Allied Boating Association of Canada ..........................................................
Arnalgamated Construction Association of British Columbia ..............................
..............................................
A. E. Ames & Company Limited ....................
Anglo Canadian Shipping Company Limited..................................................
Anglo United Development Corporation Limited ..............................................
Corporation

Argus

.

.

........................................................

Association of Canadian Distillers...................................................................
Association of Canadian Investment Companies ..............................................
Automotive Industries Association of Canada.....-...............................................
Bale, Gordon ...........................................................................................
...................................................................
Banff Oul Limited.................
Bayer Foreign Investments Limited. ...............................................................

150
148
325
23
15
152
285
145
41
144
94

244
201
200
294
309
300

.............................................................

326

Board of Evangelism and Social Service -.........................................................
... ......................................
Bowaters Canadian Corporation Limited.................
... ..................
BP Canada (1969) Limited ......... .........................................

36
213
310

.
R. F......

Blanchard,

Brascan

Limited

... .......

.....

. .................................................

British Columbia Forest Products Limited........................................................
British Columbia Hotels' Association .............................................................
British Columbia Road Builders Association ....................................................
British Columbia Sugar Relining Company Limited ..............................................
British Columbia Telephone Company...........................................................
Budd Automotive Company of Canada Limited.................................................
................
....... >.................................................
Budd Company, The.......
Cadillac Development Corporation Limited......................................................
Calgary

Jaycecs

.........

.............

...................

......................

Calgary Pow er Lim ited ............ ..... ..................................
........... ................................. ........
C alvin, W . C ., C .A.
Cam,

E. C

.......

..............................................................

Campeau Corporation Limited.......................................................................
Canada Packers Liniited........................>.....................................................
Canada

Canadian
Canadian
Canadian
Canadian
Canadian
Canadian
Canadian
Canadian
Canadian
Canadian
Canadian
Canadian
Canadian
Canadian

Safety

Council

.................
.........

..........

.....................

...............................
Arthritis and Rheumatism Society...................
Association for Latin America ....................................................
Association of Broadcasters..............................................................
Association of Optometrists...........................................................
Association of Social Workers ..... .................................................
Book Publishers' Council.................................................................
Business Equipment Manufacturers Association Incorporated ...........
Cancer Society and The National Cancer Institute of Canada ............
Council for Fair Taxation..............................................................
Council International Chamber of Commerce ..................................
.............
Diamond Drilling Association.............................................
Electrical Manufacturers Association ..............................................
Federation of Insurance Agents & Brokers Associations .....................
Food Brokers Association ................................................................

205

281
230
165
60
69
320
296
241
158

24
79
293

40
232
123

335
135
238
50
315
139
160
159
120
129
334
275
272
166

Name of Company,
Organization or
Individual

Number
Allotted
10 Brief

Canadian Forest Products Limited..............................................................
66
Canadian Fraternal Association ...................................................................
305
Canadian Growth Study Association .............................................................
307
Canadian Gypsum Company Limnited, et ai ....................................................
304
Canadian Heart Foundation ......................................................................
312
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.....................................................
260
Canadian Lumbermen's Association ............................................................
209
246
Canadian Pacific...................................................................................
Canadian Pension Conference.....................................................................
111
Canadian Petroleum Association. ...............................................................
257
Canadian Reinsurance Company.................................................................
55
Canadian Restaurant Association ................................................................
100
Canadian Sait Company Limited.................................................................
19
Canadian Tourist Association....................................................................
70J
Canadian Trucking Association.................................................................
184
Canadian Westinghouse Company Limited ......................................................
109
Certified General Accountants of Canada, The..................................................
231
Chemcell Limited...................................................................................
76
Chevron Standard Limited..........................................................................
303
Chimo GoId Mines Limited ......................................................................
154
Clark, Brock F., Q.C.-..............................................................................
42
Cominco Linited ...................................................................................
243
Commercial Travellers' Association of Canada ................................................
4
Community Arts Council of Vancouver.....................................................
313
Davies Ward & Beck ............................................. 103
.................................
Dofasco Employees' Savings & Profit Sharing Fund and The Employees' Deferred
Profit Sharing Plan ............................................................................
299
14
Dominion Trust Company .......................................................................
224
Douglas Lake Cattie Company Limited ..........................................................
............ 263
Dunwoody & Company ... ...........................................................
102
Edmonton Chamber of Commerce .............................................................
Evans, D. R. and Stead, R. G .................................................................
319
37
Edwards, Stanley E., Q.C..........................................................................
Engineering Institute of Canada, The..................................................
........ 253
........................
Equitable Income Tax Foundation, The ............................... 314
Etobicoke Underwater Club Incorporated .....................................................
286
Falconbridge Nickel Mines Limited .............................................................
266
Financial Executives Institute of Canada.....................................................
265
Ford Motor Company of Canada Limited.....................................................
118
Franklin, John N ....................................................................................
336
Fruehauf Trailer Company of Canada Limited.....>........................................
61
Fairview Corporation, The.........................................................................
323
Gairdner & Company Limited ...................................................................
196
General Enterprises Limited.......................................................................
44
General Publishing Company Limaited...........................................................
133
Gilbert, Jack L., P. Eng ...........................................................................
3
Glick, Daniel, M.D., B.A., MCFP ............................................................
-226
Graduate Students' Union-University of Toronto ............................................
128
Graphic Arts Industries Association .... ........................................................
330
Greater Vancouver Apartment Owners' Association..........................................
16
Greater Vancouver Visitors & Convention Bureau .........................................
262
Grocery Products Manufacturers of Canada..................................................
240
Hamilton Chamber of Commerce..............................................................
63
Hayes-Dana Limited...............................................................................
282
Helix Investments Limited .........................................................................
101
Heyding, L.F., F.C.A. .-............................................................................
78

87
22481-531

Name of Company,
Organization or
Individual

Number
Allotted
to Brief

Hiram Walker-Gooderham & Worts Limited ..................................................
114
Home Hardware Stores Limited ...................................................................
138
Hudson Bay Mining & Smelting Company Limited .......................................
51
Husky Oil Limited.................................................................................
236
Hyland, J. Norman ...............................................................................
306
IBM Canada Limited ....................................................................
.......... 270
Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada Limited ...............................................
214
Institute of Profit Sharing, The ......................
......................................
... 141
International Capital Corporation Limited .....................................................
219
International Harvester Company of Canada Limited....................................
110
Interprovincial Pipe Line Company..............................................................
191
Interprovincial Steel & Pipe Corporation Limited ............................................
251
Investor Owned Electric and Gas Utility Companies ......................................
28
Jarislowsky, Stephen A. ...........................................................................
105
Kaufman Footwear Limited ................................
>....................................
9
Kelsey, Denham J., F.C.
.........................................................................
143
Kilborn Engineering Limited.......................................................................
89
Kitchener Chamber of Commerce.................................................................
17
Laiteries Leclerc nc .......................................
.........................................
47
Law Society of Alberta ............. . ............................................................
317
Law Society of British Columbia.................................................................
155
Legge, Stuart C ....................................................................................
33
Life Underwriters Association of Canada, The.......................................
........ 218
Lighting Equipment Manufacturers Association, The.....................................
-274
London & District Labour Council................................................
.............. 327
M .E.P.C. Canadian Properties Limited .......................-......... ...... 249
M acM illan Bloedel Limited .......... ...................................... 207
M cIntosh, J. E ., C .A . ...
ý..................................................
2
M cVicar, J. S., F .C.A . ...
....................................... .......... 22
M anchee, Frank C . - ................................. ............. ........ 112
M anitoba Association of Architects ......................................... 29
Manitoba Pool Elevators & Saskatchewan Wheat Pool ............-................ 292
M aw, J. G . ..........................................................
........ . .................... 316
Mead & Company Limited .. ... ...............................................................
43
Meades, G. Donald, B.A. Sc, MBA, P. Eng. ...............................................
157
Metropolitan Toronto School Board .. ......................................................
53
Mining Association of British Columbia, The ...... .............. ......... 278
20
Monarch Investments Limited.......................................................................
Montreal Board of Trade ........................................................
140
M ontreal Society of Financial Analysts ....................................... 121
Mortgage Insurance Company of Canada ................................. ..... 56
M otor Vehicle M anufacturers' Association .................................... ..331
.............. 174
National House Builders Association, The . ......................................
... -......... 190
............................
National Trust Company Limited ..............
.... ....... 108
.....
..........................
Nixon, W. W. (RPS)..... ...........................
Northern Manitoba & Saskatchewan Prospectors and Developers Association, The 54
92
Nova Scotia Forest Products Association.....................................................
Ontario Association of Architeets

Ontario
Ontario
Ontario
Ontario

...... ....

.................
................

.....

198

. 195
Association of Cemeteries & Crematoria.....>........................................
227
Confederation of University Faculty Association.................................
57
Retail Lumber Dealers' Association................................................
Safety League .....................................................................
...... 146

Osler, P. F ...............

....

..

....

.............................................

74

27
Owen Sound Chamber of Commerce ... .... ........ ..........................................
... ............ 254
Pacific Petroleums Limited.....................................................
8
Parsons, Colin J., C.A ...............................................................................

Number
Allotted
to Brief

Naine of Company,
Organization or
Individual

338
Patino Mining Corporation, The ................................................................
188
Pipe Line Contractors Association of Canada..................................................
311
Placer Development Limited......................................................................
333
Property Owners League of Montreal, The.....................................................
183
Rayonier Canada (B.C.) Limited..............................................................
.......................... 117
Reed Shaw Osier Limited .................................................
221
Regina Inn ........................................................................................
81
Reive, Barry D., C.A..............................................................................
86
Retail Merchants' Association (Saskatchewan) Incorporated.................................
93
Riddell, Stead & Company.......................................................................
192
Rio Algom Mines Limited.........................................................................
302
Roadbuilders and Heavy Construction Association of Manitoba .......................
.............. 164
Robertson, W. Struan, Q.C. ......................................................
179
Robinson, B.A.........................................................................................
73
Royal Securities Corporation Limited, et ai ..................................................
329
Rural Municipality of Brokenshell No. 68 ....................................................
113
Salyzyn, Vladimir ...................................................................................
187
Saskatoon Board of Trade, The ................................................................
280
Scott Misener Steamsbips Ltd. & Misener Enterprises Ltd.....................................
283
Shaw & Begg Limited............................................................................
-279
Sherritt Gordon Mines Linited...............................................................
107
Simpson Sears Limited............................................................................
225
Skinner, W. G.........................................................................................
134
Standard Oul Company of British Columbia, Limited ......................................
96
Steetley Industries Limited ........................................................................
277
Steinberg's Limited.................................................................................
45
Stuart Oul Company Limited, D.A...............................................................
328
Sudbury & District Chamber of Commerce....................................................
149
Tassonyi, E. J., P. Eng.............................................................................
85
Taylor Woodrow Holdings Limited ...........................................................
216
Teck Corporation Liinited...............................>..........................................
229
Texaco Incorporated...............................................................................
7
Tomne Gunn, Helliwell & Christenson ...........................................................
252
Thornsteinson, P. N .................................................................................
220
Thunder Bay Chamber of Commerce, The.....................................................
337
Toronto Bond Traders' Association, The........................................................
172
Toronto Home Builders Association, The.....................................................
.......... 268
..--......................
Toronto Junior Board of Trade, The .....................
308
Toronto Society of Financial Analysts, The.....................................................
151
Touche Ross & Company............................................................................
Town Planning Institute of Canada .......... >........................................339
322
Trans Mountain 011 Pipe Line Company .......................................................
178
Trustees of The Toronto General Burying Grounds, The.................................
223
Trustees of Woodwards' Profit Sharing & Savings Fund Plan ................................
186
University Women's Club of North York ..................................................
332
University of Toronto, The ..................................................................
167
Upper Lakes Shipping Limited and Affiliated Compames....................................
291
Urban Development Institute (Canada) .....................................................
...... 324
Vancouver Junior Chamber of Commerce, The......................................
52
Vancouver & District Dental Society...........................................................
...... 21
Victoria Real Estate Board .................................................................
13
Watson, G. N ......................................................................................
122
West Vancouver Chamber of Commerce.....................................................
321
Western International Hotels ......................................................................
264
Weston Limited, George .........................................................................
153
White Horse Chamber of Commerce, The ..................................................

89

Name of Company,
Organization or
Individual
Williams, Peter H.

Number
Allotted
to Brief
ý ...

...

. .................................................

301

Winnipeg Chamber of Commerce .............................................................
168
Winnipeg Real Estate Board....................................................................
106
Wood Gundy Securities Limited .........................................
....................... 287
Woodward Stores Liinited

............................................

............... 222

Young, M cG regor ............................................... .......
Young Presidents Organization, Lncorporated ..................................-........

Total for sehedule 'B'-225 briefs.

90

318
298

October 1, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1453

After having thought this matter over yesterday, I have asked that the order appear
today as item No. 2 for consideration of this
report. This means that the motion by the
honourable Senator McDonald to adjourn the
Thursday, October 1, 1970
debate was according to the rules.
I hope that, having admitted my mistake,
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
we can now proceed. This order appears now
the Chair.
under item No. 2 on behalf of the honourable
Prayers.
Senator Martin and, of course, if the honourable Senator Martin is not able to speak
today and there is another honourable senator
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
who wishes to speak, it would be for you to
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CANADAgive him consent to do so on behalf of the
CARIBBEAN RELATIONS-STATEMENT
honourable senator.
ON PROCEDURE
Having admitted my mistake, I would hope
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, that this matter may rest now as it is.
yesterday when the Order of the Day for consideration of the Final Report of the Standing
Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs on STANDARDS COUNCIL OF CANADA BILL
Canada-Caribbean Relations was read, SenaREPORT OF COMMITTEE
tor Aird spoke on it, as the order was standing
in his name. Senator McDonald then adHon. Salter A. Hayden, Chairman of the
journed the debate for Senator Martin, Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
and a point of order was raised by Senator Trade and Commerce reported that the comGrosart as to the acceptability of such a mittee had considered Bill C-163, to provide
for the establishment of a Standards Council
motion under the circunstances.
that the bill be
to review the proceed- of Canada, and had directed
May I be permitted
respect to the reported without amendment.
ings that have taken place with
aforementioned report.
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators,
On June 23, 1970, at page 468 of the Minutes when shall this bill be read the third time?
of the Proceedings of the Senate, Senator Aird
Hon. Mr. Denis moved that the bill be
presented the report in question. I then asked,
"When shall this report be taken into consid- placed on the Orders of the Day for third
eration?" Senator Aird moved, seconded by reading at the next sitting.
Senator McDonald, that the report be taken
Motion agreed to.
into consideration at the next sitting of the
Senate. The motion was carried and it became
an Order of the Day. Yesterday was the first
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON RULES
time that the order for consideration of the
OF THE SENATE
report was dealt with and Senator Aird quite
REPORT TABLED
properly spoke pursuant to that order. I was
in error in asking the honourable Senator
Hon. Har±land de M. Moison tabled the folAird if he had the consent of the house to
lowing report:
pursue his remarks.
Pursuant to Rule 84, I report that the
Whenever an order for consideration of a
total expenses of the Special Committee
report is called, the sponsor of the motion,
of the Senate on the Rules of the Senate,
who is usually the chairman of the committee,
appointed during the first session of the
may move the adoption of the report, or he
twenty-eighth Parliament, are as follows:
may refrain from moving its adoption and
Professional and Special
leave it at the consideration stage to allow
Services ................. . $17,566
other senators to join in the debate. Senator
55
All Other Expenditures . ..
Aird yesterday chose to follow the latter
course, and my wrong interpretation prompted
$17,621
the honourable Senator Grosart to raise a
Respectfully submitted,
point of order which, technically, was on safe
H. de M. Molson.
grounds but was based on my own wrong
interpretation.

THE SENATE

1454

SENATE DEBATES
ADJOURNMENT

Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, with leave of the Senate and notwithstanding Rule 45(1)(g), I move that when
the Senate adjourns today it do stand adjourned until Monday next, October 5, at
8 o'clock in the evening.

October 1, 1970

CANADA

CORPORATIONS ACT

BILL TO AMEND-THIRD READING

Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald moved third
reading of Bill C-4 as amended, to amend the
Canada Corporations Act.
Motion agreed to, and bill, as amended,
read third time and passed.

Motion agreed to.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS

REVISED STATUTES OF CANADA
PUBLICATION DATE-QUESTION

Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators,
it occurs to me that it has been a long time
since we have heard about the publication of
the Revised Statutes of Canada. I know that
I should have given notice of my question to
the Acting Leader of the Government (Hon.
Mr. McDonald), but would he inquire and let
us know when we may expect to receive the
revised statutes, on which the commission has
been at work for some years. In their present
form the statutes take up considerable space
in our libraries. We would much prefer four
or five volumes, instead of the twenty-five or
more which we use now.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: I will try to have the
information by Monday.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CANADACARIBBEAN RELATIONS-ORDER
STANDS

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the consideration of the Final Report of the Standing
Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs on
Canada-Caribbean Relations- (Honourable Senator Martin, P.C.).
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable

senators, as the Speaker mentioned to us a
moment ago, this item stands adjourned in the
name of Senator Martin. However, if any
senator wishes to take part in the debate this
afternoon we will readily consent to his
doing so, and the order can again be adjourned in Senator Martin's name. Otherwise,
I would ask that the order stand.
Order stands.
The Senate adjourned until Monday, October 5, at 8 p.m.

SENATE DEBATES

October 5, 1970

THE SENATE

Monday, October 5, 1970
The Senate met at 8 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, I would like to table a number of
Government documents. Most of these documents are required to be tabled under statutes, and I need not refer to them. However,
there are two items which I understand are
not required by statute to be tabled. First,
there is the report of Panarctic Oils Ltd. for
the year ended December 31, 1969, in which
honourable senators may be interested.
Secondly, there are several reports of the
Prices and Incomes Commission dating from
July 16 to September 25, 1970.
(The following documents were tabled:)
Report of the Superintendent of Insurance on the Administration of the Pension Benefits Standards Act for the fiscal
year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to
section 22 of the said Act, chapter 92,
Statutes of Canada, 1966-67.
Report of Panarctic Oils Ltd. for the
year ended December 31, 1969, together
with its Accounts and Financial Statements, certified by the Auditors, for the
fifteen months ended December 31, 1969.
Report on the Activities of the Food
and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations for the fiscal year 1969-70,
pursuant to section 3 of the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations Act, chapter 122, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of Operations under the Civil
Service Insurance Act for the fiscal year
ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to section
21(2) of the said Act, chapter 49, R.S.C.,
1952.
Report on Vocational Rehabilitation for
the fiscal year ended M-arch 31, 1970, pursuant to section 12 of the Vocational
Rehabilitation of Disabled Persons Act,
chapter 26, Statutes of Canada, 1960-61.
Copies of a contract between the Government of Canada and the municipality
of Roblin, Manitoba, for the use or
employment of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, pursuant to section 20(3)
22481-54

of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police
Act, chapter 54, Statutes of Canada, 1959.
(English text).
Report, dated July 6, 1970, of the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission
under the Combines Investigation Act
concerning the Metal Culvert Industry in
Ontario and Quebec.
Copies of a contract between the Government of Canada and the municipality
of Drayton Valley, Alberta, for the use or
employment of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, pursuant to section 20(3)
of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police
Act, chapter 54, Statutes of Canada, 1959.
(English text).
Report on the Administration of Part I
of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police
Superannuation Act for the fiscal year
ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to section
25 of the said Act, chapter 34, Statutes of
Canada, 1959.
Report of the Superintendent of Insurance for Canada, Volume 1, Abstract of
Statements of Insurance Companies in
Canada for the year ended December 31,
1969, pursuant to section 9 of the Department of Insurance Act, chapter 70, R.S.C.,
1952.
Report on the Administration of the
Small Businesses Loans Act for the year
ended December 31, 1969, pursuant to
section 11 of the said Act, chapter 5, Statutes of Canada, 1960-61.
Report of Operations under the Farm
Improvement Loans Act for the year
ended December 31, 1969, pursuant to
section 13 of the said Act, chapter 110,
R.S.C., 1952.
Report on the Administration of the
Canadian Forces Superannuation Account
for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1970,
pursuant to section 26 of the Canadian
Forces Superannuation Act, chapter 21,
Statutes of Canada, 1959.
Report on the Administration of the
Regular Forces Death Benefit Account for
the fiscal year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 54 of the Statute Law
(Superannuation) Amendment Act, 1966,
chapter 44, Statutes of Canada, 1966-67.
Report on Proceedings under the
Canada Labour (Standards) Code for the
fiscal year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 49 of the said Code, chapter
38, Statutes of Canada, 1964-65.
Report of the Eastern Rockies Forest
Conservation Board for the fiscal year

1456

SENATE DEBATES
ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to section
10 of the Eastern Rocky Mountain Forest
Conservation Act, chapter 59, Statutes of
Canada, 1947.
Report on the state of the Unemployment Insurance Fund as at March 31,
1970, and of the transactions under section 86 of the Unemployment Insurance
Act for the fiscal year ended March 31,
1970, pursuant to section 87 of the said
Act, chapter 50, Statutes of Canada, 1955.
Statement of Expenditures and Financial Commitments made under the Veterans' Land Act, for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 42 of
the said Act, chapter 280. R.S.C., 1952.
Report of the Fisheries Prices Support
Board for the fiscal year ended March 31,
1970, pursuant to section 7 of the Fisheries Prices Support Act, chapter 120,
R.S.C., 1952.

Air Fares-Air Canada and CP Air
Citrie Acid and Sodium Citrate Prices
Coffee Prices
Fine Paper Prices
Food Processing Industry
Railway Freight Rates
Rubber Tire Prices
Wholesale and Retail Milk Prices (Ottawa)
Wholesale Milk Prices

Capital Budget of the National Battlefields Commission for the fiscal year
ending March 31, 1971, pursuant to section 80(2) of the Financial Administration
Act, chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952, together
with a copy of Order in Council P.C.
1970-1370, dated July 29, 1970, approving
same.
Report of the Auditor General on the
examination of the Accounts and Financial Statements of the National Battlefields Commission
for the fiscal year
ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 12 of An Act respecting the National
Battlefields at Quebec, chapter 57, Statutes of Canada, 1907-08, and sections 85(3)
and 87(3) of the Financial Administration
Act, chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of the Northern Canada Power
Commission, including its Accounts and
Financial Statements certified by the
Auditor General, for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 24 of
the Northern Canada Power Commission
[Hon. Mr. McDonald.1

October 5, 1970

Report of the Superintendent of Insurance for Canada on Co-operative Credit
Societies for the year ended December 31,
1969, pursuant to section 56 of the Cooperative Credit Associations Act, chapter 28, Statutes of Canada, 1952-53.
Report of the Board of Grain Commissioners for Canada for the year ended
December 31, 1969, pursuant to section 23
of the Canada Grain Act, Chapter 25,
R.S.C., 1952.
Report of Operations under the Crop
Insurance Act for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 10 of
the said Act, chapter 42, Statutes of
Canada, 1959.
Reports of the Prices and Incomes
Commission (Mr. John H. Young, Chairman), dated as shown, respecting-

August 6, 1970
August 17, 1970
August 5, 1970
July 16, 1970
August 14, 1970
July 24, 1970
July 22, 1970
September 25, 1970
July 21, 1970

Act, chapter 196, R.S.C., 1952, as amended by Chapter 42, Statutes of Canada,
1956, and sections 85(3) and 85(7) of the
Financial Administration Act, chapter
116, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of the Superintendent of Insurance for Canada on Small Loans Companies and Money-Lenders licensed under
the Small Loans Act for the year ended
December 31, 1969.
Statement concerning Refunds under
The Refunds (Natural Resources) Act for
the period October 23, 1969 to October 4,
1970, pursuant to section 3 of the said
Act, chapter 35, Statutes of Canada, 1932.
Nil Return.

Statement
of Apportionment
and
Adjustments of Seed Grain, Fodder for
Animals and Other Relief Indebtedness
for the period October 23, 1969 to October 4, 1970, pursuant to section 2 of An
Act respecting Certain Debts due the
Crown, chapter 51, Statutes of Canada,
1926-27. Nil Return.

October 5, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

1457

2. When is it now anticipated that the
Copies of Ordinances, Chapters 1 to 20,
Revised Statutes of Canada will be (a)
inclusive, passed by the Council of the
Northwest Territories at its 42nd Session,
published (b) available for distribution (c)
June 1970, pursuant to section 15 of the
proclaimed?
Northwest Territories Act, chapter 331,
The answer tabled in the other place today
R.S.C., 1952, as amended 1953-54, togeth- is as follows:
er with a copy of Order in Council P.C.
1. The text of the public general stat1970-1486, dated August 19, 1970, approvutes has been consolidated and revised to
ing same. (English text).
December 31st, 1969, and manuscript
Copies of Ordinances, Chapters 1 to 8,
therefor sent to the Canadian Governinclusive, passed by the Council of the
ment Printing Bureau. Because of techYukon Territory at its 1970 Third Session,
in
nological difficulties encountered
pursuant to section 20 of the Yukon Act,
developing software to produce a bilinchapter 53, Statutes of Canada, 1952-53,
gual page format by automation, the
together with a copy of Order in Council
printing schedule fell behind in 1969 with
P.C. 1970-1372, dated July 29, 1970,
the result that legislation enacted in 1969
approving same. (English text).
had to be added to the manuscript. The
Report of the Science Council of
Printing Bureau was finally able to go
Canada for the fiscal year ended March
into full scheduled production of the
31, 1970, pursuant to section 17 of the
revision in June, 1970, but to avoid furScience Council of Canada Act, chapter
ther delay in editing and proofreading,
19, Statutes of Canada, 1966-67.
the legislation enacted in 1970, and to be
enacted in the interim before proclamaReport of the Board of Trustees of the
tion of the revision, will be included in
Queen Elizabeth II Canadian Fund to Aid
the supplements, the first of which is now
in Research on the Diseases of Children,
being prepared.
including the Auditor General's Report
on the Financial Statements of the Board,
2. (a) The revised production schedule
for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1970,
estimates the completion of composition
pursuant to section 15 of the Queen Elizin late November, 1970, with a press run
abeth II Canadian Research Fund Act,
to follow immediately thereafter.
chapter 33, Statutes of Canada, 1959.
(b) Publication will follow the press
Report of the National Capital Comrun after the Statute Roll has been premission, including its Accounts and
sented to the Governor in Council. It is
Financial Statements certified by the
hoped to present the Statute Roll in
Auditor General, for the fiscal year ended
November or December.
March 31, 1970, pursuant to sections 85(3)
(c) The printed volumes cannot be disand 87(3) of the Financial Administration
tributed across Canada before late spring,
Act, chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952.
1971.
(d) The most logical date for proclamation now appears to be July lst, 1971
REVISED STATUTES OF CANADA
PUBLICATION DATE-QUESTION ANSWERED

Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, on Thursday, October 1, the Leader
of the Opposition (Hon. Mr. Flynn) asked a
question with regard to the Revised Statutes.
I shall not repeat the question he asked at
that time. However, today in the other place
an answer was tabled to a question asked on
April 6 last concerning the same subject. It is
a little broader than the question that had
been asked by the Leader of the Opposition,
but with your permission I will read the question and the answer. The question reads:
1. What progress has been made in the
consolidation and revision of the Statutes
of Canada?
22481-541

STANDARDS COUNCIL OF CANADA
THIRD READING

Hon. Azellus Denis moved the third reading
of Bill C-163, an Act to provide for the
establishment of a Standards Council of
Canada.
Motion agreed to and bill read third time
and passed.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CANADACARIBBEAN RELATIONS-ORDER STANDS

On the Order:
Resuming the debate on the consideration
of the Final Report of the Standing

1458

SENATE DEBATES

October 5, 1970

Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs on Wednesday, or until we prorogue. To my
Canada-Caribbean Relations.- (Honoura- knowledge, the only matters that we will
ble Senator Martin, P.C.)
have to deal with are Bill C-4, to amend the
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable Canada Corporations Act, which will be
senators, Senator Martin is unable to be with returned to us; Bill C-184, dealing with shipus tonight. He has returned from Cairo, but ping conferences, which we can proceed with
he is confined to bed with what I presume is tomorrow; also the Hudson's Bay Company
the flu. I can only repeat what I said on Bill, which originated in this house and which
Thursday last, that if any senator wishes to will be returned from the other house.
I understand, through the grapevine only,
proceed with the debate at this time, I am
sure Senator Martin would agree to stand that there is a possibility we will have Bill
aside and speak at a later date. If no senator C-196, an Act respecting grain, which I
understand was discussed in the other house
wishes to speak, I ask that the motion stand.
this afternoon. To my knowledge, that is all
Order stands.
the work that will be before us.
BUSINESS OF THE SENATE
Hon. Mr. Choquette: There will be no third
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable readings of any bills? That is always important and urgent!
senators, I move that the Senate do now
adjourn.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: There will be Bill
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, C-184, regarding shipping conferences. That
before the motion is put-since it is not would be the only one.
debatable--may I ask the Acting Leader of
Hon. Mr. Flynn: It is very simple.
the Government what is expected from the
other place tomorrow that would bring us
Hon. Mr. McDonald: That would be the
back?
only one-unless we get the grain bill.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: Honourable senators, I
The Senate adjourned until tomorrow at 2
should mention the business of tomorrow and p.m.

SENATE DEBATES

October 6, 1970

THE SENATE

Tuesday, October 6, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
SHIPPING CONFERENCES EXEMPTION
BILL
FIRST READING

schedule of freight rates than a shipper who
does not sign this type of contract. Shipping
conferences were first organized to limit ruinous competition in the last half of the nineteenth century. Since the development of
steamships made the maintenance of regular
schedules a possibility, shipping lines haveý
found it expedient, for ahnost a century, toform themselves into conferences for the purpose of controlling competition between members and to restrain outside competition.
Conferences have since come to play a
major role in most of the shipping routes
throughout the world. Today some 360 shipping conferences are in operation. There are
about 40 conferences serving Canadian export
and import trades to and from al areas of the
world, and included in them will be found
ships flying the flags of most of the sea-going

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate
that a message had been received from the
House of Commons with Bill C-184, to
exempt certain shipping conference practices nations.
from the provisions of the Combines InvestiA characteristic feature of the operation of
gation Act.
a shipping conference, which breaches the
Bill read first time.
Combines Investigation Act, is the use of a
basic agreement among the member lines to
SECOND READING
use the same minimum freight rate schedule
The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable sena- and the use of the exclusive patronage contors, when shal this bill be read the second tract binding shippers to use only conference
line ships, thus restricting competition. Nottime?
withstanding this, the Restrictive Trade PracHon. William J. Petten: Honourable sena- tices Commission concluded that these confertors, with leave of the Senate, and notwith- ences performed a useful and desirable
standing Rule 44(i)(f), I move that this bill be function by offering, and in fact providing, a
stable rate structure as well as regular,
now read the second time.
dependable and frequent service, and that
Honourable senators, the purpose of this this was accepted by exporters and importers
bill is to exempt certain practices of shipping in Canada as generally satisfactory. It accordconferences from the application of anti-com- ingly recommended in its report that shipping
bines legislation and also to specify certain conferences in certain respects should be
conditions on which that exemption is grant- exempted from the application of the Comed. The need for this bill arose as a result of bines Investigation Act, but that this exempan inquiry conducted some years ago by the tion should be subject to certain safeguards
Restrictive Trade Practices Commission. The and the fulfilment of certain conditions. This
commission reported in June 1965 that some had advantages over the alternative of a
practices of shipping conferences serving prohibition order under the Combines InvestiCanada contravened the Combines Investiga- gation Act, and the commission did not
tion Act.
recommend such a proceeding, for reasons
Perhaps I should explain what is meant by given in its report, including the possibility of
"shipping conferences". It is a grouping or an exposing exporters and importers in Canada
association of different shipping companies or to uncontrollable competition accompanied by
shipping lines, with a written basic agreement fluctuating rates, as well as irregular and less
among them, specifying that all member com- dependable service.
panies shall charge the same freight rates to
The full report and the recommendations of
shippers, these charges being listed in a con- the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission
ference tariff which may or may not be pub- were carefully examined and studied in detail
lished. Most shippers, whether exporters or by interested government departments and
importers, bind themselves to use conference agencies, with the result that these recomlines under provisions of a conference exclu- mendations received general interdepartmensive patronage contract. By signing such a tal approval and endorsation. Subsequently,
contract a shipper may then enjoy a lower in 1968, the Minister of Transport, with the

SENATE DEBATES
concurrence of the Minister of Consumer and
Corporate Affairs and of the Minister of
Industry, Trade and Commerce, made a series
of specific recommendations, which the present bill is designed to implement.
The implications in the field of external
relations arise from the fact that ocean shipping is an international operation and is subject to the legal regime of the high seas and a
variety of international conventions. It is
designed for the protection of Canadian users
of ocean transport which means, either directly or indirectly, practically ail Canadians. The
main transport and trade advantages of the
conference system are that it improves the
opportunities for dependable and regular
liner services and helps in stabilizing rate
levels. Both these factors are important to
exporters and importers everywhere. The bill
provides for some degree of regulation and
scrutiny but also permits a degree of competition as an alternative to unrestricted competition that would result from the application of
the Combires Investigation Act. This legislation will affect international shipping only. It
will not apply to shipping between Canadian
ports which will continue to be subject to the
Combines Investigation Act and other legislation governing shipping in Canadian waters.
Clause Il of the bill broadens the power of
the Director of Investigation and Research
under the Combines Investigation Act to
make inquiries when necessary in the shipping transportation field. I might also point
out that the bill is not unique in permitting a
degree of collaboration between carriers. Section 337 of the Railway Act, as amended by
section 53 of the National Transportation Act,
reads as follows:
Railway companies shall exchange such
information with respect to costs as may
be required under this act and may agree
upon and charge common rates under
and in accordance with regulations or
orders made by the Commission.

October 6, 1970

provide stability and service in ocean transport. Some governments have given tacit
approval while others have reluctantly
accepted the system. Disparity of views seems
to be concerned mainly with the degree of
public control over conferences and their
method of operating.
in this context I might mention that in its
Shipping Act of 1916, the United States Government exempted shipping conferences from
the Sherman Anti-Trust Laws, but in the
same Act provided extensive regulation for
conferences.
This regulation was later
stiengtihened and extended by an amendment
to that Act in 1961.
I mentioned earlier that a conference is an
association of different shipping lines. This
does not mean that every shipping line is a
member of a conference. In fact there are
many lines which are not members of any
conference and which operate quite independently and not infrequently in competition
with conferences. A shipping line is not
necessarily a corporate body. A large number
of shipping companies operate one or more
so-called lines. A shipping line is distinguished from what is commonly referred to in
shipping circles as tramp vessels, in that it
operates according to a scheduled and advertised common carrier service or a particular
trade route and between designated ports,
with the regularity and frequency which
shippers need for carrying on their business.
On the other hand, tramp vessels are chartered to transport full or bulk cargoes to any
port in the world as inducement offers. It has
been a long-standing practice for liner operators occasionally to charter tramp vessels to
inerease their liner fleets in times of high
demand for a liner service. Broadly speaking,
tramp vessels have a high-volume traffic consisting of low value primary and bulk commodities, while liner services have a highvalue traffic consisting of high value manufactured and semi-manufactured goods. The
The value of the conference system in essential difference between the two sysocean transport has been recognized and tems of maritime transport is in the type of
acknowledged by governments the world service offered by both. Comparing ocean
over. There is general international agree- transport and municipal transport, a liner
ment that some sort of conference system is could be compared to a bus running on a
necessary to control unrestricted competition fixed scheduled route and a tramp ship to a
in the international liner trades which could taxi picking up fares to run anywhere in a
be disastrous not only for shipping lines but city.
also for the users of those lines. Consequently
This bill will in no way affect the operation
ail governments have been obliged at least to of vessels engaged in the tramp trade. Neither
tolerate the conference system and to permit is it relevant to the question whether there is,
conferences to function simply because no or should be, a Canadian merchant marine.
suitable alternative system bas evolved to Canadian flag ocean-going ships would be
[Hon. Mr. Petten.]

October 6, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

free to operate either in a liner trade or the increased to 2,050 million tons for that year.
tramp trade. The owners of those in the liner All indications are that this growth rate will
trades would decide to become members of a continue. The Canadian growth rate is fully
conference or operate independently for com- in step with this trend. Our steadily growing
mercial reasons just as the owners of other foreign trade relies heavily on foreign shipforeign flag ships would make similar deci- ping. In fact Canadians are among the major
sions. In fact, there are at present Canadian users in the world of ocean shipping. As one
chartered of the world's great trading nations, Canada
operating
companies
shipping
foreign flag vessels in ocean trade, some as is vitally concerned that ber ports be served
conference members and ohters independent- by ocean shipping that is economic, efficient
and adequate.
ly.
The National Transportation Act, which
The provisions of this bill will apply to all
the members of any shipping conference, outlines Canada's national transportation
regardless of their nationality and of the flags policy, imposes an obligation to scrutinize and
flown by their vessels. Generally speaking, to seek to influence policies in ocean shipping
there are two categories of violation under on which Canada so heavily relies and a duty
this bill which might be described as major to co-ordinate and harmonize all modes of
and minor. Major violations are actions by transport, including shipping, within, to and
conferences which are deemed to be improper from Canada in the best interests of al]
in restricting competition and are to be found Canadians.
in clause 4. The penalty for a major breach is
Under section 14 of that act, the Canadian
the immediate application of the Combines Transport Commission is charged with this
Investigation Act to the offending shipping important
Canadian
The
responsibility:
line. Minor violations are failure to file cer- Transport Commission will receive and maintain documents as required by clauses 5, 6 tain the documentation required from the
and 7. The penalty for these minor violations conferences under the provisions of this bill,
is described in clause 8, and is a fine of up to and with its expertise in the field of transpor$100 a day for each day the offending line is tation will be vital in the successful adminisin default.
tration of this measure.
I think honourable senators will agree that
This bill, when enacted, will become an
the filing requirements provided for in this integral part of the many other economic
bill are important because they will ensure regulatory instruments which Parliament
that the public will have an opportunity to requires this commission to administer. This
scrutinize the fundamental conference rela- does not overlook the fact that any breach in
tionships. There have been complaints that the conditions described in this bill will
some conferences in the past have been require the application of the Combines
excessively secret, even to the point where Investigation Act. Neither will it affect the
shippers could not obtain copies of tariffs.
powers of the Director of Investigation and
The filing requirement has two purposes: Research, appointed under the act, to conduct
first, to establish that the conditions for research inquiries into the practices of shipexemption have been met; and, second, to ping conferences, which are assured by clause
expose the secrecy that traditionally has pre- 11 of the bill.
vailed in much of the activity of shipping
Honourable senators, this bill is a modest
conferences. This bill therefore will accom- measure to impose reasonable controls on
plish two things. It will provide exemption for shipping conferences serving Canada, without
conferences under the Combines Investigation
their operations or freedom
Act, subject to certain conditions being met unduly restricting
it will provide for to function in the efficient and economic
by the conferences; and
continuous public scrutiny into the basic con- transport of Canada's ocean-going trades.
ference relationships. It will cover all the
In other words, this bill is simply designed
important aspects of the basic relationships to exempt shipping conferences from the
between the different members of a confer- application of the Combines Investigation Act,
ence, on the one hand, and between that con- subject to certain conditions intended to preference and shippers, on the other.
vent abuses, and also to provide for the reaInternational seaborne trade is increasing at sonable possibility of competition. If the cona rate close to 10 per cent per year. United ditions of this bill are not met, the penalty is
Nations statistics show that in 1955 this trade the loss of exemption and the consequent
totalled 800 million tons and by 1968 it had application of the Combines Investigation Act.

SENATE DEBATES
Honourable senators, I have attempted to
explain the general nature and purpose of
this bill and why it is necessary to have this
legislation at the present time. I hope it will
receive unanimous approval in this chamber.
If honourable senators consider it necessary
to send this bill to a committee, then after
second reading I shall move that it be
referred to the Standing Senate Committee on
Transport and Communications.
Hon. Malcolm Holleft: Honourable senators,
it is not my intention to speak to this bill, but
merely to ask for information. Before I do so
I should like to congratulate Senator Petten
upon the magnificent way in which he has
introduced this rather complicated measure.
Yesterday afternoon I sat in the Senate
Gallery of the House of Commons and listened most attentively to members of the
Government and members of the Opposition
as they spoke to this measure, and I take this
opportunity of saying that the speech of the
honourable the Minister of Transport had a
profound effect upon me. It was the most
thorough explanatory speech I have heard in
a long time. It would do all of us good if we
occasionally attended a sitting of the other
place and listened to the speeches there.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: And vice versa.
Hon. Mr. Connolly (Offawa Wesf): Where
does the Minister of Transport come from?
Hon. Mr. Holleff: He comes from Newfoundland, as does the honourable sponsor of
this bill, and I am from Newfoundland. This
is a Newfoundland bill. It is very difficult for
one who is not versed in the workings of
shipping to speak to this bill. That is why I
do not intend to say anything about it.
If this bill is so important-and I believe it
is important-then I would ask the honourable sponsor to tell me the reason for section
14(1). It reads:
This Act expires three years from the
date it comes into force or on such later
day as may, before the end of that
period, be fixed by proclamation.
Why should there be this period of three
years, and why does the act expire at that
time? Can the honourable sponsor explain
that to me?
Hon. Mr. Peffen: It is my understanding
that this bill is something new in this area,
and it was thought prudent that a time limit
of three years be set. If the legislation proves
[Hon. Mr. Petten.]

October 6, 1970

not to be satisfactory, then changes can be
made at that time. That is my understanding.
Hon. Jacques Flynn: Honourable senators, I
may say that this strikes me as being a new
formula. The usual provision is that an act
will expire so many years from the date upon
which it comes into force, or at any earlier
date which may be fixed by proclamation, but
here the provision is:
This Act expires three years from the
date it comes into force or on such later
day as may, before the end of that
period, be fixed by proclamation.
This means that the Government can decide
that it will be a permanent thing, which
appears to be a rather curious way of proceeding. I think the provision should be that
the act will remain in force for such period as
the Governor in Council will allow it to continue, and that it shall expire on a date that
the Governor in Council may decide and fix
by proclamation.
I repeat, this is a rather new formula,
which very much surprises me. I had not noticed it until Senator Hollett remarked on it.
Hon. Salier A. Hayden: Honourable senators, I am going to make a few remarks on
my interpretation of the bill. This is not the
first time we have had a measure of this kind
before us in relation to the shipping
conference.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: I agree.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: On each occasion i has
been in shorter form. More thought has gone
into the preparation of this bill than any of
the previous ones.
First, to comment on what Senator Flynn
had to say, this certainly appears to be a new
procedure and a method of avoiding the
necessity of ever coming back to Parliament
and giving it the opportunity to review the
legislation, because at any time before the
three-year period has expired it can be
extended by proclamation. Now, whether in
that proclamation extending it you may
renew the right to proclaim another date, is
another question. I would bo doubtful on that
point.
Hon. Mr. Flynn: We could always say 50
years, anyway.
Hon. Mr. Hayden: That is right. Now, the
aspect of this bill that interests me is what I
have been advocating for a long time, that

SENATE DEBATES

October 6, 1970

there are such things as good conspiracies and
good agreements in trade and restraint of
trade.
The Combines Investigation Act and the
basic legal decisions made under it have
never recognized nor acknowledged the existence of that possibility. This is a recognition
that in circumstances set out in this bill and
in relation to the shipping conference, as long
as the conditions which are set out are complied with, then the Combines Investigation
Act is not violated. Obviously such act would
be violated if it were not for the exclusion
under this bill. However, going beyond the
conditions outlined in the bill makes the
transaction subject to the Combines Investigation Act.
Now, there are many, many cases where
prosecutions have proceeded on the basis of a
combination in restraint of trade. My own
view is that there are many so-called combinations in restraint of trade that are good for
the people and are in the public interest. By
such combination, the result may well be that
production and marketing costs can be
reduced, to the benefit of the people. However, there is no elbow room in the Combines
Investigation Act to do that sort of thing.
That is why I was very interested recently to
hear the Minister of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs mention with respect to Bill C-4 that
there is a new Combines Investigation Act
under consideration which might soon be
coming forward.
I hope that the proposals in this bill are
some indication of part of the principle which
may underlie the new bill, namely, that it
will draw a line and provide some opportunity by way of defence to say "Ah, but this is
in the public interest", super-riding the provisions that now exist in the Combines Investigation Act. In other words, there must be
proof that the combination is detrimental to
the public interest, not on the basis of what
the legal decisions have made it now, that
combining in relation to these matters is
detrimental to the public interest.
Motion agreed to and bill read second time.
THIRD READING

The Hon. the Speaker: Honourable senators, when shall this bill be read the third
time?
Hon. Mr. Petten moved that the bill be
placed on the Orders of the Day for third
reading at the next sitting.

Hon. Jacques Flynn: May I suggest to the
sponsor of the bill (Hon. Mr. Petten) that
before third reading tomorrow he try to find
some explanation of the wording of clause 14,
and why it is not "on such sooner day as may
be fixed by proclamation".
Motion agreed to.
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald tabled:
Reports on the Operation of the
Regional Development Incentives Act for
the months of June, July and August,
1970, pursuant to section 16 of the said
Act, chapter 56, Statutes of Canada,
1968-69.
Report of Expenditures and Administration in connection with the Old Age
Security Act for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 12 of
the said Act, chapter 200, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of Expenditures and Administration in connection with the Family
Allowances Act for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 14 of
the said Act, chapter 109, R.S.C., 1952, as
amended.
Report of Expenditures and Administration in connection with the Youth
Allowances Act for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 13 of
the said Act, chapter 23, Statutes of
Canada, 1964-65.
Report of the Canadian Film Development Corporation, including its Accounts
and Financial Statements certified by the
Auditor General, for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 20 of
the Canadian Film Development Corporation Act, chapter 78, Statutes of Canada,
1966-67.
Report of the National Librarian for
the fiscal year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 13 of the National
Library Act, chapter 330, R.S.C., 1952.
Report of the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation, including its Accounts and
Financial Statements certified by the
Auditor General, for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 47 of
the Broadcasting Act, chapter 25, Statutes
of Canada, 1967-68, and sections 85(3) and
87(3) of the Financial Administration Act,
chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952.

SENATE DEBATES

October 6, 1970

Report of the National Museums of
some instances, because of the time
Canada, together with a statement of
which has elapsed since use of some of
Expenditures and Transactions certified
the facilities was discontinued, the curby the Auditor General, for the fiscal
rent records are not complete and to
year ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to
obtain the information would require
section 22 of the National Museums Act,
considerable time and expense.
chapter 21, Statutes of Canada, 1967-68.
There were about 180 fuel storage
Capital Budget of the Canada Deposit
tanks installed at various points across
Insurance Corporation for the year
the system. Many of the tanks are still in
ending December 31, 1970, pursuant to
use today. However, as a result of
section 80(2) of the Financial Administrachanges in operations a considerable
tion Act, chapter 116, R.S.C., 1952, togethnumber have been removed fromn their
er with Order in Council, P.C. 1970-1243,
original location and others dismantled.
dated July 9, 1970, approving same.
Statement showing Classification of OCEAN LIMITED AND SCOTIAN-TRAIN
CREWS
Deposit Liabilities Payable in Canadian
BETWEEN MONTREAL AND HALIFAXCurrency of the Chartered Banks of
INQUIRY ANSWERED
Canada as at April 30, 1970, pursuant to
Hon.
Mr.
Fournier
section 119(1) of the Bank Act, chapter
(Madawaska-Restigouche) inquired of the Government, pursuant
87, Statutes of Canada, 1966-67.
Report of the Unemployment Insurance to notice:
1. How many engineers, firemen, conCommission for the fiscal year ended
ductors, brakemen, porters, stewards and
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 95(2)
others are employed on each trip of the
of the Unemployment Insurance Act,
Ocean Limited and of the Scotian
chapter 50, Statutes of Canada, 1955.
between Montreal and Halifax?
Report of the Unemployment Insurance
2. What is the total amount per trip
Advisory Committee for the fiscal year
paid in wages to such employees?
ended March 31, 1970, pursuant to sections 89(1) and 90(2) of the Unemploy3. What is the average amount of
ment Insurance Act, chapter 50, Statutes
locomotive fuel used on each such trip?
of Canada, 1955.
Hon. Mr. McDonald: Answered.
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS
The Canadian National Railways advise
as follows:
OIL REFUELLING AND STORAGE TANKS1. The number of on-train employees
INQUIRY ANSWERED
required to man these trains is effected
Hon. Edgar E. Fournier inquired of the
by changes in consist and will vary. As a
Government, pursuant to notice:
general figure, one trip of the Ocean Limited between Montreal and Halifax would
(1) How many oil refuelling and storinvolve payment to about 50 men. The
age tanks were built throughout the
total complement for a trip of the Scotian
Canadian National Railways System
when Diesel locomotives were brought
would be slightly less, again because of
into service?
differences in consist.
(2) Where were these storage tanks
2. As indicated in (1) above, as the
located and what was the cost of each?
train consist varies it would not be possible to produce a meaningful wage cost
(3) How many of these tanks are in use
per trip. However, total wages per annum
today?
for the Ocean Limited are approximately
(4) How many of these tanks have been
$1.8 million and for the Scotian $1.7
demolished to date, and what were the
million.
reasons for such action?
3. For the reasons stated in (2) above it
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Answered.
is net possible to produce a figure of fuel
The Canadian National Railways advise
consumption by train per trip. Annual
as follows:
fuel consumption for the Ocean Limited
It is not possible to answer all of the
is approximately 2.6 million gallons and
questions in the manner asked, as in
for the Sceotian 2.2 million gallons.
(Hon. Mr. McDonald.]

DEBATES
Octobr 6.1970SENATE

October 6, 1970

THE CHALEUR AND T= SCOTIAN-PASSENGER
TRAFFIC IN 1969 BETWEEN CERTAIN
POINTS-INQUIRY ANSWERED

Hon. Mr. Fournier <Madawaska-Res±igouche) inquired of the Government, pursuant to
notice:

1. How many passengers travelled on
the Canadian National Railways train,
and
Gaspé
Chaleur, between
the
Matapedia during 1969?
2. How many passengers travelled on
(a) the Scotian and (b) the Chaleur
between

Harcourt

and

Campbellton

dled between Gaspé-Matapedia and intermediate points was 41,532.
2. As neither the Scotian nor the Chaleur stop at Harcourt it is not possible to
answer the question in the form asked.
3. The number of passengers handled,
on the Scotian leaving Matapedia for
Montreal and intermediate points was
51,089. The nu-mber of passengers handled on the Scotian arrIving Matapedia
from Montreal and intermediate points
was 68,048.

BUSINESS 0F THE SENATE
Hon. A. Hamilton McDonald: Honourable
senators, before I move the acjournment I
should like to hring to your attention the fact
that there is a meeting of the Joint CommitHon. Mr. McDonald: Answered.
tee on the Constitution in room 112-N at 3.30
Railways
National
Canadian
The
o'clock. I hope those honourable senators who
advise as follows:
are members of that committee will attend
1. The number of passengers handled this meeting.
on the Chaleur between MatapediaThe Senate adjourned until tomorrow at
Gaspé and intermediate points was
of passengers han- 2 p.m.
40,189. The number
during the year 1969?
3. How many passengers travelled on
the Scotian between Matapedia and
Montreal during the year 1969?

1466

SENATE DEBATES

THE SENATE
Wednesday, October 7, 1970
The Senate met at 2 p.m., the Speaker in
the Chair.
Prayers.
HON. LAZARUS PHILLIPS
TRIBUTES ON RETIREMENT FROM SENATE

Hon. Paul Martin: Honourable senators,
tomorrow marks the day when, under statute,
Senator Phillips will vacate his chair as a
member of this house. I understand a consensus has developed that we should use this day
to note his departure from us tomorrow. I
understand that it has not always been the
custom for the Leader of the Government or
for the Senate to mark the withdrawal or the
resignation of members of the Senate for one
reason or another, but it is clear that in this
case there is a strong universal desire that we
should let Senator Phillips know how much
we regret that he bas reached that age when
he must leave.
Senator Phillips is a very old friend of
mine. I have known him for more than a
quarter of a century. Our relationship has
been personal, professional and political, but I
prefer to emphasize the personal relationship
that has prevailed between us for this period.
One of my first and early recollections of
Senator Phillips is of his campaign as a candidate of the Liberal Party in Montreal for
the House of Commons. I have always
thought that if he had not asked me to speak
at his nomination meeting, he might well
have had a different kind of career-he might
well have served in the House of Commons
for a long time. In any event, I do mark my
friendship with him from that time in 1943.
Honourable senators, I can say of Senator
Phill:ps, who stands in the tradition of that
great member for Cartier, the late Sam
Jacobs, and in whose shadow he bas always
walked, that had it been his destiny to serve
as a member of that house, he, like Sam
Jacobs, would have made a great contribution
there to the people of Canada. Indeed, even
though he did not become a member of the
other place, I feel I am justified in saying, as I
survey Parliament Hill, that at the present
time there is no greater parliamentarian than
Senator Phillips.
Hon. Sena±ors: Hear, hear.

October 7, 1970

Hon. Mr. Martin: Honourable senators, we
all know him as a noted lawyer, a lawyer
who represented notable causes and important corporate interests, corporate interests
that have had a profound influence on the
economic growth of our country. I know
from experience as a member of the Government, one very important contribution that
Senator Phillips made, through a plan of
development in the City of Montreal, has had
a great deal to do with the economic growth
of Canada and bas marked that city as one of
the great cities of the world.
Senator Phillips became a King's Counsel
in 1930. He did not allow his professional
interests, however, to monopolize his attention. He involved himself in charitable organizations: Jewish charitable organizations;
other charitable organizations. His name bas
been connected with all the great efforts in
this area in his home city.
I think it neither invidious nor improper to
say that he was a great Jew and is a great
Jew: loyal to his race, loyal to his religious
principles. Knowledge of the New Testament
was revealed in practically every speech he
made in this bouse, and he evinced that
knowledge in a way that reflected the depth
of his religious convictions without in any
way trying to indicate a lack of appreciation
on the part of others of their views.
Senator Phillips was called to the Senate in
February 1968. In the short two-year period
since, in a perfectly remarkable way, he bas
gathered to himself a reputation the equivalent of which has taken many men many
years to acquire, in this or in any other
chamber.
One could almost think of Senator Phillips
as having been here for many years when one
reflects upon his achievements as a senator
since 1968-as a member of the Banking and
Commerce Committee with Senator Hayden,
as a member of the Legal and Constitutional
Aff airs Committee with Senator Roebuck, and
then acting as chairman of that committee
owing to the regrettable illness of Senator
Roebuck.
I think of Senator Phillips as a model senator. As Government Leader I have looked
back at his place in the second row when we
were debating matters that perhaps were not
as important as some others, matters in which
his expertise may not have been as great as it
was in other spheres, and seen Senator Phillips in his usual place paying as much attention to those matters as he would to matters
involving tax law or constitutional practice

October 7, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

and other fields in which he is especially
qualified. It is for that reason, honourable
senators, I refer to him not only as a great
parliamentarian and a great senator, but as a
model senator.
All of us in this house will miss him. Every
senator here who bas grown to respect his
talents will recall his speeches, speeches of
erudition, knowledge and wisdom. We are
grateful to him. I say on behalf of the Government and of the Canadian people how
much we appreciate his brilliant career in the
Senate, a career that was constructive and
which reflected in a very tangible way his
deep dedication to Canada.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Lionel Choquette: Honourable senators, Senator Flynn wanted very much to be
present for Senator Phillips' official leave-taking so that he could personally pay tribute to
a gentleman for whom he has great esteem.
However, a situation arose which made necessary his presence in Montreal this afternoon.
Consequently, he bas asked me to apprise
the honourable senator of the profound chagrin to which the news of his departure has
given rise in our ranks. Retirement claims a
man whose absence will create a void in this
chamber that we will be long in filling.
We truly regret that be was not appointed
to the Senate many years ago. In the short
while that he has been here, he has established a record of which we are envious and
of which he can be justly proud. This paragon
of efficiency, this wizard of tax and corporate
law has won the admiration, confidence and
respect of senators on both sides of the
chamber.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Choquete: The adjectives one
could use to describe him are countless, for,
indeed, nature lavished with great generosity
upon this man its gifts of intellect and character. We have never ceased to marvel at
and appreciate his wisdom and erudition, his
volubility and urbanity, his humility and
thoughtfulness.
Unquestionably, be has become the leader
in the Senate that he is in the Jewish community of Montreal, and we are as proud of
him as they are.
He has always given unsparingly of his
time and precious talents, and the laws of
Canada are the better for it. The gargantuan
task that he and Senator Hayden accomplished this past summer is only one of a

plethora of examples I might have chosen to
demonstrate his ineffable ability and laudable
devotion to duty.
We wish this consummate logician and
master of the English language a pleasant and
healthy retirement. We know better than to
mention rest to a man such as be, for his
kind, thank God, never cease to labour.
We bid you a very fond adieu, Senator
Phillips, and assure you, sir, that you leave
only friends behind in this chamber.
May the wind always blow at your back,
may the road rise up to meet you, and may
the Lord keep you in the hollow of His hand.
Hon. Salier A. Hayden: Honourable senators, I wish to add a few words on this occasion because, as you know, Senator Phillips
and I have been closely associated during the
period that be has been in the Senate. I think
it fitting, therefore, that we should pause
today and record in the Debates of the Senate
our regret at his imminent retirement and our
appreciation and recognition of the invaluable
work he has done in the Senate, not only on
behalf of the Senate and redounding to its
credit, but also in the interests of Canadians
and of Canada itself.
As has been said by the Leader of the
Government and by Senator Choquette, we
recognize the range of Senator Phillips'
activities during the period he has been with
us. We recognize his thoroughness, his
resourcefulness and-I emphasize this-his
ability to find a way out of problems which
appeared to be insoluble in respect of proposed legislation. I refer here to legislation
which in itself was basically sound and which
appeared to be in the interests of Canada, but
in respect of which problems very often presented themselves or difficulties developed.
On all such occasions Senator Phillips was
there to show us the way out. I could mention
many occasions where by rearranging a
proposal, the unacceptable became the
acceptable.
Looking over the number of bills that were
dealt with by the Standing Senate Committee
on Banking, Trade and Commerce during the
time Senator Phillips was the vice-chairman,
I would mention the Investment Companies
bill, which involved the hearing of many witnesses, and which concluded with our rewriting the entire bill, enjoying all the time the
full approval and co-operation of the
Government.
I think also of the Estate Tax bill, which
provided for the taxation of life insurance
companies, the bill amending the Canada Cor-

1468

SENATE DEBATES

porations Act, the study of and report on the
White Paper "Proposals for Tax Reform", and
the Hate Propaganda bill.
This is only a partial enumeration, and it
must be remembered that all this took place
within a period of two and a half years. That,
I would say, certainly bears testimony to the
ability, skill, resource and capacity of Senator
Phillips to apply himself to such substantial
subjects and do such a thorough job in all
those directions over that period of time.
May I make just one particular comment to
the consideration by the Senate of the White
Paper "Proposals for Tax Reform"? Here, in
my view, there was a dedication to which he
applied all his energy and ability without
stint or limit, in a determination, as was so
obvious to me from my working with him
from day to day, that the report of this committee of the Senate would be a masterful
document, tailored to the highest standards of
perfection of which we were capable. Now
that it has been exposed to public view, there
is real appreciation by the people who
know and understand the questions involved.
However, there is another side to Senator
Phillips upon which I must touch. Senator
Phillins has endeared himself to all senators.
He shall live on in the Senate by his works,
but, over and above all, the force of his personality shall be cherished by all the senators.
So, I say to Senator Phillips: We thank you
for your devotion to the Senate and its real
purposes. The evidences of your great work
are everywhere in the Senate documentations
for the period you have been here, and not
merely in the hearts and thoughts of those
who continue in office. We know that your
friendship, which we have so much enjoyed,
will persist. You have erected a greater and
ever-living monument than any made of cold
and impersonal materials.
On that note I say to Senator Phillips officially "au revoir", but from day to day we
expect our associations to continue.
Hon. David A. Croll: Honourable senators, I
remind the house that it was in February
1968 that the belated summons to the Senate
was given to Lazarus Phillips, who joined us
with the more formidable title of the Honourable Lazarus Phillips, O.B.E., Q.C., LL.D. I
was reminded by Senator Choquette's
remarks that this summons should have come
in July 1955; however, my recommendation
was not accepted.
It seems incredible now that within two
years and a few months following his
appointment he is a victim of a constitutional
[Hon. Mr. Hayden.]

October 7, 1970

guillotine which we ourselves constructed in
this chamber some five years ago. If we ever
had cause to regret the construction of that
guillotine-and we have on a few occasionswe have it now. No senator here within my
memory in so short a time has endeared himself so completely to his colleagues and made
so great a contribution to the Senate and his
beloved country as has Laz Phillips. He has
made notable speeches in the Senate in
important legislative areas, which have
already been referred to. He was qualified by
reason of his special knowledge of the law,
constitutional, corporate and tax, and his personal qualities of loyalty, integrity and, above
all, compassion. He is a kind man and a warm
friend.
It can be said of Laz Phillips, as it can be
said of few, that he is a wise and just man.
His counsel, whether delivered on the floor of
the Senate, in committee, or in the corridors-and be is not a barrack-room lawyer as
I remember barrack-room
lawyers-was
always heeded with respect. I know that senators on both sides of the house will feel his
loss. We can only console ourselves by realizing that his severance from our ranks was not
caused by an act of God, but merely by an
act of Parliament.
I have walked a long way in friendship
with Laz Phillips. He was not born with a
silver spoon in his mouth; he was not born
great, nor did he have greatness thrust upon
him. He achieved greatness. He worked his
way through McGill and achieved distinction
as a lawyer, financier, philanthropist and parllamcntarian. He was a self-made man and
made a good job of it through hard work and
perseverance, coupled with tremendous ability and generosity of spirit.
Reference has already been made to his
recent contributions as acting chairman of the
Standing Senate Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs and deputy chairman of
the Standing Senate Committee on Banking,
Trade and Commerce.
To leave the scene of activity when you are
ahead of the game is given to few of us. He is
way out front. With the very best of wishes
we say to Laz Phillips, God speed, but not
farewell.
Hon. Hariland de M. Molson: Honourable
senators, on every occasion, even unhappy
ones, there is always a lighter touch. If my
intervention now seems to be of lighter
weight than the preceding speeches, believe
me it is not because my sentiments are any
lighter than those of others, but only because

October 7, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

of my own inability to choose words appropriate to the depth of my feeling.
As a Montrealer, as a Quebecker and as a
colleague of Senator Phillips, I would like to
add my few words to the tributes which have
already been paid him. We are come to an
unhappy moment in the life of this chamber
because we have not yet learned to stop the
hands of the clock. Most of us are at an age
at which we do not like to dwell on the
continuing inexorable movement of time, but
whether we like it or not time marches on.
One effect is that we are forced today to say
goodbye to a very valued colleague and a
member of this chamber.
Senator Phillips came to us belatedly, in
the view of most of us, as a most welcome
fresh breeze, bringing with him the highest
intellectual ability, a reputation for integrity
and an established position as a man of the
highest moral persuasion. His reputation as a
lawyer, a Canadian and as a citizen is too
well known to need comment. In all these
respects he is one of the great leaders. However, it was not his abilities about which I
wanted to speak, because nothing I can say
can improve the reputation he has earned in
those fields by his own efforts and his own
intelligence. I should like to speak of him as a
colleague and a friend.
In the Senate it has been a matter of great
good fortune that over the years there have
been many fine men, many able men and
many good companions. Most of us are
appreciative of the fellow members we have
met here, and of our good fortune to have
served in the chamber with them. Outstanding in this respect and in all those qualities is
the association we have had with Senator
Phillips. Time, as I said, has marched on, or
in this case has dashed by to where Senator
Phillips is now called upon to retire by the
law in force at the time of his appointment.
We are the losers. We will miss him as a
friend, as a companion and as an associate.
The Senate itself will miss him for his great
qualities and knowledge, which he has devoted to it without reserve and without stint in
the years he has been here.
I should like to say to our friend Lazarus
that we wish him many years of good health
and happiness in the life he goes to outside
the quiet stone-vaulted halls of the Senate.
Our good wishes and our prayers go with
him.
[Translation]
Hon. L. P. Gélinas: Honourable senators,
I wish to join the previous speakers

and say a few words about Senator Phillips.
A little more than two and a half years ago,
Phillips was
Lazarus
Honourable
the
appointed to the Senate and already, owing to
the force of circumstances, he must leave us.
Needless to say, we will all miss him a
lot especially as a friend, a colleague and a
diligent worker in the Upper House and in
the committees.
As for me, I am only saying goodbye,
because without being a prophet I know quite
well that we will meet again on various occasions in Montreal where he will carry on his
activities in the best interests of the people of
the province and the entire country.
The departure of such a congenial and
gifted man as Senator Phillips cannot but
bring a note of melancholy on the eve of the
opening of the third session of this Twentyeighth Parliament. He has done such valuable
and constructive work in the short period of
time he has been with us that I sincerely
hope the Government will on occasions
consult with our colleague.
Senator Phillips' retirement from the
Senate removes a most distinguished and ever
efficient personality from the stage of Canadi.an public life. Our departing friend, although
he had a short time in the Senate, I believe
has had a unique distinction. He has contributed so much and so well to our labours
that he bas made for himself the lasting niche
among the group of parliamentary leaders
who have graced the upper chamber. His
extraordinary legal mind and training has
given him a remarkable insight into the funetioning of Parliament and allowed him to
master from the beginning the intricacies of
law-making and parliamentary procedure. Al
I can add is farewell and au revoir.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Paul Desruisseaux: Honourable senators, it is difficult for us to realize that the
day has come for Senator Phillips to leave
the Senate.
I am in full accord with what has been said
of Senator Phillips particularly in view
of the fact that during my many years
of association with him, it was my privilege
in one way or another to solicit from him a
legal opinion or friendly advice.
Along with so many others, I have greatly
appreciated the services rendered by Senator
Phillips to my fellow-countrymen of the
Province of Quebec and to all those who
were called upon to deal with him. His

SENATE DEBATES

friendship developed in a natural way and
acquired warmth as one came to know him
better. His personal qualities, his alert mind,
his
kindness,
his
enthusiasm
in
all
endeavours, his public spirit are all remarkable features worthy of being emphasized.
His modesty must have been tried this afternoon so I do not wish to cause him further
embarrassment. However, I cannot refrain
from stating how much we will all miss him
here, my colleagues of the Senate and myself.
However, we hope he will remain active for a
long time to come.
I join with all those who have paid tribute
to him and I hope that he will live for a great
many years so that Canada may continue to
benefit by his wise counsel.
[English]
Hon. John J. Connolly: Honourable sena-

tors, with all that has been said, we thoroughly agree. Senator Phillips has been a remarkable person in our midst and we deeply
regret his departure from the Senate. Another
regret, which I am sure we all share, is that
the companion of his lifetime is not here
today to hear the tributes which have been
paid to the man to whose career I am sure
she has made a remarkable contribution. She
may not be here in body, but all of us
certainly feel that she is present with us in
spirit, and, looking down on this scene, is proud
that her husband should be the object of the
praise and gratitude which has been so spontaneously expressed in the speeches of the
senators this afternoon.
I can only say to Senator Phillips, from
all of us, may the God of Israel, which is also
the God of Christendom, go with you, as
obviously He has heretofore, all the days of
your lif e.
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
Hon. Lazarus Phillips: Honourable senators,
I think you will appreciate how overwhelmed
I am by the remarks that have been made by
my fellow senators this afternoon. You will
not be surprised if i start my few remarks by
a quotation from the wonderful book of
Ecclesiastes, which says that there is a time
to be silent, but there is also a time to speak.
I think that in this instance, after having
listened to the profoundly gracious observations with reference to myself, and to many
compliments
that
indicate
marks
of
friendship rather than objective critical analysis, surely it is in order for me to ask
indulgence of my fellow senators by saying a
few words to you.
[Hon. Mr. Desruisseaux.]

October 7, 1970

My dear colleagues, honourable senators, I
rise this day to say farewell to all of you as a
fellow senator. I shall try to be as succinct as
possible in my observations, because during
my stay here you have been subjected to too
many of my speeches in too short a period.
I should like at the outset to thank all my
fellow senators for their marks of friendship
given to me from the moment I entered this
chamber. I think I can truthfully say that in
departing I leave all of you as my dear
friends.
Hon. Senalors: Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. Phillips (Rigaud): This is a source
of great satisfaction to me. I am reminded of
the marvellous expression of Ralph Waldo
Emerson: "A friend may well be reckoned the
masterpiece of Nature." Beyond the friendships, I have learned a great deal in listening
to the debates and the views of my colleagues
and I leave this hallowed chamber a better
instructed and a more balanced Canadian.
For this, your contribution to me, I thank you
ail.
I trust that the honourable senators will
forgive me if I refer particularly to some of
you. I first bow in thanks to the Speaker who
has touchingly helped me and guided me-I
shall ever be grateful to him. To my leader,
Senator Paul Martin, I can only say that I
have tried to oe a faithful follower and,
broadly speaking, I have attempted to reflect
his and Government policy. If on occasion I
have strayed from the fold in resisting certain
legislation or intended legislation, I have done
so because of my profound conviction that I
was doing my duty.
I should like also to pay my respects to
Senator Jacques Flynn, the Leader of the
Opposition, and to Senator Choquette, who
spoke so feelingly for him. Even though I sat
to the right of the Speaker, appreciation by
Senator Flynn and Senator Choquette of my
faltering efforts from time to time has been a
source of great satisfaction to me.
I also direct a particular word of thanks to
Senator Louis Gélinas and Senator John Connolly, who literally held my quivering arms
as they led me down the chamber here early
in 1968 to take my oath.
Last but not least, I should like to refer to
Senator David Croll, who guided and counselled me while here, and to Senator Grattan
O'Leary, who has shown such marked interest
in me during my tenure.
You will also allow me to refer to senators
with whom I have been so closely associated,
in one form or another, particularly the

October 7, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

chairman of the Standing Committee on
Banking, Trade and Commerce, Senator
Salter Hayden, and Senator Hartland Molson,
Senator Louis Beaubien and Senator Paul
Desruisseaux.
[Translation]
Finally, before leaving, I wish to extend
especially to my friends from the Province of
Quebec, my sincere thanks for their friendship and to bid them "au revoir".
[English]
I formally leave the Senate this coming
Saturday, October 10. By sheer coincidence,
in this particular year, October 10 is the most
solemn day in my religion. It is the great Day
of Atonement and confession of sin. Be
assured, honourable senators, that this coming
Saturday when I am in the Synagogue I shall
refer in prayer to my acts of omission and
commission during my sojourn in this chamber. By way of an aside, if any of the honourable senators feel that I may also confess
some of their sins, and if they will speak to
me confidentially on the subject, I shall do the
best I can for them.
Honourable senators, there is no place for
apology in appraising the value of the Senate.
The other place is a reflection of current and,
on occasion, transitory expressions of Canadian opinion. This is as it should be-because a
democracy in action should have the predominant forum for its views. However, history teaches us that the convictions of yesterday are in many instances the doubts of today
and the heresies of tomorrow. Some effort
must therefore be made in the domain of
political science to distill experience so that
such experience would lead to caution and
balance; so that in the result inevitable
reforms do not become revolutionary in content because of undue haste. The Fathers of
Confederation realized this and the depth of
their views is reflected in the form of our
Constitution. Nothing, in my opinion, has
happened in the last hundred years to change
the view that a bicameral system is best
suited to Canada's needs.

of Rome and the people, so that to this day
the phrase "Senatus Populus que Romanum"
rings down through the centuries.
On the Canadian scene, this marriage still
has, and should have, continued validity.
Canada's parliamentary institution should reflect the views of the people at large but at
the same time it should have the institution
of the Senate to see that undue haste and, on
occasion, emotional instability do not give rise
to hasty and ill-considered legislation.
The complexity of modern life, political
and economic, together with the stresses and
strains of our federal system, the cultural and
intellectual variations of the ethnic groupings
in our country, to say nothing of religious
differences, call for the highest form of skillful statesmanship in the administration of our
realm.
Although I have been in this chamber for
only approximately two and a half years, I
leave it with profound and solemn convictions
that honourable senators in the next hundred
years will play a great and constructive role
in meeting the problems not only of this generation of Canadians but of those that are to
follow.
The most significant debate while I was
here related to the subject matter of statutory
instruments, orders-in-council, administrative
regulations, and the like. Their importance to
the viability of the Senate, in my opinion, is
considerable. Ministers of the Crown, under
terrific pressure, must be guided by the wellintentioned views of the higher echelons of
our civil service. This, however, does not
necessarily mean that the advice and guidance is always sound and well formulated.

This chamber should be prepared to question hasty legislation when, in its opinion,
revision in whole or in part is required. It
should not be disturbed by the ill-founded
observation raised in some quarters that the
Senate is a citadel of privilege. The contrary
is true. The Senate should attempt, when justified, to condition and limit undue extension
power. The Senate's
of administrative
immediate destiny, in my opinion, lies in
appreciation of this role. This conception, and
By common consent, Romans in ancient its historical position as representative of the
times were able to organize a state that lasted provinces in our federal Constitution, aare the
superrear
longer, in terms of continuity, than any other twin pillars on which it should
structure of accomplishment based on knowlin recorded history and in the process the
edge, competence and, above all, reason.
Romans evolved certain fundamental political
Encore, au revoir.
of popular demand
principles. A combination
tempered by seasoned reasoning developed
Hon. Senators: Hear, hear.
into a political marriage between the Senate

SENATE DEBATES
ROYAL ASSENT
NOTICE

The Hon. The Speaker informed the Senate
that he
had
received the
following
communication:
GOVERNMENT HOUSE

October 7, 1970

Report of the Atomic Energy Control
Board of Canada for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 1970, pursuant to section 21(1)
of the Atomic Energy Control Act, chapter 11, R.S.C., 1952.
Copies of a document entitled "Supplemental Charter (1970)" respecting the
Hudson's Bay Company. (English text).

Ottawa
2 October 1970
Sir,

CONSTITUTION OF CANADA

I have the honour to inform you
THIRD REPORT OF SPECIAL JOINT
that the Right Honourable Gérald FauCOMMITTEE TABLED
teux, P.C., Chief Justice of Canada, in his
Hon. Louis De G. Giguère: Honourable
capacity as Deputy Governor General,
will proceed to the Senator Chamber at senators, I have the honour to table on behalf
4.45 p.m. on Wednesday, October 7th, for of Senator Lamontagne the Third Report of
the purpose of giving Royal Assent to the Special Joint Committee of the Senate
certain Bills and proroguing the Second and the House of Commons on the ConstituSession of the Twenty-eighth Parliament tion of Canada. I would ask that the report be
printed in the usual way in the Debates of
of Canada.
the Senate and the Minutes of the ProceedI have the honour to be,
ings of the Senate of this date.
Sir,
Your obedient servant,
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed, honourLouis-Frémont Trudeau
able senators?
Brigadier General
Assistant Secretary to the
Hon. Senators: Agreed.
Governor General
The Hon. the Speaker: Ordered that the
The Honourable,
report be printed in the Debates of the Senate
The Speaker of the Senate,
and the Minutes of the Proceedings of the
Ottawa.
Senate of this day:
CANADA
CORPORATIONS ACT
(The report follows:)
The Special Joint Committee of the Senate
BILL TO AMEND-CONCURRENCE BY COMMONS
and of the House of Commons on the ConstiIN SENATE AMENDMENT
tution of Canada has the honour to present its
The Hon. The Speaker informed the Senate third Report as follows:
that a message had been received from the
On Tuesday, January 27, 1970, and on
House of Commons to acquaint the Senate
Tuesday, February 17, 1970, the House of
that the house has concurred in the amendCommons and the Senate adopted a joint
ments made by the Senate to Bill C-4, to
resolution which empowered your comamend the Canada Corporations Act, without
mittee to examine and report upon
amendment.
proposals, made public, or which are
from time to time made public by the
Hon. Senalors: Hear, hear.
Government of Canada, on a number of
subjects related to the Constitution of
DOCUMENTS TABLED
Canada during the course of the compreHon. Paul Martin tabled:
hensive review of the Constitution of
Statutory Orders and Regulations pubCanada, which review was agreed upon
lished in the Canada Gazette, Part II, of
at the Constitutional Conference of the
Wednesday, July 8, July 22, August 12,
Prime Minister of Canada and the PremiAugust 26, September 9 and September
ers and Prime Ministers of the Provinces
23, 1970, pursuant to section 7 of the
in February 1968, and alternative proposRegulations Act, chapter 235, R.S.C., 1952.
als on the same subjects.
Consolidated Index and Table of StatuYour committee bas held twenty-one
tory Orders and Regulations published in
meetings to date and has held hearings
the Canada Gazette, Part II, for the
and heard witnesses in Ottawa, and in
period January 1, 1955 to June 30, 1970.
Winnipeg, Brandon, St. Boniface, Thomp[Hon. Mr. Phillips.]

SENATE DEBATES

October 7, 1970

son and Churchill in Manitoba, and in
Whitehorse, Dawson City and Watson
Lake in the Yukon Territory.
Your committee, not having completed
its study, recommends that it be reconstituted with the same powers at the next
session of Parliament.
Respectfully submitted,
Maurice Lamontagne,
Joint Chairman
TRADE
CONSTITUTIONAL JURISDICTION

On the Orders of the Day:
Hon. Hazen Argue: Honourable senators,
before the Orders of the Day are called there
is a matter of some urgency I should like to
bring to the attention of the Senate.
The Hon. the Speaker: Is it agreed, honourable senators, that Honourable Senator
Argue should now have the floor?
Hon. Senators: Agreed.

1473

implement a national producers' marketing
council, I think we will all agree that the
Senate of Canada was ready and is ready to
deal with this legislation, that it has been
delayed in the other place, that it has been
debated for a matter of six or seven months
in the other place, but that it has not come to
the Senate for our consideration and deliberation. It seems to me that it is exceedingly
important for Parliament to deal with this
question.
The action in the Province of Quebec,
which was upheld by a judge of the Superior
Court in that province, says that Quebec has
jurisdiction to control the flow of eggs from
outside Quebec into that province. Because
of that ruling, and because broilers from the
Province of Quebec are going in large quantities into other provinces and undermining the
price of broilers in those other provinces, the
other provinces in Canada, apart from
Quebec, are considering action to prevent
broilers from Quebec entering their provinces. Provinces that have that kind of limiting legislation on the statute books, or are
considering such legislation, include Manitoba, British Columbia, Saskatchewan, Nova
Scotia, Ontario and Quebec.

If a province uses jurisdiction that it claims
to have under the Constitution to interfere in
this kind of trade between provinces in eggs
and in broilers, its extension could include,
for example, the barring of automobiles produced in Ontario from entering Quebec or
The question I raise this afternoon is the entering my province of Saskatchewan. It
failure of Parliament in my judgment to deal could include the control of entry into Saskatwith an exceedingly important question of chewan or other provinces of forest products
constitutional jurisdiction and of trade which, and lumber from British Columbia.
if we fail to deal with it, could lead to the
I suggest, honourable senators, that this
Balkanization of Canada and its ultimate
important constitutional question should be
destruction. I refer to the trade war that
could very well arise and is arising from the dealt with by Parliament. It must be dealt
question of jurisdiction as it affects the mar- with by the Government in one way or
keting of eggs in the Province of Quebec and another. Whether they feel the immediate
the marketing of broilers in other provinces thing to do is to refer it to the Supreme Court
in Canada.
of Canada for a ruling or whether they feel,
I had hoped, and I am sure honourable in the best interests of solving the problem,
senators will agree with me unanimously, they should proceed with a bill such as Bill
that in addition to al of the legislation that C-197, whicb I read has the support of all of
we have had before us and have dealt with in the provinces of Canada, I think I can say
this session, we would also have had before that the Senate wishes the other place would
us a very important piece of legislation from deal with this matter quickly in the new sesthe other place, Bill C-197, which deals with sion, since apparently they are not dealing
this very problem.
with it now, and that we stand prepared to
Whether or not honourable senators agree play our role to see that the threatened
with every paragraph in that particular bill, Balkanization of Canada by means of a
and the methods by which it is desired to trade war among the provinces is prevented.

Hon. Mr. Argue: Honourable senators, at a
time when a British diplomat has been kidnapped in the city of Montreal, one has to
consider various things that threaten our
nation in a very real way.

1474

SENATE DEBATES

SHIPPING CONFERENCES EXEMPTION
BILL
THIRD READING

Hon. William J. Peiten moved the third
reading of Bill C-184, to exempt certain shipping conference practices from the provinces
of the Combines Investigation Act.
He said: Honourable senators, in moving
third reading of Bill C-184, I should like to
take the opportunity to answer a question
which I was asked at last sitting by Senator
Hollett and Senator Flynn in respect of clause
14(1) of this bill.
Clause 14(l), providing for termination of
this act, is intended simply to allow some
flexibility in the period of time for testing the
efficiency of this legislation. The intent is to
keep this whole matter under review to
determine whether the act, in its present
form, is sufficient or whether changes will be
necessary.
It may be that three years will not give us
enough experience with this legislation and
its practical effects on the activities of shipping conferences, and on Canada's export and
import trades, and generally on the Canadian
economy. Again, before the end of the threeyear period, it may become evident that certain changes in the act are necessary but that
circumstances may prevent this being done
before the three-year expiry date. For example, Parliament may not be in session. Changes
in this legislation might also involve substantial adjustment in arrangements between
shipping conferences and Canadian exporters
and importers. I understand that one conference alone has approximately 3,000 contracts
with individual Canadian shippers. In order
to avoid possible serious disruptions in our
overseas export and import trades, a considerable period of time might be required to
permit these readjustments to be made.
In short, honourable senators, clause 14(1)
makes it mandatory that in light of the revolutionary changes now taking place in the
structural, economic, and political aspects of
world shipping, this legislation shall be
reviewed before the expiry of three years, but
that sufficient time should be allowed to
implement any changes shown by this
review to be in the public interest.

October 7, 1970

At 4.45 p.m. the sitting was resumed.
CONSTITUTION OF CANADA
SPECIAL JOINT COMMITTEE-CHANGES

IN

COMMONS MEMBERSHIP

The Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate:
That a message had been received from the
House of Commons to acquaint the Senate
that the names of Messrs. Rowland, Fairweather and Nielsen had been substituted for
those of Messrs. Lewis, Baldwin and Alexander on the Special Joint Committee of the
Senate and House of Commons on the Constitution of Canada;
That a message had been received from the
House of Commons to acquaint the Senate
that the name of Mr. Alexander had been
substituted for that of Mr. Nielsen on the
Special Joint Committee of the Senate and
House of Commons on the Constitution of
Canada.
The Senate adjourned during pleasure.

ROYAL ASSENT
The Right Honourable Gérald Fauteux,
P.C., Chief Justice of Canada, Deputy of His
Excellency the Governor General, having
come and being seated at the foot of the
Throne, and the House of Commons having
been summoned, and being come with their
Speaker, the Right Honourable the Deputy of
His Excellency the Governor General was
pleased to give the Royal Assent to the following bills:
An Act to provide for the establishment of a Standards Council of Canada.

An Act to amend the Canada Corporations Act and other statutory provisions
related to the subject matter of certain of
those amendments.

An

Act

respecting

Hudson's Bay

Company.

An Act to exempt certain shipping con-

ference practices from the provisions of
the Combines Investigation Act.

PROROGATION SPEECH

The Right Honourable the Deputy of His
Motion agreed to and bill read third time
Excellency the Governor General was pleased
and passed.

The Senate adjourned during pleasure.
[Hon. Mr. Argue.]

to close the Second Session of the TwentyEighth Parliament with the following speech:

October 7, 1970

SENATE DEBATES

Honourable Members of the Senate:
Members of the House of Commons:
The second session of the twenty-eighth
Parliament was opened on October 23, 1969.
During this period, you have approved legislation of far-reaching importance to the wellbeing of Canada and al Canadians, and you
have considered a number of significant
policy proposals for the future.
Canadians were honoured by the visit of
Her Majesty the Queen, the Prince of Wales,
the Duke of Edinburgh and the Princess
Anne, all of whom assisted in the celebrations
of the Centenary of the Province of Manitoba
and of the Northwest Territories. Their visit
to our northern and arctic regions helped to
remind the people of Canada of this vast
frontier's great potential for growth and
development.
Recognizing the promise of the North, you
have enacted legislation to promote its development. You have enacted amendments to the
Yukon Act, the Northwest Territories Act,
and the Territorial Lands Act to provide the
residents of those territories with greater
responsibility in the administration of their
respective governments. You have enacted
amendments to the Oil and Gas Production
and Conservation Act, and have passed the
Northern Inland Waters Act, and the Arctic
Waters Pollution Prevention Act in order to
assure that the development of the North's
abundant resources will not be accompanied
by destruction of its undespoiled environment.
Your concern for the quality of our environment in al regions of Canada also moved
you to enact the Canada Water Act which
will provide the framework for the preservation and restoration of this most essential of
our resources.
You have adopted a number of measures to
assist the development as well as the conservation of our natural resources. You have
enacted the Saltfish Act and amendments to
the Fisheries Act and the Coastal Fisheries
Protection Act. You have amended the Territorial Seas and Fishing Zones Act creating,
in so doing, new, exclusive fishing zones and
protecting this resource from the danger of
total depletion.

1475

offer protection from possible hazards resulting from the development of our energy
resources, you have passed the Nuclear Liability Act.
In addition to your actions for the responsible development of our resources and preservation of our environment, you have enacted
legislation intended to protect and assist the
consumer and improve the quality of our life.
You have passed the Textile Labelling Act,
the Radiation Emitting Devices Act and the
Standards Council of Canada Act. You have
received for consideration Proposals for
Metric Conversion in Canada in order that
our country can study the advantages of
adopting this widely accepted basis for international measurement and standardization.
You have enacted the Motor Vehicle Safety
Act, a measure which will make more secure,
travel on our highways, and assist in combatting air pollution in our cities.
Protection of the fundamental liberties of
all Canadians was extended by amendments
to the Criminal Code with respect to hate
propaganda, and by the passage of the Expropriation of Land Act. By enacting the Criminal Records Act, and amendments to the
Supreme Court Act, you provided for more
effective and enlightened reform of offenders
and for the better administration of justice. In
order that our laws can be reviewed more
comprehensively and made to respond more
quickly to the needs of a rapidly changing
society, you passed the Law Reform Commission Act.
You have taken steps to assist the farmers
of Canada by enacting the Prairie Grain
Provisional Payment Act 1969-70 and amendments to the Agricultural Products Co-operative Marketing Act. You approved Operation
Lift which brought financial relief to hardpressed farmers by reducing production costs
and stockpiles of grain.
You provided further assistance towards
the education of our young people when you
enacted amendments to the Children of War
Dead (Education Assistance) Act and to the
Canada Student Loans Act.

Constantly aware of the need to maintain
high standards of health for the people of
Canada, you enacted amendments to the
Act (Part V) and you passed
In order to provide for the more effective Canada Shipping
the Quarantine Act. Deep concern about the
administration of our energy resources, you
have enacted amendments to the National harmful effects on the individual and society
Energy Board Act and have passed the of the non-medical use of drugs moved the
Dominion Coal Board Dissolution Act. To Government to receive the Interim Report of

SENATE DEBATES

the Commission of Inquiry into this controversial subject.
By enacting the Statute Law (Supplementary Retirement Benefits) Amendment Act
1970, you provided more adequate pensions
for public servants who have devoted their
energ:es to the service of our nation.
Consistent with Canada's desire to strengthen the effectiveness of the United Nations, the
Government submitted proposals for the procedural and organisational reform of the General Assembly. In the world body, Canadian
representatives exercised a leading role in
negotiations to achieve international agreement on the peaceful use of the seabed and
ocean floor.
Following a comprehensive review of Canada's external relations, the Government continued to undertake new diplomatic initiatives in different parts of the world. A
ministerial mission was dispatched to the
Caribbean and negotiations were continued
with the representatives of the People's
Republic of China with the aim of establishing formal diplomatic relations with that government. Consistent with its desire to give
full expression to two official languages and
to exchange cultural and technological information with the francophonie, the Government ratified the Convention of the Agency
for Cultural and Technical Co-operation
among French-speaking countries.

October 7, 1970

The past year has been marked by an
abatement of inflationary pressures. This was
the direct result of the Government's economic
policies and the strict control it has exercised
over its own expenditures. Rising costs, however, continue to jeopardize price stability
and the Government must not relax its efforts
to bring about a greater consistency between
future cost increases and productivity growth.
Favourable balance of payment trends led
to a strengthening of the Canadian dollar.
Upward pressure on the dollar intensified this
year and on May 31, 1970, the Canadian
dollar was allowed to seek its natural level.
The Canadian Government declared, however, that it intended to resume its obligations
under the IMF articles of agreement when
circumstances would permit.

You have continued in your efforts to
eliminate regional economic disparities and to
encourage the development of our economy.
You have enacted amendments to the Industrial Research and Development Incentives
Act. You have also enacted amendments to
the Small Business Loans Act, to the Quebec
Savings Bank Act, to the Foreign Insurance
Companies Act, the Trust Companies Act, the
Loans Companies Act and to the Canadian
and British Insurance Companies Act.
You have made provision for a more just
The Prime Minister visited with Secretary- and equitable administration of our financial
General U Thant at the United Nations. The and commercial affairs by enacting
amendGovernment's desire to expand diplomatic ments to the
Bills of Exchange Act and the
and trade relations with the countries of the Canada
Corporations Act.
Pacific rim was illustrated by the Prime
Minister's visit to New Zealand, Australia,
Committees of both the House of Commons
Malaysia, Singapore, and Japan, including and the Senate have considered the GovernExpo '70 at Osaka.
ment's Proposals for Tax Reform and have
The Prime Minister and his colleagues made recommendations thereon. Committees
received a number of leaders of other coun- in the Senate have continued their studies of
tries, including the President of Cameroun; the mass media, of poverty, and of science
the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom; policy. In the House of Commons, committees
the Premier of the British Honduras; and the have studied a great variety of matters
Foreign Ministers of Israel, Upper Volta, and including veterans' pensions, interest
rates,
Turkey.
external affairs, defence policy, electronie
In order to assist the under-developed eavesdropping, and unemployment insurance.
nations of the world, you have increased the
The Constitutional Conference continued
total aid budget by sixteen per cent and the difficult task of seeking a national politiundertaken to increase this budget year by cal consensus that will reflect the needs and
year. You have enacted legislation creating aspirations of all Canadians. To assist in
the International Development Research achieving this objective, you have established
Centre so that methods of assistance might be a Special Joint Committee on the Constitustudied and improved.
tion.

October 7, 1970

SENATE I EBATES

Many other important initiatives have been
taken during this session; much legislation of
administrative importance has also been
enacted; we have accomplished a great deal.
But our immense task has only begun. We
must continue to work together, to combine
our strength, our will, and our imagination in
the building of a peaceful, dynamic and prosperous society.

1477

Members of the House of Commons:
I thank you for the provision you have
made for the public services in the previous
and the current fiscal year.
Honourable Members of the Senate:
Members of the House of Commons:
May Divine Providence continue to bless
our country.

INDEX

Abbreviations
ir, 2r, 3r,
amdts
com
div
m
neg
ref
rep
r.a.

=First,

second, third reading

=amendments
=committee

=
=

division
motion

=negatived
=referred
=report

royal assent

Abbott, Hon. D.C., P.C.
Royal assent, 1222-3

Acts passed during the Session
Assented ta November 27, 1969
Chapter

Bill No.

1. Expo Winding-up Act..........................................
Assented to December 19, 1969

2. Appropriation Act No. 4, 1969..................................
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.

Canadian National Railways Fînancing and Guarantee Act 1969 .......
Cbildren of War Dead (Education Assistance) Act amendment .........
Company of Young Canadians Act amendment .....................
Customs Tariff and Excise Tax Act amendment ....................
Excise Tax Act amendment ....................................
Income Tax Act amendmnent ....................................
Judges Act amendment........................................
Prairie Grain Provisional Payments Act 1969-70 ...................
Schedule A of the Bank Act amendment ..........................

22481-55

C-169
C-7
C-8
C-171
C-140
0-155
C-139
C-2
C-157
';-13

2

SENÂTE

Acts passed during the Session

-

Continued

Assented to March 12, 1970
Chapter

Bill No.

12. Canada Student Loans Act amendment .................................
13. Canada-Sweden Supplementary Income Tax Agreement ...................
14. Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act and other statutory
provisions related to the subject matter of certain of those
amendments ......................................
15. Company of Young Canadians Act amendment ...........................
16. Foreign Insurance Companies Act amendment..........................
17. Loan Companies Act amendment ......................................
18. Quarantine Act .....................................................
19. Quebec Savings Banks Act amendment................................
20. Railway Act amendment ..............................................
21. Small Businesses Loans Act amendment ...............................
22. Trust Companies Act amendment.....................................

C- 135
C-156

S-6
C-176
S-7
S-9

S-12
S-2
C-11
C-9
S-8

Assented to March 25, 1970
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.

Agricultural Products Co-operative Marketing Act amendment .............
Appropriation Act No. 1, 1970 (Supp.) ..................................
Appropriation Act No. 2, 1970 (Interim) ................................
Cape Breton Development Corporation Act amendment ...................
Coastal Fisheries Protection Act amendment ...........................
Deep Sea Fisheries Act, an Act to repeal ..............................
Dominion Coal Board Dissolution Act ..................................
Motor Vehicle Safety Act .............................................
Parole Act amendment ...............................................
Saltfish Act ........................................................
Statute Law (Supplementary Retirement Benefits) Amendment Act, 1970.
Textile Labelling Act ...............................................

C-183
C-200
C-201
C-138
C-134
C-133
C-161
C-137
S-19
C-175
C-194
S-20

Assented to May 13, 1970
35. Canada Shipping Act amendment ......................................
36. International Development Research Centre Act........................
37. Radiation Emitting Devices Act .......................................
38. Yukon Placer Mining Act .............................................

C-10
C-12
S-14
S-4

Assented to lune 11, 1970
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.

Criminal Code amendment (Hate Propaganda) ...........................
Crimînal Records Act ................................................
Expropriation Act ...................................................
Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act amendment ....
Oul and Gas Production and Conservation Act amendment ................
Supreme Court Act amendment ........................................

C-3
C-5
C-136
C-193
S-5
C-182

INDEX
Acts passed during the Session

-

Concluded

Assented to lune 26, 1970
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.

Aeronautics Act, regulations made pursuant to section 4 ................
Appropriation Act No. 3, 1970 .....................................
Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention Act.............................
Bis of Exchange Act amendment..................................
Canada Elections Act............................................
Canada Labour (Standards) Code amendment ..........................
Canada Shipping Act amendment, to postpone the expiration of certain
provisions....................................................
Canada Water Act ..................................
Electoral Boundaries Readustrnent Act (Perth-Wilmot) .................
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act (Sarnia-Lambton) ...............
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act (Burnaby-Richmond-Delta) ...
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act (Glengarry-Prescott-Russell).
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act (Brome-Missisquoi) .............
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act (Wellington-Grey-DufferinWaterloo).....................................................
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act (Mai sonneuve-Rosemont) ....
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act (Argenteuil-Deux Montagnes)
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act (Lanark-Renfrew-Carleton) ...
Excise Act amendment ...........................................
Fisheries Act amendment .........................................
Law Reform Commission Act ......................................
National Energy Board Act amendment..............................
Northern Inland Waters Act .......................................
Nuclear Liability Act ............................................
Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones Act amendment .....................
Yukon Act, the Northwest Territories Act and the Territorial Lands
Act amendment................................................

C-218
C-224
C-202
C-208

C-215
C-214
S-23
C-144
C-62
C-75
C-130
C-153
C-162
C-168
C-177
C-178
C-213
C-209
C-204
C-186
C-190
C-187
C-158
C-203
C-212

Assented to October 7, 1970
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.

Pitts Insurance Company .........................................
Pitts Life Insurance Company .....................................
McOuat Investments Limited ......................................
Buccaneer Industries Limited......................................
ICG Transmission Limited ........................................
Brunner Corporation (Canada) Ltd ..................................

S-10
S-il
S-15
S-16
S-17
S-18

Address in reply to Speech from the Throne
Motion for, Hon. Paul Desruisseaux, 11-17; seconded, Hon. Douglas D. Everett, 17-20
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Argue, Hazen, 104-11
Aseltine, Walter M., 173-8
Blois, Fred M., 111-13
Bourque, Romuald, 93-97
Cameron, Donald, 155-68
Choquette, Lionel, 43-47

2248 1- 55/2

S ENAT E

Address in reply to Speech from the Throne - Concluded
Speakers: Honourable Senators - Concluded
Desruisseaux, Paul, 11-17
Duggan, James, 90-93
Everett, Douglas D., 17-20
Gouin, L.M., 75-77
Grosart, Allister, 60-64
Hollett, Malcolm, 77-80
Kinnear, Mary E., 64-66
Laird, Keith, 180-2
Macdonald, John M., 101-4
Martin, Paul, 47-52
McLean, Donald A., 178-80
O'Leary, M. Grattan, 72-75
Phîllips, Lazarus, 56-60
Prowse, J. Harper, 113-17
Quart, Josie D., 98
Rattenbury, Nelson, 129-33
Roebuck, Arthur W., 145-50
Stanbury, Richard J., 68-72
Yuzyk, Paul, 136-45

Âeronautic s
Air regulations, jurisdiction of Transport Dept., 1339
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Grosart, Allister, 1377-8
Urquhart, Earl W., 1339-40
Yuzyk, Paul, 1376-7

Aeronautics bill C-218. Ir, 1300; 2r, 1339-40, 1376-8; 3r, 1378; r.a., 1409

Agreements, conventions, treaties
Canada-Sweden Supplementary Income Tax Agreement, 549, 613-15, 689, 696, 714
Fishing Agreement, Canada-United States, 1059-60, 1199, 1200
Nuclear Non-P roli fe ration Treaty, 202
Offences on Aircraft, 318-21, 335-41
Prince Edward Island, development plan, terms and conditions of agreement
between federal (3overnment and province, 693-6, 725-6
Trade Agreement with USSR, protocol tabled, 608-9
Treaty of Utrecht, 1200
Treaty of Versailles, 1200
Treaty of Washington, 678

Agricultural products co-operative marketing
Agreements between producers and Minister of Agriculture, 711
Ontario winter wheat, acreage, f ield production and farm value, selected
periods, 713
Wheat, inclusion in products marketed under act, 709-10

INDEX
Agricultural products co-operative marketing
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Argue, Hazen, 711-13, 724-5
Aseltine, Walter M., 723-4
Pearson, Arthur M., 722-3

-

Concluded

Agricultural Products Co-operative Marketing bill C-183. ir, 668; 2r, 711-13, 722-5; ref to
corn, 725; rep without amdt, 738; 3r, 762; r.a., 802
Agriculture
Box car distribution to elevators, 106
Farm machinery, Barber Royal Commission on, 330-1
Federal-provincial shared cost programs re use of lands (1968-70), 713-14
Land under cultivation, Government programs re, 549
Livestock production, 109
Marketing difficulties, 106
Off-site storage, 110
Outlook Conference, 330, 334-5
Prairie grain and livestock production policies, 330
Prices, 108
Shipping statistics, 106-8
Task Force on Agriculture, 1371-6
Cut-back of wheat acreage, 1371
Farm Letter, Outlook 1967, 1371
Interest free cash advances, 1373
Lack of consultation with farmers, 1372, 1376
Palliser Wheat Growers Assoc., report of, 1374
Saskatchewan Wheat Pool conference, 1374
Western Canada, financial crisis in, 105
Air Canada
Air Traffic Control Assoc., strike threat, 333-4
Ratification of collective agreement, 399-400
Authority to borrow, 347, 354, 357, 365
Strikes by employees in Public Service, 353
See Canadian National Railways Financing and Guarantee bill C-7
Aircraft
Convention on Offences and Certain other Acts committed on Aircraft, ratification of,
318-21, 335-41
Custer Channel Wing Aircraft, 833-4, 1016, 1033
Lockheed Electra turboprop airliner, 833-4

Aird, Hon. John B.
Caribbean, Canadian relations with, 1320-2, 1449-51
See Appendix to Debates of june 23 for report of Foreign Affairs Committee
USSR visit by Senate delegation, 480-4

SENÂTE
Appendi xes
American Administrative Procedure Act and Canadian National Energy Board Act and
Rules, comparison, 849-50
Canada-Caribbean relations, tep of Foreign Affairs Committee, see Appendix to
Debates of june 23
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, agenda of meeting of Executive Committee
on Island of jersey, 1298
Corporations bill C-4, rep of com, 1430-2
Crown corporations, departmental, agency and proprietary, 847-8, See also 867
Divorce statistics, 240-3
Elections bill C-215, summary of main amendments, 1410-14
Estimates, fiscal year ending Mar. 31/70, Supplementary (A), rep of com, 289-94
Estimates, fiscal year ending Mar. 31/71, rep of com, 1244-8
Ethnic composition of Canadian population, 568-70
Finance, protection of purchase or exchange value of Canadian money, 487-94
Fishing bounty paynients, 687-8
Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, thirteenth annual meeting
Press release and committee reports, 818-20
Report of meeting, 885-90
Inter-Parliamentary Union, extracts from publication "Without Strings", 443-5
Poverty, resume of activities of Special Senate Committee, 53-54
Tax reform, White Paper on, rep of com, see appendix to Debates of Sept. 30, 1970

Appropriation bill No. 4, 1969 C- 169. Ir, 309; 2r, 309-16; 3r, 334; r.a., 399

Appropriation bill No. 1, 1970 C-200. Ir, 791; 2r, 791-5; 3r, 795; r.a., 803

Appropriation bill No. 2, 1970 C-201. Ir, 795; 2r, 795-9; 3r, 799-800; r.a., 803

Appropriation bill No. 3, 1970 C-224. Ir, 1300; 2r, 1300-1, 1322-7; 3r, 1368, 1371-6; r.a.,
1409

Arctic waters pollution prevention
Civil liability resulting from deposit of waste, 1202-3
International law, 1203-4
Jurisdiction, 1203
Pollution prevention officers, 1202
Potential of the Arctic, 1201-2
Shipping safety control zones, 1202
Threat of pollution, 1202
Ship disasters, 1202
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Haig, J. Campbell, 1241
Martin, Paul, 1201-4, 1242, 1243
Yuzyk, Paul, 1241-3

INDEX
Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention Bill C-202. Ir, 1175; 2r, 1201-4, 1241-3; 3r, 1249;
r.a., 1408

Argue, Hon. Ilazen
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 104-11
Agricultural Products Co-operative Marketing bill C-183, 711-13, 724-5
Agreements between producers and Minister of Agriculture, 711
Ontario winter wheat, acreage, field production and farmn value, selected periods,
713
Wheat, inclusion in products marketed under act, 709-10
Agriculture
Federal-provincial shared cost programs re use of lands (1968-70), 713-14
Land under cultivation, Government programs re, 549
Task Force on Agriculture, 1371-6
Cut-back of wheat acreage, 1371
Farm Letter, Outlook 1967, 1371
Interest free cash advances, 1373
Lack of consultation with farmers, 1372, 1376
Palliser Wheat Growers Assoc, report of, 1374
Saskatchewan Wheat Pool conference, 1374
Agriculture, western Canada, financial crisis in, 105-11
Box car distribution to, elevators, 106
Lîvestock production, 109
Marketing difficulties, 106
Off-site storage, 110
Prices, 108
Shipping statistics, 106-8
Appropriation bill No. 3, 1970, C-224, 1371-6
Canadian National Railways Financing and Guarantee bill C-7, 358-60
Authority of CNR in contracts, 358
Mediation tribunal, need for, 358-9
Company of Young Canadians bill C-171, 394-5
Unwarranted condemnation of youth by authorities, 395
Constitution of Canada, 452-6
Regional disparity, western provinces, 454
Regional representation on joint committee, 454-6
Durum wheat, separate account for 1968-69, payment of surplus earnings to
producers, 649-55
Elections bill C-215, 1397-8
Age of voters, 1397
Estîmates for fiscal year ending Mar. 31/71, 1285-9
Estimates, wheat acreage reduction program, 775-9
Farm machinery, Barber Royal Commission on, 330-1
Grain storage at Lakehead, 393-4
Great Slave Lake Railway, losses incurred by contractors, 358-60
Action taken by Commons committee after initial citation in Senate, 358
Insecticides, 105
National Farmers Union bill S-22, 684-5
Peru, aid to, 1285-6
Poverty, rural conditions, 1367
Prairie grain and livestock production policies, 330

SEMAT E
Argue, Hon. Hazen

- Concluded
Prairie Grain Provisional Payments bill C-157, 34 3-6
Cattie and hog production, 345
Dairy produce, deficit in, 345
Interest-free cash advances, 343
Marketing, 343-6
Outlook Conference, 344-5
Sales to USSR, 344
Saskatchewan, economic difficulties, 454
Housing, 454
Personal income, decrease in, 454
Senate
Committees, 452
Research and other staff, 453
Role of, 452-3
Statutory Instruments, 719-22
Proposais of Commons Committee, 719-20
Regulations re wheat acreage reduction, 720-2
Fines or penalties, 721
Offensive use of delegated powers, 721
Personal rights and liberties, 721-2
Trade, constitutional jurisdiction, 1473-4
Vouths barred from western hotels because of dress, 1286-9

Aseltine, Hon. Walter M., P.C.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 173-8
Agricultural Products Co-operative Marketing bill C-183, 723-4
Divorce, finalization of committee work, 237-9
Flax, loss of sales, Lakehead shortage, 219, 253
Judges bill C-2, 322-3
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1134-6
Administration of commission, office staff, salaries, other expenditures, 1134-6
Prairie Grain Provisional Payments bill C-157, 326-7
Newspaper articles on difficulties of prairie farmers, 326
Prices and marketing problema, 327
Unthreshed crops, statistics, 327
Stambaugh, Hon. J. Wesley, death of, 753
Taxation, White Paper on, 171, 176-8
Capital gains, 177-8
Wheat surplus, western provinces, 173-6, 326-7
Agriculture in a Crisis, 175
Emergency measures of Government, 175
Farmn land, depreciation in value, 174
Interest free advances on farm-stored grain, 174, 326
Prices, 174, 327
Trouble in East predicted from Western Farins Depression, 174-5
Yukon, Northwest Territories and Territorial Lands bill C-212, 1344-6
Council, indemnities, duties, etc., 1345
Land management, 1346

INDEX
Astronouts, visit ta Canada and banquet entertainment, 275-6
Atlantic provinces
Cape Breton, loans for industries other than coal mining, 736-7
Deep sea fisheries, 607, 622, 677-84, 738, 762, 802
Economic conditions, 697-8
Fisheries, suggestions for assistance ta, 111-12
Saltfish, 607, 627-8, 655-61, 673-7, 696-701, 739, 762-5, 802
Ship building and ship repairing industries, 111, 112
Canadian Labour Congress eight-point plan, 112
Unemployment, 111
See names of individual provinces
Baltic countries
Commemoration of deportations from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, 1299
Bank bill S-13. ir, 295; 2r, 346; 3r, 346; r.a., 399
Banking, Trade and Commerce, Standing Senate Committee
Authority ta engage services of personnel, 392-3
Authority ta meet during adjourrnments of Senate, 572
Authority ta meet during sittings of Senate, 1014-15, 1091, 1134
Reports
Agricubtural Praducts Co-operative Marketing bibi C-183, rep without amdt, 738-9
Brunner Corporation (Canada) Ltd. bilb S-18, rep without amdt, 531
Buccaneer Industries Ltd. bibi S-16, rep without amdt, 374
Canada Student Loans bibl C-135, rep without amdt, 617
Canada-Sweden Suppbementary Incarne Tax Agreement bill C- 156, rep without amdt,
689
Canadian and British Insurance Campanies bill S-6, rep withaut amdt, 170
Coastal Fisheries Protection bibl C-134, rep without axndt, 738
Corporations bibi C-4, rep with amdts, 1417-22, 1430-2
Deep Sea Fisheries bibi C-133, rep without amdt, 738
Excise Tax bibi C-155, rep without arndt, 374
Foreign Insurance Companies bibi S-7, rep without amdt, 170
ICG Transmission Ltd. bibi S-17, rep witbout amdt, 374
Laan Companies bibi S-9, rep without amdt, 170
McOuat Investments Ltd. bibi S-15, rep without amdt, 374
Oul and Gas Production and Conservation bill S-5, rep without amdt, 221
Pitts Insurance Ca. bill S-10, rep with amdt, 221
Pitts Life Insurance Ca. bibi S-11, rep without amdt, 222
Quebec Savings Banks bibi S-2, rep without amdt, 170
Saitfish bill C-175, rep without amdt, 739
Smabb Businesses Loans bibi C-9, rep without amdt, 531
Standards Council of Canada bibi C-163, rep without amdt, 1453
Taxation, White Paper on, 405-6, 1433-47, see also appendix ta Debates ai Sept.
30170
Textile Labebbing bibi S-20, rep with amdts, 531-2
Trust Companies bibi S-7, rep without amdt, 170
Yukon Placer Mining bili S-4, rep without arndt, 221

22481-56

SENATE
Beaubien, Hon. L.P.
Corporations bill C-4, 1311
Disciosure of affairs of private companies, 1911
Take-over bids, 1911
Criminai Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 984
Expo Winding-Up bill C-6, 205
Quebec separatism, statements of government officiais te, 769

Belisie, Hon. Rheol
Commonwealth Pariiamentary Association, 245-8
Canadian delegation, 245-6
Turner, Hion. John, 246
Caribbean, educational aid to, 247
Partners in Development, 247
Racism in Asian and African countries, 248
Youth in revoit, committee on, 246-7
Estimates, Privy Council, 797
Expropriation bill C-136, 612-13
Raiiway bill C-il, 468-9
Water bill C-144, 1229-32
Civil and criminal iaw re poiiuters, 1230
Fees for waste disposai, 1231
Responsibilities of poliuters, 1230-2
Penalties, 1231
Standards and quaiity of water, 1231

Benidickson, Hon. W.M., P.C.
Canada-Sweden Supplementary Income Tax Agreement bill C-156, 613-14
Exemption for remuneration re services to province while resident in Sweden, 614
Excise bill C-209, 1265-6
Brandy and other distilled spirits, 1265
Cigar and cigarette definitions, 1265
Vodka, 1265-6
Smaii Businesses Loans bill C-9, 508-10
Aggregate principal amount of guaranteed boans, 509
Banks and iending institutions defined, 509
Lending period, 509
Limitation of liabiiity re Government guarantee, 509
Yukon Placer Mining bibi S-4, 182-3

Bilinguatism
Biiinguaiism Deveiopment Program, estimates for, 1245
Lack of French programs for women prisoners, 1181, 1218
Provincial grants, 1245
Research and promotion, 1245

INDEX
Bill of Righits, 896-9, 930-2, 946-7, 949, 950, 958-9, 961-2
Drybones v The Queen, 840-1, 896-7, 930-2, 946-50, 961-3, 978
Freedom of speech, 944-5, 949, 960, 962, 973, 976, 980-2
Indian Act, conflict with Bill of Rights and discrimination against native population,
898, 946-7, 948, 950-1, 954, 958
Rights of the under-privileged, 854-6
Tupper v The Queen, 963
See Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda)
Bis, general data
Divorce
Gingras, Roberta Berube, petition for bill to annul resolution to dissolve marriage,
210, 424-6
Hashim, Laura Eileen Margaret Bamford, petition for bill to annul resolution to
dissolve marriage, 909
Fees, refund of
Salon Juliette Ltee, petition, 404-5
Suspension of rules
Buccaneer Industries Ltd. S-16, 372
ICG Transmission Ltd. S-17, 373
McOuat Investments Ltd. S-15, 372
National Farmers Union S-22, 685-6
Bis, Numericahly, Commons
See also individual tities
Judges
C-2
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda)
C-3
C-4
Corporations
C-5
Criminal Records
Expo Winding-Up
C-6
Canadian National Railways Financing and Guarantee 1969
C-7
Children of War Dead (Education Assistance)
C-8
C-9 Small Businesses Loans
C-10 Shipping
C-11 Railway
C-12 International Development Research Centre
C-62 Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Perth)
C-75 Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Sarnia)
C-130 Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Burnaby-Richmond)
C-133 Deep Sea Fisheries
C-134 Coastal Fisheries Protection
C-135 Student Loans
C-136 Expropriation
C-137 Motor Vehicle Safety
C-138 Cape Breton Development Corporation
C-139 Income Tax
C-140 Customs Tariff and Excise Tax
C-144 Water
C-153 Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Glengarry-Prescott)
C-155 Excise Tax
C-156 Canada-Sweden Supplementary Income Tax Agreement

2248 1-561/

SENAT E
Bis, Numerically, Commons
C- 157
C-158
C-161
C-162
C-163
C- 168
C- 169
C-171
C-175
C- 176
C-177
C-178
C-182
C-183
C-184
C-186
C-187
C-190
C-193
C-194
C-200
C-201
C-202
C-203
C-204
C-208
C-209
C-212
C-213
C-214
C-215
C-218
C-224

- Concluded
Prairie Grain Provisional Payments
Nuclear Liability
Dominion Coal Board Dissolution
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Missisquoi)
Standards Council of Canada
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Wellin gton- Grey)
Appropriation No. 4, 1969
Company of Young Canadians
Saltfish
Company of Young Canadians
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Maisonneuve)
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Argenteuil)
Supreme Court
Agricultural Products Co-operative Marketing
Shipping Conferences Exemption
Law Reform Commission
Northern Inland Waters
National Energy Board
Industrial Research and Development Incentives
Statute Law (Supplementary Retirement Benefits) Amendment
Appropriation No. 1, 1970
Appropriation No. 2, 1970
Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention
Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones
Fisheries
Bills of Exchange
Excise
Yukon, Northwest Territories and Territorial Lands
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Lanark and Renfrew)
Labour (Standards) Code
Elections
Aeronautics
Appropriation No. 3 1970

Bis, Numericailly, Senate
See also individual tities
S-1 Railways (pro forma)
S-2 Quebec Savings Banks
S-3 Dominion Coal Board Dissolution
S-4 Yukon Placer Mining
S-5 Oil and Gas Production and Conservation
S-6 Canadian and British Insurance Companies
S-7 Foreign Insurance Companies
S-8 Trust Companies
S-9 Loan Companies
S-10 Pitts Insurance Company
S-il Pitts Life Insurance Company
S-12 Quarantine
S-13 Bank
S-14 Radiation Emitting Devices
S-15 McOuat Investments Limited

INDEX

Bis, Numerically, Senate - Concluded
S-16 Buccaneer Industries Limited
S-17 ICG Transmission Limited
S-18 Brunner Corporation (Canada) Ltd
S-19 Parole Act
S-20 Textile Labelling
S-21 Criminal Code (Punishment for Theft)
S-22 National Farmers Union
S-23 Shipping (Pilotage)
S-24 Canada Day
S-25 Hudson's Bay Company
Bis of Exchange
Consumer liability to finance company or third party, 1334-6, 1338
Credit growth, 1335
Interest rates, 1338
Legisiation resulting from recommendations of Consumer Credit Committee, 1336
Nova Scotia royal commission re consumer credit, 1337
Protection for consumer, 1337
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Blois, Fred M., 1337-8
Croîl, David A., 1334-7
White, George S., 1338-9
Bis of Exchange bill C.208. Ir, 1300; 2r, 1334-9; 3r, 1376; r.a., 1409
Bis, Private, Senate
Brunner Corporation (Canada) Ltd S- 18. Ir, 459; 2r, 496-8; ref to com, 498; rep
without amdt, 531; 3r, 531; r.a., 1223
Buccaneer Industries Limited S-16. Ir, 349; 2r, 372; ref to com, 372; suspension of
Rule 95, 372; rep without amdt, 374; 3r, 374; r.a., 714
ICG Transmission Limited S-17. Ir, 349; 2r, 372-3; ref to com, 373; suspension of
Rule 95, 373; rep without amdt, 374; 3r, 375; r.a., 714
McOuat Investments Limited S-15. Ir, 349; 2r, 370-2; ref to com, 372; suspension of
Rule 95, 372; rep wîtbout amdt, 374; 3r, 374; r.a., 714
National Farmers Union S-22. Ir, 617; 2r, 622-4, 684-5; ref to com, 685; suspension
of Rule 95, 685-6; rep without amdt, 689; 3r, 696; r.a., 1223
Pitts Insurance Company S-10. ir, 135; 2r, 186; ref to com, 186; rep with amdt, 221;
3r, 245; Commons amdt, 606, 616; r.a., 714
Pitts Life Insurance Company S-11. Ir, 135; 2r, 185-6; ref to com, 186; rep without
amdt, 222; 3r, 245; r.a., 714
Bis, Public, Commons
Aeronautics C-218. Ir, 1300; 2r, 1339-40, 1376-8; 3r, 1378; r.a., 1409
Agricultural Products Co-operative Marketing C-183. Ir, 668; 2r, 711-13, 722-5; ref to
com, 725; rep without amdt, 738; 3r, 762; r.a., 802
Appropriation No. 4, 1969 C-169. Ir, 309; 2r, 309-16; 3r, 334; r.a., 399
Appropriation No. 1, 1970 C-200. Ir, 791; 2r, 791-5; 3r, 795; r.a., 803
Appropriation No. 2, 1970 C-201. Ir, 795; 2r, 795-9; 3r, 799-800; r.a., 803

SENÂTE
Bis, Public, Commons - Continued
Appropriation No. 3, 1970 C-224. ir, 1300; 2r, 1300-1; 1322-7; 3r, 1368, 1371-6; r.a.,
1409
Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention C-202. ir, 1175; 2t, 1201-4, 1241-3; 3r, 1249; r.a.,
1408
Bis of Exchange C-208. ir, 1300; 2r, 1334-9; 3r, 1376; r.a., 1409
Canada-Sweden Supplementary Income Tax Agreement C-156. ir, 549; 2r, 613-15; ref
to com, 615; rep without amdt, 689; 3r, 696; r.a., 714
Canadian National Railways Financing and Guarantee 1969 C-7. ir, 329; 2r, 346-8,
353-65; ref to com, 365; rep without amdt, 375; 3r, 375; r.a., 398
Cape Breton Development Corporation C-138. ir, 691; 2 r, 736-7; 3r, 737; r.a., 803
Chjldren of War Dead (Education Assistance) C-8. ir, 295; 2r, 368-70; 3r, 377; r.a.,
399
Coastal Fisheries Protection C-134. 1r, 607; 2r, 707-10; ref to com, 710; rep without
amdt, 736; 3 r, 762; r.a., 802
Company of Young Canadians C-171. lr, 374; 2r, 377-82; 3r, 394-8; r.a., 399
Company of Young Canadians C-176. jr, 590; 2r, 636-40, 661, 669-73; ref to com, 673;
rep witbout amdt, 691; 3r, 691-2; r.a., 714
Corporations C-4. ir, 1224; 2r, 1258-65, 1311-13, 1346-53; ref to com, 1353; rep with
amdts, 1417-22, 1430-2, 1449; 3r, 1454; Commons concurrence in Senate
amdts, 1472; r.a., 1474
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) C-3. ir, 832; ni for 2r, 881-4, 894-9, 919-21,
929-36, 943-50; m in amdt, 950-4, 956-65, 973-84, 985-94, 1007-8, 1017-30,
amdt neg, 1030; 2 r, 1031, 1034-45 (on dlv); 3r, 1060-3; r.a., 1223
Criminal Records C-5. ir, 1032; 2r, 1066-70, 1082-4; ref to com, 1084-5; rep without
amdt, 1119; 3t, 1134; r.a., 1223
Customs Tariff and Excise Tax C-140. jr, 203; 2r, 259-66; ref to com, 266; rep
without amdt, 269; 3r, 296; r.a., 398
Deep Sea Fisheries C-133. ir, 607; 2 r, 662, 677-83; ref to com, 677-83; rep without
amdt, 738; 3r, 762; r.a., 802
Dominion Coal Board Dissolution C-161. ir, 666; 2r, 710-11; 3r, 718; r.a., 802
Elections C-215. ir, 1392; 2 r, 1392-1400; 3 r, 1400; see also 1410-14; r.a., 1409
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Argenteuil) C-178. ir, 1110; 2r, 1143-4; 3 r, 1150;
r.a., 1409
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Burnaby-Richmond) C-130. ir, 1109; 2r, 1142;
3r, 1149; r.a., 1409
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Glengarry-Prescott) C-153. ir, 1109; 2r, 1142-3;
3r, 1149; r.a., 1409
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Lanark and Renfrew) C-213. ir, 1110; 2r, 1144;
3r, 1150; r.a., 1409
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Maisonneuve) C-177. ir, 1110; 2r, 1143; 3r,
1150; r.a., 1409
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Missisquoi) C-162. ir, 1109; 2r, 1143; 3r, 1149;
r.a., 1409
Electorial Boundaries Readjustment (Perth) C-62. ir, 1109; 2r, 1140-1; 3r, 1148-9;
r.a., 1409
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Sarnia) C-75. ir, 1109; 2r, 1141-2; 3r, 1149;
r.a., 1409
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Wellington- Grey) C-168. ir, 1110; 2r, 1143; 3r,
1150; r.a., 1409
Excise C-209. ir, 1224; 2r, 1265-7; 3r, 1305-6; r.a., 1409
Excise Tax C-155. ir, 329; 2r, 365-8; ref to com, 368; rep without amdt, 374; 3r, 374;
r.a., 398

INDEX
Bis, Public, Cemmons - Concluded
Expo Winding-Up C-6. Ir, 203; 2r, 203-6; ref to com, 206; rep without amdt, 221; 3r,
221; r.a., 252
Expropriation C-136. jr, 518; 2r, 535-7, 572-7, 595-7, 610-13, 620-6; ref to com, 626;
rep with amdt, 1014, 1049-51; 3r, 1051; Commons concurrence in Senate
amdt, 1133; r.a., 1223
Fisheries C-204. Ir, 1402; 2r, 1402-7; 3r, 1407-8; r.a., 1409
Income Tax C-139. Ir, 389; 2r, 389-92; 3r, 398; r.a., 399
Industrial Research and Development Incentives C-193. Ir, 1059; 2r, 1086-9, 1136-40,
1161; ref to com, 1161; rep without amdt, 1193; 3r, 1213; r.a., 1223
International Development Research Centre C-12. Ir, 607; 2r, 617-20, 643-9; ref to
com, 649; rep with amdts, 739-40; 3r, 765; Commons concurrence in Senate
amdts, 940; r.a., 1045
Judges C-2. jr, 295; 2r, 322-4; 3r, 335; r.a., 398
Labour (Standards) Code C-214. jr, 1224; 2r, 1267-8, 1282-5; 3r, 1306-7; r.a., 1409
Law Reform Commission C-186. jr, 1014; 2r, 1071-3, 1085-6, 1102-7, 1110-18,
1120-32, 1134-6, 1150-61, 1165-9, 1182-92; ref to com, 1192; rep without
amdt, 1225; 3r, 1249; r.a., 1408
Motor Vehicle Safety C-137. Ir, 691; 2r, 727-36; ref to com, 736; rep without amdt,
738; 3r, 761; r.a., 802
National Energy Board C-190. jr, 1299; 2r, 1329-34; 3r, 1376; r.a., 1409
Northern Inland Waters C-187. jr, 985; 2r, 1047-9, 1063-70, 1076-82, 1094-1101; ref
to com, 1101-2; rep with amdt, 1145, 1170-2; 3t, 1182; Commons concurrence
in Senate amdt, 1299; r.a., 1408
Nuclear Liability C-158. jr, 1299; 2r, 1327-9, 1353, 1369-70; 3r, 1370-1; r.a., 1409
Prairie Grain Provisional Payments bill C-157. jr, 295; 2r, 324-7, 341-6, 349-53; 3r,
377; r.a,, 399
Railway C-il, br, 446; 2r, 467-9, 526-9, 534-5; ref to com, 535; rep without amdt,
571; 3r, 594; r.a., 714
Saltfish C-175. jr, 607; 2r, 627-8,655-61, 673-7,696-701; ref to com, 701; rep without
amdt, 739; 3r, 762-5; r.a., 802
Shippîng C-10 (Medical expenses for sick mariners). jr, 940; 2r, 965-8; ref to com,
968; rep without amdt, 1007; 3r, 1017; r.a., 1045
Shipping Conferences Exemption C-184. jr, 1459; 2r, 1459-63; 3r, 1474; r.a., 1474
Smal1 Businesses Loans C-9. jr, 459; 2r, 508-14; ref to com, 514; rep without amdt,
531; 3r, 531; r.a., 714
Standards Council of Canada C-163. jr, 1408; 2r, 1427-9, 1447-9; ref to com, 1449;
rep wîthout amdt, 1453; 3r, 1457; r.a., 1474
Statute Law (Supplementary Retirement Benefits) C-194. jr, 754; 2r, 754-60, 769-73;
ref to com, 773-4; rep without amdt, 800; 3r, 800; r.a., 803
Student Loans C-135. Ir, 459; 2r, 540-6, 577-88; ref to com, 588; rep without amdt,
617; 3r, 643; r.a., 714
Supreme Court C-182. jr, 972; 2r, 1008-10, 1057-8; 3r, 1063; r.a., 1223
Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones C-203. jr, 1175; 2r, 1194-1201, 1213-15, 1251-7;
3r, 1279; r.a., 1408
Water C-144. jr, 1175; 2r, 1204-9, 1216-17, 1228-40; ref to com, 1240; rep wîthout
amdt, 1274; 3r, 1274-6, 1306; r.a., 1409
Yukon, Northwest Territories and Territorial Lands C-212. jr, 1320; 2r, 1340-6; ref
to com, 1346; rep without anidt, 1355; 3r, 1355; r.a., 1409
Bills, Public, Senate
Bank S-13. jr, 295; 2r, 346; 3r, 346; r.a., 399
Canada Day S-24. jr, 1193; 2r, 1257-8, 1280-1

SE NAT E
BUis, Public, Senate

- Concluded
Canadian and British Insurance Companies S-6. Ir, 10; 2r, 168-9; ref to com, 169; tep
without amdt, 170; 3r, 185; Commons amdt, 604; r.a., 714
Criminal Code (Punishinent for Theft) S-21. Ir, 531; 2r, 597-8, 629; ref to coin, 629;
3
tep without amdt, 689; r, 696
Dominion Coal Board Dissolution S-3. Ir, 9; 2 r, 80-83; 3r, 90 (Bill not proceeded with)
Foreign Insurance Companies S-7 Ir, 10; 2r, 169; ref to com, 169; rep without amdt,
170; 3r, 185; r.a., 714
Hudson's Bay Company S-25. Ir, 1222; 2r, 1227-8, 1249-50; 3r, 1250-1; correction,
1368; r.a., 1474
Loan Companies S-9. ir, 10; 2r, 98-99; ref to coin, 99; rep without amdt, 170; 3r, 185;
Commons amdts, 605-6, 627;, r.a., 714
Oul and Gas Production and Conservation S-5. ir, 10; 2r, 199-201, 206-7; ref to coin,
207-8; rep without amdt, 221; 3r, 245; r.a., 1223
Parole S-19. Ir, 459; 2r, 498-9, 519-20; 3r, 534; r.a., 802
Quarantine S-12. Ir, 135; 2r, 187-93, 253-9; ref to cnm, 259; rep with amdts, 316-18;
3r, 334; Commons amdt, 606-7; r.a., 714
Quebec Savings Banks S-2. Ir, 9; 2r, 66; ref to coin, 66; tep without amdt, 170;3
r, 185; r.a., 714
Radiation Emitting Devices S-14. Ir, 329; 2r, 417-21, 427-32; ref to com, 432;1 rep
with amdts, 571;1 3 r, 595; Senate concurrence in Commons amdt, 940; r.a.,
1046
Railways S-1 (pro forma). Ir, 5
Shipping (Pilotage) S-23. Ir, 1133; 2r, 1169-70; ref to coin, 1170; tep with amdt, 1211,
1240-1; 3r, 1249; r.a., 1409
Textile Labelling S-20. ir, 460; 2r, 499-504, 521-6; ref to coin, 526; rep with amdts,
531-3; 3 r, 533; t.a., 802
Trust Companies S-8. Ir, 10; 2 r, 150-5; ref to coin, 155; tep without amdt, 170; 3t,
185; Commons amdts, 604-5, 626; r.a., 714
Yukon Placer Mining S-4. Ir, 9, 2 r, 182-3, 208-9; ref to coin, 209;- rep of coin, 221; 3r,
245; r.a., 1046

Blais, Hon. Fred M.
Address in reply to Speech froin the Throne, 111-13
Atlantic provinces, 111-12
Fisheries, suggestions for assistance to, 111-12
Ship building and ship repairing industries, 111-12
Canadian Labour Congress eight-point plan, 112
Unemployment, 111
Bills of Exchange bill C-208, 1337-8
Interest rates, 1338
Nova Scotia royal commission te consumer credit, 1337
Rocket Research station, Churchill, 112-13
Textile Labelling bill 5-20, 521-2, 524, 525
False or misleading representation, responsibility for, 521
Footwear, 521-2
Inspection, 522
Labels, 522
Polyethylene bags, 524
Regulations te precentdge by weight, 521

INDEX

Bourget, Hon. Maurice, P.C.
Bank bill S-13, 346
Canadian National Railways Financing and Guarantee bil C-7, 355, 359-60
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Argenteuil) bill C-178, 1143-4
Simultaneous interpretation, installation of booths in south gallery of Senate, 1093-4,
1109, 1318-20
Speaker of the Senate, pro tem, 1091, 1109, 1119, 1274, 1299, 1377, 1432

Bourque, Hon. Romuald
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 93-97
Women in business and public life, 93-97
Discrimination, article under signature of Minister of Labour, 93-94
Parliamentary appointees, 96
Rights of Women proclaimed by UN, 94-95

British North America Act, see Constitution of Canada

Brunner Corporation (Canada) Ltd bill S-18. ir, 459; 2r, 496-8; ref to com, 498; rep
without amdt, 531; 3r, 531; r.a., 1223

Buccaneer Industries Limited bill S16. ir, 349; 2r, 372; ref to com, 372; suspension of
Rule 95, 372; rep without amdt, 374; 3r, 374; r.a., 714

Budget Speech, accommodation for Senators in Commons gallery, 689

Burchili, Hon. G. Percival
Deep Sea Fisheries bill C-133, 662, 683-4
Grant to aid in development of sea fisheries and give assistance to fishermen, 662,
683-4
Treaty of Washington, 662
Dessureault, Hon. Jean-Marie, death of, 1416
Farris, Hon. J.W. de B., death of, 602
Hudson's Bay Company bill S-25, 1368
Penitentiaries, federal, facilities for women prisoners, 1381-2
Railway bill C-1l, 467-8, 534-5
Computer industry, 467
Discrimination in charges, 467
New Brunswick, abandonment of CNR passenger lines, 534-5
Telecommunication services, 467
Senate public relations, participation of Senators in outside programs, 446-7

SENATE
Cameron, Hon. Donald
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 155-68
Appropriation bill No. 4, 1969, C-169, 311-12
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, 164
Constitution of Canada, 456-7
Regional disparity, western provinces, 457
Regional representation on joint committee, 456-7
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 960
Freedom of speech, infringement on, 960
Education, 156-68
Activists on the campus, 157, 162-3, 166
"Americanization at the U of T", 158-9
Dropouts, 167
Goals for the future, 167
Import teachers, 158, 168
Physics and engineering, decrease in enrolments, 157
Social sciences, 157-62, 167-8
Teachers qualifications, 157
University enrolments, 157
"University of Windsor under Americanization", 159
Estimates, 311-12
Government contracts, contractors' claims with Crown or its agency, 929
Information and publicity services of government, 156
Agriculture Dept., 156
Costs of, 156
Indian Affairs and Northern Development Dept., 156
Task Force on, 156
Interest rates, 311-12
Labour, strikes by Public Service employees, 353, 426
National Film Board, 164-5
Parliamentary procedures, 165
Filibusters and protracted debates, 165
Pollution, 163
Research costs, 163
Science and technology, expenditures and priorities in research, 164
Senate
Committees, 456
Role of, 456
Staff, 456
Southeast Asia, Non-Governmental Trade and Goodwill Mission, 909-18
Expo '70, 916-18
Japan
Gross National Product, 915
Highways, 916
Labour shortage, 915, 916
Scientific laboratories, 916
Jurong Industrial Estates, 913-14
Malaysian students, scholarships for advanced management study at Banff, 909
Trade
Hong Kong, 912
Israel, generators for electrical power plant, 910
Russia, machine tools, 910
Wheat, international depots, suggestion, 914

INDEX

Cameron, Hon. Donald - Concluded
Statutory Instruments, 905-8
Crown corporations, 907
Post Office, 907
Government bureaucracy, 907-8
National parks and confiscation of property, 907
New Style of Grass Roots is Stealing Parliament's Thunder, 908
Student Loans bill C-135, 540-5, 586-8
Brain-drain to US, reversai of, 587
Landed immigrants, 543
Lending institutions, 543
Maximum loan, 544
Night-school and part-time students, 540-1
Provincial allocations, 542-3
Statistics, 541
Trade Unions and right to strike, 165-6
USSR exploitation of UN, reference to authorities cited in speech by Hon. Mr. Yuzyk,
155, 172
Water bill C-144, 1275
Canada Corporations, see Corporations bill C-4
Canada Day
Indians honoured by naine of "Canada" Day, 1280
july 1 stipubated for official celebration, 1280
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Fournier, Sarto, 1257-8
Quart, Josie D., 1280-1
Canada Day bill S-24. Ir, 1193; 2r, 1257-8, 1280-1
Canada Labour (Standards), see Labour (Standards) Code bill C-214
Canada Shipping
See Shipping bill C-10
Shipping bili S-23
Canada Student Loans, see Student Loans bili C-135
Canada-Sweden Supplementary Incarne Tax Agreement bill C-156. Ir, 549; 2r, 613-15; ref
to com, 615; rep without amdt, 689; 3t, 696; r.a., 714
Canada-United States Interpartiarnentary Group, 785-90, 804-8, 818-20, 822-5, 843-6, 88590, 892-4, 994-1005
See Interparliamentary Group

SENA TE

Canada-United States Rec iprocal F ishi ng Agreement, 1059-60

Canada Water bill, see Water bill C-144

Canada Week, 1176-7
Canada Committee, 1176-7
Efforts to combat separatism, 1177
Membership and chapters, 1176-7
National unity, committee work re, 1177
Expo '70
Canadian Pavilion, 1176
Quebec Pavilion, 1176
TV satellite program featuring address of Prime Minister at Expo, 1176

Canadian and British, Insurance Companies bill S-6. ir, 10; 2r, 168-9; ref to com, 169; rep
without amdt, 170; 3r, 185; Commons amdt, 604; r.a., 714

Canadion Broadcasting Corporation
Custer Channel Wing Aircraft, filming of, preparation and cost, 1060
Expenditures for productions and employees, 1034
Lockheed Electra turboprop airliner, filming of, 833-4
"The Emnie Game", cost and revenue, 821-2
"Waiting for Caroline", cost and revenue, 822

Canadian National Railways
Accommodation, allocation of, 362-4
Air Canada borrowings, 347, 354, 357, 365
Auditors, 347
Bessborough Hotel, Saskatoon, youths barred because of dress, 1286-90
Branch lines and passenger service, N.B., 331, 360
Branch lines, borrowing authority for construction, 347, 365
Branch lines, public hearings re abandonment, 347-8
Capital expenditures, 347, 356-7, 365
Centralized Traffic Control systemn in Atlantic region, 1314-16
Chaleur and Scotian, passenger traffic 1969 between certain points, 1465
Derailment expenditures, 1423-4
Diesel oil used in Atlantic region, source and cost, 1316
Dissatisfaction among employees, 362
Equipment damaged and inoperative, 1424
Federal subsidies applied to passenger service, 1225-6
Hot box detectors, 1425
Increase in demands and use of railway services, 362-3
Interest on long-term debt, 347, 1034
Moncton Road toîl gate, 1145
Ocean Limited and Scotian train crews, Montreal and Halifax, 1464
Oil refuelling and storage tanks, 1464
Operating cost, Montreal-Halifax passenger trains, 822, 834, 1033-4
Pssenger revenues, Chaleur, Scotian, Ocean Limited, 331, 360-5, 376-7, 461

INDEX

Canadian National Railways - Concluded
Passenger service, applications for, 1425-6
Passenger service between Edmunston and Joffre, 1016, 1033
Passenger service between Moncton and Edmunston, 1015-16
Passenger service, discontinuance of, revenue and operating costs, 1313-14
Passenger service in Canada, cost of advertising, 1426
Passenger service on Ocean Limited, cost of advertising, 1426
Platform extensions and other services on Ocean Limnited, 1015
Preferred stock, purchase by Finance Minister, 347, 356
Press release of speech of Hon. John Pickersgill, 361
Prior obligations, 347, 357
Railiners, rented and owned, 1193
Railway stations and service centres, location, annual rent, 1225
Stone House Motel, Truro, rentai and other arrangements, 1091-2
Temporary loans from Government, 347
TurboTrain development costs, 1193
Wheel flange oilers, 1424-5
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Argue, Hazen, 358-60
Bourget, Maurice, 359-60
Fournier, Edgar, 331, 360-4, 376-7, 461
Grosart, Allister, 353-8
Laird, Keith, 346-8, 364-5
See also Railways
Canadian National Railways Financing and Guarantee bill 1969 C-7. lr, 329; 2r, 346-8,
353-65; ref to com, 365; rep without amdt, 375; 3r, 375; r.a., 398
Cape Breton Development Corporation
Loans for industries other than coal minîng, 736-7
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Macdonald, John M., 737
Urquhart, Earl W., 736-7
Cape Breton Development Corporation bill C-138. ir, 691; 2r, 736-7; 3r, 737; r.a., 803
Caribbean, Canadian relations with, 1320-2
See Appendix to Debates of June 23 for report of Foreign Affairs Committee
Carter, Hon. Cbesley W.
Company of Young Canadians bill C-171, 395-6
Frontier College, 396
Members not of Canadian citizenship, 395-6

Company of Young Canadians bibi C-176, 636-40
Accounts and financial transactions, auditing and supervision of, 640
Activities, limitation of, 639
Background of CYC, 636-7

Council, composition of, 638-9
Executive officer, duties and authority, 638

SENATE
Carter, Hon. Chesley W. - Continued
Expropriation bill C-136, 595-7
Compensation, 596-7
Negotiation procedures, 596
Public hearing before expropriation, 595-6
Public notice of intention to expropriate, 595, 596
Fisheries bill C-204, 1402-5, 1406-7
Approval of plans for plants, 1403
Lobster fishing in offshore waters, 1404-5
Newfoundland, 12 mile limit, 1404
Pollution, fines, etc., 1403-4, 1406
Inter-Parliamentary Union, 57th conference, 222-8, 269-75
Agenda, 223
Canadian delegation, 224
Ceylon visit, 269-75
Colombo International Airport, Katunayake, 270
Finland, 226-7
Germany, Federal Republic, 225-6
India, 227-8
Mahatma Gandhi, ideals quoted, 223, 225
USSR propaganda, 225
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1110-15
Functions and powers of commission, 1110
Law reform and reformers of previous years, 1111-12
Press comments, 1113-14
Tax reform, 1113
North Atlantic Assembly, 15th annual conference, 287, 382-8
Affluence in Canada and lack of personal involvement, 387
Aid to underdeveloped countries, 383, 387
Armed forces reduction, 386-7
Communist aspirations and ideology, 382-8
Khrushchev quoted on peaceful co-existence and ideology, 385, 386
NATO commanders' comments re defence requirements, 383-4
NATO, Government policy re, 287, 382-8
Saltfish bill C-175, 659-61
Difficulties in control of fish processing and marketing, 659-60
Salting and drying processes, 660
Small Businesses Loans bill C-9, 511-12
Loans for working capital and inventory, 512
Rural communities, 512
Statutory Instruments, 837-43, 867
Citizens rights, 842-3
Crown corporations, 837, 847-8
Agency corporations, 847
CNR, 837
Departmental corporations, 848
Proprietary corporations, 848
Delegated powers, 837-9
Drybones case, 840-1
Fisheries Act, inappropriate application of section 64, 837-8
Judicial Control of Administrative Action, 837, 839-40
Unemployment Insurance Act, 838
US Administrative Procedure Act and Canadian National Energy Board Act and
Rules, comparison, 849-50

INDEX
Carter, Hon. Chesley W. - Concluded
Student Loans bill C-135, 579-84
Costs of education, 581
Discriminations, complaints in Commons, 580
Landed immigrants, 579
Statistics, 579
Teacher certification, 581-2
Teaching techniques and equipment, 583
Cartwright, Right Hon. J.R., P.C., M. C., Chief justice of Canada
Royal assent, 398-9
CeyIon
Anniversary of Independence, 470-1
Visît to Ceylon by Canadian delegation to Inter-Parliamentary Union conference,
269-75, 296-7, 440-2
ChiIdr.n cf the war dead <education assistance)
Compassionate grounds, 369
Failures, 369, 370
Veterans affected by Government austerity prograin, 369-70
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Macdonald, John M., 369-70
Rattenbury, Nelson, 368-9, 370
Children cf War Dead (Education Assistance) bill C-8. Ir, 295; 2r, 368-70; 3r, 377; r.a.,
399

Choquette, Hon. Lionel
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 43-47
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 894-9
Bill of Rights, 896-9
Drybones case, 896-7
Globe and Mail editorial, 895-6, 899
Indian Act, confliction with Bill of Rights, 898
Debates of the Senate, objection to translation of French quotation, 669
Expropriation bill C-136, 623-6
Compensation, 623-5
Inflation, 44-45
Economic Council recommendations and wamnings, 44-45
Phillips, Lazarus, retirement from the Senate, 1467
Pollution, 46
Senate reform, 46-47
Stambaugh, Hion. J. Wesley, death of, 753
Supreme Court bill C-182, 1057-8
Welfare administration, 45
Young aduits' responsibility, 46

SE NAT E

Citizenship
See Constitution of Canada,
Ethnic Groups,
Uk rai nian s.

Coastal fisiieries protection
Regulation and control of foreign vessels, 708
St. Pierre and Miquelon, 709-10
Statistics on foreign vessels in St. John's and Halifax (1968), 708
Speaker: Hon. Donald Smith, 707-10

Coastal Fisheries Protection bill C-134. Ir, 607; 2r, 707-10; ref to com, 710; rep without
amdt, 736; 3r, 762;- r.a., 802

Combines investigation, publishing business in New Brunswick, 100, 172, 296

Commissions
Corrections (Committee on), 1180, 1181, 1182
Penal Reform, 1180, 1308-9
Pilotage, 1169-70, 1176-7
Potential Oii Pollution, Eutrophication and Pollution fromn Watercraft in Lake Erie,
Lake Ontario and the International Section of the St. Lawrence River, report
of International joint Commission, 1221-2
Work of and expenditures, comparison to Senate committees, 938-9

Committees, general data
Expenditures, application of Rule No. 84, 495-6
Role of parliamentary committees, 1104-5
Work of and expenditures, comparison to royal commissions, 938-9

Committees, Joint, Special
Constitution of Canada

Committees, Joint, Standing
Library of Parîrament
Printing of Parliament
Restaurant of Parliament

Committees, Senate, Special
Environmental Control
Mass Media in Canada
Poverty in Canada
Rules of the Senate
Science Policy

INDEX

Committees, Senate, Standing
Banking, Trade and Commerce
Divorce
Foreign Affairs
Health, Welfare and Science
Internai Economy and Contingent Accounts
Legal and Con stitutional Affairs
National Finance
Rules and Orders
Transport and Communications
Commons, see House of Commons
Commonwealth Porliamentary Association, Executive Committee meetings on the Isiandof
jersey, 1292-8
Agenda, 1298
Conferences, 1293
jersey Island, 1295-7
Partners in deveiopment, 1298
Race relations and population growth, 1293
Trade and economic development, 1293
Voiuntary agencies involved in Commonwealth problems, 1295
Speaker: Hon. John J. Connoiiy, 1292-8
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, l5th Generai Conference, 22-27, 245-51
African countries of self-governing status, 249
Canadian delegation, 24-26, 245-6
Turner, Hon. John, 25, 246
Caribbean, educational aid to, 247
Commonwealth Court, 26
Economic development, 26
Executive committee, 23
Future of Parliamentary Democracy, 26
Future of the Commonwealth, 26
Partners in Development, 247
Racism in Asian and African countries, 248
Rhodesia, 250-1
Secretariat of General Council, 23-24
Youth in revoit, 246-7, 249-50
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Belîsie, Rheai, 245-8
Connoiiy, John J., 22-27
Martin, Paul, 248-51
Communi sm
"Fifty Years of Communism", 1967 celebration, 137
Ideology and aspirations of communist leaders, 382-8
Khrushchev quoted on peaceful co-existence and ideoiogy, 385, 386
Origin of Russian Communism, 140

SENÂT E
Communisin

- Concluded
Theses and Statutes of the Communist International, 139
USSR defence projects, 121-2, 197-8, 407
USSR exploitation of UN, 141-4
World domination, plans of USSR, 141-2

Company of Young Canadians (Bill C-171)
Administrative deficiencies in company 's operations, 378-80
Comptroller, appointment and powers of, 378, 380
Disrespect for history and democracy, 397
Finances used for subversive activities, 379
Members not of Canadian citizenship, 395-6
Unwarranted condemnation of youth by authorities, 395
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Argue, Hazen, 394-5
Carter, Chesley W., 395-6
Flynn, Jacques, 379-81
Martin, Paul, 377-81
O'Leary, M. Grattan, 396-7
Quart, Josie D., 381-2
Roebuck, Arthur W., 398

Company of Young Canadians bill C-171. Ir, 374; 2r, 377-82; 3r, 394-8; r.a., 399
Company of Young Canadians (Bill C-176)
Accounts and financial transactions, auditing and supervision of, 640
Activities, limitation of, 638-9
Anti-Vietnam demonstration before U.S. Embassy, 670
Background of, 636-7
Council, composition of, 638-9, 673, 692
Executive officer, duties and authority, 638
Expenditures during 3-year period, 670
Government control of Company operations and alienation of volunteers, 673
"Shortcomings of CYC", excerpt from report of Commons Committee, 671-2
Subversive activities, 670
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Carter, Chesley W., 636-40
Yuzyk, Paul, 661, 669-73

Company cf Young Canadiens bill C-176. Ir, 590; 2r, 636-40, 661, 669-73; ref to com, 673;
rep without amdt, 691; 3r, 691-2; r.a., 714

Conferences
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, Executive Committee meetings on Island
of jersey, 1292-8
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, lSth General Conference in Trinidad and
and Tobago, 22-27, 24-S-51

INDEX

Conferences - Concluded
Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, 785-90, 804-8, 818-20, 822-5, 843-6,
885-90, 892-4, 994-1005
Inter-Parliamentary Union, 222-31, 269-75, 296-7
Law of the Sea, 1194, 1200
North Atlantic Assembly, 119,29, 193-9, 276-88, 297-304, 406-17
Outlook Conference, 330, 334-5
Southeast Asia, Non-Governmental Trade and Goodwill Mission, 909-18, 968-71
Thinkers' Conference on Cultural Rights, 562

Connolly, Hon. John J., P.C.
Appropriation bill No. 4, 1969, C-169, 310-11
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, conference in Trinidad and Tobago, 22-27
Canadian delegation, 24-26
Turner, Hon. John, 25
Commonwealth Court, 26
Economic development, 26
Executive committee, 23
Future of Parliamentary Democracy, 26
Future of the Commonwealth, 26
Pearson Report, 26-27
Secretariat of General Council, 23-24
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, Executive Committee meetings on Island
of jersey, 1292-8
Agenda, 1298
Conferences 1970-71, 1293
Island of jersey, 1295-7
Parliamentary Mace inscription, 1296
Partners in development, 1298
Race relations and population growth, 1293
Trade and economic development, 1293
Voluntary agencies involved in Commonwealth problems, 1295
Elections bill C-215, 1398
Age of voters, 1398
Public opinion polîs, 1398
Estimates, 310-11
Dollar items, 311
Monetary policy of government, 310
Expo Winding-Up bill C-6, 205-6
Farris, Hon. J.W. die B., death of, 600-2
Hayden, Hon. Salter A., 3Oth anniversary in Senate, 517-18
Inflation, restrîcted power of Govemment re, 310
International Development Research Centre bill C-12, 647-9
Board membership, 648
Financial aspects, 648
Tied aid, 648-9
Labour (Standards) Code bill C-214, 1267-8, 128n5
Grain elevator operators, 1268
Minimum wage increase, 1267, 1268
Mining industry, 1268
Railways, 1284
Shipping, Newfoundland and St. Lawrence region, 1267-8

SE AT E
Connolly, Hon. John J., P.C. -Concluded
Labour (Standards) Code bill C-214 - Concluded
Statistics on employees affected by wage increase, 1283-4
Trucking industry, 1267
Leaders of the Government in the Senate, unveiling of photographs in Senate foyer,
744
Leonard, Hon. T. D'Arcy, resignation from Senate, 923-4
Phillips, Lazarus, retirement from the Senate, 1470
Quarantine bill S-12, 257
Senate
Committees, work of and expenditures, 938-9
Comparison to royal commissions, 938
Senators' attendance in Chamber, 714-15
Statute Law (Supplementary Retirement Benefits) bill C-194, 754-9, 760
Retroactive payments, 757
Senators and Members of House of Commons, 755-60
Survivor benefits, 756-8
Statutory Instruments, 936-9
Comments of experts on parliamentary procedures, 936-7
Scope for Senate committee investigation, 938-9
Sullivan, Hon. joseph A., Honorary Fellowship of Academy of Medicine of Toronto,
804
Trust Companies bill S-8, 150-5
Assets and investment operations of trust companies, 151
Borrowing powers, 154
Capital requirements, licences, directors, 152
Companies administered by federal authority, 151
Investment powers, 152
Letters Patent incorporation, 152
Loans, reserves, subsidiary companies, 153
USSR visit by Senate delegation, 475-80

Constitution of Canada
Canada Ethnic Press Federation, 560
Canadian Famnily Tree, The, and other publications, 559
Citizens of other than British or French descent, 555
Statistics, 555, 558, 568-70
Civil liberties, 423
Conference of Tomorrow, 563
Constitutions since 1774, 553
Ethnic composition of Canadian population by provinces (1961), 558-9, 569, 570
Federal-provincial conferences, 422-3, 553-4, 563-4
Federal-provincial responsibilities, 17, 76, 423-4, 454
Fulton-Favreau Formula, 462
International treaties, 447, 565-6
Montmorency resolutions, 450
Multiculturalism vs biculturalism, 559-63, 566
Population trends of Canada-British, French, Third element, 568
Regional disparity, western provinces, 454, 457, 565
Regional representation in Parliament, 20
Regional representation on joint committee, 454-7
Senate, role of, 451-3, 456

INDEX

Constitution of Canada - Concluded
Thînkers' Conference on Cultural Rights, 562
Ukrainian Canadians, 559
Women representatives on joint committee, lack of, 466
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Argue, Hazen, 452-6
Cameron, Donald, 456-7
Fergusson, Muriel McQ., 465-7
Flynn, Jacques, 447-51
Fournier, Edgar, 538
Grosart, Allister, 462-5
Haig, J. Campbell, 457-8
Macdonald, John M., 504-6
Martin, Paul, 422-4
O'Leary, M. Grattan, 451-2
Phillips, Orville H., 506-8
Constitution cf Canada, Joint Committee, motion for, Hon. Mr. Martin, 422-4, 447-58,
462-7, 504-8, 537-40, 547, 552-67; agreed to, 567
Members
Commons, 603,-4
Senate, 422
Reports
Employment of specialists and other personnel, 1074-5, 1107
Meetings held in Western Canada and in the Yukon Territory, 1472-3
Quorum and authorization for meetings, 641, 677
Conventions
Offences on Aircraft, 318-21, 335-41
Prevention and Punishment of Genocide, 884
See also Agreements
Cook, Hon. Eric
Excise Tax bill C-155, 365-7
Air services, costs of, 366
International flights, 366
User tax charges, 365-6
Corporations
Canadian Company Law, 1349
Constrained share company, 1346, 1418-19
Disclosure of affairs of private companies, 1311, 1312
Financial statements, 1259-61
Insider trading, 1261, 1347-9, 1419
Investigations of company's affairs, 1263-4, 1350-1, 1420-1
Land speculators, law suits re, 1312-13
Letters patent company, 1417-18
Provincial securities legislation, validity of, 1421-2
Proxies and offences in delivery of, 1419

SENA TE
Corporations

- Concluded
Proxies and proxy solicitation, 1262
Residence or citizenship of shareholders, 1264
Shareholders rights, 1262
Takeover bids, 1262-3, 1311, 1348, 1419
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Beaubien, L.P., 1311
Hayden, Salter A., 1346-53, 1417-22
Urquhart, Earl W., 1258-65
Willis, Harry A., 1311-13

Corporations bill C-4. Ir, 1224; 2r, 1258-65, 1311-13, 1346-53; ref to com, 1353;
rep with
amdts, 1417-22, 1430-2, 1449; 3r, 1454; Commons concurrence in Senate
amdts, 1472; r.a., 1474

Council of Europe
Objectives and concerns of, 194
Strasbourg meetings, 194

Crime
Compensation to victims of, 103-4
Saskatchewan, 103-4
Crime comics, 953-4
Punishment for theft, 531, 597-8, 629
Recidivists, 1308
Statistics on offences, men and women, 1271
Subversive activities, Montreal, 379
See Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3,
Criminal Code (Punishment for Theft) bill S-21.

Criminal Code (Hate propaganda)
Amdts to Bis
S-21 and C-3, 883
Background of previous hate propaganda bis,
881-3
Bill of Rights, 896-9, 930-2, 946-7, 949, 950, 958-9, 961-2, 975, 978-80, 986,
1020-4
Breach of the peace, danger of, 934
Cohen Report, 944-5, 991
Colour and Citizenship: A report on British Race Relations, 945
Communication of statements inciting hatred, 882, 883
Crime comics legisiation, 953-4
Drybones case, 896-7, 932, 946-7, 948, 958, 961-2, 963, 978, 1023, 1025
Freedom of speech, 944-5, 949, 960, 962, 973, 976, 980-2, 1024, 1041, 1061-3
Judgments of Supreme Court of Canada, 980-1
Genocide, 882-3, 964, 973-4, 1020, 1040-1, 1062
Globe and Mail editoriai, 895-6, 899
Hate propaganda legisiation of other countries, 1041
Identifiable groups, 931
Indian Act, conflict with Bill of Rights and discrimination against native population,
898, 946-7, 948, 950-1, 954, 958
Nazi Group, Toronto, 933

INDEX

Criminal Code (Mate propagande) - Concluded
Prevention and Punishment of Genocide, Convention on, 884
Proof of statement, 953-4, 963
Asquith, 1042-3
Race Relations Act, Britain, excerpts from speech of Baroness
Racial prejudice, 983
Rose Committee, 945-6
Saumur v City of Quebec (Jehovah Witnesses), 992
Supreme Court of Canada, functions of, 979, 986-90
Private member's and other legisiation raf to Supreme Court, 987-90
Tup pet v The Queen, 963
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Beaubien, L.P., 984
Cameron, Donald, 960
Choquette, Lionel, 894-9
Croli, David A., 956-60
Fergusson, Muriel McQ., 881-4, 1040-4
Flynn, Jacques, 985-93
Fournier, Edgar, 920-1
Grosart, Allister, 929-36
Hayden, Salter A., 1020-9
Hollett, Malcolm, 1035-8
Lang, Daniel A., 943-50
Macdonald, John M., 1061-3
Martin, Paul, 931, 933, 934-5, 960-5, 991
O'Leary, M. Grattan, 973-7
Paterson, Norman McL., 1007-8
Phillips, Lazarus, 977-83
Prowse, J. Harper, 950-4
Quart, Josie D., 1060-1
Sullivan, joseph A., 1038-9
White, George S., 1017-20, 1039-40

919-21, 929-36,
Criminal Code (Hate Propagande) bill C-3. ir, 832; m for 2r, 881-4, 894-9,
in amdt, 950-4, 956-65, 973-84, 985-94, 1007-8, 1017-30, amdt neg,
943-50; m
1030; 2r, 1031, 1034-45 (on div); 3r, 1060-3; r.a., 1223

Criminal Code (Punishment for theft)
Major and minor theft, 597-8
Penalties, 629
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Flynn, Jacques, 629
Macdonald, John M., 597-8
Martin, Paul, 629

629; ref to com, 629;
Criminal Code (Punishment for Tbeft) bill S.21. ir, 531; 2r, 597-8,
3r, 696
tep without amndt, 689;

SE NAT E
Criminal records
Drumheller institution, 1083
Employment in federal Government, 1067, 1069-70
Half-way bouses, 1083
Pardon from summary conviction offence or indictable offence, 1066
Parole Board operations, 1082-3
Rehabilitation and need for supervision, 1068-9
Schedule of Pardon, 1067
Segregation of record of offence and of other judicial records, 1066, 1069, 1083-4
Three-day parole and other leave, 1083
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Fournier, Sarto, 1066-8, 1070
Hastings, Earl A., 1082-4
Macdonald, John M., 1068-70

Criminal Records bill C-5. Ir, 1032; 2r, 1066-70, 1082-4; ref to com, 1084-5; rep without
amdt, 1119; 3r, 1134; r.a., 1223

Croll, Hon. David A.
Bis

of Exchange bill C-208, 1334-7
Consumer liability to finance company or third party, 1334-6
Credit growth, 1335
Legisiation resulting from recommendations of Consumer Credit Committee, 1336
Protection for consumer, 1337
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 956-60
Bill of Rights, 958-9
Drybones case, 958
Indian Act, discrimination against native population, 958
Ontario anti-discrimination legisiation, 958
Supreme Court, function of, 958-9
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Sarnia) bill C-75, 1141-2
Estimates, 780-2
Inflation and unemployment, 780-2
Labour (Standards) Code bill C-214, 1306-7
Minimum wage in relation to poverty, 1306-7
Penitentiaries, federal, facilities for women prisoners, 1307-11
Archambault Commission, 1308-9
Imprisonment in places distant from familiar surroundings, 1308
Kingston penitentiary, 1308
Newfoundland provisions for women prisoners, 1310
Ottawa Citizen report on "War hero and family man jailed", 1310
Recidivists, 1308
Phillips, Lazarus, retirement from the Senate, 1468
Poverty, 1356-65
Attitudes toward work, 1362
Cost of living, 1357-8
Costs to government, 1361
Education, 1360
Employment and unemployment, 1358-9
Guaranteed income, 1361
Medicare and hospitalization, 1359-60

INDEX
Croli, Hon. Davidi A. - Concluded
Poverty - Concluded
Provincial statistics, 1358
Rural conditions, 1366-8
Welfare system, deficiencies in, 1356
Invasion of privacy, 1357
Provincial dîfferences, 1356
Poverty in Canada, Special Senate Committee
Appointment, motion for, 27-34; agreed, 40
Reports on activities of committee, 53-54, 1355-65
Statement attributed to director of Special Senate Committee, 202
Statutory Instruments, 854-9
Welfare recipients, 854-6
Legal aid, 855
Rights of, 854-6
Termination of public assistance, 855-6
Welfare bureaucracy, 856-7
Winnipeg Welfare Rights Movement, 857-8
Crown corporations, 705-7, 747-8, 836, 847-8, 907
Agency corporations, 847
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, inquiries re, 821-2, 833-4, 1034, 1060
Canadian National Railways, inquiries re, 331, 376-7, 461, 822, 1015-16, 1033,
1091-2, 1145, 1193, 1225-6, 1423-7
Confiscation of property, 907
Departmental corporations, 848
Expenditures, 836
Reporting of, 1246
Post Office, 907
Proprietary corporations, 848
Relationship between Government and Goverrnment-controlled corporations, 706
See Statutory instruments
Curling, Canadian Champions, congratulations to victorious Manitoba Rink, 696
Customs toriff and excise tax
Anti-dumping, 261
British preference rates, 260
Drawbacks, 261-2
Exemptions, quarterly and yearly, 263
General Adjustment Assistance Board, 262, 266
Kennedy Round agreement, 262, 264
Most-favoured nation, 260
Order in council, approval of, 261, 265
Printing materials, etc., 260
Tobacco and alcohol, 263
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Hayden, Salter A., 259-4, 265-6
Macdonald, John M., 264-5
Roebuck, Arthur W., 265

22481-57

SENAT E
Customs Toriff and Excise Tex bill C-140. Ir, 203; 2r, 259-66; ref to com, 266; rep witbout amdt, 269; 3r, 2%6; r.a., 398
Cyprus, peacekeeping force, inquiry, Hon. Mr. O'Leary, 89-90
Davey, Hon. Keith
Mass Media, Special Senate Committee
Meetings during sittings of Senate, 460
Motion for appointment, 55-56; agreed, 56

Deep sea fisheries
Grant to aid in development of sea fisheries and to give assistance to fishermen, 662,
683-4
Right of fishermen to bounty, 678-3
Treaty of Washington, 662, 678, 680, 682-3
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Burchili, G. Percival, 662, 683-4
Hollett, Malcolm, 677-9
Kinley, John J., 679-82
Macdonald, John M., 682-3

Deep Seo Fisheries C-133. ir, 607; 2 r, 662, 677-84; ref to com, 684; tep without amdt, 738;
3r, 762-; r.a., 802

Defence, see National Defence

Denis, Hon. Azellus,

P.C.

Elections bill C-215, 1399
Address and occupation of candidate, 1399
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Glengarry-Prescott) bill C-153, 1142-3
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Missisquoi) bill C-162, 1143
Loan Companies bill S-9, 98-99
Standards Council of Canada bill C-163, 1427-9, 1448-9
Budget, 1429
Membership and executive committee, 1428-9, 1448
Objects and activities, 1427-8
Voluntary standards, 1449

Deschatelets, Hon. Jean-Paul, P.C., Speaker of the Senate
Amissah-Aidoo, Isaac, Deputy Speaker of Legisiative Assembly of Ghana, visitor to
Senate, 1047
Budget Speech, accomnmodation for Senators in Commons gallery, 689
Committee meetings while Senate is in session, 34-35, 36, 38
Expo '70, Parliamentary delegation to visit japan, 1210
Government contracts, contractors' dlaims with Crown or its agency, 926-9
Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, 804-8, 818-20, 1172-4

INDEX
Deschatelets, Hon. Jean-Paul, P.C. - Concluded
MacKenzie, Hon. Norman A., visitor ta Senate, 68
Poverty in Canada, Special Senate Commîttee, 27-40
Rules of the Senate
Adoption of committee report, 1453
Point of order, 989
Printing of appendix, 557
Procedure on notice ta adjourn, 955
Senator out of order, relevancy of debate, 394, 582, 657, 813-14
Science Policy, Special Senate Committee, 40-41
Security measures in Parliament Buildings, question of privilege, 1089-90
Southeast Asia delegation to Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, visitors ta
Senate, 1249
USSR visit by Senate delegation, 471-5
Desruisseaux, Hon. Paul
Address in reply to Speech from the Tbrone, 11-17
Constitution of Canada, revision of, 17
Dessureault, Hon. Jean-Marie, death of, 1416
Inflation, 13-14
Prime Minister's remarks, 13, 14
Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, 1302-5
Economic conditions and world markets, 1303
Foreign investments in Canada, 1304-5
"The Nature of American Challenge", 1305
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1115-18
Functionr> and powers of commission, 1117
Laggard Law, The: Machinery for Law Reform, 1117-18
Politics of Purpose, 1116
National unity, 14-15
Phillips, Lazarus, retirement from the Senate 1469-70
Pollution, 15-16
Senate, resume of activities, 1226-7
Statutory Instruments, 859-63
Canada's Tomorrow, 861
Foreign investments, 860
Government bureaucracy, 860-2
Mass Media, 863
Tax reform, 862
Vatican ambassador, 16
Dessurcuit, Hon. Jean-Marie
Deceased August 25, 1970
Tributes, 1415-16
Divorce, Standing Senate Committee
Court jurisdiction, 331-3
Decrees absolute granted yearly, 242
Finalization of committee work, 233-43
Gingras, Roberta Berube, petition for bill ta annul resolution to dissolve marriage,
210, 424-6

22481-57Aý

SE NAT E
Divorce, Standing Senate Committee

-

Concluded

Hashim, Laura Elleen Margaret Bamford, petition for bill to annul resolution to dissolve
marriage, 909
Rep of com, 1133-4, 1146-8
Motion for reconstitution of, 41-42; agreed, 42
Quebec and Newfoundland applications, 243
Reports No. 1 - 7: 118, 233
Resolutions No. 1 - 4: 233
Statistics of justice Dept., 241
Statistics of Standing Senate Committee, 240
Tribute to present chairman and past chairman of committee, 244

Documents tabled, see Journals of the Senate
Dominion Cool Board Dissolution
Coal industry, federal-provincial agreements re, 80
Loans outstanding, repayment of, 81
Staff transfers, 81
Subventions since 1928 to various provinces, 82-83, 711
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Macdonald, John M., 82-83, 711
Martin, Paul, 80-82, 710-11

Dominion Cool Board Dissolution bill C-161. ir, 666;

2

r, 710-11; 3r, 718; r.a., 802

Dominion Cool Board Dissolution bill S-3. ir, 9; 2r, 80-83; 3r, 90 (Bill not proceeded with)

Drugs
Addicts, institutional accommodation for, 1179, 1180
Control of, 192-3
L-Dopa, usage for Parkinson's disease, 1193-4, 1213
LeDain Commission report, 1301
Steroids and alkylating drugs, possible side effects in vaccination, 256
Thalidomide, 193

Duggan, Hon. James
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 90-93
Labour and international unions, 92-93
Management and labour relations, 91-92
Newfoundland, 90-91
Passenger train service, removal of, 91
Regional disparity, 90-91
Saltfish bill C-175, 700-1
Independent fish plants, arrangements with corporation, 700-1
NAFEL, 700
Newfoundland fisheries, 700
Working conditions of employees of fish plants, 701

INDEX

Economic prospects
Bank of Canada measures taken to maintain value of Canadian money, 487
Canadian dollar, weakening in value of, 148-9
Consumer Price Index, 494
Credits available for protection of Canadian dollar, 488-9
Currency and chartered bank deposits, 489-92
Economic servitude of Canadians to US, 870
Foreign investments, 805-6, 844-6, 860, 994-5
Gross National Product, 1246-8, 1270
Inflationary restraints, 1270
Inflation, recommendations of Economic Council, 44-45
Initiatives to stabilize economy, 1246
Monthly changes in Canada's holdings of gold and U.S. dollar reserves and credit
with International Monetary Fund, 493
Resources of Canadian Government and Bank of Canada, 488

Education
Activists on the campus, 157, 162-3, 166
"Americanization at the U of T", 158-9
Banff School of Advanced Management, 909, 968-9, 971
Children of the War Dead (education assistance), 368-70
Dropouts, 167
Goals for the future, 167
Import teachers, 158, 168
Income tax, tuition fee deductions, 572
Malaysian students, scholarships for study in advanced management, 909, 969
Participatory democracy on campus, 162-3
Physics and engineering, decrease in enrolments, 157
Science and technology, expenditures and priorities in research, 164
Social sciences, 157-62, 167-8
Summer employment for female students, 1366
Teachers qualifications, 157
University enrolments,. 157
"University of Windsor under Ameicanization", 159
Women prisoners, programs for, 1219

Elections
Address and occupation of candidate, 1399
Âge of voters, 1396, 1397, 1398
Citizenship, 1397, 1398, 1399
Fishing industry, seasonal employees, 1400
Permanent voters' list, lack of, 1393-4
Proxy voting, 1395
Public servants abroad, 1394-5, 1399-1400
Residence qualification, 1396
Time allowed for employees to vote, 1396-7
Travelling poîîs for voters under institutional care, need for, 1396

SE NAT E
Elections - Concluded
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Argue, Hazen, 1397-8
Connolly, John J., 1398
Denis, Azellus, 1399
Fergusson, Muriel McQ., 1399-1400
Macdonald, John M., 1396-7
Stanbury, Richard J., 1392-6, 1399, 1400
Thompson, Andrew, 1398-9

Elections bill C-215. ir, 1392; 2r, 1392-1400;

3

r, 1400; see also 1410-14; r.a., 1409

Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Argenteuil) bill C-178. ir, 1110; 2r, 1143-4; 3r, 1150;
r. a., 1409
Electoral Boundaries Readlustment (Burnaby- Richmond) bill C-130. ir, 1109; 2r, 1142; 3r,
1149; r.a., 1409

Electoral Boundaries Reudjustment (Glengarry.Prescott) bill C-153. ir, 1109; 2r, 1142-3;
3r, 1149; r.a., 1409

Electorai Boundaries Readjustment (Lanark and Renfrew) bill C-213. ir, 1110; 2r, 1144;1
3r, 1150; r.a., 1409

Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Maisonneuve) bill C-177. ir, 1110; 2r, 1143; 3r, 1150;
r.a., 1409

Electorai Boundaries Readjustment (Missisquoi) bill C-162 ir, 1109; 2r, 1143; 3r, 1149;
r.a., 1409
Electoral Boundaries Readj ustment (Perth) bill C-62. ir, 1109; 2r, 1140-1-; 3r, 1148-9;
r.a., 1409
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Sarnia) bill C-75.

ir, 1109; 2r, 1141-2; 3r, 1149;

r.a., 1409

Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Wellington-Grey) bill C-168. ir, 1110;1 2r, 1143; 3r,
1150-1 r.a., 1409

INDEX

Environmental contrai
Air, 212, 998-9
Arctic, 1000-2
Prime Minister's statement, 1001-2
SS Manhattan and John A. Macdonald and other enterprises, 1000-1
Comments of U Thant, Rt. Hon. Lester B. Pearson and others, 214-15
Environmental Decade, statement issued by US congressmen, 998-1000
Industrialization and effects on natural resources, 211-12
Land, 999
News items and matters of concern re controls, 215-16
Population growth, 213
Recreational facilities, 213
Scientific research, 213-14
Technology leadership, 1003-4
Water, 998
Wildlife, 212-13, 999
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Macnaughton, Alan, 210-16, 218, 997-1004
Molson, Hartland de M., 216-17
Roebuck, Arthur W., 217-18
Smith, Donald, 218
Environmental Contrai, Special Seote Committee
Appointment, motion for, Hon. Mr. Macnaughton, 210-19
Amdt to motion, 216-19; agreed, 219
Order stands to 31 Oct., 1291-2
Eskimos, see Indians and Eskimos
Estimnates
Appropriations of previous year, lack of explanation re non-use, 1246
Bilingualîsm Development Program, 1245
Borrowing powers of Government, 796
Budgetary surplus, 1248
Cash budget statement, recommendation of committee, 1247
Control and revaluation of programs, 1270
Crown corporations and other agencies, reporting of expenditures, 1246
Departmental grants, 1246
Dollar items, 305-8, 314, 761, 774-5, 782, 783, 792-3
Expenditures vs GNP, 774, 794, 798
Gross National Product, 1246-8, 1270
Actual and potential, Canada and United States, 1248
Hidden expenditures, 306-7, 314
Income, per capita, 1270
Indian Affairs and Northern Development, 1245
Industrial Incentives Program, 1244-5
Inflation and unemployment, 780-2, 784
Loans, investments, advances, 760, 774
Privy Council, 797
Provincial programs, federal audit of, 1246

SENÂTE
Estimates

-

Concluded

Regional Economic Expansion, 1244-5
Supplementary (A), 171, 268, 269, 289-94, 304-8
Treasury Board pay increases, 310
Under-Secretary of State, 1245
Wheat acreage reduction program, 775-9, 782-4

Estimates ref to National Finance Committee
Fiscal year ending Mar. 31/70
Supplementary (A), 171
Report presented, 268; printed as appendix to Debates, 269, 289-94; adopted,
304-8
Supplementary (B) ref to com, 664
Report presented, 760-1, 774-85; adopted, 785
Fiscal year ending Mar. 31/71
Committee empowered to examine and report on, 533-4
Report presented, 1225, 1244-7, 1268-71, 1285-91; adopted, 1291

Ethnic Graups
Canada Ethnic Press Federation, 560

Canadien Family Tree, The, and other publications, 559
Citizens of other than British or French descent, 555
Statistics, 555, 558, 568-70
Ethnîc composition of Canadian population (1961), 568-70
Multiculturalism vs biculturalism, 559-63, 566
Population trends of Canada -British, French, Third element, 568
Thinkers' Conference on Cultural Rights, 562
Ukrainian Canadians, 559
Statistical survey being conducted from Canada Council grant, 942-3

Everett, Hon. Douglas D.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 17-20
Constitution of Canada, revision of, 20
Estimates, fiscal year ending Mat. 31/71, rep of com, 1225, 1244-7, 1268-71
Control and revaluation of programs, 1270
GNP potential, 1270
Per capita real national income, 1270
Hudson's Bay Company bill S-25, 1227-8
Canadian Letters Patent, provisions under, 1228
Head Office, 1228
Transfer of shares, restrictions, 1228
ICG Transmission Ltd. bill S-17, 372-3
Natural resources marketing, 19-20
Regional disparities, 18-20
Corporation offices, 20
Government departments and purchasing, 19
Prairie provinces, 18

INDEX

Excise
Brandy and other distilled spirits, 1265
Cigar and cigarette definitions, 1265, 1266
Pharmacists, 1266-7
Vodka, 1265-6
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Benidickson, W.M., 1265-6, 1305-6
Macdonald, J.M., 1266-7

Excise bill C-209. ir, 1224; 2r, 1265-7; 3r, 1305-6; r.a., 1409

Excise tax
Air services, costs of, 366, 367
International flights, 366,.367
Powers of Governor in Council, 368
User charges, 365-6
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Cook, Eric, 365-7
Flynn, Jacques, 367-8
See also Customs Tariff and Excise Tax bill C-140

Exc ise Tex bi 1 C- 155. ir, 329; 2r, 365-8; ref to com, 368; rep without amdt, 374; 3r, 374;
r. a., 398

Expo '70
Canadian Agent General and associates, 916
Canadian Pavilion, 1176
Parliamentary delegation to visit japan, 1210-11
Quebec Pavilion, 917, 1176

Expo winding-up
Assets from City du Havre, 204
Costs of Expo, 204-5
Deficit of Corporation, 203
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Beaubien, L.P., 205
Connolly, John J., 205-6
Gelinas, Louis P., 203-5

Expo Winding-Up bill C-6. ir, 203; 2r, 203-6; ref to com, 206; rep without amdt, 221; 3r,
221; r.a., 252

22481-58

SEMÂTE
Expropriation
Abandonment of expropriation, 537, 575
Compensation, 536-7, 575-6, 596-7, 611, 621, 623-5
Costs of proceedings, 1050-1
Crown corporations, powers of expropriation, 551, 552, 573-7
Ethel V. Grayson v Her Majesty the Queen, and other cases of expropriation, 573-4
Law Reform Commission, recommendations of, 621
Minister's responsibility and authority, 622-3
Notice of expropriation, public hearing, and confirmation, 535-6, 574-5, 595-6
Objection to expropriation, 622
Possession by Crown, 537
Public hearing before expropriation, 595-6
Qu-Appelle Valley, 551
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Belisie, Rheal, 612-13
Carter, Chesley W., 595-7
Choquette, Lionel, 623-6
Flynn, Jacques, 610-12, 1051
Grosart, Allister, 551, 552
Hayden, Salter A., 620-3
Pearson, Arthur W., 550-1
Phillips, Lazarus, 572-6, 1050
Urquhart, Earl W., 535-7, 551-2, 576-7, 626

Expropriation bill C-136. ir, 518; 2r, 535-7, 572-7, 595-7, 610-13, 620-6; ref to com, 626;
rep with amdt, 1014, 1049-51; 3r, 1051; Commons concurrence in Senate amdt,
1133; r.a., 1223

External affairs, see Foreign affairs

Farming
Beef production, 330
Cattie and hog production, 345
Dairy produce deficit, 345
Eggs, over-production, 330
Farmn land, depreciation in value, 174, 341
Farm machinery, Barber Royal Commission on, 330-1
Flax, loss of sales, 219, 253
Interest rates under Farm Improvement Loans Act, 109
Livestock production, 109
Prairie grain and livestock production policies, 330
Western Canada producers, problems of, 105-10
See also Agriculture,
Grain,
Prairie Grain Provisional Payments.

Farris, Hon. J.W. de B.
Deceased February 25, 1970
Tributes, 600-3

INDEX
Fauteux, Hon. Gerald, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of Canada
Royal assent, 714, 802.3, 1408-9, 1474
Speech f romn the Throne at prorogation of Parliament, 1474-7
Fel icitations
Hayden, Hon. Salter A., 3Oth anniversary in Senate, 515-18
Martin, Hon. Paul, birthday felicitations, 1317
Paterson, Hon. Norman McL., 30th anniversary in Senate, 51S-18
Sullivan, Hon. joseph A., Award of Merit from the American Otological Society, 1032
Sullivan, Hon. joseph A., Honorary Fellowship of the Academy of Medicine of
Toronto, 804
Fergusson, Hon. Muriel McQ.
Banff School of Fine Arts, 968-9, 971
Committee meetings while Senate is in session, 37
Constitution of Canada, joint Committee, 465-7
Lack of women representatives, 466
Provincial representation, 466
Crimînal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 881-4, 1040-4
Amdts to Bis S-21 and C-3, 883
Background of previous hate propaganda bis, 881-3
Communication of statements inciting hatred, 882, 883
Consent of attorney general, 1041
Freedom of speech, 1041
Genocide, 882-3, 1040-1
Hate propaganda legisiation of other countries, 1041
Prevention and Punishment of Genocide, Convention on, 884
Race Relations Act, Britain, excerpts from speech of Baroness Asquith, 1042-3
Elections bill C-215, 1399-1400
Public servants abroad, 1399-1400
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1120-3
Appeals from decisions of lower courts, 1122
Bail provisions, 1121-2
Leal, Prof. H. Allan, excerpt from speech of, 1121
Membership of commission, 1123
Quimet Committee, 1122
Suicide, 1123
Vagrancy, 1123
Penitentiaries, federal, facilities for women prisoners, 1178-82
Archambault Commission on Penal Reform, 1180
Drug addicts, 1179, 1180
Elizabeth Fry Society, 1180, 1181
French-speaking inmates, lack of program for, 1181
Halfway House, Kingston, 1181
Kingston Penîtentiary, 1179, 1180
Resîgnations of Superintendent and other staff, 1181
Matsqui Institution, 1180
National Council of Women, recommendations of, 1178-9
Quimet Commîttee on Corrections, 1180, 1181, 1182
Statistics on female and maie inmates, 1180
Women in unnecessary maximum security, 1180-1

2248 1-58/½

SE NAT E
Fergusson, Hon. Muriel McQ.

- Concluded
Radiation Emitting Devices bill S-14, 417-21, 431-2
Exclusion of contrai over substances within meaning of Atomic Energy Contrai
Act, 417, 421
Farfeiture of equipment and restoration, 419-21
Inspectars, 418
Offences and penalties, 419
Regulations, 418
Seizures, 418-19
X/ray equipment, 417
Southeast Asia, Non-Goveromental Trade and Goodwill Mission, 968-71
Cameron, Hon. Donald, accomplishments as instigator of Mission, 968-9, 971
Penal systems
Czechoslovakia, 969-70
Wages for work perfarmed by prisoners, 970
Wamen' s prisons, 970
Scholarships for foreign students of advanced management, 969
Turkey, memorial ta Kemal Ataturk, 970
Statutory Instruments, 825-31
Directors, regional directors, subdelegations, 827
Hodge v the Queen, 826
Liquidators of Maritime Bank of Canada
vthe Receiver Generalof New Brunswick,
726
Old Age Security regulations, 828
Publication of regulations in Canada Gazette, 828
Rights of public servants and other citizens, 826-31
Student Loans bill C-135, 584-6
Night-school, part-time and summer students, 584-5
Poverty vs education, 584
Statistics, 585, 586
Vocational and technical training institutions, 586
Women taking post-secondary courses, 585-6
Summer employment for female students, 1366

Finance Committee, see National Finance
Finance, protection of purchase or exchange value of Canadian money, 485-6, 487-94
Consumer Price Index, 494
Currency and chartered bank deposits, 489-92
Monthly changes in Canada's holdings of gold and
with International Monetary Fund, 493

Fi sheries
Approval af plans for plants, 1403
Bounty payments 1956-69 inclusive, 687-8
Deep sea fisheries, 607, 622, 677-84
Fishing Agreement, Canada-United States, 1059-60
Lobster fishing in offshore waters, 1404-6
Newfaundland, 12 mile limit, 1404
Pollution, 131, 132, 1403-6

U.S.

dollar reserves and credit

INDEX

Fisheries - Concluded
Saltfish, regulations of interprovincial and export trade, 627-8, 655-61
Subsidies and loans, 79-80
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Carter, Chesley W., 659-61, 1402-5, 1406-7
Hollett, Malcolm, 657-9
Macdonald, John M., 655-7
Petten, William, J., 627-8
Phillips, Orvilie H., 1405-6, 1407
Rattenbury, Nelson, 661
Smith, Donald, 707-10
See Coastal Fisheries Protection bill C-134,
Saltfish bill C-175,
Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones bill C-203.

Fisheries bill C-204. Ir, 1402; 2r, 1402-7; 3r, 1407-8; r.a., 1409

Flynn, Hon. Jacques, P.C., Leader of the Opposition in the Senate
Appropriation bill No. 4, 1969, C-169, 309-10
Canada Week, 1177
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, Custer Channel Wing Aîrcraft, preparation and
cost of film, 1060
Company of Young Canadians bill C-171, 379-81
Comptroller, powers of, 380
Finances used for subversive activities, 379
Constitution of Canada, 447-51
Federal-provincial responsibilities, 448
International treaties, 447
Montmorency resolutions, 450
Crîminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 985-93
Bibi of Rights, 986
Cohen committee, 991
Freedom of speech, 992, 993
Saumur v City of Quebec (Jehovah Wtnesses), 992
Supreme Court, functions of, 986-90
Private member's bibi and other legislation ref to Supreme Court, 987-90
Criminal Code (Punishment for Theft) bibi S-21, 629
Dessureault, Hon. Jean-Marie, death of, 1415-16
Divorce, petition for bibi to annul resolution to dissolve marriage (Gingras),
424
Drugs, LeDain Commission report, 1301
Estimates, 309-10, 782-3
Dollar items, 782
Treasury Board pay increases, 310
Wheat acreage reduction program, 782
Excise Tax bill C-155, 367-8
Air services, costs of, 367
International flights, 367
Powers of Governor in Council, 368

SENATE
Flynn, Hon. Jacques, P.C.

-

Concluded

Expo '70, Parliamentary delegation to visit Japan, 1210
Expropriation bill C-136, 610-12, 1051
Compensation, 611
Tariff of costs fixed by hearing officer, 611, 1051
Farris, Hon. J.W. de B., death of, 600
Income Tax bill C-139, 390-1
Inflation and unemployment, 782
Irvine, Hon. Olive L., death of, 84-85
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1182-5
Government expenditures for Commission, 1182
jurisdiction, federal and provincial, 1184
Membership of Commission, 1183, 1184-5
Term of office, 1184-5
Ministerial authority, 1182-3
Objects of Commission, 1184
Leaders of the Govemnment in the Senate, unveiling of photographs in Senate foyer,
743-4
Leonard, Hon. T. D'Arcy, resignation from Senate, 924
Martin, Hon. Paul, birthday felicitations, 1317
Meach Lake expropriations by National Capital Commission, 800-1, 891-2
Monette, Hon, Gustave, death of, 402-3
Nasser, Gamal Abdel, President of the United Arab Republic, death of, 1415
Newfoundland, anniversary of discovery, 1318
Nuclear Liability bill C-158, 1370
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, 666
Offences on Aircraft, Convention, 320, 336-7
Officiai Languages for Canada, appointment of Keith Spicer as Commissioner,
642-3
Revised Statutes of Canada, 1454, 1457
St-Jean-Baptiste Day, 1318
Senate
Appointments, 449-50
Committee meetings during Senate sittings, 376, 449
Resume of activities, 1385-7
Senate and House of Commons Act, inquiry, 101
Shipping Conferences Exemption bill C-184, 1462
Shipping (Pilotage) bill S-23, 1170
Statute Law (Supplementary Retirement Benefits) Amendment bill C-194, 769-73
Senators and Members of House of Commons, 770
Survivor benefits, 771-2
Statutory Instruments, 630-1
Delegated legisiation, 630-1
Legisiative function of Parliament, 630
Tax Reform, White Paper, 100, 171-2, 1446
Trade Agreement, Canada-USSR, protocol tabled, 609
Trust Companies bill S-8, 154
United Nations, twenty-fourth anniversary, 7-8
USSR visit by Senate delegation, 484-5
Vaillancourt, Hon. Cyrille, death of, 84
World War II, commemoration of cessation of hostilities, 1006-7

INDEX

Foreign affairs
Aid to developing counitries, 61-65
Caribbean, Canadian relations with, 1320-2, 1379-8, 1449-52
See Appendix to Debates of June 23 for report of Foreign Affairs Committee
Ceylon, 22nd anniversary of independence, 470-1
Ceylon visit by delegates to Inter-Parliamentary Union, 269-75
Colombo International Airport, Canadian construction of, 270

CUSO, 71
Disarmament in Europe, conference on, 477-8, 483
GNP vs foreign aid, 416-17
Information services, inquiry, 101, 136
International Development Research Centre, 607, 617-20, 643-9
North Atlantic Assembly, 1Sth annual conference, 119-29, 193-9, 276-88, 297-304,
382-8, 406-17
Offences on Aircraft, Convention, 318-21, 335-41
Partners in Development, 61
Peru, aid to, 1285-6
Reduction in prograins and personnel, .386-7
Status of Canada in Western hemisphere, statement attributed to US Senator Church,

742

Territorial rights, Canada-US, 416
Trade, recommendations of Pearson Commission, 63-64
Unemployment in developing countries, 62-63
USSR visit by Senators, 471-85
See Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones bill C-203
Foreign Affairs, Standing Senate Committee
Authorization to examine and report on foreign and Commonwealth affairs, 67
Reports
Caribbean, Canadian relations with, see Appendix to Debates of june 23; also
1379-81, 1449-52
International Development Research Centre bill C-12, tep with amdts, 739-40
Foreign Insurance Companies bill S-7. Ir, 10; 2r, 169; ref to coin, 169; rep wîthout amdt,
170; 3r, 185; r.a., 714
Fournier, Hon. Edgar
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
Custer Channel Wing Aircraft, filming of, preparation and cost, 1060
Expenditures in productions and employees, 1034
"The Ernie Gaine" and "Waiting for Caroline", cost and revenue, 821-2
Canadian National Railways
Centralized Traffîc Control system in Atlantic region, 1314-16
Chaleur and Scotian, passenger traffîc 1969 between certain points, 1465
Derailment expenditures, 1423-4
Diesel oil used in Atlantic region, source and cost, 1316
Equipinent damaged and inoperative, 1424
Federal subsidies applied to passenger service, 1225-6
Hot box detectors, 1425
Interest on long-term debt, 1034

SE NAT E
Fournier, Hon. Edgar

- Concluded
Canadian National Railway - Concluded
Moncton Road toil gate, 1145
Ocean Limited and Scotian train crews, Montreal and Halifax, 1464
Oil refuelling and storage tanks, 1464
Operating costs, Montreal-Halifax passenger trains, 822, 834
Passenger revenues, Chaleur, Scotian, Ocean Limited, 331, 376-7, 461, 1033
Passenger service, applications for, 1425-6
Passenger service between Edmunston and Joffre, 1016, 1033
Passenger service between Moncton and Edmunston, 1015
Passenger service, discontinuance of, revenue and operating costs, 1313-14
Passenger service in Canada, cost of advertising, 1426
Passenger service on Ocean Limited, cost of advertising, 1426
Platform extensions and other services on Ocean Limited, 1015
Railiners, rented and owned, 1193
Railway stations and service centres, location, annual rent, 1225
Stone House Motel, Truro, rental. and other arrangements, 1091-2
TurboTrain development costs, 1193
Wheel flange oilers, 1424-5
Canadian National Railways Financing and Guarantee bill C-7, 360-4
Accommodation, allocation of, 362-4
Air Canada, 362
Branch lines and passenger service, N.B., 360
Dissatisfaction among employees, 362
Increase in demands and use of railway services, 362-3
Press release of speech of Hon. John Pickersgill, 361
Constitution of Canada, 538
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 920-1
Inquiries, delay in receiving answers, 833-4, 1016-17, 1033-4
Inquiries, question of privilege, 1426-7
Inter-P arli amen tary Union, 57th conference, 228-31, 296-7
Ceylon visit, 296-7
India, women and children in labouring jobs, 228-9, 231, 296-7
lsrael, 229-30
Motor Vehicle Safety bill C-137, 729-36
Background of car industry, 729-31
Bumpers, 736
Criticisms of recommendations in bill, 733-4
Driver education, 734
Tait lights, 734-5
Traffic accidents and deaths, statistics, 732
Potatoes, New Brunswick surplus, 326
Radiation Emitting Devices bill S-14, 427-8
Railway bill C-il, 526-9
Rules, procedure on notice to adjourn, 941-2, 955
Statutory Instruments, 835-7
Crown corporations, 836
CBC and CNR, 836
Public servants and government administration, 835-6
Transport Department, storage and care of Custer Channel Wing Aircraft, 833-4, 1016,
1033
Union Station, renovations to previous station site, 321-2, 333

INDEX

Fournier, Hon. Sarto
Canada Day bill S-24, 1257-8
Criminal Records bill C-5, 1066-8, 1070
Employment in federal Government, 1067
Pardon from summary conviction or indictable offence, 1066
Schedule of Pardon, form, 1067
Segregation of record of offence and of other judicial records, 1066
Income Tax bill C-139, 389-92
National-Energy Board bill C-190, 1331-4
Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd., 1333
Chalk River, 1332-3
Douglas Point, 1333
New Brunswick Power Commission, 1331
Uranium, 1332-4
Olympic Games (1976) to be beld in Montreal, 1032-3
Question of privilege, attendance of Senators, 666-7
Gus centrifuge uranium enrichment plants, Canada's participation with other countries,
690
Gelinas, Hon. Louis P.
Expo Winding-Up bill C-6, 203-5
Assets from City du Havre, 204
Costs of Expo, 204-5
Phillips, Lazarus, retirement from the Senate, 1469
G.rmany
Berlin Wall, 198-9
West Berlin, 198
Ghana
Aniissah-Aidoo, Isaac, Deputy Speaker of Legisiative Assembly, visitor to Senate,
1047
Giguere, Hon. Louis de G.
Constitution of Canada, Special joint Committee, employment of specialists and
other personnel, 1074-5
Gladstone, lion. James
Indian Association of Alberta, presentation of Red Paper to Govemment, 1164
Gouin, lion. Léon Mercier
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 75-77
Constitution, revision of, 76
National unity, 76-77
Statutory Instruments, 852-4
Labour regulations, 852-3
Unrest and revoit of youth, 75-76

SE NAT E
Government
Bureaucracy, 861-2
Parliamentary procedures, comments of experts, 936-7
Public Administration in Canada Today, 861
Public servants and government administration, 835-6
Role of Government, The, by Hon. Mr. Lamontagne, 861
See Statutory Instruments

Government contracts
Board of arbitration, suggestion for, 928-9
Contractors' dlaims with the Crown or its agency, 926-9
Deviations and additions to contracts, 927
Great Slave Lake Railway, 928

Government expenditures
Bilingualism, 1245
Budgetary surplus, 1247
Centre Block windows, 129
External affairs, reduction in programs and personnel, 314
GNP vs expenditures, 774, 794, 798
Hidden expenditures, 306-7, 314
Information and publicity services, 136, 156
Law Reform Commission, 1135-6
Union station, renovation to previous station site, 321-2

Governor General
Deputy
Abbott, Hon. D.C., P.C., 1022-3
Cartwright, Right Hon. J.R., 398-9
Fauteux, Hon. Gerald, 714, 802-3, 1408-9, 1474
Hall, Hon. Emmett M., 252
Martland, Hon. Ronald, 1045
Opening of Parliament
Communication from Secretary of Governor General, 1
Speech from the Throne, 1-4
Prorogation of Parliament
Communication from Secretary of Governor General, 1472
Speech from the Throne, 1474-7

Grain
Adverse reports on Canada's share of world trade, 341
Agriculture in a Crisis, 175
Durum wheat, separate account for 1968-69, payment of surplus earnings to
producers, 649-55
Emergency measures of Government, 175
Farm land, depreciation in value, 174
Flax sales, Wheat Board responsibility in, 253
Interest free advances on farm-stored grain, 174, 327
Lakehead storage, 393-4

INDEX

Grain - Concluded
Prairie grain and livestock production policies, 330
Prairie grain provisional payments, 324-7
Prices, 174, 325-6
Sales to USSR, 344
Trouble in East predicted from Western Farms Depression, 174-5
Wbeat acreage reduction, 720-2, 1371
Fines or penalties, 721
Offensive use of delegated powers, 721
Personal rights and liberties, 721-2
Wheat Board powers, 747
Wheat Board, suggestion for reorganization of activities, 342-3
See Agriculture
Great Slave Lake Railway, losses incurred by contractors, 358-60, 926
Action by Commons Committee after initial citation in Senate, 358-60
Tribunal to settle disputes between contractors and Government, suggestion for, 359
Grosart, Nion. Ajuister
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 60-64
Aeronautîcs bill C-218, 1377-8
Appropriation bill C-169, 313-14
Appropriation bill C-200, 791-5
Appropriation bill C-201, 796-7
Appropriation bill C-224, 1322-5
Attendance of Senators at Senate sittings, 667, 668
Canada-Sweden Supplementary Income Tax Agreement bill C-156, 614-15
Canadian National Railways Financing and Guarantee bill C-7, 353-8
Air Canada, 354, 357
Branch lines, abandonment of, 356
Branch lines, blanket authority for, 355
Capital expenditures, 356-7
Defîcit, .355
Preferred stock, purchase by Finance Minister, 356
Prior obligations, 357
Transportation problems of Government, 354-5
Char service of Senate, question of privilege, 6-7
Committee meetings while Senate is in session, 35-36, 39
Constitution of Canada, 462-5
Federal-provincial responsibilities in finances, 464
Fulton-Favreau Formula (1964), 462
National unity, 463, 464
Senate role, 465
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 929-36
Bill of Rights, 930-2, 936
Conflict with provisions of, 930, 936
Drybones case, 932
Fundamental freedoms, 932
Breach of the peace, danger of, 934
Identifiable groups, 931
Nazi group, Toronto, 933

SENATE
Grosart, Hon. Allister - Continued
Electoral Boundarjes Readjustment (Perth) bill C-62, 1140-1
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Wellington-Grey) bill C- 168, 1143
Estimates, 306-8, 313-14, 791-5, 796-7, 798
Dollar items, 306-8, 314, 792-3
Expenditures vs GNP, 794
Hidden expenditures, 306-7, 314
Loans, investments, advances, 793
Expropriation bill C-136, 551, 552
Crown corporations, power to expropriate, 551, 552
External Affairs Department information services, 101, 136
Foreign affairs
Aid to developing countries, 61-65
Canada-Caribbean relations, 1379-8
Partners in Development, 61
Trade, recommendations of Pearson Commission, 63-64
Unemployment in developing countries, 62
Income tax, tuitioin fee deductions, 572, 609-10
Industrial Research and Development Incentives bill C-193, 1136-40
Incentive programs, 1137
New, small and developing companies, 1138
Provincial distribution of funds and regional disparities, 1138-9
US and other foreign-owned subsidiaries, 1138
International Development Research Centre bill C-12, 643-7
Criticisms re location, tied aid, financial aspects, board membership, 644-6
Expenditures on research and development, 644
External aid budget, 644
Production vs science and technology, comments of CIDA president, 643-4
Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, 875-81
Communist China, 873-4
Economic servitude to US, 870
Excerpt from speech of Hon. Mr. Gray, 870
NATO and NORAD, role in North America, 871-2
Pollution, 868, 870-1
Territorial law, 870-1
Trade and economic affairs, 868-9
US customs guards at Canadian border, 869-70
US investments in Canada, 870
Just society, 61
North Atlantic Assembly, lSth annual conference, 276-82
"Canada's Cheaper Ride in World Affaira", 281-2
Government policy re NATO, 276-82
Report of Committee of Three, 279-80
USSR aggression, 277, 280
Northern Inland Waters bill C-187, 1076-82
Diversion of waters, 1079-80
Duplication of legislation, 1077
jurisdiction of provinces, 1077-8
Protest from Yukon Council, 1078
Riparian rights, 1081
Vesting in the Crown, 1081
Offences on Aircraft, Convention, 337-8, 339
Radiation Emitting Devices bill S-14, 428-30

INDEX

Grosait, Hon. Allister - Concluded
Rules
Point of order, question period, 1366-7
Procedure on notice to adjourn, 942, 955
Small Businesses Loans bill C-9, 512-13
Corporate income tax, 513
Statutory Instruments, 745-8
Crown corporations, 747-8
Delegated legisiation, 745-8
Loans, învestments and advances, 747
ParliamentarySupervision of Delegated Legislation, 745
Wheat Board powers, 747
Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones bill C-203, 1214-15, 1251-6
International law, 1251-6
Six-by-six formula, 1252
Twelve-mile fishing limit, 1252, 1254
United Kingdom v Norway, 1254-5
Haig, Hon. J. Campbell
Air Traffic Control Assoc., strike threat, 333-4
Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention bill C-202, 1241
Oul pollution, 1241
Committee meetings during Senate sittings, 458
Constitution of Canada, 457-8
Curling, Canadian Champions, congratulations to victorîous Manitoba Rink, 696
Hudson's Bay Company bill S-25, 1249-50
Canadian Committee of company, 1249-50
Share ownership, 1250
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1085-6
Ontario Law Reform Commission report (1967), 1086
Provincial law reform commissions, 1085-6
Manitoba Centennial Year, 427-8, 1249
Presentation of royal rent to the Queen, 1249
Mass Media, meetings of com during sittings of Senate, 375
National defence recreational facilities and services, availability and cost to public,
1092-3
New Brunswick publîshîng business, Combines investigation of, 100, 172, 296
Nuclear Liability bill C-158, 1369-70
Railway bill C-il, 534-5
Statute Law (Supplementary Retirement Benefits) bill C-194, 759, 760
Hall, Hon. Emmett M.
Royal assent, 252
Hastings, Hon. Eari A.
Criminel Records bill C-S, 1082-4
Drumheller institution, 1083
Half-way houses, 1083
Parole Board operations, 1082-3
Three-day parole and other leave, 1083

SE NAT E
Mate propaganda, see Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3

Hayden, Hon. Salter A.
Canadian and British Insurance Companies bill S-6, 604
Corporations bill C-4, 1346-53, 1417-22, 1430-2
Canadian Company Law, 1349
Constrained share company, 1346, 1418-19
Insider trading, 1347-9, 1419
Investigations of company's affairs, 1350-1, 1420-1
Letters patent company, 1417-18
Provincial securities legisiation, validity of, 1421-2
Proxies and offences in delivery of, 1419
Takeover bids, 1348, 1419
Criminel Code (Hate Propagande) bill C-3, 1020-9
Bill of Rights, 1020-4
Drybones case, 1023, 1025
Freedom of speech, 1024
Genocide, 1020
Humen rights and fundemental freedoms, 1021
Customs Tariff and Excise Tax bill C-140, 259-4, 265-6
Anti-dumping, 261
British preference rates, 260
Drawbacks, 261-2
Exemptions, quarterly and yearly, 263
General Adjustment Assistance Board, 262, 266
Kennedy Round agreement, 2
Most-favoured nation, 260
Order in council, approval of, 261
Printing materials, etc., 260
Tobacco and alcohol, 263
Expropriation bill C-136, 620-3
Compensation, 621
Law Reform Commission, recommendations of, 621
Minister's responsibility and authority, 622-3
Felicitations on 3Oth anniversary in Senate, 515-18
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1102-7
Functions and powers of commission, 1102-7
Law Reform - The Ontario Odyssey, 1103-4
Oleomargarine case cited, 1105
Role of perliamentary committees, 1104-5
Loan Companies bill S-9, 606
Phillips, Lazarus, retirement from the Senate, 1467-8
Shipping Conferences Exemption bill C-184, 1462-3
Statutory Instruments, 900-5
Canada Deposit Insurance Act, 903-4
Delegated authority, 901
Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act, 904-5
Hazardous Products bill, 902-3
On Civil Rights, by Chief justice McRuer, 902
Taxation, White Paper on, rep of com, 405-6

INDEX

Hayden. lion. Salter A. - Concluded
Tax reform, White Paper on, rep of com, 405-6, 1433-46, see also appendix to Debates
of Sept. 30, 1970
Basic exemptions, married and single persans, 1435-7
Capital gains, 1437-9
Dividend tax credit, 1445
Entertainment and travelling expenses, club dues, 1444-5
Extractive industries, 1442-4
Gifts and bequests to museums, 1441
Integration, 1439-41
Prospectors and grubstakers, 1444
Small businesses, 1441-2
Trust Companies bill S-8, 604-5
Hays, lion. Harry, P.C.
Northern Inland Waters bill C-187, 1047-9
Conditions of right ta use water resources and maintenance of quality, 1048
Territorial water boards, 1048
Waters vested in the Crown, 1049
Oul and Gas Production and Conservation bill S-5, 199-201
Acreage of Canada's submerged continental margîn, 200-1
Authority over exploration activities, 199
Communications f rom Prime Minîster ta provincial premiers, 200
Offshore minerai rights, 200
Surveys and drilling pragrams, 201
Heulth
Abortion, The Dangers of Legal and Illegal Abartion, 1186
Lawyer's Guide to Medical Truth, 1186-7
Medical expenses of sick mariners, 965-8, 1007, 1017, 1045
Medical jurisprudence in law, 1186-8
Medical personnel, shortage of, 255
Parkinson's disease, use of drug L-Dapa, 1193-4, 1213
Quarantine, 187-93, 253-9
Smallpox, yellow fever and other diseases, 187
Sterilization of bospital equipment, instruments and beds, 1275
Tuberculosis, 190, 254-5
Vaccinations and contra-indications, 255-8
Venereal disease, 192
World Health Organization, 187
See Quarantine bill S-12
ltealth, Welfare and Science, Standing Sonate Committee
Reports
Company of Young Canadians bill C-176, rep without amdt, 691
Industrial Research and Development Incentives bill C-193, rep withaut amdt,
1193
Northern Inland Waters bill C-187, rep with amdt, 1145, 1170-2
Quarantine bill S-12, rep with amdts, 316-18
Radiation Emitting Devices bill S-14, rep with amdts, 571

SEN AT E
Health, Welfare and Science, Standing Senate Committee
Reports - Concluded
Shipping bill C-10, rep without amdt, 1007

-

Concluded

Statute Law (Supplementary Retirement Benefits) Amendment bil C- 194, rep without
amdt, 800
Water bill C-144, rep without amdt, 1274

Hollett, Hon. Malcolm
Address in reply to Speech from the Tbrone, 77-80
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 1035-8
Correspondence in opposition to bill, 1036-8
Deep Sea Fisheries bill C-133, 677-9
Bounty rights, 678-9
Treaty of Washington, 678
Fisheries, subsidies and loans, 78-90
Pollution, 78-79
ERCO plant in Placentia Bay, 78
Placentia Bay, inquiry, 90, 100
Quarantine bill S-12, 191
Regional disparity, 77-78
Saltfish bill C-175, 657-9
Foreign ships in St. John's Harbour, 658
Prices, 658
Seal hunting, 79
Shipping Conferences Exemption bill C-184, 1462

House of Commons
Amdts to Senate bills
Canadian and British Insurance Companies bill S-6, 604
Loan Companies bill S-9, 605-6
Pitts Insurance Co. bill S-10, 606, 616
Quarantine bill S-12, 606-7
Trust Companies bill S-8, 604-5

Hudson's Bay Company
Canadian Committee, 1249-50
Canadian Letters Patent, provisions under, 1228
Head Office, 1228
Share ownership, 1228, 1250, 1368
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Burchili, G. Percival, 1368
Everett, Douglas D., 1227-8
Haig, J. Campbell, 1249-50

Hudson's Bay Campany bill S-25. ir, 1222; 2r, 1227-8, 1249-50; 3r, 1250-1; correction,
1368; r.a., 1474

INDEX
ICG Transmission Limited bill S-17, jr, 349; 2r, 372-3; ref ta com, 373; suspension of
Rule 95, 373; rep without amdt, 374; 3r, 375; r.a., 714
Incarne Tax
Canada-Sweden Supplementary Incarne Tax Agreement, 549, 613-15
Poverty-line familles, 102-3
Surtax, corporations, 390
Surtax, individuals, 389-90
Tuition fee deductions, 572, 609-10
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Flynn, Jacques, 390-1
Fournier, Sarto, 389-92
See also Taxation
Incarne Tax bill C- 139. jr, 389; 2r, 389-92; 3r, 398; r.a., 399

Indic
Gandhi, Mahatma, ideals cited, 223, 225
Grass national product, US vs India, 301
Hîgh Commissioner ta, 437
Lîfe expectancy and infant mortality statistics, 300-1
Projects undertaken by Canada, 438-9
Women and children in labouring jobs, 228-9, 231, 296-7

Indiens and Eskimos
Drybones v The Queen, 840-1, 896-9, 930-2, 946-50, 961-3, 978
Estimates for Indian. and Eskimo Affairs program, 1245
Indian Act, discrimination against native population, 898, 946-7, 948, 950-1, 954, 958
Indian Affairs and Northern Development Department, information services, 156
Indian Association of Alberta, presentation of Red Paper ta Government, 1164
Saskatchewan Metis Association, visitors ta Senate, 822

Industriel research and development incentives
Associated corporations, 1088
Expenditures of base period, inclusion of expenditures of predecessor corp., 1089
Incentive programs, 1137
Kennedy Round agreement, reduced tariff protection, 1087
New, small and developing companies, 1138
Provincial distribution of funds and regional disparities, 1138-9
Repayment of loans for advancement of or sustaining of industry, 1089
Sale or transfer of property, recovery of grant, 1089
US and other foreign-owned subsidiaries, 1138
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Grosart, Allister, 1136-40
Robichaud, Hedard, 1086-9

SENÂT E
Industrial Research and Development Incentives bill C-193. ir, 1059; 2r, 1086-9, 1136-40,
1161; ref to com, 1161; rep without amdt, 1193; 3r, 1213; r.a., 1223

Inflation, 13-14, 44, 48, 71, 310-13, 780-2, 784
Anti-inflationary measures, effect on Atlantic provinces, 102
Bank profits and interest rates, 312-13
Bonds, Government issue, 147-8
Currency in circulation, DBS statistics, 147
Devaluation in purchasing power of Canadian dollar, 146-8
Employment and unemployment statistics, 49
Fixed incomes, 146
Government debt, 147
Government policy in reduction of inflationary trends, 49-50, 310
Governor of Bank of Canada, comments re, 49-51, 148-9
Incomes Commission, 48
Interest rates, 311-13
Nova Scotia, effects of, 102
Prime Minister's remarks, 13, 14
Recommendations of Economic Council of Canada, 44-45
Restraints by Government, 179
Trade unions demands, 146
Unemployment, economic and social problems, 114, 116, 780-2, 784
US-Canada comparison, 179-80
Wage and price restraints, 1270
Weakening of Canadian dollar, 148-9

Information and publicity services of Government, 156, 164
Agriculture Dept., 156
Costs of, 156
Indian Affairs and Northern Development Dept., 156
Task Force on, 156, 164

Inman, Hon. F. Elsie
Penitentiaries, federal, facilities for women prisoners, 1276-9
John Howard Society, 1277
Penology, 1276-9
Public attitudes, 1278
Rehabilitation, 1277-9
Therapeutic or correctional community, 1277

Inqu iries
Agriculture, federal-provincial shared cost programs re use of lands (1968-70), 713-14
Air Traffic Control Assoc., strike threat, 333-4
Astronauts, visit to Canada and banquet entertainment, 275-6
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
Custer Channel Wing Aircraft, 833-4, 1016, 1033, 1060
"The Ernie Game" and "Waiting for Caroline", cost and revenue, 821-2

INDEX

Inquiries - Continued
Canadian National Railways
Centralized Traffic Control system in Atlantic region, 1314-16
Chaleur and Scotian, passenger traffic 1969 between certain points, 1465
Derailment expenditures, 1423-4
Diesel oil used in Atlantic region, source and cost, 1316
Equipment damaged and inoperative, 1424
Federal subsidies applied to passenger service, 1225-6
Hot box detectors, 1425
Moncton Road toll gate, 1145
Ocean Limited and Scotian train crews, Montreal and Halifax, 1464
Oil refuelling and storage tanks, 1464
Operating cost, Montreal-Halifax passenger trains, 822
Passenger revenues, Chaleur, Scotian, Ocean Limited, 331, 376-7, 461, 1033
Passenger service, applications for, 1425-6
Passenger service between Edmunston and Joffre, 1016, 1033
Passenger service between Moncton and Edmunston, 1015-16
Passenger service, discontinuance of, revenue and operating costs, 1313-14
Passenger service in Canada, cost of advertising, 1426
Passenger service on Ocean Limited, cost of advertising, 1426
Platform extensions and other services on Ocean Limited, 1015
Railiners, rented and owned, 1193
Railway stations and service centres, location, annual rent, 1225
Stone House Motel, Truro, rental and other arrangements, 1091-2
Turbo Train development costs, 1193
Wheel flange oilers, 1424-5
Cyprus peace-keeping force, 89-90
Delay in receiving answers, 832-4, 1016-17, 1033
Divorce, court jurisdiction, 331-3
Drug L-Dopa, usage for Parkinson's disease, 1193-4, 1213
External Affairs Department information services, 101, 136
Farm machinery, Barber Royal Commission on, 330-1
Finance, protection of purchase or exchange value of Canadian money, 485-94
Flax, loss of sales, Lakehead shortage, 219, 253
Food and Drug Directorate, staff increases, 741
Gas centrifuge uranium enrichment plants, 690
Grain storage at Lakehead, 393-4
Income tax, tuition fee deductions, 572
Landunder cultivation, Government programs re, 549
Meach Lake expropriations by National Capital Commission, 800-1, 891-2
National Defence recreational facilities and services, availability and cost to public,
1092-3
Navigational aids for Canaport supertankers, 1091
New Brunswick publishing business, 100, 172
Parliament Buildings, Centre Block windows, expenditures on, 56, 129
Pollution of Placentia Bay, 90, 100
Prairie grain and livestock production policies, 330
Privilege, question of, 1426-7
Public Service employees, strikes by, 353, 426
Revised Statutes of Canada, 1454, 1457
Rhodesia, Canadian Government policy re sanctions, 519
Senate and House of Commons Act, 101

SE NAT E
Inquiries - Concluded
Status of Canada in Western hemisphere, statement attributed to US Senator Church,
742
Statutes, publication of, 68
Summer employment for fem aie students, 1366
Union Station, renovations to previous station site, 321-2, 334

Internai Econamy and Contingent Accounts, Standing Committee
Authority to consider matters without special reference to Senate, 136
Report
Senate accounts for fiscal year, 800
Senate accounts re travelling and moving expenses of Senators, 1400

International Development Research Centre
Comments of Rt. Hon. Lester B. Pearson, 617-18
Expenditures on research and development, 644
External aid budget, 644
Financing of, 619, 645-6, 648
Location, 644-5, 648
Objectives, 618
Production vs science and technology, comments of CIDA president, 643-4
Tied aid, 645, 648-9
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Connolly, John J., 647-9
Grosart, Allister, 643-7
Martin, Paul, 617-20
Robichaud, Hedard, 739-40

International Development Researcli Centre bill C- 12.
Ir, 607; 2r, 617-20, 643-9; ref to
com, 649; rep with amdts, 739-40; 3r, 765; Commons concurrence in Senate
amdts, 940; r.a., 1045

Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, l3th annual meeting at Washington, Cape
Kennedy, Houston and San Antonio, 785-90, 804-8, 818-20, 822-5, 843-6, 86781, 885-90, 892-4, 994-1005, 1172, 1302-5
Canada-US relations, 823-5, 843-4, 875-81
Communist China, 873-4
Defence and security matters, 819-20, 823

East-West relations, proposed European Security Conference, 820
Economic servitude to US, 870
Immigration regulations, 807, 880
Latin America and the Caribbean, 820
NATO and NORAD, role in North American sector, 871-2
NATO and NORAD, status and problems, 820
Pollution, 818-19, 868, 870-1
Territorial law, Canada-US, 818, 870-1
Trade and Economic affairs, 818-19
US customs guards at Canadian border, 819, 869-70,

INDEX

Interparliamentary Group,

Canada-United States

-

Concluded

US investments in Canada, 805-6, 823-5, 844-6, 877-80, 1304-5
Equity for Canadian subsidiaries, 787
Excerpt from speech of Hon. Mr. Gray, 845-6, 877-80
Excerpt from speech of Hon. Mr. O'Leary, 823
Tax incentives, 787-8, 844
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Deschatelets, Jean-Paul, 804-8, 818-20, 1172-4
Desruisseaux, Paul, 1302-5
Grosart, Allister, 867-74
Laird, Keitb, 843-6
Macnaughton, Alan, 995-1005
O'Leary, M. Grattan, 822-5
Paterson, Norman McL., 994-5
Phillips, Lazarus, 785-90
Thornpson, Andrew, 874-81
Willis, Harry A., 892-4

Inter- Parl iamentary Union, 57th conference, 222-31, 269-75, 296-7, 432-45
Agenda, 223
Canadian delegation, 224
Ceylon visit, 269-75, 296-7, 440
Colombo International Airport, Katunayake, 270
Finland, 226-7
German Federal Republic, 225-6
India, 227-9, 231
Gandhi, Mahatma, ideals quoted, 223, 225
Projects undertaken by Canada, 438-9
Women and children in labouring jobs, 228-9, 231, 296-7
Israel, 229-30
Resolutions endorsed at conference, 434-6
USSR propaganda, 225
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Carter, Chesley W., 222-8, 269-75
Fournier, Edgar, 228-31, 296-7
Langlois, Leopold, 432-45
Irvine, Hon. Olive L.
Dec eased November 1, 1969
Tributes, 84-89
Jupon
Expo '70, 916-18, 1176
Gross National Product, 915
Highways, 916
Labour shortage, 915, 916
Parliamentary delegation visit during Expo '70, 1210-11
Scientific laboratories, 916
1382
Takoo Miki, the Honourable, former Foreign Minister of Japan, visitor to Senate,
Trade, Hong Kong, 912

SENATE
Judges
Appointments, discrimination because of political affiliations, 323-4
Backlog of cases, 322
Jurisdiction of district and county court judges in divnrce matters, 323
Ontario requirements, 322
Salaries and widows pensions, 322-3
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Aseltine, Walter M., 322-3
Prowse, J. Harper, 322
Roebuck, Arthur W., 324

Judges bill C-2. ir, 295; 2r, 322-4;1 3r, 335; r.a., 398

Justice Department
Combines investigation of publishing business in New Brunswick, 100, 172, 296

Kinley, Han. John J.
Deep Sea Fisheries bill C-133, 679-82, 687-8
Bounty payments 1956-68 inclusive, 687-8
Bounty rights, 680-2
Treaty of Washington, 680
Farris, Hon. J.W. de B., death of, 602-3
Quarantine bill S-12, 191-3
Drug control, 192-3
Hoof-and-mouth disease, 191-2
Venereal diseases, 192

Saltfish bill C-175, 696-700, 762-5
Deficiency payments to east coast fishermen, 763-4
Economic aspects, Nova Scotia, 697-8

Exports, 698
Monopolies in production and sale, 698

Newfoundland, 698, 699, 763-4
Prices, 698
Restrictions on tradeby others than Corporation and from one province to another,

762-3

Kinnear, Hon. Mary E.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 64-66
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Lanark and Renfrew) bill C-213, 144
Penitentiaries, federal, facilities for women prisoners, 1218-21
Correctional procedures, 1220
Employment, educational and recreational programs, 1219

63

INDEX
Kinneur, Hon. Mary E. - Concluded
Penitentiaries, federal, facilities for women prisoners
French language program, lack of, 1218
Halfway house, Elizabeth Fry Society, 1220
Matsqui Institution, 1219
Statistics on maie and female offenders, 1218
Volunteer organizations, 1220-1
Benevolent Anonymous, 1221
Chaplain's Volunteers, 1221
Pollution, 65-66
DDT, 65
Water quality, 65
Welland Evening Tribune, report on, 65-66

-

Concluded

Labour
Canadian Air Traffic Controllers Association, ratification of collective agreement,
399-400
Electrical workers, collective agreement, 399-400
International unions, 92-93
1151
Jurisdictional conflict in settiement of dispute of Quebec transportation agents,
and labour relations, 91-92
Management
Public Service employees, strikes by, 353, 426
Summer employment for female students, 1366
Trade Unions and right to strike, 165-6

Labour (Standards) Code
Crown corporations, 1281
Federal-provincial projects, 1281-2
Grain elevator operators, 1268
Minimum wage increase, 1267, 1268
Minimum wage in relation to poverty, 1306-7
Mining industry, 1268
Provincial wage rates, 1282-3
Railways, 1281, 1284
Shipping, Newfoundland and St. Lawrence regions, 1267-8
Statistics on employees affected by wage increase, 1283-4
Summer jobs for students, 1283
Trucking îndustry, 1267
Unemployment because of increase in minimum wage, 1283
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Connolly, John J., 1267-8, 1283-5
Croîl, David, 1306-7
Macdonald, J.M., 1282-3
Phillips, Orville H., 1281-2

r.a., 1409
Labour (Standards) Code bill C-214. Ir, 1224; 2r, 1267-8, 1282-5; 3r, 1306-7;

SENATE
Laird, Hon. Keith
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 180-2
Canadian National Railways Financing and Guarantee bill 1969 C-7, 346-8, 364-5
Air Canada borrowings, 347, 365
Auditors, 347
Branch lines, borrowing authority for construction, 347, 365
Branch lines, public hearings re abandonment, 347-8
Capital expenditures, 347, 365
Interest moratorium on Government loan, 347
Preferred stock, purchase by Finance Minister, 347
Prior obligations, 347
Temporary loans from Government, 347
Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, 843-6
Canada-US relations, 843-4
Foreign investments, 844-6
Tax incentives, 844
Tax reform, White Paper on, 180-2
Capital gains, 181
Expense accounts, 181
Foreign investments, 182
Middle income bracket, 181
Small businesses, 181
Water bill C-144, 1204-9, 1229-30
Fees for use of water systems, 1206
Jurisdiction, federal and provincial, 1205-6, 1208
Phosphates and other nutrients, prohibition on, 1208
Pollution, 1206
River basin commissions or authorities, 1206, 1208
Waste disposer regulations, 1207
Water quality standards and management agencies, 1206, 1207-8
Water resource development, 1205

Lamontagne, Hon. Maurice, P.C.
Committee meetings while Senate is in session, 36-37
North Atlantic Assembly, 15th annual conference, 297-304
Aid to underdeveloped countries, 302-3
Armed forces as peace corps, 303
Economic and ideological evolution of East and West, 298-300
Government policy re NATO, 298-304
Gross national product, U.S. and India, 301
India, life expectancy and infant mortality statistics, 300-1
Research on international development, 303
Science Policy, Special Senate Committee, appointment, 40-41
Statutory Instruments, 808-17
Evolving role of monarchy, parliamentarians and public servants, 808-17
Mass media, change in power and effect of, 815-16
Thinkers conference, 812
"Twilight of Ministers, The", article in the Economist, 809

Land expropriation, see Expropriation

INDEX

Long, lion. Daniel A.
Brunner Corporation (Canada) Ltd. bill S-18, 459, 496-8
Canadian and British Insurance Companies bill S-6, 168-9
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 943-50; motion for amdtthat subject matter
be ref to Supreme Court, 9.50, 977, 978, 979, 981, 982, 1021, 1025, 1029,
1030; amdt neg, 1030
Bill of Rights, question of infringement on, 946-7, 949, 950
Cohen Report, 944-5
Colour and Citizenship: A Report on British Race Relations, 945
Drybones case, 946-7, 948
Freedomn of speech, 944-5, 949
Rose Committee, 945-6
Foreign Insurance Companies bill S-7, 169
Gas centrifuge uranium enrichment plants, 690
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1150-3
North Atlantic Assembly, lSth annual conference, 410-17, 518-19
Canada's influence in NATO, 415
Commendation fromn E. Riisna, Toronto, re Canadian attitude towards communism,
518-19
Criticism in Globe and Mail, 411-12
Economic aid to underdeveloped countries, 415-16
Germany's NATO forces, 414
GNP vs foreign aid, 416-17
Territorial rights, U.S.-Canada, 416
Unrest in far Eastern countries, 415
USSR power and aggression, 413
Nuclear Liability bill C-158, 1327-9
Liability of operator of nuclear plant, 1328
Nuclear Damage Claims Commission, 1328
Writs of certiorari, prohibition, mandamnus and injunction, 1328-9
Pitts Insurance Company bill S-10, 135, 185-6
Pitts Life Insurance Company bill S-il, 135, 186
Saltfish bill C-175, 701
Restriction of trade between provinces, question of validity of, 701
Langlois, Hon. Leopold
Appropriation bill C-224, 1326-7
Ceylon anniversary of Independence, 470-1
Debates of the Senate, translation of speech given in French on Law Reform
Commission bill, question of privilege, 1164-5
Dessureault, Hon. Jean-Marie, death of, 1415
Estimates, 309, 316
Dollar items, 309
Inter-Parliamentary Union, 57th annual conference, 432-45
Ceylon visît, 440
High Commissioner to India, 437
Projects in India undertaken by Canada, 438-9
Resolutions endorsed at conference, 434-6
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1150-3
.Jurisdiction, federal and provincial, 1150-3
Conflict in Quebec court case cited, 1151
Orders in Council, review of, 1152

22481-59

SE NAT E
Langlois, Hon. Leopold

- Concluded
Royal Canadian Sea Cadets from Gaspe, visitors to Senate, 1387-8
Senate, resume of activities, 1387-8
Speech from the Throne, termination of Address in reply, motion for, 21

Law Reform Commission
Administration of commission, office staff, salaries, other expenditures, 1134-6, 1189
Appeals from decisions of lower courts, 1122
Bail provisions, 1121-2
Cardozo, Mr. justice, observations of, 1126
Causes and Prevention of Violence, US Commission on, 1168-9
Comments of Professors of Law, 1166
Demonstrations, peaceful and violent, 1169
Jurisdiction, federal and provincial, 1150-3, 1184
Laggard Law, The: Machinery for Law Reform, 1117-18
Law reform commissions of other countries, 1071
Law reforms and reformers of previous years, 1111-12
Law Reforin - The Ontario Odyssey, 1103-4
Lawyers of fame in parliamentary history, 1154-6
Leal, Prof. H. Allan, excerpt from speech of, 1121
Legal research, lack of, 1166-7
Medical jurisprudence, 1186-8
Abortion, 1186
Lawyers' Guide to Medical Truth, 1186-7
Membership of commission, 1123, 1128-9, 1183-5
Objects and powers of commission, 1071-3, 1102-7, 1110, 1117, 1182-4, 1188-90
Oleomargarine case cited, 1105
Ontario Law Reform Commission report (1967), 1086
Quimet Committee, 1122
Politics of Purpose, 1116
Press comments, 1113-14
Privacy, laws on invasion of, 1166
Provincial law reform commissions, 1085-6
Recidivism among young offenders, 1168
Role of parliamentary committees, 1104-5
Suicide, 1123
Tax reform, 1113
Vagrancy, 1123
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Aseltine, Walter M., 1134-6
Carter, Chesley W., 1110-15
Desruisseaux, Paul, 1115-18
Fergusson, Muriel McQ., 1120-3
Flynn, Jacques, 1182-5
Haig, J. Campbell, 1085-6
Hayden, Salter A., 1102-7
Langlois, Leopold, 1150-3
Martin, Paul, 1071-3, 1188-92
O'Leary, M. Grattan, 1153-6
Phillips, Lazarus, 1124-9
Prowse, J. Harper, 1129-31

INDEX

Law Reform Commission - Concluded
Speakers: Honourable Senators - Concluded
Stanbury, Richard J., 1156-61
Sullivan, joseph A., 1185-8
Thompson, Andrew, 1165-9
Law Reform Commission bill C.186. ir, 1014; 2r, 1071-3, 1085-6, 1102-7, 1110-18, 112032, 1134-6, 1150-61, 1165-9, 1182-92; ref to com, 1192; rep without amdt,
1225; 3r, 1249; r.a., 1408
Leader of the Government in the Senate
Martin, Hon. Paul, P.C.
Leader of the Opposition in the Senate
Flynn, Hion. Jacques, P.C.
Leaders of the Government in the Senate, unveiling of photographs in Senate foyer, 742-4
Lefrancois, Hon. J. Eugene
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Maisonneuve) bill C-177, 1143
Legal and Constitutional Affairs, Standing Senate Committee
Reports
Criminal Code (Punishment for Tbeft) bill S-21, rep without amdt, 689
Criminal Records bill C-5, 1119
Divorce, petition for bill to annul resolution to dissolve marriage, Gingras,
Roberte Berube, 424-6
Divorce, petition for bill to annul resolution to dissolve marriage, Hashim, Laura
Eileen Margaret Bamford, 1133-4, 1146-8
Expropriation bill C-136, rep with amdt, 1014, 1049-51
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, rep without amdt, 1225
National Farmers Union bill S-22, rep without amdt, 689
Leonard, Hon. T. D'Arcy
Appropriation bill C-169, 309, 316
Appropriation bill C-200, 791, 794
Appropriation bill C-201, 795-6, 797, 798-9
Estimates, 304-6, 760, 774-5, 794-9
Borrowing powers of Government, 796
Dollar items, 305, 761, 774-5
Expenditures vs GNP, 774
Loans, investments, advances, 760, 774
Privy Council, 797
Statute changes, suggestion for marginal notes re relevant appropriation acts, 775
Supplementary (B), rep of com, 760-1, 774-5
Treasury Board psy increases, 305
Wheat acreage reduction program, 775
Retirement fromn the Senate, 923-6

2248 1-5 9V2~

SENATE
Library of Parliament
Librarian's report tabled, 5
Printed in Minutes of the Proceedings, 22
Report of Joint Committee
Salaries, 603, 626

Loan Companies bill S-9. Ir, 10; 2r, 98-99; ref to com, 99; rep without amdt, 170; 3r, 185;
Commons amdts, 605-6, 627; r.a., 714

Macdonald, Hon. John M., Chief Opposition Whip in the Senate
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 101-4
Appropriation bill C-224, 1325-6
Astronauts, visit to Canada and banquet entertainment, 275
Cape Breton Development Corporation bill C-138, 737
Children of the War Dead (Education Assistance) bill C-8, 369-70
Veterans affected by Government austerity program, 369-70
Constitution of Canada, 504-6
Crime, compensation to victims of, 103-4
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 1061-3
Freedom of speech, 1062, 1063
Genocide, 1062
Criminal Records bill C-5, 1068-70
Employment of ex-prisoners in federal Government, 1069-70
Rehabilitation, need for supervision of, 1068-9
Segregation of record of offence, 1069
Customs Tariff and Excise Tax bill C-140, 264-5
Kennedy Round negotiations, 264
Order in Council, approval of, 265
Protection for Canadian manufacturers, 264-5
Deep Sea Fisheries bill C-133, 682-3
Bounty rights, 682-3
Dominion Coal Board Dissolution bill C-161, 711
Subsidies to coal mining and gold mining industries, 711
Dominion Coal Board Dissolution bill S-3, 82-83
Elections bill 1396-7
Age of voters, 1396
Citizenship, 1397
Residence qualification, 1396
Time allowed for employees to vote, 1396-7
Travelling polls for voters under institutional care, need for, 1396
Excise bill C-209, 1266-7
Pharmacists, 1266-7
Tobacco, 1266
Income tax of poverty-line families, 102-3
Inflation, 101-2
Anti-inflationary measures, effect on Atlantic provinces, 102
Labour (Standards) Code bill C-214, 1282-3
Provincial wage rates, 1282-3
Summer jobs for students, 1283
Unemployment because of increase in minimum wage, 1283
Official report, incorrect identification in Hansard, 1401

INDEX
Mecdonald, Hon. John M. - Concluded
Oil and Gas Production and Conservation bill S-5, 206-7
Parole bill S-19, 519-20
Consecutive and concurrent sentences, 519-20
Forfeiture of parole, 520
Public servant, George Benac, alleged injustice after closing of Point Edward Naval
Base, 1325-6
Public service lay-offs, 102
Saltfish bill C-175, 655-7
Agreements between federal Government and provinces, 656
Corporation powers, 656
Inshore fishing, 656
Offences and penalties, 657
Transporting of fish to other provinces, 656
Shipping bill C-l10, 967
Statutes, publication of, înquiry, 68
Ukrainians in Canada, statistical survey being conducted by Hon. Paul Yuzyk, 942-3
Vatican ambassador, 104
Yukon Placer Mining bill S-4, 208-9
Gold mining assistance, 208-9
Yukon Consolidated Gold Corp., 209
Mocnaughton, Hon. Alan A., P.C.
Environmental Control, Special Senate Committee, motion for appt. of, 210-18
Air pollution, 212
Comments of U Thant, Rt. Hon. Lester B. Pearson and others, 214-15
Industrialization and effects on natural resources, 211-12
News items and matters of concern re controls, 215-16
Population growth, 213
Recreational facihities, 213
Scientific research, 213-14
Wildlife, 212-13
Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, 995-1005
Environmental control and pollution, 997-1004
Arctic, 1000-2
Prime Minister's statement, 1001-2
SS Manhattan and John A. Macdonald, and other enterprises, 1000-1
Environmental Decade, statement issued by US congressmen, 998-1000
Technology leadership, 1003-4
Water bill C-144, 1232-6
Deterioration through demands of modem civilization, 1233-5
Education on pollution, 1235
Fees for waste disposal, 1235
Manitobo
Centennial Year festivities, 426-7, 1249
Presentation of royal rent to the Queen, 1249
Curling, Canadian Champions, congratulations to victorious Manitoba Rink, 696
Fort Osborne Curling Club, Winnipeg, recreational facilîties, availability and cost to
public, 1092-3
Winnipeg Welfare Rights Movement, 857-8

SENATE
Martin, Hon. Paul, P.C., Leader of the Government in the Senate
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 47-52
Agriculture, land under cultivation, Government programs re, 549
Aircraft, Offences on, Convention, 318-21, 335-41
Appropriation bill No. 4 1969, C-169, 314-16
Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention bill C-202, 1201-4, 1242, 1243
Civil liability resulting from deposit of waste, 1202-3
International law, 1203-4, 1243
Jurisdiction, 1203
Pollution prevention officers, 1202
Shipping safety control zones, 1202
Ship disasters, 1202
Astronauts, visit to Canada and banquet entertainment, 275-6
Birthday felicitations, 1317
Canada-United States Reciprocal Fishing Agreement, 1059-60
Canada Week, 1177
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
Custer Channel Wing Aircraft, filming of, preparation and cost, 1060
"The Ernie Game" and "Waiting for Caroline", cost and revenue, 821-2
Canadian National Railways
Bessborough Hotel, Saskatoon, youths barred because of dress, 1290
Centralized Traffic Control system in Atlantic region, 1314-16
Diesel oil used in Atlantic region, source and cost, 1316
Federal subsidies applied to passenger service, 1225-6
Moncton Road toll gate, 1145
Operating costs, Montreal-Halifax passenger trains, 822
Passenger revenues, Chaleur, Scotian, Ocean Limited, 331, 376-7, 461
Passenger service between Edmunston and Joffre, 1016
Passenger service between Moncton and Edmunston, 1015-16
Passenger service, discontinuance of, revenue and operating costs, 1313-14
Platform extensions and other services on Ocean Limited, 1015
Railiners, rented and owned, 1193
Railway stations and service centres, location, annual rent, 1225
Stone House Motel, Truro, rental and other arrangements, 1091
TurboTrain development costs, 1193
Committee meetings while Senate is in session, 37-38
Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, 248-51
African countries of self-governing status, 249
External aid, 250
Rhodesia, 250-1
Youth in revolt, 249-50
Company of Young Canadians bill C-171, 377-81
Administrative deficiencies in company operations, 378-80
Comptroller, appointment of, 378
Constitution of Canada, Joint Committee, motion for, 422-4, 539-40, 563-7; agreed,
567
Civil liberties, 423
Conference of Tomorrow, 563
Conferences of recent years, 422-3
Economic disparity, 565
Federal-provincial conference, 563-4
Federal-provincial responsibilities, 423-4
Foreign affairs and treaty signing, 565-6
Multiculturalism and biculturalism, 566

INDEX
Martin, Hon. Paul, P.C. - Continued
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 931, 933, 934-5, 960-5, 991
Bill of Rights, 961-2
Drybones case, 961-2, 963
Genocide, 864
Human rights and fundamental freedoms, 962-3
Onus of proof, 963
Tupper v The Queen, 963
Cyprus peace-keeping force, 89-90
Divorce, court jurisdiction, 332-3
Divorce, Standing Senate Committee, tribute to present chairman and past chairman,
244
Dominion Coal Board Dissolution bill C-161, 666, 710-1il
Dominion Coal Board Dissolution bill S-3, 8M-2
Drug L-Dopa, usage in treatment of Parkinson's Disease, 1213
Durum wheat, separate account for 1968-69, payment of surplus earnings to producers,
653-5
Emergency sittings, 119
Estimates for fiscal year ending Mar. 31/70, 314-16, 783-5
Credit control, 316
Dollar items, 783
External Affairs Dept., 314
National Defence, 314
Retrenchment program of Government, 314-16
Wheat acreage reduction program, 783-4
Estimates for fiscal year ending Mar. 31/71, 1290-1
Expo '70, Parliamentary delegation to visit Japan, 1210
External affairs
Information services, 136
Reduction in programs and personnel, 314
Farm machinery, Barber Royal Commission on, 330-1
Farris, Hion. J.W. de B., death of, 600
Fishing Agreement, Canada-United States, 1059-60
Flax, loss of sales, Lakehead shortage, 253
Food and Drug Directorate, staff increases, 741
Gas centrifuge uranium enrichment plants, 690
Hayden, Hon. Salter A., 3Oth anniversary in Senate, 515
Income tax, tuition fee deductions, 572, 609-10
Inflation, 48-50, 784
Employment and unemployment statistics, 49
Incomes Commission, 48
Remarks of Governor of Bank of Canada, 50
Restrictive monetary policy, 49-50
Inquiries, delay in receiving answers, 832-3
International Development Research Centre bill C-12, 617-20
Comments of Rt. Hon. Lester B. Pearson, 617-18
Financing of Centre, 619
Objectives, 618
Irvine, Hon. Olive L., death of, 84
Ivory Coast officials, visitors to Senate, 1320
justice Department, Combines Investigation of New Brunswick publishing business,
296
Labour, strikes by public service employees, 426

SENATE
Martin, Hon. Paul, P.C. - Continued
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1071-3, 1188-92
Expenditures for Commission, 1189
Law reform commissions of other countries, 1071
Objects and responsibilities of commission, 1071-3, 1188-90
Leaders of the Govemment in the Senate, unveiling of photographs in Senate foyer,
742-3
Leonard, Hon. T. D'Arcy, resignation from Senate, 924-5
Manitoba Centennial Year, 427-8
Meach Lake expropriations by National Capital Commission, 800-1, 891-2
Monette, Hon. Gustave, death of, 402
Nasser, Gamal Abdel, President of the United Arab Republic, Canada's representative
at funeral of, 1415
National defence recreational facilities and services, availability and cost to public,
1092-3
Navigational aids for Canaport supertankers, 1091
Newfoundland, anniversary of discovery, 1318
North Atlantic Assembly, 15th annual conference, 282-7
Challenges of Modern Society, committee on, 285-6
Government policy re NATO, 282-7
Northern Inland Waters bill C-187, 1096-1100
Conditions of licence, 1097
Diversion of waters, 1099
Jurisdiction, federal and provincial, 1097-8
Riparian rights, 1099
Waste, definition of, 1097
Water quality management, 1096
Nuclear Liability bill C-158, 1370
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, declaration by US and USSR, 202, 665-6
Official Languages for Canada, appointment of Keith Spicer as Commissioner of, 609,
641-2
Official report, incorrect identification in Hansard, 1401
Parliament Buildings, Centre Block windows, 129
Paterson, Hon. Norman McL., 30th anniversary in Senate, 515
Peru, aid to, 1290-1
Phillips, Lazarus, retirement from the Senate, 1466-7
Pollution
Placentia Bay, 90, 100
Potential Oil Pollution, Eutrophication and Pollution from Watercraft, third
interim report of International Joint Commission, 1221-2
Poverty in Canada, Press report of statement attributed to director of Special Senate
Committee, 184-5
Prairie grain and livestock production policies, 330
Prince Edward Island, terms and conditions of agreement covering development plan,
725-6
Rhodesia, Canadian Government policy re sanctions, 519
Royal Canadian Sea Cadets from Gaspe, visitors to Senate, 1387-8
Rules, time of Senate sittings, 1145-6
St-Jean Baptiste Day, 1317-18
Saskatchewan delegates to Federal-Provincial Conference, 308
Senate
Resume of activities, 1383-5, 1388
Role of, 51-52

INDEX
Martin, Hon. Paul, P.C. -Concluded
Status of Canada in Western hemisphere, statement attributed to US Senator Church,
742
Statutory Instruments, motion for study of procedures by Legal and Constitutional
Affairs Committee, 588, 590-4, 1010-13; agreed, 1013
Delegated legisiation, 591
Independent regulatory tribunals, organization, administration, procedures and judicial review of, 1011-12
Ombudsmen, 1012
Orders in Council, 591
ParliamentarySupervision of Delegated Legislation, 594
Proposais of Commons Committee, 593-4, 1010-11
Regulations Act (1950), 592
Responsibility of executive to Parliament, 592
Sullivan, Hon. joseph A., Award of Menit from the American Otological Society, 1032
Summer employment for female students, 1366
Takoo Miki, the Honourable, former Foreign Minister of Japan, visitor to Senate, 1382
Tax reform, White Paper entitled <'Proposais for Tax Reform", ref to Banking, Trade
and Commerce Com, 171-2
Trade Agreement, Canada-USSR, protocol tabled, 608-9
Transport department
Air Traffic Association, threat of strike, 333; ratification of collective agreement,
399-400
Custer Channel Wing Aircraft, 1016, 1060
Ukrainians in Canada, statisticai survey being conducted by Hon. Paul Yuzyk, 943
Union Station, renovations to previous station site, 321-2, 334
United Nations, 250-1
24th anniversary, 7
25th anniversary, 1389-90
Vaillancourt, Hon. Cyrille, death of, 84
World War 11, commemoration of cessation of hostilities, 1006-7
Martland, Hon. Ronald
Royal assent, 1045
Mass Media, Special Senate Committee
Appointment, 55-56
Authorization to meet during sittings of Senate, 37-S-6, 460, 741
Members, 55
McDonold, Hon. A. Hamilton, Chief Government Whip in the Senate
Agriculture, federal-provincial shared cost of programs re use of lands (1968-70), 71314
Attendance of Senators at Senate sittings, 662-4, 667, 668
Canadian National Railways
Derailment expenditures, 1423-4
Chaleur and Scotian, passenger traffic 1969 between certain points, 1465
Equipment damaged and inoperative, 1424
Hot box detectors, 1425
Ocean Limited and Scotian train crews, Montreal and Halifax, 1464

SENAT E
McDonald, Hon. A. Hamilton

- Concluded
Canadian National Railways - Concluded
011 refuelling and storage tanks, 1464
Passenger service, applications for, 1425-6
Passenger service in Canada, 1426
Passenger service on Ocean Limited, cost of advertising, 1426
Wheel flange oilers, 1424-5
Committee meetings while Senate is in session, 35, 36
Durum wheat, separate account for 1968-69, payment of surplus earnings to producers,
651-3
Government supporters in the Senate, press report of remark attributed to Hon. Mr.
McDonald, 276
Grain storage at Lakehead, 393-4
Mass Media, com authorized to meet during sittings of Senate, 375-6
Nasser, Gamal Abdel, President of the United Arab Republic, death of, 1415
National Farmers Union bill S-22, 662-4
North Atlantic Assembly, l5th annual conference, 119-27
Address by Alastair Gillespie, head of Canadian Delegation, 124-6
Berlin Wall, 126-7
Napalm, 123
NATO weapons school, 121
Nuclear weapons, 122
USSR defence projects, 121-2
Visits to training areas, 120-4
Parliament Buildings, Centre Block windows, expenditures on, 56
Prairie Grain Provisional Payments bill C-157, 349-53
Canadian Grain Group and Canadian Grain Council, 351
Cattle breeding, Saskatchewan, 352
Credit facilities for export, 351
Interest-free cash advances, 351
Prices, 351
USSR sales and research, 350
Wheat Board, 350-1
World problem of wheat farmers, 350
Revised Statutes of Canada, 1457
Senate accounts re travelling and moving expenses of Senators, 1400

McElman, Hon. Charles
Estimates for fiscal year ending Mar. 31/71, 1289
Youths barred from western hotels because of dress, 1289

McGrand, Hon. Fred A.
Penitentiaries, federal, facilities for women prisoners, 1271-3
Abortion, 1272
Rehabilitation, 1271-2
Statistics on offences, men and women, 1271

McLean, Hon. Donald A.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 178-80
Inflation, 178-80
Restraints by Government, 179
US-Canada comparison, 179-80

INDEX
McOuct Investments Limited bill S.15. ir, 349; 2r, 370-2; ref to com, 372; suspension of
Rule 95, 372; rep without amdt, 374; 3r, 374; r.a., 714
Methot, Hon. Leon
Monette, Hion. Gustave, death of, 403
Mini ng
Autbority over exploration activities, 199
Coal industry, subventions from federal Government since 1928, 82
Dominion Coal Board Dissolution bill C-161, 710-11
Dominion Coal Board Dissolution bill S-3, 80-83
Gas centrifuge uranium enrichment plants, 690
Gold mining, subventions from federal Government since 1948, 83, 711
Iron ore, 994-5
Minerai explorations, Arctic, 1000-2
Offshore minerai rights, 200, 206-7
Potash, 995
US investments in Quebec and Saskatchewan industries, 994-5
MoIson, Hon. Hartland de M.
Appropriation bill No. 4, 1969, C-169, 312, 313
Committee expenditures, application of Rule No. 84, 495-6
Environmental Control, Special Senate Committee, amdt to motion for, 216-17
Estimates, 312-13
Banks, business and assets, 312
Inflation and interest rates, 312
Parliament Buildings, Centre Block windows, expenditures on, 56, 129
Phillips, Lazarus, retirement from the Senate, 1468-9
Poverty in Canada, Press report of statement attributed to director of Special Senate
Committee, 184-5
Rules of the Senate, revised edition, publication of, 405
Rules of the Senate, Special Senate Committee
Afternoon sîttings, time of, 1074, 1107, 1145-6
Appointment, 42-43
First report of Committee on Standing Rules and Orders, 118-19
Report on expenditures, 1453
Simultaneous interpretation installation of closed-circuit television camera, 1093-4
Standing Rules and Orders Committee, reports, 118-19, 1074, 1107, 1453
Monette, Hon. Gustave
Deceased December 23, 1969
Tributes, 402-3
Motor vehicle safety
Air pollution from exbaust emissions, 727-8
Background of car industry, 729-31
Bumpers, 728, 736
Defects, notification of, 728

SEN AT E
Motor vehicle safety

- Concluded
Driver education, 734
Fines, 729
Inspectors, 728-9
National safety marks, 728
Safety standards, definition of, 727, 728
Tail lights, 734-5
Traffjc accidents and deaths, statistics, 732
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Fournier, Edgar, 729-36

Petten, William J., 727-9
MotorVehicle Safety bill C-137. Ir, 691; 2 r, 727-36; ref to com, 736; rep without amdt, 738;
3r, 761; r.a., 802

Nasser, the late Gamal Abdel, President of the United Arab Republic, 1415

National Capital Commission
Meach Lake, termination of leases and expropriation of properties, 800-1, 891-2

National Defence
Armed forces reduction, 386-7, 407, 410
Canada's forces within NATO, 193, 198, 281-2, 383-4, 386-8, 407, 410, 415
Curtailing of expenditures in establishments in Canada, 314
NATO commanders' comments re requirements, 383-4
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, declaration by US and USSR, 202
Recreational facilities and service, availability and cost to public, 1092-3
Rocket Research Station, Churchill, 112-13
Territorial rights, Canada-United States, 416

National Energy Board
Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd., 1333
Authority, functions and membership of Board, 1330-1
Chalk River, 1332-3
Douglas Point, 1333
Liquefied natural gas, importation of, 1330
New Brunswick Power Commission, 1331
Pipe lines, interference with drainage systems, 1330
Uranium, 1332-4
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Fournier, Edgar, 1331-4
Robichaud, Hedard, 1329-31

National Energy Board bill C-190. ir, 1299; 2r, 1329-34; 3r, 1376; r.a., 1409
National Farmers Union bill S-22. ir, 617; 2r, 662-4, 684-5; ref to com, 685; suspension
of Rule 95, 685-6; rep without amdt, 689; 3r, 696; r.a., 1223

INDEX
National Finance, Standing Senaite Committee
Estimates, fiscal year ending Mar. 31/70, ref to com
Supplementaty (A), 171
Supplementary (B), 664
Estimates, fiscal year ending Mat. 31/71, ref to com, 533-4
Reports
Estimates, fiscal year ending Mar. 31/70
Supplementaty (A), 268-9, 289-94, 304-8
Supplementary (B), 760-1, 774-85
Estimates, fiscal year ending Mat. 31/71, 1225, 1244-8, 1268-71, 1285-91
Expo Winding-Up bill C-6, tep witbout amdt, 221

National Healtb and Welfare Department
Dtug L-Dopa, usage in treatment of Parkinson's Disease, 1193-4, 1213
Food and Drug Directorate, staff increases since Mat. 31/69, 741

National unity, 14-15, 69-70, 76-77
Canada Committee, effotts to combat sepatatism and ptomote unity, 1176-7
CanadianFamnily Tree, The, 559
Quebec separatism, statements of govetnment officiais re, 769
See Constitution of Canada
Metherlands, 2Sth anniversary of the liberation of The Nethetlands, 1052-7

New Brunswick
CNR passenget revenues, Chaleur, Scotian, Ocean Limited, 331, 376-7, 461, 526-9
CNR passenger service, abandonment of railway lines, 526-9, 534-5
Deep water superpott, 133
Fisheries bounty payments, 688
Government austerity, effect on, 676-7
Irving Canaport, deep water oil terminal, 133, 1091
Pollution, 129-32
Potatoes, surplus under snow, 326
Premier Louis J. Robichaud, visitor to Senate, 129
Publishing business, investigation into, 100, 172

Newfoundl and
Anniversary of discovety, 1317-18
Coastal fisheries, foreign vessels participating in, 708
Fisheries, 698-700
Passenger train service, removal of, 91
Pollution of Placentia Bay, 90, 100
Regional disparity, 90-91

SE NAT E
Northi Atlantic Assembly, 15th annual conference, Brussels, 119-29, 193-9, 276-88, 297-304,
382-8, 406-17, 518-19
Address by Alastair Gillespie, head of Canadian Delegation, 124-6
Armed forces as peace corps, 303
Berlin Wall, 126-7, 198-9
"Canada's Cheaper Ride in World Affairs", article in The Canadian Banker, 281-2
Canadian forces within NATO, 193, 198
Challenges of Modern Society, committee on, 285-6
Chamber of Commerce Statement of Policy, 407
Committee of Three, report of, 279-80
Communism, commendation of E. Riisna, Toronto, re Canadian attitude, 518-19
Communistic influences, 407
Council of Europe, 194
Delegations, briefing of, 128
Economic aid to developing countries, 195, 302-3
Economic and ideological evolution of East and West, 298-300
France, withdrawal of forces, 197
Government policy re NATO, 276-8, 297-304
Gross national product, U.S. and India, 301
Harmel Report, 197
India, life expectancy and infant mortality statistics, 300-1
Military commitments not fulfilled by members, 128-9
Military forces of countries under Warsaw Pact, 410
Napalm, 123
NATO background and objectives, 196-7
NATO weapons school, 121
Non-military obligations, 128
Nuclear weapons, 122, 195, 410
Ocean space treaty, 195-6
Parliamentary consultative body, resolution re, 195
Research on international development, 303
Social and economic reforms, 194
UN discussions and recommendations on world problems, 195
Unrest in the Far East, 415
USSR aggression, 197, 277, 280, 413
USSR defence projects, 121-2, 197-8, 407
Visits to training areas, 120-4
West Berlin, 198
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Carter, Chesley W., 287, 382-8
Grosart, Allister, 276-82
Lamontagne, Maurice, 297-304
Lang, Daniel A., 410-17
Martin, Paul, 282-7
McDonald, A. Hamilton, 119-27
O'Leary, M. Grattan, 127-9
Phillips, Orville H., 406-10
Robichaud, Hedard, 193-6
Welch, Frank C., 196-9

North Atlantic Treaty Organization, see North Atlantic Assembly

INDEX
Morthern inland waters
Carbon monoxide effects on permafrost, 1100-1
Conditions of licence, 1048, 1095
Deleterious substances, 1170-2
Diversion of waters, 1099
Excerpts from speeches of Fisheries Minister, 1064
Expropriation of lands, 1065
Jurisdiction, federal and provincial, 1077-8, 1097-8
Protest from Yukon Council, 1078
Rip arian rights, 1081, 1099
Territorial water boards, 1048
Waste, definition of, 1097, 1170-2
Water Boards for Yukon and NWT, 1065
Water quality management, 1096
Waters vested in the Crown, 1049, 1081
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Grosart, Allister, 1076-82
Hays, Harry, 1047-9
Martin, Paul, 1096-1100
Pearson, Arthur M., 1063-5
Prowse, J. Harper, 1100-1
Robichaud, Hedard, 1170-2
Yuzyk, Paul, 1094-6
Northern InIand Waters bill C-187. Ir, 985; 2r, 1047-9, 1063-70, 1076-82, 1094-1101; ref to
com, 1101-2; rep with amdt, 1145, 1170-2; 3r, 1182; Commons concurrence in
Senate amdt, 1299; r.a., 1408
Northwest Territories
Air fares, 367
Oul and gas production and conservation, 199-201, 206-8, 221, 245
See Northern Inland Waters bill C-187,
Yukon, Northwest Territories and Territorial Lands bill C-212.
Hava Scotia
Coastal fîsheries, foreign vessels participating in, 708
Economic conditions in fisheries, 697-8
Fisheries bounty payments, 681, 687

Nuclear liability
Liability of operator of nuclear plant, 1328, 1369-70
Nuclear Damage Claims Commission, 1328
Writs of certiorari, prohibition, mandamus and injuniction, 1328-9
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Flynn, Jacques, 1370
Haig, J. Campbell, 1369-70
Lang, Daniel A., 1327-9
Martin, Paul, 1370

SE MATE
Nuclear Liability bill C-158. ir, 1299; 2r, 1327-9, 1353, 1369-70; 3r, 1370-1; r.a., 1409
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
Declaration by US and USSR, 202, 665-6

Offences on Aircraft
Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts committed on Aircraft, ratification of,
318-21, 335-41

Officiai Languages for Canada
Appointment of Keith Spicer as Commissioner of Official Languages for Canada, 609,

641-3
Oit and gas production and conservation
Acreage of Canada's submerged continental margin, 200-1
Authority over exploration activities, 199
Communications from Prime Minister to provincial premiers, 200
Offshore minerai. rights, 200, 206-7
Petroleum licences, 207
Surveys and drilling programs, 201

Speakers: Honourable Senators
Hays, Harry, 199-201
Macdonald, John M., 20l6-7

Oit and Gas Production and Conservation bill S-5. ir, 10; 2r, 199-201, 206-7; ref to com,
207-8; rep without amdt, 221; 3r, 245; r.a., 1223

O'Leary, Hon. M. Grattan
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 72-75
Company of Young Canadians bill C-171, 396-7
Disrespect of youth for history and democracy, 397
Constitution of Canada, 451-2
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 973-7
Bill of Rights, 975
Freedom of expression, 973, 976
Genocide, 973-4
Human liberties, contravention of, 975-6
Cyprus peace-keeping force, 89
Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, 822-5
Canada-US relations, 823-5
Defence and security matters, 823
US investments in Canada, 823-5
Excerpt from speech at conference, 823
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1153-6
Lawyers of fame in parliamentary history, 1154-6

INDEX
O'Leary, Hon. M. Grattan - Concluded
North Atlantic Assembly, 15th annual conference, 127-9
Delegations, briefing of, 128
Military commitments flot fulfilled by members, 128-9
Non-military obligations, 128
Rhodesia, Canadian Government policy re sanctions, 519
Senate
Attendance of senators at world conferences, 452
Committees, 451-2
Public relations, participation of Hon. Mr. O'Leary in TV program "Under
Attack", 446-7
Raie in Government administration and in public life, 73-74, 451-2
Status of Canada in Western hemisphere, statement attributed to US Senator Cburcb,
742
Statutory Instruments, 749-51
United Nations, twenty-fourth anniversary, 8
Unrest and revolt of youth, 74-75

Olympic Games (1976) to be held in Montreal, congratulations to Mayor jean Drapeau,
1032-3

Opening of Parliament
Communication from Governor General's secretary, 1
Speech from the Throne, 1-4

Orders and Customs, Standing Senate Committee
Appointment, 5

Parliament Buildings
Centre Block windows, expenditures on, 56, 129
Security measures, question of privilege, 1089-90, 1162-3

Parole
Consecutive and concurrent sentences, 498-9, 519-20
Convictions while on parole, 498-9
Forfeiture of parole, 520
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Macdonald, John M., 519-20
Prowse, J. Harper, 498-9

Parole bill S-19. ir, 459; 2r, 498-9, 519-20; 3r, 534; r.a., 802

22481-60

SE NAT E
Paterson, Hon. Norman McL.
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 1007-8
Felicitations on 3Oth anniversary in Senate, 515-18
Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, 994-5
US investments in industry and development in Canada, 994-5
Quebec minerais, 994-5
Saskatchewan potash, 995

Pearson, Hon. Arthur M.
Agricultural Products Co-operative Marketing bill C-183, 722-3
Durum wheat, separate account for 1968-69, payment of surplus earnings to producers,
651
Expropriation bill C-136, 550-1
Compensation, 551
Hearing officer, 550
Negotiation procedures, 551
Qu-Appelle Valley, 551
Northern Inland Waters bill C-187, 1063-5
Duplication of legisiation on water pollution, 1065
Excerpts from speeches of Fisheries Minister, 1064
Expropriation of lands, 1065
Water Boards for Yukon and NWT, 1065
Prairie Grain Provisional Payments bill C-157, 341-3
Adverse reports on Canada's share of world trade, 341
Farm land, depreciation in, 341
Markets for Canadian grain, 341, 342-3
Wheat Board, suggestion for reorganization of activities, 342-3
Water bill C-144, 1216-17
Jurisdiction, federal and provincial, 1217
Phosphates and other nutrients, 1217
Water management authority, 1216

Penitentiaries, federal, facilities for women prisoners, 1178-82, 1218-21, 1271-3, 1276-9,
1307-11
Archambault Commission on Penal Reform, 1180, 1308-9
Correctional procedures, 1220
Drug addicts, 1179, 1180
French-speaking inmates, lack of programn for, 1181, 1218
Halfway House, Kingston, 1181, 1220
Imprisonment in places distant from famihiar surroundings, 1308
John Howard Society, 1277
Kingston Penitentiary, 1179, 1180, 1308
Resignations of Superintendent and other staff, 1181
Matsqui Institution, 1180, 1219
National Council of Women, recommendations of, 1178-9
Newfoundland provisions for women prisoners, 1310
Ottawa Citizen report on "War hero and family man jailed", 1310
Quimet Committee on Corrections, 1180, 1181, 1182
Penology, 1276-9
Public attitudes, 1278
Recidivists, 1308

INDEX
Penitentiaries, federal - Concluded
Rehabilitation, 1271-2, 1277-9
Statîstics on femnale and maie offenders, 1180, 1218, 1271
Therapeutic or correctional community, 1277
Volunteer organizations, 1180, 1181, 1220-1
Benevolent Anonymous, 1221
Chaplain's Volunteers, 1221
Elizabeth Fry Society, 1180, 1181, 1220
Street Haven, 1220
Women in unnecessary maximum security, 1180-1
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Burchili, G. Percival, 1381-2
Croli, David A., 1307-11
Fergusson, Muriel McQ., 1178-82
Inman, F. Elsie, 1276-9
Kinnear, Mary E., 1218-21
McGrand, Fred A., 1271-3
Petten, Hon. William J.
Motor Vehicle Safety bill C-137, 727-9
Air pollution from exhaust emissions, 727-8
Bumpers, 728
Defects, notification of, 728
Fines, 729
Inspectors, 728-9
National safety marks, 728
Safety standards, definition of, 727, 728
Saltfish bill C-175, 627-8
Corporation powers, 628
Income of fishermen, 627-8
Markets, decline in, 627-8
Prices, 628
Shipping Conferences Exemption bill C-184, 1459-62, 1474
Basic agreement among member lines, 1459
Expîry'date of act, 1462, 1474
Filing requirement, 1461
Non-members, 1460
Shipping (Pilotage) bill S-23, 1169-70
PbiIlips, Hon. Lazarus
Retired October 10, 1970, 1466-71
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 56-60
Appropriation bill C-201, 797-8
Buccaneer Industries Ltd. bill S-16, 372
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 977-83
Bill of Rights, 978, 979, 980
Drybones case, 978
Freedom of speech, 980-2
Judgments of Supreme Court of Canada, 980-1
Racial prejudice, 983
Supreme Court of Canada, functions of, 979

2248 1- 601/2

SEMAT E
Phillips, Hon. Lazarus

- Concluded
Defence, Canada-US co-operation, 57
Divorce, petition for bill to annul resolution to dissolve marriage, 425-6, 1146-8
Estimates, expenditures vs GNP, 798
Expropriation bill C-136, 572-6, 1050
Abandonment of expropriation, 575
Compensation, 575-6, 1050
Costs of proceedings, 1051
Ethel V. Grayson v Her Majesty the Queen, and other cases of expropriation,
573-4
Notice of intention to expropriate, 574-5
Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, 785-90
Tax Reform, White Paper on, 789
Trade and economic affairs, 786
US investments in Canada, 786-9
Equity for Canadian subsidiaries, 787
Tax incentives, 787-8
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1124-9
Cardozo, Mr. justice, observations of, 1126
Membership of Commission, 1128-9
McOuat Investments Ltd. bill S-15, 349, 370-1
Quebec, regional disparity, 57-58
Economic decline, 58
Social security, 59
Statutory Instruments, 631-6
Delegated legisiation, 632-4
Invasion of persons and property, 632-3
New Despotism, The, and other publications, 632-3
Royal prerogative, 634
Scrutiny committee, 634-5
Supreme Court bill C-182, 1008-10
Appeals from final judgments, 1008-9
Appeals per saltum, 1009
J urisdiction in habeas corpus matters, 1009
Quorum on application for leave, 1009
Textile Labelling bill S-20, 499-504, 524-6
Advertising, 501
Analysts, 502
False or misleading representation, 501, 525-6
Forfeiture of goods, 503
Labels, 501, 524
Obstruction of inspecturs, 502
Offence and punishment, 503
Prohibition respecting consumer textile articles, 501
Regulations, 502-3, 524-6
Percentage by weight, 524
Search and seizure, 502

Phillips, Hon. Orville H.
Constitution of Canada, 506-8
Fisheries bill C-204, 1405-6, 1407
Lobster fishing, 1405-6
Pollution, 1405

INDEX
Pbillips, Hon. Orville Hl. - Concluded
Labour (Standards) Code bill C-214, 1281-2
Crown corporations, 1281
Federal-provincial projects, 1281-2
Railways, 1281
Netherlands, 25th anniversary of liberation, 1054-7
North Atlantic Assembly, l5th annual conference, 406-10
Armed forces reduction and withdrawals from NATO, 407, 410
Chamber of Commerce Statement of Policy, 407
Communistic influences, 407
Home defence, lack of, 410
Military forces of countries under Warsaw Pact, 410
Nuclear weapons, 410
US policy, 408, 409
USSR defence projects, 407
Prince Edward Island, development plan, terms and conditions of agreement, 693-6, 726
Brudenell Park, 695-6
Employment and award of contracts, 694
Tourism and recreation, Mill River complex, 694-5
Expenditures on wood-cutting, 694-5
Under-estimation of projects, 696
Security measures in Parliament Buildings, question ofprivilege, 1089-90
Small Businesses Loans bill C-9, 510-11
Loan limitation, 5 il
Loans(1961-68), decrease in, 510
Rural communities, difficulties of, 511
Standards Council of Canada bill C-163, 1447-8
Membership, powers and staff of councîl, 1448
Voluntary standardization, 1447-8
Water bill C-144, 1236-9, 1274-5
Advisory committee, 1239
Fees for waste disposai, 1238
Jurisdiction and responsibility of federal and provincial governments, 1237
Phosphates and other nutrients, 1238-9
Research, 1238
Water authorities, 1237, 1239
Water quality, 1239
Pitts Insurance Company bill S-10. Hon. Mr. Lang. ir, 135; 2r, 185-6; ref to com, 186; rep
with amdt, 221; 3r, 245; Commons amdt, 606, 616; r.a., 714
Pitts Life Insurance Company bill S-11. Hon. Mr. Lang. lr, 135; 2r, 186; ref to com, 186;
rep without amdt, 222; 3r, 245; r.a., 714
Pollution, 15-16, 46, 70, 129-32, 997-1004
Air, 998-9
Arctic waters, 870-1, 1001-2
DDT, 65, 132
Dying Waters, The, TV narration by Stanley Burke, 130
Environmental control, 210-19, 1001-2

SENATE
Pollution - Concluded
Environmental Decade, report by members of US Congress, 998-1000
Forestry, 132
Land, 998-9
Placentia Bay, ERCO plant, 78, 90, 100
Potential Oil Pollution, Eutrophication and Pollution fromn Watercraft,
International joint Commission, 1221-2
Pulp and paper milîs, 130-1
Saint John River, 130
UN conference in 1972, 869
UN discussions and recommendations on world problemn of pollution, 195
Water 65, 997
Welland Evening Tribune, report on, 65-66
See Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention bill C-202,
Environmental control,
Northern Inland Waters bill C-187,
Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones bill C-203,
Water bill C-144.

Poverty
Attitudes toward work, 1362
Cost of living, 1357-8
Costs to government, 1361
Education, 1360
Employment and unemployment, 1358-9
Guaranteed income, 1361
Medicare and hospitalization, 1359-60
Provincial statistics, 1358
Rural conditions, 1366-8
Welfare system, deficiencies in, 1356
Invasion of privacy, 1357
Provincial differences, 1356

Poverty in Canada, Special Senate Committee
Appointment, 27-40
Members, 28, 55
Press report of statement attributed to director of committee, 184-5, 202
Reports on activities of committee, 53-54, 1355-65

Prairie grain provisianal payments
Advances and losses, 325
Adverse reports on Canada's share of world trade, 341
Canadian Grain Group and Canadian Grain Council, 351
Cattle breeding, Saskatchewan, 345, 352
Credit facilities for export, 351
Interest-free cash advances, 343, 351
Marketing, 327, 341-6, 350-1
Sales to Britain, 343;. to USSR, 344, 350
Newspaper articles on difficulties of prairie farmers, 326
Outlook Conference, 330, 344-5

report of

INDEX
Prairie grain provisional payments - Concluded
Prices, 327, 351
Research, 350
Sales to USSR, 344, 350
Unthreshed crops, statistics, 327
Wheat Board, suggestion for reorganization of activities, 342-3, 350-1
World problem of wheat farmers, 350
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Argue, Hazen, 343-6
Aseltine, Walter M., 326-7
McDonald, A. Hamilton, 349-53
Pearson, Arthur M., 341-3
Sparrow, Herbert O., 324-6

Prairie Grain Provisional Payments bill C-157. lx, 295; 2r, 324-7, 341-6, 349-53; 3r, 377;
r.a., 399

Prince Edward Island
Development plan, terms and conditions of agreement between federal Government and
province, 693-6
Brudeneil Park, 695
Employment and award of contracts, 694
Expenditures on wood-cutting, 694-5
Tourîsm and recreation, Mill River complex, 694-5
Under-estimation of projects, 696
Fîsheries bounty payments, 688

Privilege, question of
Answers to inquiries, delay in receipt of and context of, 1016-17, 1033-4, 1426-7
Attendance of Senators at Senate sittings, 666-8
Char service of Senate, 6-7
Debates of the Senate, translation of quotation given in French, 669
Debates of the Sena te, translation of speech given in French on Law Reform
Commission bill, 1164-5
Government supporters in Senate, press report of remark attributed to Hon. Mr.
McDonald, 276
Poverty in Canada, press report of statement attributed to director of Special Senate
Committee, 184-5, 202
Security measures in Parliament Buildings, 1089-90, 1162-3

Prorogation of Parliament
Notice of, 1472
Speech from the Throne, 1474-7

SENAT E
Prowse, Hon. J. Harper
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 113-17
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 950-4
Bill of Rights, 953
Crime comics legisiation, 9 5 3-4
Drybones case, 950-1, 954
Proof of statement, 953-4
Riel Rebellion, 951-2
Economic and social problems, 114
Inflation and unemployment, 116
Interest rates, 115
Judges bill C-2, 322
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1129-31
Northern Inland Waters bill C-187, 1100-1
Carbon monoxide effects on permafrost, 1100-1
Parole bill S-19, 498-9
Consecutive sentences, 498-9
Convictions while on parole, 498-9
Stambaugh, Hon. J. Wesley, death of, 752-3
Statutory Instruments, 765-7
Yukon, Northwest Territories and Territorial Lands bill C-212, 1340-4
Budgets of Yukon and NWT, 1342
Carruthers Commission, recommendations of, 1341
Council, judges, 1343
Land management, 1343
Mineral wealth, 1342
Pollution and other dangers of commercialization, 1342
Qualifications of voters, 1343
Responsibility of Government to Indians and Eskimos, 1341
Yukon government, 1340

Public Service
Injustice alleged after closing of Point Edward Naval Base (George Benac), 1325-6
Lay-offs, 102
Strikes by employees, 353

Quarantine
Andromeda Strain, The, 257
Authority of quararitine officers, 188-9
Carriers of causative agents, 355
Conveyance, definition of, 188
Drug control, 192-3
Hoof-and-mouth disease, 191-2
Mental disease, 190, 255
Penalties, 190
Port of Halifax, 187-8
Refusal of medical examination, 189
Screening process at quarantine stations, 188
Smallpox, yellow fever and other diseases, 187
Tuberculosis, 190, 254-5

INDEX
- Concluded
Vaccination, 255-8
Contra-indications, 255-6
Venereal diseases, 192
World Health Organization, 187
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Connolly, John J., 257
Kinley, John J., 191-3
Roebuck, Arthur W., 257-8, 318
Smith, Donald, 187-91, 258-9, 316-17
Sullivan, joseph A., 253-8, 317-18

Quarantine

Quarantine bill S-12. ir, 135; 2r, 187-93, 253-9; ref to com, 259; rep with amdts, 316-18;
3r, 334; Commons amdt, 606-7; r.a., 714
Quart, Hon. Josie D.

Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 98
Canada Day bill S-24, 1280-1
Indians honoured by name of "Canada" Day, 1280
July 1 stipulated for officiai celebration, 1280
Canada Week, 1176-7
Canada Committee, 1176-7
Efforts to combat separatism, 1177
Membership and chapters, 1176-7
National unity, committee work re, 1177
Expo '70, 1176
Canadian Pavilion, 1176
Quebec Pavilion, 1176
TV satellite program featuring address of Prime Minister at Expo, 1176
Company of Young Canadians bill C-171, 381-2
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 1060-1
Excerpt from letter of student of political science, 1061
Girl Guides and Boy Scouts, leadership given by, 381-2
Student Loans bill C-135, 545-6
Textile Labelling bill S-20, 522-3
Consumers Association resolution re labelling, 523
Labels, cleaning instructions, 523
Women in business and public life, 98

Quebec
Company of Young Canadians, subversive activities in Montreal, 379
Fisheries bounty payments, 688
Minerals, US investments in, 995
Regional disparity, 57-58
Separatism, threatened independence of Quebec, statement of government officials re,
769
185;
Quebec Savings Banks bill S-2. ir, 9; 2r, 66; ref to com, 66; rep without amdt, 170; 3r,
r.a., 714

22481-61

SEN AT E
Questions, see Inquiries

Radiation emitting devices
Colour television, 430
Forfeiture of equipment and restoration, 419-21
Inspectors, 418, 427-8
Offences and penalties, 419
Regulations, 418
Seizures, 418-19
Substances within meaning of Atomic Energy Contrai Act, 417, 421
X/ray equipment, 417
Speakers: Honourable Senatars
Fergusson, Muriel McQ., 417-21, 431-2
Fournier, Edgar, 427-8
Grosart, Allister, 428-30
Sullivan, joseph A., 430-1

Radiation Emnitting Devices bill S-14. lr, 329; 2r, 417-21, 427-32; ref ta com, 432; rep with
amndts, 571; 3r, 595; Senate concurrence in Commons amdt, 940; r.a., 1046

Railway bill C-11. lr, 446; 2r, 467-9, 526-9, 534-5; ref ta com, 535; rep without amdt, 571;
3r, 594; r.a., 714

Railways
Canadian Transport Commission, extension of jurisdiction to cover private
services, 467-9, 534
Passenger service, Nfld., 91, 331, 376-7, 461, 526-9, 534-5
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Belisie, Rheal, 468-9
Burchili, G. Percival, 467-8, 534-5
Fournier, Edgar, 526-9
Haig, J. Campbell, 534-5
See also Canadian National Railways

Railways bill S-1 (pro forma). ir, 5
Rattenbury, Hon. Nelson
Address in reply ta Speech from the Throne, 129-33
Children of the War Dead (Education Assistance) bill C-8, 368-9, 370
Compassionate grounds, 369
School failures, 369, 370
Navigational aids for Canaport supertankers, 1091
Pollution, 129-32
Dying Waters, The, TV narration by Stanley Burke, 130
Fisheries, effect on, 131, 132

Forestry, 132
Pulp and paper milîs, 130-1
Saint John River, 130

wire

INDEX
Rattenbury, Hon. Nel son - Concluded
Regional economic development, Atlantic provinces, 132-3
Containerization terminal, construction of, 133
Deep water oil terminal, 133
Deep water superport, 133
Saltfish bill C-175, 661
Markets in Portugal and Spain, decline in, 661
Shipping bill C-10, 967-8
Regionat disparities and economic development
Atlantic provinces, 132-3
Corporation offices, 20
Government departments, location of and purchasing by, 18-19
New Brunswick, 32-33
Newfoundland, 90-91
Prairie provinces, 18
Quebec, 57-58
Research
Expenditures on, 644
Production vs science and technology, 643-4
See International Development Research Centre bill C-12
Rhodesian Republic, Canadian Government policy re trade sanctions, 519

Robichaud, Hon. Hedard, P.C.
Industrial Research and Development Incentives bill C-193, 1086-9
Associated corporations, 1088
Expenditures of base period, inclusion of expenditures of predecessor corp., 1089
Kennedy Round agreement, reduced tariff protection, 1087
Repayments of loans for advancement of or sustaining of industry, 1089
Sale or transfer of property, recovery of grant, 1089
International Development Research Centre bill C-12, 739-40
National Energy Board bill C-190, 1329-31
Authority, functions and membership of Board, 1330-1
Liquefied natural gas, importation of, 1330
Pipe lines, interference with drainage systens, 1330
North Atlantic Assembly, 1Stb annual conference, 193-6
Canadian forces within NATO, 193
Council of Europe, 194
Economic aid to developing countries, 195
Nuclear arms, 195
Ocean space treaty, 195-6
Parliamentary consultative body, resolution re, 195
Pollution, 195
Social and economic reforms, 194
Northern Inland Waters bill C-187, 1170 -2
Rep of com with amdt, 1170-2

22481-

1A

SENATE
Robichaud, Hon. Hedard, P.C. - Concluded
Saltfish bill C-175, 673-7
Development incentives in Atlantic provinces, 675-6
Government subsidies, discontinuance of, 676-7
Markets, decline in, 675
New Brunswick, effect of Government austerity on, 676-7
Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones bill C-203, 1194-1201, 1256-7
Countries engaged in fishing operations on Atlantic coast, 1195
Phasing out negotiations, 1195, 1198
Fisheries Council of Canada, 1194
Fisheries jurisdiction, 1198-9
North Atlantic Coast Fisheries vs Britain and US, 1198
Fishing agreement, Canada-US, 1194-5, 1199, 1200
Hague Codification Conference, 1197
International treaty obligations, 1195, 1200
Law of the Sea Conferences, 1194, 1200
Sovereignty claims, 1196, 1198-9
Twelve mile limit, 1196-8
International Court of Justice, jurisdiction of, 1198
Other countries, 1197
US proviso, 1197

Roebuck, Hon. Arthur W.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 145-50
Appropriation bill C-169, 312-13
Committee meetings while Senate is in session, 36, 38, 39
Company of Young Canadians bill C-171, 398
Customs Tariff and Excise Tax bill C-140, 265, 266
Divorce, court jurisdiction, 331-3
Divorce, finalization of committee work, 233-7
Decrees absolute granted yearly, 242
Divorce statistics of Justice Dept., 241
Divorce statistics of Senate Committee, 240
Quebec and Newfoundland applications, 243
Divorce, Standing Senate Committee, reconstitution of, 41-42
Environmental Control, Special Senate Committee, 217-18
Finance, Canadian money, protection of purchase or exchange value, 485-6, 487-94
Consumer Price Index, 494
Currency and chartered bank deposits, 489-92
Monthly changes in Canada's holdings of gold and US dollar reserves and credit
with International Monetary Fund, 493
Inflation, 145-50
Bonds, Government issue, 147-8
Currency in circulation, DBS statistics, 147
Devaluation in purchasing power of Canadian dollar, 146-8
Fixed incomes, 146
Government debt, 147
Governor of Bank of Canada, speeches on weakening of Canadian dollar, 148-9
Trade unions demands, 146
Interest rates, 312-13
Judges bill C-2, 324
Offences on Aircraft, Convention, 338

INDEX
Roebuck, Hon. Arthur W. - Concluded
Quarantine bil S-12, 257-8, 318
Simultaneous interpretation, 6
Tax reform, White Paper on, 171
United Nations, twenty-fourth anniversary, 9
Royal assent, 252, 398-9, 714, 802-3, 1045, 1222-3, 1408-9, 1474
Deputy of Governor General
Abbott, Hon. D.C., P.C., 1222-3
Cartwright, Right Hon. J.R., P.C., M.C., 398-9
Fauteux, Hon. Gerald, 714, 802-3, 1408-9, 1474
Hall, Hon. Emmett M., 252
Martland, Hon. Ronald, 1045
Notice, 244, 389, 691, 791, 1032, 1210, 1401, 1472
Rules of the. Senate
Adoption of committee report, 1453
Afternoon sittings, time of, 1074, 1107, 1145-6
Debate procedure, Senator out of order, relevancy of debate, 394, 582, 657, 813-14
No. 76 (4) suspension of
Mass Media Commîttee meetings, 375-6, 460, 741
No. 84, committee expenditures, 495-6
No. 95, suspension of
Buccaneer Industries Limited bill S-16, 372
ICG Transmission Limited bill S-17, 373
McOuat Investments Limited bill S-15, 372
National Farmers Union bill S-22, 685-6
Point of order, question period, 1366-7
Printing of appendix, 557
Procedure on notice to adjourn, 941-2, 955
Report of Committee on Standing Rules and Orders, 118-19
Revised Edition, publication of, 405
Rules cf the Senate, Special Sonate Committee
Appointment, 42-43
Reports
Expenditures, 1453
First report of Committee on Standing Rules and Orders, 118-19

Russia, see Union of Soviet Socialist Republics

St-Jean-Baptiste Day, 1317-18

St. Patrick's Day, tribute to Ireland and the Irish people, 716-17

SE NAT E
Saltf ish
Agreements between federal Government and provinces, 656
Control of fish processing and marketing, 659-60
Corporation powers, 628, 656
Deficiency payments to east coast fisherînen, 763-4
Development incentives in Atlantic provinces, 675-6
Government subsidies, discontinuance of, 676-7
Income of fishermen, 627-8
Inshore fishing, 656
Markets, decline in, 627-8, 661, 675
Monopolies in production and sale, 698
New Brunswick, effect of Government austerity on, 676-7
Newfoundland, 698, 699, 700, 763-4
Nova Scotia economic aspects, 697-8
Offences and penalties, 657
Prices, 628, 658, 698
Restriction on trade between provinces, 636, 701, 762-3
Salting and drying processçs, 660
Working conditions in fish plants, 701
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Carter, Chesley W., 659-61
Duggan, James, 700-1
Hollett, Malcolm, 657-9
Kinley, John J., 696-700, 762-5
Lang, Daniel A., 701
Macdonald, John M., 655-7
Petten, William J., 627-8
Rattenbury, Nelson, 661
Robichaud, Hedard, 673-7

Saltfish bill C-175. ir, 607; 2 r, 627-8, 655-61, 673-7, 696-701; ref to com, 701; rep without
amdt, 739;

3

r, 762-5;1 r.a., 802

Saskatchewan
Housing crisis, 454
Personal income, decrease in, 454
Potash, 995
US investments, 995
Unharvested and unthreshed grain, 326-7

Savoie, Hon. Calixte F.
Retired August 23, 1970

Science Policy, Special Senate Cammitee
Appointment, 40-41

INDEX
Senate
Accounts for fiscal year, 800
Accounts re travelling and moving expenses of Senators, 1400
Afternoon sittings, time of, 1074, 1107, 1145-6
Appointments, 449-50
Attendance of Senators at Senate sittings, 662-4, 666-8, 714-15
Attendance of Senators at worid conferences, 452
Committee expenditures, application of Rule No.*84, 495-6
Committee meetings during Senate sittings, 376, 449, 458
Committee work, 451-2, 456, 938-9, 1380, 1383-6
Expenditures, comparison to royal commissions, 938
Debate procedure, 394, 582, 657, 813-14
Debates of the Sena te, translation of quotation. given in French, question of privilege,
669
Debates of the Senate, translation of speech given in French on Law Reform Commission bill, question of privîlege, 1164-5
Emergency sittings, 119
Leaders of the Government in the Senate, unveiling of pbotographs in Senate foyer,
742-4
Public relations, participation of Senators in outside programs, 446-7
Reform, 46-47
Research and other staff, 453, 456
Resumé of activities, 1383-8
Role of, 73-74, 451-3, 456
Rules, revised edition, publication of, 405
Security measures, question of privilege, 1089-90
Simultaneous interpretation, installation of booths in south gallery of Senate, 1093-4,
1109, 1318-20
Window blinds for Senate Chamber, 866-7, 892

Senate amendments to bis
Corporations bill C-4, 1417-22, 1430-2, 1449
Expropriation bill C-136, 1014, 1049-51
International Development Research Centre bill C-12, 739-40
Northern Inland Waters bill C-187, 1145, 1170-2

Senators, deceased
Dessureault, Hon. Jean-Marie, 1415-16
August 25, 1970
Farris, Hon. J.W. de B., 600-3
February 25, 1970
Irvine, Hon. Olive L., 84-89
November 1, 1969
Monette, Hon. Gustave, 402-3
December 23, 1969
Stambaugh, Hon. J. Wesley, 752-3
March 20, 1970
Vaillancourt, Hon. Cyrille, 84-89
October 30, 1969

SEN AT E
Senators, retired
Dessureault, Hon. Jean-Marie, 1415
August 16, 1970
Leonard, Hon. T. D'Arcy, 923-6
April 29, 1970
Phillips, Hon. Lazarus, 1466-71
October 10, 1970
Savoie, Hon. Calixte F.
August 23, 1970

Separati sm
Canada Committee, efforts to combat separatism and promote national unity, 1176-7
Subversive activities, Montreal, 379, 671
Threatened independence of Quebec, statements of government officiais re, 769

Shi ppi ng
Medical expenses of sick mariners, 965-8, 1007, 1017, 1045
Navigational aids for Canaport supertankers, 1091
Pilotage, 1169-70, 1211, 1240-1
Ship disasters and threat of pollution from, 1202
Shipping safety control zones, 1202
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Flynn, Jacques, 1170
Macdonald, John M., 967
Petten, William J., 1169-70, 1459-62, 1474
Rattenbury, Nelson, 967-8
Smith, Donald, 965-7
See Shipping Conferences Exemption bill C-184,
Shipping (Medical Expenses of Sick Mariners) bill C-10,
Shipping (Pilotage) bill S-23.

Shipping conferences exemption
Basic agreement among member lines, 1459
Expiry date of act, 1462, 1474
Filing requirement, 1461
Non-members, 1460
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Hayden, Salter A., 1462-3
Hollett, Malcolm, 1462
Petten, William J., 1459-62

Shipping Conferences Exemption bill C-184. ir, 1459; 2r, 1459-63; 3r, 1474; r.a., 1474

Shipping (Medical expenses cf sick mariners) illI C-10. lx, 940; 2r, 965-8; ref to com,
968; rep without amdt, 1007; 3r, 1017; r.a., 1045
Shipping (Pilotage) bill S-23. ir, 1133; 2r, 1169-70; ref to com, 1170; rep with amdt, 1211,
1240-1; 3r, 1249; r.a., 1409

INDEX

SmaII businesses loans
Aggregate principal amount of guaranteed boans, 509
Banks and lending institutions defined, 509
Corporate income tax, 513
Lending period, 509
Limitation of liability re Government guarantee, 509
Loan limitation, 511
Loans (1961-68), decrease in, 510
Loans for working capital and inventory, 512
Rural communities, 511-12
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Benidickson, W.M., 508-10
Carter, Chesley W., 511-12
Grosart, Allister, 512-13
Phillips, Orville H., 510-11
Smai Businesses Loans bili C-9. ir, 459; 2r, 508-14; ref to com, 514; rep without amdt,
531; 3r, 531; r.a., 714
Smith, Hon. Donald
Coastal Fisheries Protection bill C-134, 707-10
Committee expenditures, application of Rule No. 84, 496
Divorce petition for bill to annul resolution, 210
Electoral Boundaries Readjustment (Burnaby-Richmond) bibi C-130, 1142
Environmental Control, Special Senate Committee, 218
Quarantine bibl S-12, 187-91, 257-8, 316-17. 607
Authority of quarantine officers, 188-9
Conveyance, definition of, 188
Mental disorders and tuberculosis, 190
Penalties, 190
Port of Halifax, 187-8
Refusal of medical examination, 189
Screening process at quarantine stations, 188
Smabbpox, yellow fever and other diseases, 187
World Health Organization, 187
Security measures in Parbiament Buildings, 1089-90
Shipping bill C-10, 965-7
Medical and hospital treatment for mariners, 965-7
Foreign vessels, contributions to fund and liability while in Canadian ports,
967
Option for Canadian vessels, 966
Social security, 59
Administration of, 45
Just society, 61
Southeast Asia, Non-Governmentab Trade and Goodwill Mission, 909-18, 968-71
Japan, 915-16
Jurong Industrial Estates, 915

SE NAT E
Southeast Asia

- Concluded
Penal systems, 969-70
Scholarships for foreign students of advanced management, 909, 968-9
Trade
Hong Kong, 912
Israel, generators for electrical power plant, 910
Russia, machine tools, 910
Wheat, international depots, suggestion, 914
Turkey, memorial to Kemal Ataturk, 970
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Cameron, Donald, 909-18
Fergusson, Muriel McQ., 968-71

Sp arrow, Hon. Herbert 0.
Prairie Grain Provisional Payments bill C-157, 324-6
Advances and losses, 325
Saskatchewan Metis Association, visitors to Senate, 822

Speaker of the Senate
Deschatelets, Hon. Jean-Paul, P.C.
Pro tem, 1091, 1109, 1119, 1274, 1299, 1355, 1389

Speech from the Throne
Opening of Parliament, 1-4
Termination of Address in reply, motion for, Hon. Mr. Langlois, 21; agreed, 21
Prorogation of Parliament, 1474-7
See Address in reply to Speech from the Throne

sparts
Curling, Canadian Champions, Manitoba Rink, 696
Olympic Games (1976) to be held in Montreal, 1032-3

Stambaugh, the late Han. J. Wesley
Deceased March 20, 1970
Tributes, 752-3

Stanbury, Han. Richard J.
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 68-72
Elections bill C-215, 1392-6, 1399, 1400
Address and occupation of candidate, 1399
Citizenship, 1399
Fishing industry, seasonal employees, 1400
Major provisions of bill, 1393, 1410-14
Permanent voters' list, lack of, 1393-4
Proxy voting, 1395
Public servants abroad, 1394-5, 1399

INDEX

Stanbury, Hon. Richard J. - Concluded
Foreign aid, 70-71
CUSO, 71
Inflation, 71
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1156-61
National unity, 69-70
Pollution, 70
Standards Council
Budget, 1429
Membership and executive committee, 1428-9, 1448
Objects and activities, 1427-8
Powers of counicil, 1448
Voluntary standardization, 1447-9
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Denis, Azellus, 1427-9, 1448-9
Phillips, Orville H., 1447-8
Standards Council of Canada bill C-163. ir, 1408; 2r, 1427-9, 1447-9; ref to com, 1449;
tep without amdt, 1453; 3r, 1457; r.a., 1474
Standing Rules and Orders, Standing Senate Committee
Afternoon sittings, tîme of, 1074, 1107
Report
Rules of the Senate. 118-19
Stotute Iaw (Supplementary Retirement Benefits)
Retroactive payments, 757
Senators and Members of House of Commons, 755-60, 770
Survivor benefits, 756-8, 771-2
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Connolly, John J., 754-9, 760
Flynn, Jacques, 769-73
Haig, J. Campbell, 759, 760
2
Statute Law (Supplementary Retirement Benefits) bill C-194. Ir, 754; r, 754-60, 769-73;
ref to com, 773-4; tep without amdt, 800; 3r, 800; r.a., 803

Statutory Instruments, study by Legal and Constitutional Affairs Committee, motion for,
Hon. Mr. Martin, 590-4, 629-36, 701-7, 719-22, 744-51, 765-8, 808-17, 825-31,
835-43, 847- 50, 851-64, 867, 900-9, 936-9, 1010-13; agreed, 1013
Bureaucracy in government, 749, 860-2
Canada Deposit Insurance Act, 903-4
Canada's Tomorrow, 861
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, 750
Comments of experts on parliamentary procedures, 936-7

SE NAT E
Statutory Instruments

- Continued
Crown corporations, 705-7, 747-8, 836, 847-8, 907
Agency corporations, 847
CBC and CNR, 836, 837
Departmental corporations, 848
Post Office, 907
Proprietary corporations, 848
Directors, regional directors, sub-delegations, 827
Drybones case, 840-1, 896-9, 930-2, 946-50, 961-3, 978
Evolving role of monarchy, parliamentarians and public servants, 808-17
Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act, 904-5
Fisheries Act, inappropriate application of Section 64, 837-8
Foreign investments, 860
Hazardous Products bill, 902-3
Hodge v the Queen, 826
Judicial Control of Administrative Actin, 837, 839-40
Labour regulations, 852-3
Liquidators of Maritime Bank of Canada v the Receiver General of New Brunswick,
726
Loans, investments and advances, 747
Mass media, 863
National Parks and confiscation of property, 907
New Style of Grass Roots is stealing Parliamnent's Thunder, 908
Old Age Security regulations, 828
Ombudsmen, 1012
On Civil Rights, by Chief justice McRuer, 902
ParliamentarySupervision of Delegated Legislation, 594, 703, 745
Proposais of Commons Committee, 593-4, 704, 1010-11
Publication of regulations in Canada Gazette, 828
Regulations Act (1950), 592
Rights of public servants and other citizens, 632-3, 721-2, 826-31, 842-3, 854-6
Rights of underprivileged and of welfare recipients, 854-6
Legal aid, 855
Termination of public assistance, 855-6
Welfare bureaucracy, 856-7
Welfare recipients, 854-6
Winnipeg Welfare Rights Movement, 857-8
Scope for Senate committee investigation, 938-9
Scrutiny committee, 634-5, 704
Tax reform, 862
Unemployment Insurance Act, 838
US Administrative Procedure Act and Canadian National Energy Board Act and Rules,
comparison, 849-50
Wheat Board powers, 720-2, 747
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Argue, Hazen, 719-22
Cameron, Donald, 905-8
Carter, Chesley W., 837-43
Connolly, John J., 936-9
Croll, David A., 854-9
Desruisseaux, Paul, 859-63
Fergusson, Muriel McQ., 825-31
Flynn, Jacques, 630-1

INDEX

Statutory instruments - Concluded
Speakers: Honourable Senators - Con cluded
Fournier, Edgar, 835-7
Gouin, Leon-Mercier, 852-4
Grosart, Allister, 745-8
Hayden, Salter A., 900-5
Lamontagne, Maurice, 808-17
Martin, Paul, 590-4, 1010-13
O'Leary, M. Grattan, 749-51
Phillips, Lazarus, 631-6
Prowse, J. Harper, 765-7
Thompson, Andrew, 701-7
Student loans
Brain-drain of Canadian professionals to U.S., 578-9, 587
Costs of education, 581
Discriminations, complaints in Commons, 580
Landed immigrants, 543, 579
Lending institutions, 543
Maximum loan, 544
Night-school, part-time and summer students, 540-1, 584-5
Poverty vs education, 584
Provincial allocations, 542-3
Statistics, 541, 579, 585, 586
Teacher certification, 581-2
Teaching techniques and equipment, 583
Vocational and technical training institutions, 586
Women taking post-secondary courses, 585-6
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Cameron, Donald, 540-5, 586-8
Carter, Chesley W., 579-84
Fergusson, Muriel McQ., 584-6
Quart, Josie D., 545-6
Yuzyk, Paul, 577-9
Student Loans bill C-135. ir, 459; 2r, 540-6, 577-88; ref to com, 588; rep without amdt,
617; 3r, 643; r.a., 714

Sullivan, Hon. Joseph A.
Award of Menit from the American Otological Society, 1032
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 1038-9
Food and Drug Directorate, staff increases, 741
Hayden, Hon. Salter A., 3Oth anniversary in Senate, 515-17
Honorary Fellowship of Academy of Medicine of Toronto, 804
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1185-8
Medical jurisprudence, 1186-8
Abortion, 1186
Lawyers' Guide ta Medi cal Truth, 1186-7
Parkinson's disease, use of drug L-Dopa, 1193-4, 1213

SEN AT E
Sullivan, Hon. Joseph A.

- Concluded
Quarantine bill S-12, 253-8, 317-18
Andromeda Strain, The, 257
Carriers of causative agents, 255, 318
Mental disease, 255
Toronto, lack of isolation hospital, 257
Tuberculosis, 254-5
Vaccination and contra-indications, 255-6, 258, 317
Radiation Emitting Devices bill S-14, 430-1
St. Patrick's Day, tribute to Ireland and the Irish people, 716-17
Water bill C-144, 1275

Supremne Court
Appeals, 1008-9
in Habeas corpus matters, 1009
Leave to appeal without limitation on amount, 1057
Quorum on application for leave, 1009
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Choquette, Lionel, 1057-8
Phillips, Lazarus, 1008-10

J urisdiction

Supremne Court bill C-182. ir, 972;

2

r, 1008-10, 1057-8;- 3r, 1063; r.a., 1223

Sweden, Canada-Sweden Supplementary Income Tax Agreement, 549, 613-15, 689, 696, 714

Task forces
Agriculture, 1371-6
Information and publicity services, 156, 164

Taxation
Basic exemptions, married and single persons, 1435-7
Capital gains, 177-8, 181, 1437-9
Dividend tax credit, 1445
Entertainment and travelling expenses, club dues, 1444-5
Extractive industries, 1442-4
Foreign investments, 182
Gifts and bequests to museums, 1441
Integration, 1439-41
Middle income bracket, 181
Prospectors and grubstakers, 1444
Small businesses, 181, 1441-2
White Paper, comrnittee rep, 405-6, 1433-47, see also appendix te, Debates of Sept.
30, 1970
See also Incnme Tax

INDEX
Territorial sec and fishing zones
Countries engaged in fishing operations on Atlantic coast, 1195
Phasing out negotiations, 1195, 1198
Fishing agreement, Canada-US, 1194-5, 1199, 1200
Fisheries Council of Canada, 1194
Fisheries jurisdiction, 1198-9
North Atlantic Coast Fisheries vs Britain and US, 1198
Hague Codification Conference, 1197
International law, 1251-6
International treaty obligations, 1195, 1200
Law of the Sea conferences, 1194, 1200
Six-by-six formula, 1252
Sovereignty claims, 1196, 1198-9
Twelve-mile fishing limit, 1253, 1254
United Kingdom v Norway, 1254-5
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Grosart, Allister, 1214-15, 1251-6
Robichaud, Hedard, 1194-1 201, 1256-7

Territorial Sea und Fishing Zones bill C-203. Ir, 1175; 2r, 1194-1201, 1213-15, 1251-7;
3r, 1279; r.a., 1408

Textile Iabelling
Advertising, 501
Analysts, 502
Cleaning instructions, 523
Consumers Association resolution re labelling, 523
False or misleading representation, 501, 521, 526
Responsibility for, 521, 526
Footwear, 521-2
Forfeiture of goods, 503
Inspectors, 502, 526
Labels, 501, 522, 523, 524
Offence and punisbment, 503
Polyetbylene bags, use of, 524
Prohibition respecting consumer textile articles, 501
Regulations, 502-3, 521, 524-6
Percentage by weight, 524
Search and seizure, 502
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Blois, Fred M., 521-2, 524, 525
Phillips, Lazarus, 499-504, 524-6
Quart, Josie D., 522-3

Textile Labelling bill S-20. Ir, 460; 2r, 499-504, 521-6; ref to com, 526; rep with amdts,
531-3; 3r, 533; r.a., 802

SEN AT E
Thompson, Hon. Andrew
Baltic countries, commemoration of deportations from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania,
1299
Elections bill C-215, 1398-9
Citizenship, 1398-9
Estimates for fiscal year ending Mar. 31/71, 1289
Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, 874-81
Canada-US relations, 875-81
Immigration regulations, 880
US investmenta in Canada, 877-80
Law Reform Commission bill C-186, 1165-9
Causes and Prevention of Violence, US Commission on, 1168-9
Commenta of Professors of Law, 1166
Demonstrations, peaceful and violent, 1169
Legal research, lack of, 1166-7
Membership of commission, 1167-8
Privacy, laws on invasion of, 1166
Recidivism among young offenders, 1168
Netherlands, 25th anniversary of liberation, 1052-4
Quarantine bill S-12, 190
Statutory Instruments, 701-7
Criticisma of regulation-making, 704
Crown corporations, 705-7
Delegated legisiation, 702
ParliamentarySupervision of Delegated Legisiation, 703
Proposais of Commons committee, 704
Scrutiny committee, 704
USSR imperialism, reference in speech of Hon. Mr. Yuzyk, 173
Youths barred from western hotels because of dress, 1289

Trode
Canada-USSR agreement, 608-9
Constitutional juriadiction, 1473-4
Exporta of manufactured gooda and other materials to USSR, 608, 910
Hong Kong, 912
Israel, generators for electrical power plant, 910
Non-Governmental Trade and Goodwill Mission, 909-18, 968-71
Rhodesian Republic, Canadian Government policy re trade sanctions, 519
Statement of Minister of Induatry, Trade and Commerce re Canada-USSR arrangements,
608-9
Trade and Economic Affaira Committee, Canada-US Interparliamentary Group, 818-19
Wheat, international depots, suggestion, 914
Wheat sales to USSR, 608-9
See Caribbean
Trode Agreement with

USSR,

protocol tabled, 608-9; ref to Foreign Affaira Com, 609

Transport and Communications, Standing Senate Committee
Reporta
Motor Vehicle Safety bill C-137, rep without amdt, 738
Railway bill C-il, rep without amdt, 571
Shipping (Pilotage) bill S-23, rep with amdt, 1211. 1240-1

INDEX

Transport Departmnent
Canadian Air Traffic Controllers Association, ratification of collective agreement,
399-400
Custer Channel Wing Aircraft, storage and care of, 833-4, 1016, 1033
Lockheed Electra turboprop airliner, 833-4
Treaties
Nuclear Non-P rolife ration, 202
Treaty of Utrecht, 1200
Treaty of Versailles, 1200
Treaty of Washington, 678
See also Agreements
Tributes
Farris, the late Hon. J.W. de B., 600-3
Irvine, the late Hon. Olive L., 84-89
Leaders of the Government in the Senate, unveiling of photograpbs in Senate foyer,
742-4
Leonard, Hon. T. D'Arcy, retirement, 923-6
Monette, the late Hon. Gustave, 402-3
Stambaugh, the late Hon. J. Wesley, 752-3
Vaillancourt, the late Hon. Cyrille, 84-89
Trinidaid and Tobago, Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference, 22-27, 245-51
Trust Companies bill S-8. Ir, 10; 2r. 150-5; ref to com, 155; rep without amdt, 170; 3t, 185;
Commons amdts, 604-5, 626; r.a., 714
Ukrainians
Statistical survey conducted by Hon. Paul Yuzyk, 942-3
Ukrainian Canadian Committee, protest on USSR celebrations of Lenin's birth date,
918-19
See Ethnic groups
Unempicyment
Atlantic provinces, 111
Developing countries, 62-63
Fishing industry, 111-12
Inflation and unemployment, 780-2, 784
Shipbuilding industry, 111
Students, summer employment, 1366
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
Baltic countries, enforced deportations from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, 1299
Czechoslovakia, invasion of, 197, 478-9, 483
Disarmament irn Europe, conference on, 477-8, 483

SE NAT E
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics

- Concluded
Exploitation of UN by, 141-4
Hockey, withdrawal of Canadians from 1970 tournament, 473
Lenin, lOOth anniversary of birth. protest by Ukrainian Canadian Committee, 918-19
Leningrad, 473, 481-2
Pifarxism and the National Question, 141
Matenadaran, 474, 476
Military build-up, 197-8, 478-9, 480, 483
Origin of Russian Commnunism, 140
Speech at UN by Rt. Hon. Mr. Pearson, 173
Theses and Statutes of the Comm unist International, 139
Trade Agreement, Canada-USSR, protocol tabled, 608-9
Visit to USSR by Senate delegation, 471-85
World domination, plans for, 137-45

Union Station, renovations to previous station site, 321-2, 334
United Nations, 136-45
Colonialism, excerpt fromn speech of Rt. Hon. John G. Diefenbaker, 142
Exploitation by USSR in plans for world domination, 141-4
Political and Security Council Affairs, areas of responsibility, 144
Twenty-fourth anniversary, 7-9
Twenty-fifth anniversary, 1389-91

United States
Canada-United States Reciprocal Fishing Agreement, 1059-60, 1199, 1200
Interparliamentary Group, Canada-United States, 785-90, 804-8, 818-20, 822-5, 843-6,
867-81, 892-4, 994-1005
Investments in Canada, 805-6, 844-6, 860, 994-5, 1304-5
Quebec and Saskatchewan, 994-5
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, ratification of, 202
Stand taken against Soviet imperialism, cited by the late President Kennedy and others,

142-4
Territorial law, Canada-US, 870-1
See Territorial Sea and Fishing Zones bill C-203

Urquhart, Hon. EarI W.
Aeronautics bill C-218, 1339-40
Air regulations, jurisdiction of Transport Dept., 1339
Cape Breton Developrnent Corporation bill C-138, 736-7
Corporations bill C-4, 1258-65
Financial statements, 1259-61
Insider trading, 1261
Inspections, 1263-4
Proxies and proxy solicitation, 1262
Residence or citizenship of shareholders, 1264
Shareholders rights, 1262
Takeover bids. 1262-3

INDEX

Urquhart, Hon. EarI W. - Concluded
Divorce, petition for bill to annul resolution to dissolve marriage, .1133-4
Expropriation bill C-136, 535-7, 551-2, 576-7, 626
Abandonment of expropriation, 537
Compensation, 536-7
Crown corporations, powers of expropriation, 552, 576-7
Negotiation procedure, 536
Notice of confirmation of expropriation, 536
Possession by Crown, 537
Public hearing before expropriation, 535-6
Public notice of intention to expropriate, 535
Vaillancourt, Hon. Cyrille
Deceased October 30, 1969
Tributes, 84-89
Vatican, ambassador to, 16, 104
Veterans
Government austerity programs, effect on, 369-70
World War Il, commemoration of cessation of hostilities in Europe, 1006-7
See also Children of the War Dead (Education Assistance) bill C-8
Vi sitors
Amissah-Aidoo, Isaac, Deputy Speaker of Legisiative Assembly of Ghana, 1047
Ivory Coast officiais, 1320
MacKenzie, Hon. Norman A., retired Senator, 68
Robichaud, Hon. Louis J., Premier of New Brunswick, 129
Royal Canadian Sea Cadets from Gaspe, 1387-8
Saskatchewan delegates to Federal-Provincial Conference, 308
Saskatchewan Metis Association, 822
Southeast Asia delegations to Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, 1249
Takoo Miki, the Honourable, former Foreign Minister of japan, 1382
Vote
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bil C-3
2r, m in amdt that bill be ref to Supreme Court of Canada, 1030
2r, m carried on div, 1044-5
Water
(Canada Water bill C-144)
Civil and criminal law re polluters, 1230
Fees for use of water systems, 1206
Fees for waste disposai, 1231, 1235, 1238
jurisdiction, federal and provincial, 1205-6, 1208, 1217, 1238
Phosphates and other nutrients, prohibition on, 1208, 1217, 1238-9
Research, 1235

SEMÂTE
Water

- Concluded
River basin commissions or authorities, 1206, 1208, 1237, 1239
Water quality standards and management agencies, 1206, 1207-8, 1216, 1231, 1239
Water resource development, 1205
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Belisie, Rheal, 1229-32
Cameron, Donald, 1275
Laird, Keith, 1204-9, 1229-30
Macnaughton, Alan, 1232-6
Pearson, Arthur M., 1216-17
Phillips, Orville H., 1236-9, 1274-5
Sullivan, joseph A., 1275

Water bill C-144. lr, 1175; 2r, 1204-9, 1216-17, 1228-40; ref to com, 1240; rep without
amdt, 1274;

3

t, 1274-6, 1306; r.a., 1409

Welch, Hon. Frank C.
North Atlantic Assembly, lSth annual conference, 196-9
Berlin wall, 198-9
Canadian forces, 198
France, withdrawal of forces, 197
Harmel Report, 197
NATO background and objectives, 196-7
USSR defence forces strength, 197-8
USSR invasion of Czechoslovakia, 197
West Berlin, 198

Welfare recipients
Legal aid, 855
Rights of the underprivileged, 854-6
Termination of public assistance, 855-6
Welfare bureaucracy, 856-7
Winnipeg Welfare Rights Movement, 857-8

Wheat, see Grain
Whips
Chief Government Whip in the Senate
McDonald, Hon. A. Hamilton
Chief Opposition Whip in the Senate
Macdonald, Hon. John M.

White, Hon. George S.,
Bis

P.C.

of Exchange bill C-2318, 1338-9
Consumer liability to finance company, 1338
Fines, 1338
Criminal Code (Hate Propaganda) bill C-3, 1017-20, 1039-40

INDEX
WiI1is, Hon. Harry A.
Canada-United States Interparliamentary Group, 892-4
Corporations bill C-4, 1311-13
Disclosure of affairs of private companies, 1312
Land speculators, law suits re, 1312-13
Wom on
Business and public life of, 93-98
Constitution of Canada, joint Committee, lack of women members, 466
Discrimination, article under signature of Minister of Labour, 93-94
Facilities for women in federal penitentiaries, 1178-82, 1218-21, 1271-3, 1276-9,
1307-11
National Council of Women, resolutions re recommendations of Ouimet Committee on
Corrections, 1180, 1181, 1182
Parliamentary appointees, 96
Rigbts of Women proclaimed by UN, 94-95
Women in business and public life, 98
World War Il
Commemoration of cessation of hostilities in Europe, 1006-7
Netherlands, The, 25th anniversary of liberation, 1052-3

Youth
Company of Young Canadians, comptroller appointed for administrative and financial
operations, 377-81
Disrespect for history and democracy, 397
Frontier College, 396
Girl Guides and Boy Scouts, leadership given by, 381-2
Subversive activities, Montreal, 379
Unrest and revoît of youth, 74-76, 249-50
Unwarranted condemnation by authorities, 395
Young adults' responsibility, 46
Youths barred from western hotels because of dress, 1286-90

Yukon, Northwest Territories and Territorial lands
Budgets of Yukon and NWT, 1342
Carruthers Commission, recommendations of, 1341
Council, indemnities, duties, etc., 1343, 1345
Indians and Eskimos, responsibility of Govemment to, 1341
Land management, 1343, 1346
Minerai wealth, 1342
Pollution and other dangers of commercialization, 1342
Qualifications of voters, 1343
Yukon government, 1340
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Aseltine, Walter M., 1344-6
Prowse, J. Harper, 1340-4

SEMAT E
Yukon, Northwest Territories and Territoriail Lands bill C-212. ir, 1320; 2r, 1340-6; ref to
com, 1346; rep without amdt, 1355; 3 r, 1355; r.a., 1409
Yukon placer mining
Gold mining assistance, 208-9
Yukon Consolidated Gold Corp., 209
Speakers: Honourable Senators
Benidickson, W.M., 182-3
Macdonald, John M., 208-9
Yukon Placer Mining bill S-4. Ir, 9; 2r, 182-3, 208-9; ref to com, 209; rep without amdt,
221; rep of com, 221; 3r, 245; r.a., 1046
Yukon Territory
Air fares, 367
Oul and gas production and conservation, 199-201, 206-8, 221, 245
See Northern Inland Waters bill C-187,
Yukon, Northwest Territories and Territorial Lands bill C-212,
Yukon Placer Mining bill S-4.
Yuzyk, Hon. Paul
Address in reply to Speech from the Throne, 136-45
Aeronautics bill C-218, 1376-7
Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention bill C-202, 1241-3
International relations, 1242-3
Sovereignty, 1242
Company of Young Canadians bill C-176, 669-73, 692
Anti-Vietnam demonstration before US Embassy, 670
Expenditures during 3-year period, 670
Government control of Company operations and alienation of volunteers, 673, 692
"Shortcomings of CYC,,, excerpt from report of Commons Committee, 671-2
Subversive activities, 670
Constitution of Canada, 552-63
Canada Ethnic Press Federation, 560
Canadian Family Tree, The, and other publications, 559
Citizens of other than British or French descent, 555
Statistics, 555, 558, 568-70
Constitutions since 1774, 553
Ethnic composition of Canadian population (1961), 558, 568-70
Federal-provincial conferences, 553-4
Multiculturalism vs biculturalism, 559-63
Population trends of Canada - British, French, Third element, 568
Thinkers' Conference on Cultural Rights, 562
Ukrainian Canadians, 559
Northern Inland Waters bill C-187, 1094-6
Damage to northern earth surface by construction implements, 1095
Privilege, reference to documentation of authorities quoted in speech, 172
Student Loans bill C-135, 577-9
Brain-drain of Canadian professionals to U.S., 578-9

INDEX

111

Yuzylc, Hon. Paul - Concluded
Ukrainian Canadian Committee, protest on celebrations of Lenin's birtn date, 918-19
Ukrainians ini Canada, statistical survey being conducted with aid of Canada Council
grant, 942-3
United Nations, 136-45
Colonialism, excerpt from speech of Rt. Hon. John G. Diefenbaker, 142
Communismn of USSR and plans for world domination, 137-45
Exploitation of UN by USSR, 141-4
"Fifty Years of Communism", 1967 celebration, 137
Marxism and the National Question, 141
Origin of Russian Communism, 140
Political and Security Council Affairs, areas of responsibility, 144
States under USSR domination, 138
Theses and Statutes of the Communist International, 139
US stand against Soviet imperialism, cited by the late President Kennedy and
others, 142-4

